14-06-2020||India||Two security guards dead after attack by former colleagues||New Delhi: Two guards deployed at an under-construction residential complex in outer Delhi’s Narela died on Sunday a day after their six former colleagues thrashed them days after they quarrelled over some money, police said.Deputy police commissioner Gaurav Sharma said the suspects worked for the same construction firm as the two until they were sacked some weeks ago for reasons not yet clear. “About 8-10 days ago, they drank with the [two] guards and ...there was a quarrel over ₹1,000-1,500. The fatal thrashing was in revenge for that,” he said, citing initial probe.Sharma identified the two by their first names as Amit, 22, and Sunil, 24, who were from Uttar Pradesh’s Baghpat. Sharma said the alleged attackers “wanted to beat them severely but not murder them”. He added they were registering a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder. “If the autopsy report suggests something else, we may change it to murder,” said Sharma.A person can be imprisoned for up to 10 years if convicted of culpable homicide not amounting to murder. The punishment for murder is life imprisonment or death.Till more evidence is found, the police have detained two of the six suspects. Sharma said the police received a call about the assault a little before midnight on Saturday. “The call was about some men beating up the two guards with sticks. When the other guards ran on hearing their cries, the suspects ran into a forested area nearby,” he said. He said the two guards were first taken to Maharshi Valmiki Hospital from where they were referred to Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital in Rohini. “They succumbed to their injuries on Sunday,” he said.Sharma said the guards suffered fractures to their limbs, which suggests that the aim of the assailants was to beat them severely, but not kill them.He added the roles of some outsiders not associated with the firm were also being probed.A security guard allegedly bludgeoned another guard to death with a blunt object and burnt his body after pouring liquor on it in the basement of a vacant building in Greater Kailash Part 2 on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-security-guards-dead-after-attack-by-former-colleagues/story-2PJWsiNmIU425RZoUjMvDO.html
14-06-2020||India||Recoveries cross 50k in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: The number of recovered Covid-19 patients in Maharashtra crossed 50,000 on Sunday as the state health minister said the infection peak had begun and local authorities pushed for a limited resumption of local train services in Mumbai. Officials said 1,632 patients recovered and were discharged from various hospitals across the state on Sunday, taking the total number of recovered patients to 50,978.The case tally stood at 107,958 with 3,390 infections recorded on Sunday. This was the fifth consecutive day when more than 3000 cases were reported. The state reported 120 deaths, taking toll to 3950. But state health minister Rajesh Tope held out hope. He said that the Covid-19 peak has started in the state and that cases would continue to rise for the next 15 days. “The decline is likely to start from June end. I’m saying this going by what is happening in other countries. The situation in the state will stabilise and we will be able to settle down things,” he added.Health officials say that the situation was improving as the growth rate of new cases was decreasing and the doubling rate of new cases was increasing.“We can say that the rate of growth of new cases has considerably slowed down and our case doubling rate is now better than the national average. Daily new cases in Mumbai is almost constant in the last last seven days,” said Dr Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary, health department.The doubling rate, the number of days it takes for cases on a given date to double, in Maharashtra currently is 21.3 days of the state whereas the national average is 17.1 days.Meanwhile, a meeting of Central and Western railway officials along with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation(BMC) discussed plans to resume local train services for essential workers. The proposal was sent to the Union railway ministry for approval.An official said no more than 700 passengers may be allowed inside one local train. A 12-compartment train has a capacity of 1200 passengers but routinely, 5,000 commuters cram into the space during peak hours. Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean, KEM Hospital in Mumbai, also stressed that fewer critical patients were admitted in the last few days. “My personal experience is that we have seen gradual decrease in the number of admissions of critical patients in the last five days. I can see two reasons for this, one we have developed more centres for critically ill patients and second, the disease is probably getting stabilised. We have succeeded in reducing the criticalness of the disease due to aggressive contract tracing. We are getting more patients with mild symptoms.”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/recoveries-cross-50k-in-maharashtra/story-QAx9GKm5ApBtYtRKDvOx5K.html
14-06-2020||India||With curbs relaxed, Covid-19 cases spike in Himalayan states||New Delhi: Himalayan regions of Ladakh, Sikkim, Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, and Uttarakhand have reported a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases over the past week amid the easing of curbs after two-month national lockdown to contain the spread of the pandemic.The unrestricted interstate movement was allowed from June 1 as part of the Centre’s first of a three-phase plan--Unlock 1.0--to lift stringent restrictions.Officials in Ladakh said the region had reported 131 cases over three months until Friday, which involved mostly pilgrims, who had returned from Iran. The region reported 198 cases on Saturday and 112 on Sunday and prompted authorities to ban public transport and adopt an odd-even system for the private vehicles other than those involved in essential services.Jammu & Kashmir reported close to 5,000 Covid-19 cases (NEED EXACT NUMBER) and 60 deaths until Sunday. Most of the cases--3,800--have been reported from the Kashmir Valley. Officials said the number of cases has increased over the last week because of the return of Kashmiris from other parts of the country. “There is no reason for panic. Most of the cases are in institutional quarantine or hospitals. There is no community spread....,” said financial commissioner (health) Atal Dulloo. He added most of the lockdown conditions were continuing in the worst-hit areas. Sikkim, which was Covid-19 free until May 22, had only 12 cases as of Thursday. The cases increased to 68 by Sunday. On Friday, 50 people, most of whom had returned from Mumbai, tested positive for the disease in the state. The spike in the cases has prompted the state to postpone reopening of schools from July 1 to August 1 and impose restrictions on vehicular transport. “All precautions are being taken. No person will be allowed to enter Sikkim now,” said chief minister Prem Singh Tamang. He said the cases will reduce now as most of the returnees have been tested.Sikkim has made it mandatory for returnees to undergo 28-day institutional and home quarantine. Pempa Bhutia, the state health secretary, said no health worker has so far tested positive and the state healthcare infrastructure is adequate enough to deal with the situation. Officials in Uttarakhand said about 30% of the state’s 1,816 cases until Sunday have been reported over the last five days and involved mostly migrants, whose return has picked up pace due to the easing of lockdown norms. “The cases may have increased but the situation is under control and we have created enough health infrastructure to deal with the increase,” said Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat.Officials said one-fourth of Himachal’s 512 cases as of Sunday have been reported over the last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-curbs-relaxed-covid-19-cases-spike-in-himalayan-states/story-GZ2yF3rRyqmliwJtyWVk7I.html
14-06-2020||India||BJP takes digital route to connect with voters||With key states headed for the polls later this year and next year, and with the coronavirus disease showing no sign of abating, the poll campaign of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will be built around digital rallies that highlight the achievements of the first year of its second stint in power, according to leaders familiar with the details.“With the pandemic yet to abate, going forward, most of the rallies by leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, will be held digitally,” a senior party functionary said.Addressing a virtual rally for Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh said the mode of outreach was “samvaad ka ek rasta (a way to communicate)”, and added that a new world where physical distancing is the keyword has nudged politics towards the path of “digital India”.Singh’s address was among the 75 such rallies planned by the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance government, but party leaders said these virtual events were likely to continue as part of poll campaigning. While Bihar will go to polls later this year, West Bengal, Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry will vote in 2021 to elect a new government.Digital outreachSoon after the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 25 to stop the spread of Covid-19, the BJP, which has 180 million member members, set the tone for political engagements in the time of social distancing. Party leaders, led by their president JP Nadda, began holding virtual meetings with workers right down to the booth level.“It was decided at a general secretary’s meeting that the party can connect digitally with masses and its workers. Ram Madhav (also a general secretary) was the one who suggested the idea and drew up the plan, which was new to a lot of people,” said a second BJP functionary.National secretaries Tarun Chugh and Satya Kumar were given the charge to plan the rallies. “Big states can have more than one rally and the target audience here is at least 50,000 (for one rally), while in the smaller states, the target audience is 25,000,” the second functionary said.Union home minister Amit Shah’s rally in Bihar on May 31, which marked the beginning of the programme, recorded over 3.9 million impressions in real time. These rallies are live-streamed on social media. “The response far exceeded expectations,” said BJP Bihar unit president Sanjay Jaiswal.In that rally, Shah, however, said it was not about elections but about boosting the morale of the people amid the Covid-19 outbreak, though the Opposition criticised his party over the timing of the programme.PreparationsThe first step to organise rallies is a meeting through video calling. Senior leaders are instructed to hold meetings with workers on a daily basis to discuss the party’s activities during the pandemic. This helps the party cadre prepare the logistics for digital rallies, such as internet services.“For the May 31 rally addressed by the home minister, information technology (IT) sanyojaks, or coordinators, were appointed at the panchayat level to train party members on how to share data of those who watched the rally. Bihar shattered the myth that party workers in far-flung areas are not tech-savvy,” Jaiswal said.A list is drawn up in every district of party workers with smartphones and access to the internet, and this is followed up with IT training.“PM Modi has said we need to turn this challenge (Covid-19) into an opportunity, and that’s exactly what we have done. We have been holding regular IT training lessons for our workers,” said VD Sharma, president of the Madhya Pradesh unit.Captive audienceGetting people to tune in for the digital rallies has an added advantage for the BJP. “Earlier, we used to ask people to give a missed call to connect with us. Now, when they log on, we get their details and we can then forge a connection with them. Those who are not supporters also log on to the rallies. Our booth-level workers will reach out to these people while maintaining the norms of social distancing,” said the first functionary.  Sharma said the party formed WhatsApp groups in every district of not just party workers but of residents as well. “For the Nitin Gadkari rally in Madya Pradesh on June 10, people from 45,000 of the total 65,000 blocks connected through social media and primarily WhatsApp,” he said.Digital outreach is not new to the party; it explored the hologram technology in 2012 during the Gujarat assembly polls and scaled it to a pan-India level in 2014 during the general elections. The party is also known for effectively using social media to reach out to people.From novelty to routineRajyavardhan Rathore, a parliamentarian from Rajasthan and a former minister, did not expect to see a bunch of people on the screen when he dialled a party worker in a district in the state. “Earlier meetings used to be held in designated areas; now with the facility of video calling our workers can speak to us from the comfort of their homes, surrounded by their families,” he said.The idea of a “big leader” calling on a worker’s phone is fascinating for many.“There is a lot of interest in VCs (video conferences)…The process itself has become very disciplined and streamlined; workers now follow the etiquette of muting mikes while other speak,” said Rathore, who, like several of his party colleagues, makes multiple such calls every day.EconomicalEven as the BJP dismissed allegations by the Opposition that it distributed television and mobile sets ahead of the rallies, most leaders concurred that digital outreach was cost efficient.“There is a humongous amount of money spent on organising rallies…While we are still advertising about the rallies and putting up posters and banners; it still is a huge money-saver,” said the first functionary.ImpactWill the digital rallies evoke the same response that a public rally does?“Earlier we used to meet in public rallies, look into each other’s eyes, read facial expressions, but that is not possible here, but samvaad ka ek rasta has been found,” defence minister Singh said on Sunday.Political commentator Abhay Deshpande said the rallies are a good way of keeping workers motivated and engaged, but it was yet to be seen if they found acceptance among the electorate. “When such rallies get picked by the mainstream media as news, it helps spread the message. But primarily, these are party-worker oriented,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-takes-digital-route-to-connect-with-voters/story-UK3uC0IDeLrSEcFhCDUxrM.html
14-06-2020||India||Goa Covid-19 cases rise by 41 to 564||Goa on Sunday recorded 41 new Covid-19 cases, taking the count to 564, a Health official said.The state government has begun random testing of people living in slums in Margao city amid the rising number of cases being reported from ESI hospital there, a medical facility for Covid-19 patients.Earlier in the day, Health Minister Vishwajit Rane held a high-level meeting at Margao to review the situation.On Sunday, new cases were reported from New Vaddem, Baina and Sada in South Goa and Morlem and Chimbel in North Goa, the health official said.Of 1,967 samples tested, 1,621 returned negative while 41 were found to be positive. Result of 305 sample is awaited, he said.Goa’s Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 564, new cases: 41, deaths: nil, discharged: 74, active cases 490, Samples tested till date: 41,835.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-covid-19-cases-rise-by-41-to-564/story-Rc34zYMAf3aEc6d0wFX8OP.html
14-06-2020||India||2 elephant carcasses found in Odisha’s Koenjhar district, forest officers suspect poaching||In another case of suspected poaching, the carcasses of two elephants were found from a reserve forest area of Koenjhar district on Sunday.Officials said the carcasses of a female elephant and a male were found in the Gurubeda reserve forest under Joda forest section of Keonjhar district over the weekend.Keonjhar DFO Santosh Joshi said the female elephant was around 20 years old and the carcass seemed to be lying there for more than a week. The male tusker, about 22 years old, was killed three days ago and the tusks were missing. We have started a probe to ascertain the actual cause leading to their death.The death of the two elephants came two days after an elephant calf was found dead in Sundargarh district with injury marks on its neck. Initial investigation suggested that the calf fell into a trap laid to capture wild boars. A forest guard was suspended over the incident.Last month, two more elephants were found dead in Keonjhar. While the carcass of one was found at a farmland, the decomposed carcass of another was found a few days ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-elephant-carcasses-found-in-odisha-s-koenjhar-district-forest-officers-suspect-poaching/story-ep69yjLjjXTiwdvS5T2tWO.html
14-06-2020||India||Shrines to open from Monday in Bhopal, but traditional rituals will be barred||Shrines will reopen in state capital Bhopal from Monday onwards outside containment zones but with prohibition on traditional rituals, as per the district administration’s order.“Devotees will not be allowed to touch the idols and holy books. Distribution of prasad and charanamrit, and sprinkling of holy water will be prohibited. There will be no permission for offering flowers, coconuts, incense sticks etc and also ringing of bells will remain prohibited,” said the district administration’s official release. The district administration and police officials had a meeting with religious leaders on Saturday to discuss with them the do’s and don’ts on opening of the shrines.The administration has made it clear that there will be no function organised and no crowds and also there will be no choir singing and recital of Guruvani. Wudu will be performed at home only before visiting a mosque.All the guidelines will be properly displayed at the shrines and devotees will have to wear face masks besides maintaining social and physical distance. All the shrines will be closed for the day at 9 pm, as per the release. The management of shrines will make arrangements for thermal screening and sanitisers. No one having symptoms of cold, cough and fever will be allowed to enter the shrines. There will be sanitisation of the premises regularly. SHOPS AND MARKETSAccording to another order of district collector Tarun Kumar Pithode, all the shops and markets will run for five days in a week outside containment zones while there will be closure of the same for two days. Essential services will be available on all days of the week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shrines-to-open-from-monday-in-bhopal-but-traditional-rituals-will-be-barred/story-q5PJesNZiGO7cFGFZdVD1N.html
14-06-2020||India||Swarms of desert locusts enter Bhopal, people shoot videos||Swarms of desert locusts on Sunday entered Madhya Pradesh’s capital city of Bhopal and the neighbouring district of Raisen, prompting the agriculture department to swing into action with active tracking of the insects and plan to spray them with chemicals during the night.Locusts have visited the Bhopal city for the first time after entering the state from Rajasthan around mid May. People came out in several localities in Bhopal to watch the swarms of locusts with curiosity and make videos with their smartphones. There are two groups of swarms, including a big one spread in the area of about 1.5 kilometres near a canal at Kolar Road and another in the Berasia area. The swarm of locusts in the Berasia area had moved into jungles but returned to the same area with winds, said deputy director, Agriculture in Bhopal SN Sonaniya.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe officer said, “We have sought help from the fire brigade to use fire tenders to spray chemicals on the insects when they settle on trees in the night. It’s difficult to spray chemicals with normal sprayers given the height of trees on which they settle. We hope to control them tonight.”Deputy director of Agriculture department in Raisen NP Suman said, “We have got reports about swarms of locusts from a couple of places. Since there is no crop in the agriculture field, the farmers are not worried but continuation of their presence in the state may pose a threat to kharif crops. We are trying to control them.”As per another official from the agriculture department, about 35 districts have been affected so far by desert locusts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swarms-of-desert-locusts-enter-bhopal-people-shoot-videos/story-zogcnrwX7ASnzP6E6RQzWK.html
14-06-2020||India||After High Court’s direction, Telangana to test 50,000 people for Covid-19||Faced with criticism from all sides and a direction from theTelangana high court to boost testing for Covid-19, the state government on Sunday decided to step up testing for the Sars-Cov2-virus in Hyderabad and surrounding districts in the next 10 days.After a high-level review meeting with senior officials, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao directed that the medical and health department conduct tests on 50,000 people in 30 assembly constituencies falling under Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Vikarabad, Medchel, and Sangareddy districts in next one week to 10 days.For the first time, the state government also decided to allow private hospitals and private laboratories, approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), to conduct Covid-19 tests and provide treatment to those who test positive.Last month, the high court had directed the state government to allow authorised private labs in the state to conduct Covid-19 tests and private hospitals to treat such patients.KCR instructed the officials to prepare guidelines for the private hospitals and labs to conduct Covid-19 tests, offer treatment and the fee to be paid strictly following the central guidelines.On Sunday, Telangana reported three deaths and 237 fresh cases of Covid-19, including 195 cases in Hyderabad alone. Among those who tested positive were TRS MLA Bajireddy Goverdhan from Nizamabad, an official working in the health ministry as Officer on Special Duty for health minister Eatala Rajender and 23 journalists working for various media houses.Telangana’s Covid-19 tally has now gone up to 4,974 including 2,412 active cases. There have been 185 casualties so far.An official release from the chief minister’s office (CMO) said KCR had directed that strict measures be taken to contain the spread of Covid-19 Hyderabad and its surrounding areas.He directed that tests be conducted for detection of Covid-19 aggressively by utilising the services of the private labs and hospitals in this regard. “Offer home quarantine for those who test positive but have no serious symptoms,” he said.He asked the people not to panic and follow the personal hygiene and precautions. “The government is ready to offer treatment to the Covid-19 patients whatever may be their number. Test Kits, PPE Kits, ventilators, ICU beds, beds, masks are available with the government adequately,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-high-court-s-direction-telangana-to-test-50-000-people-for-covid-19/story-PADp4WQv4JYBFaObc28D8N.html
14-06-2020||India||Anand Vihar railway station to house Covid isolation coaches, no train service from Monday||Anand Vihar railway station located in the east of Delhi, a hub for east-bound long-distance trains originating from the national capital, will not see any train service operate from its premises from Monday onwards as all platforms will be reserved for the deployment of Covid 19 isolation coaches, as per railway officials. All trains to and from Anand Vihar will be moved to the Old Delhi station.The development follows a decision to deploy 500 railway coaches, turned into isolation wards for treatment of around 8,000 coronavirus patients, to augment Delhi’s health infrastructure in view of the rapidly rising cases in the capital.Delhi government currently has a total of 9,816 dedicated Covid-19 beds spread over hospitals in the city, both public and private. 5,399 of these beds are currently occupied as per data released by the health department on Saturday.Delhi is only second to Maharashtra in terms of number of coronavirus patients. Its tally of coronavirus cases stands at 41,182 including 15,823 patients who have been cured or discharged. The death toll in the national capital is 1,327 as per health ministry data released on Sunday.The Railways said on Sunday that it has deployed 204 isolation coaches in four states, including 54 at Delhi’s Shakurbasti railway station maintenance depot. The first batch of 10 coaches with a total capacity of 160 beds was deployed at Shakurbasti station in Delhi on May 31. Now, another 44 coaches have been deployed, said railways.Amit Shah to hold all-party meet tomorrow to review Delhi’s Covid-19 crisisAccording to an integrated Covid management plan developed by the Union government, these coaches can be used in areas where the health infrastructure has been overwhelmed by the spread of the disease or is relatively weak requiring central assistance.The coaches are equipped with necessary medical facilities such as oxygen cylinders, blankets, medical supplies, sterilized berths etc. The coaches, as per the original plan, were to be used for very mild cases that can be clinically assigned to the coronavirus care centres, according to the guidelines issued by the Health Ministry.The railway ministry had informed earlier that these coaches-turned-isolation wards will also be equipped with mosquito nets, charging points for laptop and phones and the toilets inside have been modified into bathrooms.The state is exploring ways and methods to convert large public places into treatment facilities for infected patients. The Delhi government on Sunday issued an order declaring Bara Hindu Rao Hospital in North Delhi, a designated Covid Hospital. All the beds in the hospital will now be used for the treatment of coronavirus cases.Also Read: Bara Hindu Rao Hospital designated Covid-19 facility as Delhi gets battle readyIn another measures taken to augment Delhi’s treatment capacity, a 10,000-bed hospital is being erected on a temporary basis in the premises of Radha Soami Satsang Beas ashram in South Delhi. On the testing front, the government has decided to double the number of tests being carried out currently in the city-state within the next two days, which will be increased further to three times after six days. Home minister Amit Shah has said that after a few days, testing will start at every polling station in the containment zones.The development is in line with several other measures taken in the last 24 hours to meet the twin objectives of containing the spread of the deadly contagion and upgrading the capital’s capacity to handle positive cases that are likely to touch 5.5 lakh-mark by the end of July 31, according to an estimate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anand-vihar-railway-station-to-house-covid-isolation-coaches-no-train-service-from-monday/story-jscjhxCNZY0vkckKMameNJ.html
14-06-2020||India||Rare variety hog badgers found for first time in Tripura||For the first time ever, a rare species of hog badgers was found in Tripura at a village in Dhalai district, over 90 kilometres east of Agartala, a forest official said on Sunday. The hog badgers, scientifically known as ‘ Arctonyx Collaris’ are listed as an endangered species in the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) , said Tapojyoti Debbarma, sub divisional forest officer (SDFO) of Ambassa.“Three hog badger babies were recovered from a forest in Salema village by some local villagers on Saturday. They later informed the forest officials and handed them to us. We shifted them to Sepahijala Wildlife Sanctuary where they are being cared for. This is for the first time that we have spotted hog badgers in the state,” he said.Sepahijala Wildlife Sanctuary, located nearly 25 kilometres from Agartala, is the biggest of the four sanctuaries in the state.In India, hog badgers are found in the Northeast across a range of terrain including grasslands, mountains, tropical and evergreen forests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rare-variety-hog-badgers-found-for-first-time-in-tripura/story-V1iImAW4htPjQNNlLWoaHM.html
14-06-2020||India||Delhi’s Covid-19 count jumps to 41,182, capital sees highest spike of 2,224 new cases||Delhi on Sunday reported 2,224 new Covid-19 cases in the highest ever single-day spike so far and 56 deaths due to the coronavirus infection, taking the national capital’s count past the 40,000-mark to 41,182, according to Delhi Health Department data.With 56 fatalities reported in the last 24 hours, the capital’s death toll has now climbed to 1,327. There are currently, 24,032 active coronavirus cases in the city.At least, 15,823 patients have recovered from the highly infectious disease and been discharged from various hospitals in the capital. A total of 878 coronavirus patients were cured and discharged in the last 24 hours.ALSO READ | ‘Together we have to make Delhi coronavirus-free’: Amit Shah on capital’s crisisThe total number of containment zones in the national capital to control the spread of Covid-19 now stands at 242, the Delhi government said on Sunday. Out of a total 309 containment zones, the government has de-contained 67 zones. West Delhi and South West Delhi had the highest number of containment zones with 39 each. West Delhi, however, now has 24 containment zones while South West Delhi has 34.The Delhi government has also scaled down measures in 22 other containment zones.On Sunday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal along with L-G Anil Baijal met Union home minister Amit Shah to discuss the coronavirus health crisis in the national capital.ALSO READ | Amit Shah orders inspection of all Covid-19 hospitals in DelhiCalling his meeting with the home minister as “extremely productive”, chief minister Kejriwal said the Centre and the Delhi government will fight Covid-19 together in the national capital, which has witnessed an alarming spike in coronavirus cases.According to sources, at the meeting called by Shah, every aspect of the coronavirus situation was discussed by the ministers. However, the issue of lockdown in the national capital did not come up.“Extremely productive meeting between Del govt and Central govt. Many key decisions taken. We will fight against corona together (sic),” Kejriwal tweeted after the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-covid-19-count-jumps-to-41-182-capital-sees-highest-spike-of-2-224-new-cases/story-4Ej2qDbu8hXWBrzoDBUsJJ.html
14-06-2020||India||Covid 19 latest: Maharashtra records 3,390 fresh cases, state tally at 1,07,958||Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 3,390 new coronavirus cases taking the state’s tally of Covid-19 infections to 1,07,958 including 3,950 casualties, of these, 120 deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours, as per the medical bulletin released by the state health department.Cases in Mumbai rose by 1,395 cases on Sunday to reach 58,226. Total number of deaths registered in the metropolis has gone up to 2,182 with 69 more deaths registered in the last 24 hours.50,978 people in the state have been discharged so far which is close to 50% of all coronavirus cases. The state has 53,017 active cases at the moment. In terms of testing samples, the state has conducted over 6,57,739 tests.Maharashtra continues to be the worst-affected state in the country with 53,017 active cases while 50,978 patients have been cured and discharged in the state so far. The state has also reported over a third of the total deaths reported from the country with 3,950 patients succumbing to the disease.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesGiven the rising number of cases, the Maharashtra government has sanctioned Rs 15 crore to set up a 1000-bed Covid-19 hospital in Mira Bhayander municipal limits, Pratap Sarnaik, who is a Shiv Sena MLA from Owala-Majiwada area, was quoted as saying by PTI.He said that the work on the hospital will start from Monday and 376 beds will be available in the first phase of development. The hospital will be housed in two halls.In other containment efforts, administration is making efforts to safeguard elderly inmates of Harsul Central Jail in Maharashtra’s Aurangabad after 29 prisoners in the facility were reported to have tested positive for coronavirus disease. Officials quoted by PTI said that a health examination drive was being conducted in the prison in which over 500 inmates have been tested so far.Two employees of a civic crematorium in Thane city were also reported to have tested positive for the disease, an official said on Sunday. Their family members have been quarantined and they infected individuals have been admitted to different hospitals in the city, said S K Mahavarkar, in-charge of the Thane municipal corporation’s crematoria, as per PTI.Also Read: Maharashtra: Over 100 hospital employees booked for being absent amid Covid-19 outbreakIn another related incident, over 100 employees of a hospital in Solapur in Maharashtra, including doctors, have been booked for remaining absent from work during the coronavirus pandemic in violation of orders from the district administration, officials said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-latest-maharashtra-records-3-390-fresh-cases-state-tally-at-1-07-958/story-dHTZaRT3yxb1sSR8OGNJKK.html
14-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Tamil Nadu inches closer to 45,000 Covid-19 cases and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Tamil Nadu, second worst-hit state, inches closer to 45,000 Covid-19 cases Tamil Nadu on Sunday recorded 1,974 new Covid-19 cases and 38 deaths taking the total case count of the state to 44,661, the state health department said. With Sunday’s cases, the second worst-hit state in India inched closer to the 45,000-mark.Read more‘Pakistan on one side, China on another’: Gadkari underlines India’s approach to neighboursUnion minister Nitin Gadkari on Sunday said India wanted peace and non-violence to guide its relationship with the neighbouring countries and has never attempted to appropriate land belonging to others. Gadkari’s comments come amid tensions with China and Nepal over conflicting territorial claims and an assertion to never compromise India’s pride, made by union defence minister Rajnath Singh earlier today.Read MoreSushant Singh Rajput had so many plans: Chhichhore director Nitesh TiwariFilmmaker Nitesh Tiwari, who directed Sushant Singh Rajput in Chhichhore, said he was in shock after hearing of the actor’s untimely death. Rajput was found dead at his home in Mumbai on Sunday. While the police have confirmed death by suicide, they have said no ‘note’ has been found. Ironically, his last theatrical release Chhichhore spread awareness about suicide prevention.Read More Virat Kohli leads the way as sporting fraternity mourns death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh RajputThe sports fraternity on Sunday went into mourning after news broke out that Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput had reportedly committed suicide. Indian cricket team captain Virat Kohli said he was shocked to hear the news of Sushant’s demise. “Shocked to hear about Sushant Singh Rajput. This is so difficult to process. May his soul RIP and may god give all the strength to his family and friends,” tweeted Kohli.Read MoreRedmi Note 9 Pro to Galaxy M30s, here are top smartphones under Rs 15,000Gone are the days when sub Rs 15,000 phones meant unwieldy devices with a poor set of specifications. Modern budget smartphones are more powerful, offer near-excellent camera and reliable performance. Other elements such as fast charging, bigger battery, and premium phone-like design have become new normal for the category.Read MoreDad photoshops pics to turn his son into Spider-Man. ‘He’s the real one,’ argues TwitterA father decided to fulfill his son’s dream of being a Spider-Man. How? With help of imagination and a little touch of photoshop. A tweet, which is now making people say aww, details the story of how this man turned his son into the popular superhero.Read MoreHT Salutes: Goa group counsels & helps migrant workers amid Covid lockdownAmid the Covid-19 pandemic and the consequent lockdown, the Covid-19 Outreach group in Goa has been helping stranded migrant workers deal with mental stress. Dhruv Goswami, a business strategy consultant, explained the group’s activities which include arrangement of trained counsellors and creation of migrant database. Watch the full video for more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-tamil-nadu-inches-closer-to-45-000-covid-19-cases-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ff94pAzIwnLp9XggqjA5rN.html
14-06-2020||India||‘Together we have to make Delhi coronavirus-free’: Amit Shah on capital’s crisis||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday said that the Centre and the Delhi government would have to work in tandem to make the country as well as the national capital healthy and coronavirus free under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Shah was chairing a meeting, his second today, to review the Covid-19 health crisis in the national capital which has been reporting a surge in coronavirus cases.The home minister during today’s meeting directed the Delhi government, all three Mayors and the three municipal corporations of the city to work together and implement the decisions taken in the first meeting held earlier on Sunday morning. “The Modi government is determined to prevent the coronavirus infection in Delhi. To stop the spread of the virus, testing will be doubled in the next two days and after six days the testing will be increased three-fold. Subsequently, after a few days, every polling station in the containment zones will be covered for testing,” Shah said in a tweet earlier today.ALSO READ | Amit Shah to hold all-party meet tomorrow to review Delhi’s Covid-19 crisisShah also directed the Delhi Police Commissioner to ensure all guidelines to curb the spread of Covid-19 are enforced strictly in the national capital. The Delhi Police report directly to the Home Ministry.On Sunday, in compliance with orders of the home minister, the Union Health Ministry too directed that bodies of suspected Covid-19 victims in Delhi should be handed over to their relatives immediately without waiting for any kind of lab confirmation on their test results. The Supreme Court had, two days ago, termed the condition of Delhi’s Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Hospital as “pathetic” and its wards as ‘deplorable’.Earlier on Sunday, Amit Shah met Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal along with Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and AIIMS chief Dr Randeep Guleria to discuss the Covid-19 management in Delhi. The meeting, described as a ‘productive one’ was helmed by the home minister.The Centre, too on Sunday announced a slew of measures to control the spread of coronavirus in Delhi, which included carrying out a comprehensive door-to-door health survey in all containment zones, doubling of tests in next two days followed by a three-fold increase within a week’s time.Unable to keep up with the rising number of coronavirus cases, the Delhi government had asked the Indian Railways to allocate isolation coaches for Covid-19 patients of the national capital. At least, 500 railway coaches with a capacity of 8,000 beds have been allocated for Delhi. Private hospitals, too, have been told to earmark 60% of beds for Covid-19 affected patients at lesser rates.The Centre has also promised to provide the Delhi government with all necessary medical resources like oxygen cylinders, ventilators, and all other equipment to fight the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/together-we-have-to-make-delhi-coronavirus-free-amit-shah-on-capital-s-crisis/story-wAJvB1BbS3nTHyuWAWwPYM.html
14-06-2020||India||No plan under consideration for another lockdown, says govt||The Centre has refuted a claim on social media that a lockdown would be re-imposed from June 18.The fact check arm of the government’s Press Information Bureau said the claim in a Facebook post is fake and “there is no such plan under consideration”. Claim: A message on Facebook claiming strict #Lockdown from 18th June. #PIBFactCheck: It's #Fake. There is no such plan under consideration. Please beware of rumour mongers. pic.twitter.com/NqSXOpy9n9The lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus which began on March 25 was extended four times before it finally ended on May 31.Under Unlock 1, the Centre has issued several guidelines for gradual reopening of the country to reboot the economy that had taken a beating during the lockdown of more than two months. Earlier this month, the government allowed places of worship, religious places, shopping centres and restaurants to reopen. But business has been slow to pick up with many restaurants and malls running empty.Many places of worship have also decided not to reopen despite the government’s go-ahead as Covid-19 cases in the country continue to soar.The Centre also lifted restrictions on travel and has allowed the resumption of all modes of transport. But many states have their own quarantine protocol which means arriving passengers are first quarantined before being allowed to go.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-plan-under-consideration-for-another-lockdown-says-govt/story-rsCz52kiZyGHVe7fNb35sJ.html
14-06-2020||India||‘Probe in J&K corruption’: JP Nadda says graft had stalled region’s development||BJP President JP Nadda on Sunday said an investigation will be conducted against those who had blocked the development of Jammu and Kashmir before the special status granted to the region was repealed through abrogation of Article 370 and the erstwhile state was bifurcated into two union territories deepening central control over the region.Nadda made the statement while listing the achievements of the BJP-led central government’s second term in its first year of rule through a videolink address to the people of Karnataka under BJP’s Jan Sanvad campaign launched to mark the occasion. ‘’106 laws including Pocso and Prevention of Corruption Act were not applicable in J&K prior to the abrogation of Article 370. After it has been removed, J&K has been mainstreamed and now there will be an investigation on the corruption in the state that stopped its development,’’ Nadda was quoted as saying by a tweet from BJP’s official account.The BJP has consistently in the past blamed a “few families” for obstructing development of Kashmir for their vested interests.Nadda also said that contrary to the claims made by Jammu and Kashmir politicians like former chief minister and PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti, the region was happy with the decision to do away with Article 370. “Mehbooba Mufti had said that rivers of blood will flow if Article 370 is abrogated. Not a single drop of blood was shed. We are happy that Jammu & Kashmir became an integral part of India but people of J&K are happier than us with the move,” Nadda was quoted as saying by ANI.The Centre had abrogated Article 370 and bifurcated the erstwhile state through a presidential order and a parliamentary resolution passed in August last year, followed by a security clampdown in the newly carved Union Territory in apprehension of trouble on the ground instigated by Pakistan.Also Read: Pakistan on one side, China on another: Gadkari underlines India’s approach to neighboursSeveral leaders were detained and a communication blockade was enforced in the region which has been eased gradually since then along with the release of most of the detained political leadership. Earlier today, defence minister Rajnath Singh told the people of Jammu that the centre was committed to developing Jammu and Kashmir to such an extent that it leads to people in Pak occupied Kashmir raising demands to stay with India and not Pakistan. He also described Article 370 as a stain that had been done away with the blink of an eyelid by his party led government.Article 370 an old stain, done away in a blink of an eye: Rajnath Singh“In the next five years, J&K’s image will undergo a sea change and the people of PoJK will be envious of it. And, wait for some time, PoJK will demand to be with India and not with Pakistan. The day it happens, our unanimous resolution of the Parliament will also be fulfilled,” Rajnath had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/probe-in-j-k-corruption-jp-nadda-says-graft-had-stalled-region-s-development/story-FJckbD5ewopmnZgmM4h37L.html
14-06-2020||India||Earthquake of magnitude 5.5 jolts Gujarat, epicentre near Rajkot||An earthquake of magnitude 5.5 struck near Rajkot in Gujarat on Sunday evening at 8:13 pm, according to the National Center for Seismology (NCS). No loss of life has been reported so far. The epicentre of the quake was 118 km north-northwest of Rajkot. “Its epicentre was located 13 kilometres north-north east from Bhachau in Kutch district,” an NCS official said, reports news agency PTI. The quake was felt in cities like Kutch, Rajkot, Ahmedabad and Patan and many people rushed out of their houses, PTI added. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani held an immediate telephone conversation with the Collectors of Rajkot, Kutch and Patan districts,to get information about the situation, news agency ANI reported quoting the CM’s office.“Chief Minister Vijay Rupani held an immediate telephone conversation with the Collectors of Rajkot, Kutch and Patan districts following the tremors in the state and got information about the situation there,” Gujarat Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) stated.The NCS reported another earthquake of magnitude 2.9 that struck 90 km east of Katra, Jammu and Kashmir at 8:35 pm on Sunday. .The earthquakes in Gujarat and Jammu-Kashmir are the latest in a series of quakes to have hit parts of northern India in the past few months.Nearly a dozen low-intensity earthquakes have jolted the Delhi-NCR region in last three months.Though the NCS has said that there was no need to panic because of the earthquakes in Delhi-NCR, yet it added that it was vital to undertake preparedness and take precautionary measures.  The director of the National Centre for Seismology (NCS) B K Bansal said on Wednesday that given the seismic history of Delhi, minor earthquakes in Delhi-NCR are not unusual.(With inputs from PTI & ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthquake-of-magnitude-5-8-strikes-near-rajkot-gujarat-report/story-7vuInf66VUx6DrXV5Zr0QN.html
14-06-2020||India||Kerala CM asks PM Modi to arrange Covid-19 tests in embassies for expats||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has sought Prime Minister Modi’s help in making arrangements in embassies for Covid-19 tests of expatriates returning to India,The request came after the southern state, amid rising numbers of Covid-19 cases of expatriates returning home, issued an order for mandatory certificates on Saturday. The order, however, will not apply to those arriving on Vande Bharat Mission flight.“From June 20, all private chartered flights departing to Kerala from Middle-East countries shall only carry passengers who have been tested for Covid-19 infection and shown to be negative. A test certificate to that effect should be carried by the passenger. It applies to all flights for which consent letters were issued earlier,” said the government order issued by State Principal Secretary K Elangovan on Friday. In a letter written to the prime minister, Vijayan said if the PCR test was not possible, at least rapid anti-body tests should be done.He added that if everyone was allowed to travel together, chances of spread of coronavirus infection would be quite high and therefore, the infected can be accommodated in separate flights.Meanwhile, state health minister KK Shailaja said a final decision on expats from Gulf countries carrying a Covid-free certificate will be taken after the CM’s video conference with the Prime Minister on Tuesday. “It was not meant to put any impediments on the return of people. We suggested this after many people coming from Gulf countries are getting tested positive. Infected persons pose danger to co-passengers especially pregnant women and aged,” she said, adding it was not good to always oppose decisions meant to check further spread of the virus.But many expatriates said the state was keen to maintain its records and not interested in its people who were desperate to come back from the middle-eastern countries. There are an estimated 18 lakh people from the state working in Gulf countries. At least 215 people from Kerala have died of Covid-19 in the Gulf countries in the last two months.Meanwhile, the state reported 54 fresh coronavirus cases on Sunday, taking the total to 2,461. Of these, 1,340 are active cases, said the CM’s office. Twenty people have succumbed to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-asks-pm-modi-to-arrange-covid-19-tests-in-embassies-for-expats/story-DRxoClqn2A7Lj7OdPs1XmK.html
14-06-2020||India||House destroyed in cyclone, family of five in Odisha lives in a toilet||A woman ward member in Odisha’s Nayagarh district has been living inside a toilet with her family members for over two and a half years after failing to get a house under either Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana or Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana.Banita Senapati, a ward member of Thanapallipatna village of Surkabadi gram panchayat of Nayagarh district, about 85 km southeast of the capital Bhubaneswar, claims she has been forced to live in a toilet with her husband, mother-in-law and two children after their house which was damaged during cyclone Phalin in 2013, became completely unlivable two and half years ago. The family shifted to the toilet that had been constructed under Swachh Bharat Mission. Their plight came to light following social media posts.Senapati’s husband, Ramesh Senapati, a daily labourer tried hard to get a house under the government scheme, but his name never appeared in the list. “He met local BDO as well as other officials pleading for sanction of a house, but all that he got was empty promise,” said Banita. The family has spread out a tin sheet on the toilet floor to cover the pan. The toilet also doubles up as a kitchen as they cook food in one corner and keep clothes in another corner. While the ward member, her daughter and mother-in-law sleep inside the toilet, her husband and son sleep outside.“My getting elected as a ward member has not helped me in any way. While the government talks about empowering panchayati raj institutions, this is how the elected PRI members are forced to stay,” she said.Sarpanch Minati Sahu also expressed her helplessness saying she had personally requested officials to add her family in the PMAY list, but without any result.The government says it is not aware of her plight.Project director of the district rural development agency in Nayagarh, Subash Ray said the administration was not aware of the problem of the ward member. “We will conduct an inquiry and do whatever necessary to help the family,” he said.In December last year, a 72-year-old widow in Mayurbhanj district was found to be living in a toilet for over three years after failing to get accommodation from the state government. The woman, Draupadi Behera slept inside the toilet while her family, including grandson and daughter, slept outside.In March this year, chief minister Naveen Patnaik said his government would provide 20 lakh concrete houses to the poor in the next four years. Patnaik said that the state government has already provided 25 lakh concrete houses to the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-destroyed-in-cyclone-family-of-five-in-odisha-lives-in-a-toilet/story-t3d8Yu5GAqRHTTp9h2oDyO.html
14-06-2020||India||Need for adequate testing, aggressive containment by states to manage Covid crisis: Amitabh Kant||Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant on Sunday stressed on the need for adequate testing, accompanied by aggressive containment by the states to manage Covid-19 crisis.“Some States/Cities think that they can manage Covid-19 crisis without adequate testing. This is not possible. Examples of Kerala/Karnataka/Korea demonstrates that testing -tracing- treatment accompanied by aggressive containment & public adherence to masks & distancing is key,” Kant said in a tweet.With 9,195 fatalities till Sunday, India is the ninth worst-hit nation in terms of Covid-19 deaths, while the highest spike of 11,929 cases took the tally to over 3.20 lakh, of which over half have recovered from the disease.According to the Union health ministry data, the country recorded 311 new deaths in the 24-hour period till Sunday morning while the recovery rate rose to above 50 per cent with 1,62,378 patients cured so far, leaving 1,49,348 cases active.The Johns Hopkins University, which has been compiling Covid-19 data from all over the world, put India in the ninth position in terms of death toll and fourth in terms of total caseload.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-for-adequate-testing-aggressive-containment-by-states-to-manage-covid-crisis-amitabh-kant/story-3AvoGGHCBa38vuatjeCzGK.html
14-06-2020||India||Covid 19 latest: India’s recovery rate past 50% mark, daily tests cross 1.5 lakh||India’s recovery rate of coronavirus patients has crossed 50% according to the data released by the ministry of health on Sunday, which in terms of numbers translates to 1,62,378 patients cured of Covid-19 so far, including 8,049 recoveries recorded over the past 24 hours.“Currently, the recovery rate is 50.60%. This indicates that of all the cases of Covid-19, half of them have recovered from the disease,” said an official statement from the ministry.It added that the healthy recovery rate was a result of “timely case identification” and “proper clinical management”. Currently, 1,49,348 active cases are under medical supervision across the country, it claimed.The Indian government is constantly enhancing its capacity for testing, an integral component of case identification protocol, with the number of government labs involved in testing rising to 646 and private labs numbers increasing to 247. With this a total of 893 labs in India are currently carrying out testing for Sars-Cov-2 virus. According to the official figures, 1,51,432 samples were tested in the last 24 hours alone taking the total number of samples tested thus far to 56,58,614.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesIndia is currently the fourth worst affected country by the pandemic with 3,20,922 total confirmed cases which is only behind the USA (2,143,177), Brazil (850,796) and Russia (528,964) as per the latest figures available on worldometers.com coronavirus dashboard. However, the country is faring much better than other worst-hit countries in terms of cases per million of population. India has recorded 234 cases per million of its population, the spread of the disease in other countries has been war greater—US (6,477/million), Brazil (4,004/million), Russia (3,625/million), UK (4,337/million). On the flip side, it could also mean that a large section of India’s population has not been exposed to the disease so far, a possibility also recognised by Indian authorities. India is also placed much better in terms of numbers of deaths per million of population, which is 7 per million of India’s population currently. Other countries like the US (355/million), Brazil (201/million), Russia (48/million) and UK (614/million), had posted a higher number of deaths in ratio to their population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-latest-india-s-recovery-rate-past-50-mark-daily-tests-cross-1-5-lakh/story-vymWcRT5AFa3sV83lgoocK.html
14-06-2020||India||Tamil Nadu, second worst-hit state nears 45,000-mark with1,974 new Covid-19 cases||Tamil Nadu on Sunday recorded 1,974 new Covid-19 cases and 38 deaths taking the total case count of the state close to the 45,000-mark to touch 44,661, the state health department said.The death toll in Tamil Nadu rose to 435, with the addition of the 38 latest fatalities due to the infectious coronavirus disease. On Saturday, the state had recorded the highest single-day spike in its Covid-19 tally with 1,989 positive cases.Tamil Nadu is the second worst-hit state by the coronavirus pandemic reporting a large number of Covid-19 positive patients, preceded only by Maharashtra which has over 1 lakh coronavirus cases. ALSO READ | Tamil Nadu sets up panel to probe ‘unaccounted’ Covid-19 fatalitiesThe state currently, has 19,676 active cases and 24,547 patients have recovered and been discharged till date.In the last 24 hours, at least 1,138 Covid-19 positive patients were cured and discharged from hospitals.Tamil Nadu Health Minister C Vijaya Baskar on Sunday said people suffering from diabetes and high blood pressure should keep their parameters under control and take proper medication.His statement comes amidst a sharp spike in the death of many of those affected with coronavirus and also suffering from co-morbidities like diabetes mellitus and hypertension among others.ALSO READ | Tamil Nadu crosses 40,000-mark in Covid-19 infections; 18 more die“We are repeatedly insisting on keeping co-morbidity, especially for the aged under check... please keep diabetes under control. Those with diabetes and blood pressure should take proper medication. Take your medicines properly. When you keep these under check you can come out of it,” he said, apparently referring to the highly infectious Covid-19 disease.Emphasizing the government’s commitment, the minister said that doctors have successfully treated patients of various age groups, from a newborn to a nonagenarian.Tamil Nadu’s health workers were tirelessly working to handle the pandemic and any criticism, especially from political parties, was unfair, the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-second-worst-hit-state-nears-45-000-mark-with1-974-new-covid-19-cases/story-7Ygp7P0CCT7oebh9rLvsxO.html
14-06-2020||India||Govt, OIL to compensate all affected in Assam gas well tragedy||Union Petroleum and Natural Gas Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Sunday said people affected in Oil India’s Baghjan gas well tragedy will be “adequately” compensated.Pradhan reached Assam on Saturday to review the situation arising after a blowout and successive inferno that killed two persons. Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, who accompanied Pradhan to the disaster site and relief camps , said a model and a veterinary hospital, a higher secondary school and a skill development centre will be set up in Baghjan. “Today I announce that the Baghajan embankment will be constructed at a cost of Rs 27 crore,” he said.“We will compensate all the affected people. Tea gardens, betel nut trees, fishes, houses and any other properties that have been damaged will be compensated in consultation with the Assam government,” Pradhan told people living in a relief camp.After visiting the well site, the Union minister said the Centre and the state government are trying for a permanent solution to the disaster so that it never recurs.“Oil India is an Assamese company. It has been working here for many decades. Both the Centre and the state have constituted high-level inquiry committees. We will punish the culprit for this disaster even if he is a powerful man,” Pradhan asserted.The company and the Tinsukia district administration have moved more than 7,000 people from nearby areas of the gas well site to 14 relief camps.Sonowal said all the affected people will be compensated after a thorough survey by the administration. The chief minister announced that a concrete road between Baghjan and Tinsukia city will be constructed. A women self-help group of the area will be provided financial assistance.“The Maguri-Motapung wetland is Baghjan’s property. Oil India will clean the wetland,” he said.Sonowal said experts are trying their best to douse the blaze as soon as possible for rehabilitating the displaced people.Interacting with the two leaders, the locals submitted a memorandum with a host of demands for rehabilitation and compensation.After reaching Guwahati on Saturday night, Pradhan held a review meeting with Sonowal in presence of Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, Minister of State for Environment and Forest Naba Kumar Doley and BJP Lok Sabha Member Topon Kumar Gogoi.The well number 5 at Baghjan has been spewing gas uncontrollably for the last 19 days and it caught fire on Tuesday afternoon.The blaze at the well is so massive that it can be seen from a distance of more than 30 kms with thick black smoke going up several metres high, endangering the local biodiversities.Though there is no fire in the periphery of the well site at present, the company has declared an area up to 1.5 km of radius as “red zone” to avoid any untoward incident.At present, five inquiries are taking place to find out facts -- a three-member probe by the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, a one-member probe ordered by the chief minister and an internal five-member inquiry by OIL.Besides, two more crucial independent investigations of technical nature are being carried out by the Directorate General Of Mines Safety (DGMS) and Oil Industry Safety Directorate (OISD).The chief minister also ordered the Additional Principal Conservator of Forest (Wildlife) to conduct a study on the impact of the explosion on the environment and ecology of the surrounding areas, including on flora and fauna in the adjacent Dibru-Saikhowa National Park.Already two officials of OIL have been suspended for alleged negligence of duty at the gas well site, while a show-cause notice has been to John Energy Pvt Ltd, the outsourced private operator of the well.A case has also been registered against Oil India and John Energy over the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-oil-to-compensate-all-affected-in-assam-gas-well-tragedy/story-hbqMklE7MMyHnYrGSvms4O.html
14-06-2020||India||Nepal’s upper house endorses proposal to consider amendment to update new political map||Nepal Parliament’s upper house on Sunday endorsed a proposal to discuss the Constitution amendment bill to update the country’s new political map that includes three strategically key Indian territories, a day after the lower house unanimously voted in favour of the bill.Nepal’s ruling and opposition political parties on Saturday voted in unison to amend the Constitution to update the national emblem by incorporating the controversial map incorporating Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura in India’s Uttrakhand, a move described by New Delhi as “untenable.” Of the total 275 lawmakers in the House of Representatives on Saturday, all 258 lawmakers present in the house voted in favour of the Constitution amendment bill.Now, the bill will undergo a similar process in the National Assembly, wherein the ruling Nepal Communist Party commands two-thirds majority.Rajendra Phuyal, secretary of the National Assembly Secretariat, tabled the bill at the first meeting of the upper house on Sunday, The Kathmandu Post reported.During the second meeting of the National Assembly later on Sunday, Law Minister Shiva Maya Tumbahangphe tabled a proposal to consider the bill for discussions, the paper said.After the discussions, the proposal to consider the bill was unanimously endorsed, it added.The National Assembly will give lawmakers 72 hours to move amendments against the bill’s provisions, if they have any.“We are making necessary preparations to endorse the bill within the next four days,” Phuyal was quoted as saying by the paper.After the National Assembly passes the bill, it will be submitted to the President for authentication, after which it will be incorporated in the Constitution. After that, the new map will be used in all official documents, including the coat of arms.Meanwhile, the main Opposition Nepali Congress has urged the government to intensify diplomatic efforts to ensure the country’s rights in the Kalapani area after the country includes its updated political and administrative map in the Constitution, the Himalayan Times reported.In a press statement on Saturday, the party said the “campaign to reclaim encroached territories would enter the second phase after the revised map incorporating Limpiyadhura, Lipulek and Kalapani areas as its parts, gets endorsed and this would mark a significant solidarity in the issue of nationality.” Reacting to Kathmandu’s move, Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said on Saturday “this artificial enlargement of claims is not based on historical fact or evidence and is not tenable. It is also violative of our current understanding to hold talks on outstanding boundary issues.” The India-Nepal bilateral ties came under strain after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated a 80-km-long strategically crucial road connecting the Lipulekh pass with Dharchula in Uttarakhand on May 8.Nepal reacted sharply to the inauguration of the road claiming that it passed through Nepalese territory. India rejected the claim asserting that the road lies completely within its territory.Nepal last month released the revised political and administrative map of the country laying claim over the strategically key areas, more than six months after India published a new map in November 2019.India had then sternly asked Nepal not to resort to any “artificial enlargement” of territorial claims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-s-upper-house-endorses-proposal-to-consider-amendment-to-update-new-political-map/story-vLbGhYcER6K8S99ZIxBTeN.html
14-06-2020||India||Machines or elephants may pull chariots in Puri Rath Yatra this time instead of devotees||The Orissa High Court has directed the state government to consider deploying heavy-duty machinery or elephants to pull the chariots during Rath Yatra in Puri later this month so as to prevent the gathering of hundreds of people during the Covid-19 pandemic.The HC’s order came in response to advocate Dillip Kumar Ray’s PIL seeking its intervention for use of machinery for pulling the chariots in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. On June 23, the chariots of Lord Jagannath, Lord Balabhadra and Goddess Subhadra would be pulled on the Grand Road from the Jagannath temple to Gundicha temple over a distance of 2.5 km.“We are inclined to observe that deploying heavy-duty machinery or any other means like elephants, than the man power, for pulling the chariots, would obviously obviate the necessity of involving a large number of persons. It is therefore directed that this aspect should be duly considered by the Government while taking a decision for holding Rath Yatra, consistent with the guidelines issued by the Central and State governments. It is up to the State Government to decide whether or not to allow the Rath Yatra on June 23,” the division bench of Chief Justice Mohammad Rafiq and Justice Biswajit Mohanty said Saturday while disposing off the petition.The order was made available on Sunday.The three wooden chariots of the three deities are quite heavy as they are made out of over 13,000 cubic ft timber. Thousands of devotees pull the chariots with sturdy ropes tied around. After making their journey to Gundicha temple, the three deities stay there for eight days and return to the Jagannath temple on the ninth day in a similar fashion.Earlier this month, Snana Purnima, the ritual bathing event of the three deities was held in the temple without the presence of a single devotee. Only the priests who tested negative for Covid-19 were allowed to participate in the ritual.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/machines-or-elephants-may-pull-chariots-in-puri-rath-yatra-this-time-instead-of-devotees/story-Dm9tZaSxvNktjlYp0eTfXK.html
14-06-2020||India||Former Lok Sabha MP, banker Madhavrao Patil dies in Nashik||Former Lok Sabha MP and founder of Janalaxmi Cooperative Bank Madhavrao Patil died after a brief illness on Sunday morning in Maharashtra’s Nashik district.He was 80 and is survived by his wife, two sons and two daughters.He was a staunch supporter of Sharad Pawar and was among the first to join when the latter formed the Nationalist Congress Party in 1999.Patil had won from Nashik Lok Sabha constituency on a Congress ticket in 1998.His last rites were performed at Amardham crematorium here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-lok-sabha-mp-banker-madhavrao-patil-dies-in-nashik/story-FCteeEoDyRLHRHi41nc8cM.html
14-06-2020||India||India 9th worst-hit nation in the world in terms of Covid-19 deaths||India is the ninth worst-hit country in the world in terms of deaths due to coronavirus disease, Covid-19, according to the World Health Organisation tracker. Till Sunday morning, 9,195 deaths were reported in India, according to the health ministry’s dashboard. Maharashtra, Gujarat and Delhi account for roughly two-thirds of all deaths in the country. One thousand deaths have been added to the toll in the last three days.The United States continues to be the nation with most deaths from the disease with 114,446 fatalities. It is followed by Brazil with 41,828 fatalities, UK with 41,481, and Italy with 34,223 deaths. The next four countries in terms of coronavirus death toll are France, Spain, Mexico and Belgium. With 3,20, 922 Covid-19 cases reported till Sunday morning, India continues to be fourth in terms of total caseload, after the US, Brazil and Russia. This count includes 1,49,348 active cases. Maharashtra has the most – 1,04,567 coronavirus cases, followed by Tamil Nadu with 42,687 and Delhi 38,958 cases.The good news, though, is that with the surge in Covid-19 cases, there has been an increase in the number of recoveries as well. Union health ministry data shows that 162,378 or 50.59% of people have been cured and / or discharged from hospitals.However, with the infections rising rapidly, Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a review meeting on the Covid-19 situation on Saturday which was attended by home minister Amit Shah, health minister Harsh Vardhan, Niti Aayog member Vinod Paul, and key officials in charge of the various empowered groups managing various facets of India’s response to the pandemic.The PM will also hold a video conference with the chief ministers next week on the issue. The meeting, sixth since the announcement of lockdown on March 24, will be held on June 16 and 17. The PM will interact with 21 CMs on day 1 and the remaining on the second dayGlobally, 7.7 million people have contracted Covid-19 and 429,666 people have died, according to America’s Johns Hopkins University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-9th-worst-hit-nation-in-the-world-in-terms-of-covid-19-deaths/story-NeDdvOyaOL4Jvles6UTx6I.html
14-06-2020||India||‘Pakistan on one side, China on another’: Gadkari underlines India’s approach to neighbours||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Sunday said India wanted peace and non-violence to guide its relationship with the neighbouring countries and has never attempted to appropriate land belonging to others. Gadkari’s comments come amid tensions with China and Nepal over conflicting territorial claims and an assertion to never compromise India’s pride, made by union defence minister Rajnath Singh earlier today.“Pakistan is on one side of our country, China on the other side. We want peace & non-violence. We never tried to snatch the land of Bhutan or Bangladesh. We don’t want the land of Pakistan or China either. The only thing we want is peace” Union minister Nitin Gadkari was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Gadkari’s comments come in the backdrop of India expressing unhappiness with Nepal’s parliament passing a constitutional amendment to include Indian territories of Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura in the map of the Himalayan nation. India has described Nepal’s actions as ‘unilateral’ and ‘artificial enlargement’ of claims, which was not based on ‘historical fact’ or ‘evidence’On the other hand, Indian and Chinese troops were engaged in a phased pull out from a military build-up at the Ladakh boundary which has lasted for around 6 weeks and also resulted in violent clashes between the two sides.Earlier today, defence minister Rajnath Singh, while addressing people in Jammu through a video link, also stressed on India’s preference for peacefully resolving the dispute with China through talks even as he asserted that India won’t compromise on national pride.“Talks are underway with China at the diplomatic and military level. China, too, expressed its wish to resolve this issue via talks. I would like to inform the Opposition that our government won’t keep anyone in the dark. I assure you that we won’t compromise with national pride in any situation,” Singh said.‘Won’t keep anyone in dark’: Rajnath Singh’s swipe at Opposition over LAC tensionThe Chinese build-up along the line of actual control (LAC) started in May first week along the Ladakh sector and Sikkim where they engaged Indian troops in a face off. Thereafter the tensions between forces of the two countries escalated further along other areas along the LAC. Situation eased after several rounds of talks between the two sides at diplomatic and military level.Rajnath Singh said that India was no longer a weak country but its strength was not meant to scare anyone but was for its own security.“India has become strong in its national security. India is no longer a weak India. Our strength has risen. But this strength is not meant to frighten anyone. If we are increasing our strength we are doing so to secure our country,” Singh was quoted as saying.Gadkari and Singh’s comments could also be seen in the context of Nepal’s lower house of parliament approving a new political map laying claim over the strategically important areas of Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura along the border with India. In a sharp reaction, New Delhi called it an untenable claim.Nepal okays map tweak, India calls it ‘untenable’ “This artificial enlargement of claims is not based on historical fact or evidence and is not tenable. It is also violative of our current understanding to hold talks on outstanding boundary issues,” a spokesperson quoted by PTI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-on-one-side-china-on-another-gadkari-underlines-india-s-approach-to-neighbours/story-hHuLYXjHJMpyI6sacCal1O.html
14-06-2020||India||Amit Shah reviews Covid situation in meeting with Delhi mayors, commissioners of civic bodies||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday held a meeting with top functionaries of Delhi’s three municipal bodies along with Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to take stock of the Covid-19 situation in the national capital.This was the second high-level meeting held during the day in the wake of rising cases of the novel coronavirus. The first meeting Shah took was with Baijal, Kejriwal, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, and senior officials of the Union Home and Health Ministries and the Delhi Disaster Management Authority.The key objectives of the second meeting were to review the steps taken by the municipal bodies and how to check the further spread of the virus, a government official said.Apart from Shah, Baijal, Kejriwal and Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, mayors of Delhi’s North and East municipal corporations -- Avtar Singh and Anju Kamalkant respectively -- attended the meeting. A representative of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation was present.Commissioners of the three municipal corporations also attended the meeting.Earlier Sunday, the home minister announced that Covid-19 testing will be doubled in Delhi in the next two days and subsequently increased by three times.Announcing a slew of measures to check the spread of the virus in the national capital after he held a meeting with Baijal and Kejriwal, Shah also said Covid-19 tests will be started at every polling station in containment zones and a comprehensive house-to-house health survey will be conducted in the hotspots for contact-tracing.In view of a shortage of beds for coronavirus-infected patients in Delhi, the Modi government has decided to immediately provide 500 railway coaches which will be equipped with all facilities, he said.Shah said a committee has been constituted under the chairmanship of V K Paul, a member of the NITI Aayog, to ensure the availability of 60 per cent beds by private hospitals at lower rates and fix the rate of coronavirus testing and treatment.The committee will submit its report by Monday.The Covid-19 tally has reached nearly 39,000 in Delhi and the virus has claimed more than 1,200 lives in the capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-reviews-covid-situation-in-meeting-with-delhi-mayors-commissioners-of-civic-bodies/story-75p7HZSJ71RB3jTIbY82xJ.html
14-06-2020||India||Bengal governor seeks Mamata Banerjee’s apology for ‘inhuman’ disposal of corpse||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday demanded a public apology from chief minister Mamata Banerjee days after a video emerged showing a decomposed corpse being dragged by the neck with tongs by a morgue employee at a crematorium in Kolkata.“Horrendous unimaginable horror of dragging human bodies by pair of tongs would haunt us for long. PUBLIC APOLOGY @MamataOfficial by way of atonement is expected. This barbarity is indelible taint on humanity. Disposal of dead body is solemn act- dominated by spirituality,” Dhankhar tweeted on Sunday.He had already attacked the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) government on Twitter for two days over the video.The video, which was allegedly shot on June 10, surfaced on June 11 and went viral. The morgue employee could be seen putting the body inside a Kolkata civic corporation van. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Communist Party of India (Marxist) leaders alleged that the van carried several decomposed corpses of Covid-19 victims and it was an effort to hide death figures.The Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) and the health department, however, produced records which showed that unclaimed bodies lying at NRS hospital morgue were taken for cremation to the Garia crematoriums since the Dhapa dumping ground, where such unclaimed bodies are cremated round the year, has been reserved for Hindus dying of Covid-19. The state home department on Saturday took to Twitter saying fake news was being spread that the bodies were that of Covid-19 victims.In his tweets on Sunday, Dhankhar made it apparent that he was not ready to accept the state’s explanation. “Calling videos as fake is inexcusable blunder -adding injury to shameless insult. Those orchestrating Remote controlled response @MamataOfficial have no idea of anger of people at enormity of this crime. Before reacting Reflect-if one of the 14 was part of your family!” wrote Dhankhar. On Saturday, Kolkata Police tweeted, “West Bengal Health Department has informed that dead bodies were not of COVID patients, but were unclaimed/ unidentified bodies from Hospital Morgue. Legal action is being taken against persons spreading #FakeNews.”“GOWB respects the credo of dignity at death and, while handling the COVID pandemic, it has espoused the principle by laying down transparent procedures regarding disclosure of facts, opportunities given to bereaved relatives for showing last respect to the deceased, disposal of dead bodies etc. The recent misinformation drive to project an isolated incident of a particular agency’s handling of some unidentified and decomposed dead bodies lying (post accidents etc) in a morgue has no relationship whatsoever with the current pandemic. This has been communicated in writing and in person by most senior state officials even to Hon’ble Governor,” the home department said in a series of tweets on Saturday after state officials met Dhankhar.“Since the governor has demanded apology from the chief minister I cannot comment on her behalf. All I can say is the governor is deeply involved in politics,” said a senior cabinet minister who requested anonymity.Dhankhar came under fire from TMC leaders for his comments over the past two days.Addressing the governor as “Uncle ji” TMC member of Parliament Mahua Moitra tweeted, “GovernorWB back to firing BJP arrows at state govt which is handling covid, amphan & migrant return smoothly all at once. A (rotten) apple never falls far from the tree.”TMC’s former Barrackpore Lok Sabha MP Dinesh Trivedi tweeted, “@jdhankhar1 the only thing that has been compromised is the integrity of the office of the Governor. You have stayed consistently silent on the achievements of the state while looking for every little opportunity to malign it’s image.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-governor-seeks-mamata-banerjee-s-apology-for-inhuman-disposal-of-corpse/story-bQERVwvPIW3T6b7FyHNGAN.html
14-06-2020||India||Punjab CM asks PM Modi to extend free food grain scheme for poor by six months||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi with a request to to extend the benefits offered under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana for another six months to ensure continuity of the provision of means of sustenance for the poor in the view of Covid-19 crisis, reports ANI.Free wheat & pulses are provided to the beneficiaries of National Food Security Act under this scheme.The central government had announced the scheme earlier this year after the outbreak of the pandemic for additional allocation of food grain to all the beneficiaries under the targeted public distribution system (TPDS) for Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) and priority household (PHH) ration card holders. The eligible individuals were to receive 5kg of food grain per month for a period of three months between April and June, 2020.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe scheme, according to the central government, directly benefits around 60 crore people and is the world’s largest food security scheme. The government decided to double the allocation for each beneficiary for three months with the additional allocation being free of cost to mitigate the hardships faced by the poorest class. The food grain provided under the scheme, include 2 kg wheat, 2 kg rice and 1 kg of grams to ensure protein intake.The central government unveiled a series of relief and economic stimulus packages after the announcement of nationwide lockdown on March 25. All of these were collectively named Atamnirbhar Bharat Abhiyan package which was announced in five trances, the last being on May 17. The total package was worth Rs 20,97,053 crore including Rs 1.7 lakh crore welfare package under Prime Minister Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY) which was announced on March 26 and Rs 8,01,603 crore monetary measures announced by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Apart from the free food grain for three months, the PMGKY included Rs 500 per month cash payment to 200 million women Jan-Dhan account holders for three months and an ex-gratia of Rs 1,000 to 30 million poor senior citizens, widows and Divyangs each. PMGKY also front-loaded the Rs 2,000 installment paid to 87 million farmers under the existing Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-asks-pm-modi-to-extend-free-food-grain-scheme-for-poor-by-six-months/story-FhYc521H6xuEexjSCVmB6O.html
14-06-2020||India||‘Covid-19 crisis will not last long, we’ll get vaccine soon’: Nitin Gadkari||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Sunday said that the Covid-19 crisis will not last long and that scientists and experts are trying day and night to arrive at a vaccine for coronavirus. “The corona crisis will not last long. Our scientists and scientists in other countries are working day and night to develop the vaccine. I am confident that we will get the vaccine very soon,” Gadkari said while addressing the ‘Gujarat Jan Samvad’ rally via video conference today.  Also read: Article 370 an old stain, done away in a blink of an eye - Rajnath SinghThe corona crisis will not last long. Our scientists & scientists in other countries are working day and night to develop the vaccine. I am confident that we will get the vaccine very soon: Union Minister Nitin Gadkari at 'Gujarat Jan Samvad' rally via video conference pic.twitter.com/NwGbSRLACBThe minister said that India wants peace and non-violence.“Pakistan is on one side of our country, China on the other side. We want peace and non-violence. We never tried to snatch the land of Bhutan or Bangladesh. We don’t want the land of Pakistan or China either. The only thing we want is peace.” he said. Gadkari’s virtual rally comes shortly after Union defence minister Rajnath Singh addressed Jammu Jan Samvad virtual rally earlier in the day.  Also read: ‘Fate of J&K will change’ - In Rajnath Singh’s address, a hint on PoKPakistan is on one side of our country, China on the other side. We want peace & non-violence. We never tried to snatch the land of Bhutan or Bangladesh. We don't want the land of Pakistan or China either. The only thing we want is peace: Union Minister Nitin Gadkari pic.twitter.com/Mk0fqg224KSingh said that the Modi government is committed to the development of Jammu and Kashmir and will take it to such heights that the people of Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (PoK) will wish “they were part of India”. “Just wait, soon people of PoK will demand that they want to be with India and not under the rule of Pakistan, and the day this happens, a goal of our Parliament will also be accomplished,” he said.Gadkari and Singh’s virtual rallies follow a series of virtual addresses by Union home minister Amit Shah in the past couple of weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-crisis-will-not-last-long-we-ll-get-vaccine-soon-nitin-gadkari/story-676IcLuGpm5aBlHPw44YgN.html
14-06-2020||India||Remdesivir, now part of Covid-19 therapy in Centre’s new health protocol document||The Union Health Ministry has included the use of anti-viral drug Remdesivir as part of “investigational therapy” only for restricted emergency-use in its updated Clinical Management Protocol for Covid-19 patients, which was released on Saturday. Off-label application of immunomodulator tocilizumab and convalescent plasma therapy for treating coronavirus patients in moderate stage of criticality, have also been approved by the ministry.Two keys symptoms like the loss of smell (anosmia) and loss of taste (ageusia) have also been added to the list of coronavirus symptoms by the Union Health Ministry. Earlier, during the onset of the disease, several cases were reported where the patients had displayed a loss of smell or taste.In the new set of protocols, the ministry has removed its earlier recommendation of using hydroxychloroquine in combination with azithromycin in severe cases and requiring ICU management. The health ministry in its revised ‘Clinical Management Protocols for COVID-19’, released yesterday, said anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) should only be used in the early stages of the disease and should be avoided in critical cases.ALSO READ | Loss of smell, taste are now key symptoms to identify Covid-19 patients: Health Ministry“As is the case with other anti-virals, this drug should be used as early in the disease course as possible to achieve any meaningful effect and should be avoided in patients with severe disease,” the document read.Since no vaccine for coronavirus has been developed by any country so far, despite scientists working frantically to develop one, the Centre has said it is pursing some “investigational therapies”. “Use of these drugs is subjected to limited availability in the country as of now. Currently, these drugs should only be used in a defined subgroup of patients,” the updated document said. These medicines include Remdesivir, which can be taken under emergency; convalescent plasma therapy, tocilizumab and hydroxychloroquine.ALSO READ | Coronavirus pandemic: Remdesivir slows Covid-19 progression in macaquesSenior citizens, those who are over 60 years of age are particularly vulnerable to the coronavirus. Among them, those with co-morbid conditions such as diabetes, hypertension and cardiac disease, are also at high risk, according to the Health Ministry. So clarity on symptoms of the new disease and the recommended drugs which can be used to treat the novel coronavirus will not only help doctors in treating positive patients but also aid in identifying potential Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remdesivir-now-part-of-covid-19-therapy-in-centre-s-new-health-protocol-document/story-3uwZmP9qLB31YX57WgjryH.html
14-06-2020||India||Bara Hindu Rao Hospital designated Covid-19 facility as Delhi gets battle ready||In an effort to augment Delhi’s health infrastructure to deal with the rising number of Covid-19 infections, the Delhi government on Sunday designated Bara Hindu Rao Hospital in North Delhi, a Covid-19 facility, reports PTI.Hospital’s medical superintendent has been directed to make all hospital beds available to admit coronavirus patients.The development is in line with several other measures taken in the last 24 hours to meet the twin objectives of containing the spread of the deadly contagion and upgrading the capital’s capacity to handle positive cases that are likely to touch 5.5 lakh mark by the end of July 31, according to an estimate mentioned on record by the Delhi government. Delhi would need around one lakh beds for Covid-19 patients in such a scenario.Earlier today, Union home minister Amit Shah held a meeting with Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, union health minister Harsh Vardhan, Delhi Lieutenant Governor (LG) Anil Baijal, AIIMS director Randeep Guleria and other officials to assess Delhi’s preparedness to combat the disease.The meeting was called in response to Prime Minister Narendra Modi flagging concerns over Delhi’s handling of the pandemic in the wake of Supreme Court’s criticism of inhumane treatment of bodies of patients in Delhi hospitals and reports of their inability to cope up with the influx of positive patients.Also Read: Amit Shah orders inspection of all Covid-19 hospitals in DelhiA decision has been taken to constitute a joint team of experts from the Centre and the Delhi government for inspection of the national capital’s health facilities. The team will prepare a report based on its survey which will be submitted to the Union home and health ministry for further action. Centre has also promised Delhi government to provide with all necessary resources to deal with the recent surge and the future requirements in line with the projections.Delhi currently has the second most number of cases after Maharashtra. Its tally of coronavirus cases stands at 38,958 including 14,945 who have been cured or discharged. The death toll in the national capital is 1,271.In other measures announced today, four IAS officers including two from Andaman and Nicobar Islands and two from Arunachal Pradesh have been transferred to the national capital to aid in government’s containment efforts.In addition to the above, Union home ministry has also ordered attachment of two senior IAS officers -- SCL Das and SS Yadav -- from the central government to the Delhi government.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesFor the specific purpose of increasing the number of beds for treatment of coronavirus cases, 500 railway coaches that have been converted into covid patient treatment wards will be made available to the administration.These coaches have the capacity for 8,000 beds and are equipped with necessary medical equipment to treat coronavirus patients.The city currently has 9,816 dedicated Covid-19 beds in combined facilities owned by the state and the private sector. 5,399 of these beds are currently occupied as per data released by the health department.The Delhi government has also started the process to identify community halls and stadiums which can be converted into makeshift Covid-19 hospitals.Work has begun to erect a 10,000-bed temporary hospital in the premises of a spiritual organization--Radha Soami Satsang Beas-- on the Delhi-Haryana border in South Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bara-hindu-rao-hospital-designated-covid-19-facility-as-delhi-gets-battle-ready/story-tXTVVLzWJbAOmot3abvg4L.html
14-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Article 370 an old stain, done away in a blink of an eye, says Rajnath Singh and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Article 370 an old stain, done away in a blink of an eye: Rajnath SinghDefence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday questioned the Congress over its opposition to the abrogation of Article 370 and its discreet silence over the provision that gave special status to the former state of Jammu and Kashmir. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput dies: Actor spoke of ‘fleeting life’ in last Instagram post, remembered late motherSushant Singh Rajput’s sudden death is yet to register among his fans and colleagues. The actor died by suicide on Sunday. Earlier this month, the actor had shared a post dedicated to his late mother on Instagram. Read moreGautam Gambhir believes MS Dhoni would have ‘broken many records’ had he batted at No. 3MS Dhoni is regarded as one of the greatest cricketers to have ever played the game. Despite playing predominantly at the number 6 position, Dhoni has scored 10773 runs in ODIs while averaging more than 50. Read moreLenovo Legion gaming phone, Google Pixel 4A, Galaxy Note 20 and other powerful phones to look out forAlthough a lot of flagship smartphones have already seen the light of the day this year, some still remain and are probably worth the curiosity. Read moreWorld’s biggest mirror, Tunnel of Love, Ice Caves: Top 10 most unbelievable places on EarthThere is no artist in the world that can match the creative genius of Mother Nature. Some of the works of Nature are on display whereas some are yet to be discovered. Read moreMeet the fitness instructor who is on a wheelchairWe spoke to Manoj Dawar, who runs a gym in Lajpat Nagar. He has helped in the rehabilitation of over 120 patients with spinal cord injury. Watch to know moreShashi Tharoor’s ‘hippopotomonstrosesquipedaliophobia’ post makes Twitter search for a dictionaryShashi Tharoor, Thiruvananthapuram MP, is known for his wit and verbal prowess. Thanks to Twitter, every now and then people get glimpses of his rich vocabulary which never fails to spark chatter among people. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-article-370-an-old-stain-done-away-in-a-blink-of-an-eye-says-rajnath-singh-and-all-the-latest-news/story-VCHdyMrsRgjLGPYIiX1xqN.html
14-06-2020||India||Passenger on board Air India’s Lagos-Mumbai flight dies, cardiac arrest suspected||A passenger on board Air India’s AI 906 from Lagos (city in Nigeria) to Mumbai died on Sunday morning. Airline officials said that despite trying hard to revive him, the 42-year- old passenger could not be saved. The passenger was declared dead by an onboard doctor. However, the doctors of airport operator, Mumbai International Airport Ltd. (MIAL) attended him after the flight landed at Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA), at 3.45 am. After completing all the standard operating procedure, the body was sent to Vile Parle based Cooper hospital.An airline official said that the passenger was unwell and was seen to be restless before he collapsed. Mumbai airport sources said that the passenger seems to have died of a cardiac arrest. An Air India spokesperson said, “A male passenger aboard AI1906 on June 13, 2020, from Lagos to Mumbai passed away due to natural causes today. A doctor on board along with our crew, who are trained to handle such medical emergencies, made an all-out attempt to revive the person, aged 42, who had suddenly collapsed, through resuscitation but all their efforts went in vain. He was declared dead on board by the attending doctor.” Air India said that they had informed about the incident to the relatives of the deceased. “After completing all the procedures, the aircraft was taken for complete fumigation as per norms,” added the spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/passenger-on-board-air-india-s-lagos-mumbai-flight-dies-cardiac-arrest-suspected/story-j8sNcnJagpH3gb3qYL6ZGP.html
14-06-2020||India||Covid-19 cases cross 6,000 mark in Andhra Pradesh||The rapid pace of coronavirus spread in Andhra Pradesh continued as the state crossed the 6,000 cases mark on Sunday to reach 6,152 with the single largest spike of 294 in a day. In exactly ten days, the total number of coronavirus cases increased by 2,040, with an average of 200 new positives per day, government statistics revealed. The positivity rate increased to 1.11 per cent while the recovery rate fell further to 53.90 per cent on Sunday, it said. The government claimed it had completed 5,52,202 tests so far at the rate of 10,341 per million population and stood on top of other states in the country. The cumulative number of Covid-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh now stood at 6,152, including 4,841 locals, 1,107 from other states and 204 foreign returnees. The number of active cases remained at 2,748 and discharges at 3,316, including 2,723 locals, 570 from other states and 23 foreign returnees. With two fresh casualties reported, one each from Kurnool and East Godavari districts, the Covid-19 toll mounted to 84.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-cross-6-000-mark-in-andhra-pradesh/story-1JwEHV1a94tANcQqq3DXtM.html
14-06-2020||India||‘Gone too soon, shocked by his passing away’: PM Modi condoles actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday took to Twitter and condoled the passing away of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. The prime minister described Rajput as “a bright young actor gone too soon”. “He excelled on TV and in films. His rise in the world of entertainment inspired many and he leaves behind several memorable performances,” PM Modi tweeted. Sushant Singh Rajput...a bright young actor gone too soon. He excelled on TV and in films. His rise in the world of entertainment inspired many and he leaves behind several memorable performances. Shocked by his passing away. My thoughts are with his family and fans. Om Shanti.Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput was found dead at his apartment in Bandra (West) on Sunday, Mumbai Police confirmed the death o the 34-year-old actor. No ‘note’ was found from his residence., the police said. Also Watch | Actor Sushant Singh Rajput commits suicide at Mumbai residence“Sushant Singh Rajput has committed suicide, Mumbai Police is investigating,” Deputy Commissioner of Police Pranay Ashok said. Also read: Sushant Singh Rajput dies, spoke of ‘fleeting life’ in last Instagram postThe tragic and shocking death of India's rising star #SushantSinghRajput has left millions of his fans devastated. The masterly performances of his film and TV career will forever be remembered. May his friends and family have the strength to cope with this loss. RIPThe actor’s team shared a message for his fans which read: “It pains us to share that Sushant Singh Rajput is no longer with us. We request his fans to keep him in their thoughts and celebrate his life, and his work like they have done so far. We request media to help us maintain privacy at this moment of grief.”The news of Rajput’s demise sent shockwaves across the country with the film fraternity, leaders, politicians, among other eminent personalities condoling the passing away of the actor. Delhi chief minister Arvid Kejriwal expressed shock over the death of “India’s rising star” and said that Rajput’s death has left millions devastated. “The tragic and shocking death of India’s rising star #SushantSinghRajput has left millions of his fans devastated. The masterly performances of his film and TV career will forever be remembered. May his friends and family have the strength to cope with this loss. RIP,” Kejriwal tweeted. Born on January 21, 1986, in Patna, Bihar, Rajput started his career with the Hindi television industry and starred in Ekta Kapoor’s ‘Pavitra Rishta’ which catapulted his acting career. He got his Bollywood break in Abhishek Kapoor’s ‘Kai Po Che!’ (2013) which earned him the Filmfare for best male debut. From there Rajput went on to give box office hits like ‘MS Dhoni’, ‘Shuddh Desi Romance’, among others. His last appearance was in Nitesh Tiwari’s ‘Chhichhore’ and Tarun Mansukhani’s ‘Drive’ which premiered on Netflix in November 2019. The actor wrote an emotional Instagram post dedicated to his late mother earlier this month. “Blurred past evaporating from teardrops, unending dreams carving an arc of smile and a fleeting life, negotiating between the two,” he wrote in his last post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gone-too-soon-shocked-by-his-passing-away-pm-modi-condoles-actor-sushant-singh-rajput-s-death/story-kmNkQNnjCBqj5dJrnDfOxL.html
14-06-2020||India||‘No question of reimposing lockdown’: Karnataka minister refutes speculations||Karnataka Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar on Sunday said there was no question of reimposition of the lockdown amid speculation that it would be done.“The question of lockdown is not in front of us.There is such speculation as the Prime Minister is holding a video conference with all Chief Ministers on June 16 and 17.On June 17 our state will be taking part in it at around 3 pm,” Sudhakar said in response to a question.Speaking to reporters at Kalaburagi, he said the current situation would be discussed in that meeting.Sudhakar said the Prime Minister has repeatedly been holding such video conferencing exercises to take stock of the situation and plan for the future. “There will not be a lockdown anymore according to me,” he added.There has been speculation that there would be another shutdown from this month owing to a rapid rise in the number of cases. Sudhakar had on Friday said experts have indicated a surge in COVID-19 cases in the state in August and that the government was taking all precautionary measures in that direction. As of June 13 evening, cumulatively 6,824 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 81 deaths and 3,648 discharges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-question-of-reimposing-lockdown-karnataka-minister-refutes-speculations/story-ndCWCgKmH3uvnLqTZLbTpO.html
14-06-2020||India||MP: Man bludgeons wife to death in front of their 6 children||A 38-year-old woman was allegedly killed by her husband in front of the couple’s six children in a village in Madhya Pradesh’s Khandwa district, police said on Sunday.The incident happened in Kadwalia village in Roshani area under Khalwa police station limits late Friday night and the children sat beside the body till Saturday morning, an official said.“Suraj (45) used to doubt the character of his wife. They had two girls and four boys in the 4-13 age group. After an altercation on Friday, he assaulted her and his brother who came to mediate. The woman was found dead by the accused’s brother on Saturday morning, with the children sitting in the house dazed and frightened,” Roshani police post in charge Susa Parte said.“The accused killed the woman by smashing her head with a stone. The children witnessed the murder. Suraj was arrested on Saturday night,” Parte said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-man-bludgeons-wife-to-death-in-front-of-their-6-children/story-xstZSELcJw1meQpeowPXJJ.html
14-06-2020||India||Amit Shah transfers 4 IAS officers to Delhi to fight Covid-19 pandemic||The Union home ministry on Sunday ordered the transfer of four IAS officers – two from Andaman and Nicobar Islands and two from Arunachal Pradesh – to the national capital to help manage the Delhi government’s fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.“@HMOIndia @AmitShah directed immediate transfer of 4 IAS officers - Awanish Kumar & Monica Priyadarshini from A&N, & Gaurav Singh Rajawat & Vikram Singh Mallik from Arunachal Pradesh to New Delhi to assist #GNCTD for management of #COVID19,” the home ministry spokesperson said in a tweet.“HM also directed attachment to #GNCTD of two Sr. IAS officers - SCL Das and SS Yadav from Centre,” the spokesperson said in another tweet.The orders came after Shah’s meeting with Union Health minister Harsh Vardhan, Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and officials of the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) to take stock of the Covid-19 situation in Delhi that has worsened in recent times.Shah had also announced a slew of measures to contain the pandemic that has surged in the last few weeks to make Delhi to the third worst-affected state in the country after Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. Delhi’s Covid-19 tally now stands at 38,958.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-transfers-4-ias-officers-to-delhi-to-fight-covid-19-pandemic/story-vKwr39PFQZ4Gq6pu0lf0HL.html
14-06-2020||India||Article 370 an old stain, done away in a blink of an eye: Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday questioned the Congress over its opposition to the abrogation of Article 370 and its discreet silence over the provision that gave special status to the former state of Jammu and Kashmir. Article 370 was an “old stain” and it was done away the moment the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) got the full majority, Rajnath Singh said while addressing the virtual ‘Jammu Jan Samvad rally’.Singh said that by abrogating Article 370, BJP fulfilled its decade-old promise and is committed to the development and growth Jammu and Kashmir.“We revoked it within 100 days in office at the blink of an eye. But I would like to ask why the Congress, which had a full majority but had supported Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah, remained discreetly silent on it,” Rajnath Singh said.“When we revoked it in August last year, the Congress called it an attack on secularism. But may I ask the Congress why the word ‘secularism’ remained absent from the preamble of the J&K Constitution?” he asked.Singh pointed out that the discriminatory temporary provision was incorporated through an ordinance and not Parliament.“If Article 370 was so important then why didn’t the Congress make it a permanent provision and why it was kept as a temporary provision?” he asked.Singh said that the so-called during ‘Azadi’ movement in Kashmir, Pakistani and ISIS flags were hoisted with impunity but now the Tricolor could be seen across the Kashmir Valley.The defence minister said that with an end to Article 370 oppressed people like refugees from Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK) and west Pakistan and the Valmiki community got equal rights after more than 70 years of Independence.“Today, I recall our visionary leader AB Vajpayee, who believed in Kashmiriyat, Jamhuriyat and Insaniyat. The BJP stands committed and today for us Kashmiriyat is Hazratbal shrine and Amarnath Baba,” he said.Singh said that in the next five years the Narendra Modi-led government will bring a sea-change in Jammu and Kashmir’s image.“The people of PoK will be envious of it. And, wait for some time PoK will demand to live with India and not with Pakistan. The day it happens our unanimous resolution of Parliament will also be fulfilled,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/article-370-an-old-stain-done-away-in-a-blink-of-an-eye-rajnath-singh/story-TjgXZE9BMlxurQrVVQccRO.html
14-06-2020||India||Chhattisgarh police arrest local BJP leader for supplying a tractor to Maoists in Dantewada||The Chhattisgarh police arrested a local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader along with another person in Dantewada district for allegedly helping Maoists of Bastar region.According to the police, the vice-president of BJP in Dantewada district, Jagat Pujari along with one Ramesh Usendi was supplying goods and other items to the Maoists of Abujmaad. They were arrested on Saturday.“The accused is a resident of Barsoor and is vice-president of the district unit of BJP. Ramesh Usendi was also arrested and the police have booked them under sections of the Chhattisgarh Jan Surakhsha Adhiniyam. More sections could be added during the course of investigation,” Superintendent of Police (SP), Dantewada, Abhishek Pallav told HT.The SP further said that the accused was under suspicion for the last six months as he was earlier found engaged in supplying goods and other items to Maoists.“Since Maoists are suffering from an acute crisis of ration during lockdown, they have decided to grow paddy in Abujmaad region. Subsequently, Maoists contacted Jagat Pujari and asked him to buy a tractor for them. The BJP leader told Maoists that he will not buy a tractor in his name because he will become the target of the police .A senior Maoist cadre, Ajay Alami, then told Pujari about Usendi, who will help him to buy the tractor and the tractor will be in Usendi’s name,” said the SP.Both the accused purchased the tractor from Geedam (Dantewada) and when on Saturday, Usendi was going to deliver it to Ajay Alami; he was arrested in Barsoor.“Usendi confessed that Pujari helped him in purchasing the tractor on the instruction of Maoist Ajay Alami and further investigation is going on,” said Pallav.Meanwhile, district BJP President, Chaitram Attami speaking to Hindustan Times said that Pujari was appointed as district vice-president about five years ago.“I don’t know the details of the case but action will be taken and a senior leader of BJP will convey it to him,” said Attami.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-police-arrest-local-bjp-leader-for-supplying-a-tractor-to-maoists-in-dantewada/story-jogqdgDRrb8MrmRJI0cvQK.html
14-06-2020||India||China wants to resolve dispute via talks, India not a weak nation anymore: Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said that New Delhi and Beijing want to resolve the boundary standoff in Ladakh via military and diplomatic level talks.Addressing a virtual rally here in Jammu on the completion of first year of the BJP government’s second straight term in office, Singh said, “Presently India and China are engaged in a dispute in Ladakh. Many people including the Opposition have raised questions. From time to time, information is being given to the people but I would like to inform that military level talks are on to resolve the dispute.”Even as the two sides are reported to be engaged in a phased de-escalation from more than a month long military standoff, Singh asserted that India wouldn’t compromise with national pride as it was no longer a “weak nation”.“China also wants resolution via talks and India also wants to resolve this tussle through diplomatic and military talks. I would like to tell the Opposition that we don’t want to keep anyone in the dark. We would divulge everything at an appropriate time. For now, I can say with confidence and conviction that we can never make any compromise with our national pride. India is not a weak nation anymore. Our power has increased manifold,” he said.The defence minister said that India was strengthening its forces to secure the country and not to scare anyone.In this contest he also referred to the US president’s invite to India at the G7 summit to substantiate his claims of India’s growing popularity and power at the international forum.“Our India is in secure hands. The BJP government appointed the chief of defence staff without wasting any time. The issue of national security was hanging afire the past 15 to 20 years. We did it in a single stroke,” he said.“Rafale will be delivered to us in July and they will increase our power. We don’t want to scare anyone but they will strengthen our defence forces”, he added.Also Read: ‘Won’t keep anyone in dark’: Rajnath Singh’s swipe at Opposition over LAC tensionIn next 5 years J&K will undergo a sea-change, even PoJK will clamour to live with India: Rajnath SinghOn the issue of Jammu and Kashmir, the defence minister said that in the next five years, the Modi government will bring a sea-change in the region’s image vis-à-vis progress and development.“In the next five years, J&K’s image will undergo a sea change and the people of PoJK will be envious of it. And, wait for some time, PoJK will demand to be with India and not with Pakistan. The day it happens, our unanimous resolution of the Parliament will also be fulfilled,” he said.He further said, “The weather has changed. Our channels are now showing temperatures (weather forecast) of Muzaffarabad and Gilgit, And, Islamabad is feeling the heat. Therefore, there is now more mischief (on the borders and in Kashmir) but our security forces and agencies are giving them a befitting reply. Terrorists are being killed in large numbers in the Valley these days.”Rajnath added that it’s not just the Rs 2 lakh crore package for Jammu and Kashmir, the Modi government has been according top priority to the UT, which was evident from the construction of bunkers all along the Indo-Pak borders to shield the villages, reservation benefits to the residents living along the international border on the lines of LoC villagers and strengthening of PRIs.He also informed that the work on Delhi-Amritsar-Katra express corridor has also been started.Article 370 an old stain, done away with at the blink of an eye: RajnathRajnath Singh took potshots at BJP’s arch-rival Congress for its “silence” on Article 370 and 35-A and said, “We revoked it within 100 days in office, at the blink of an eyelid, but I would like to ask why Congress, which had a full majority but had supported Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah, remained silent on it. When we revoked it in August last year, Congress called it an attack on secularism. But may I ask Congress why the word ‘secularism’ remained absent from the preamble of the J&K Constitution?”Article 370 was an old stain and the moment we got full majority, it was done away with at the blink of an eye, he added.He recalled how the discriminatory temporary provision was incorporated via an ordinance and not via an act of the Parliament.“Had Article 370 been so integral, then why Congress didn’t make it a permanent provision and why it was kept as a temporary provision,” he asked.Singh said that during the so-called ‘Azadi’ movement in Kashmir, Pakitani and ISIS flags were hoisted with impunity but now Tricolors could be seen across the valley.The defence minister said that with an end to Article 370, the oppressed people like refugees from PoJK, West Pak refugees and Valmiki community got equal rights after more than 70 years of Independence.“Today I recall our visionary leader AB Vajpayee, who believed in Kashmiriyat, Jamhurityat and Insaniyat. BJP stands committed to it and for us Kashmiriyat is Hazratbal shrine and Amarnath Baba,” he said.Rajnath heaped praise on PM Modi vis-à-vis Covid 19 pandemic.Also Read: For Coronavirus Live Updates“Many developed countries like the US, Brazil and Spain were badly hit by the Covid 19 but our PM Modi announced a nationwide lockdown on March 25. Entire India abided by it. Had it not been declared, the magnitude of the damage would have been enormous and difficult to tackle. Even WHO appreciated India for its efforts in tackling this dreaded virus. We strengthened our health infrastructure and started manufacturing PPE kits , which are now being exported to other countries. Here I would like to congratulate J&K for its testing rate, which is second best after Goa.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-wants-to-resolve-dispute-via-talks-india-not-a-weak-nation-anymore-rajnath-singh/story-jKnJDKfNpTo2q34U0H2TjJ.html
14-06-2020||India||Monsoon advances in Gujarat, heavy rain likely over next few days||Monsoon has advanced into some parts of Gujarat and heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely in some southern areas of the state in next five days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday.Parts of Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar and Valsad, and the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli received heavy rainfall in the last 24 hours.Besides, rains also lashed many places in North Gujarat region, a few areas of South Gujarat and some isolated places in Saurashtra-Kutch in the last 24 hours, IMD’s Ahmedabad centre said in a release.It said the monsoon has advanced to cover South Gujarat region till Surat.“The southwest monsoon has advanced into some parts of Gujarat, remaining parts of Central Arabian sea, Maharashtra (including Mumbai) and some parts of Madhya Pradesh,” it said.“Conditions are becoming favourable for further advancement of the monsoon into some more parts of Gujarat and North Arabian Sea during the next 48 hours,” the IMD said.Several districts in South Gujarat and Saurashtra region are likely to receive “heavy to very heavy” rainfall over the next five days, it said.Many parts of Central Gujarat and Saurashtra-Kutch region will receive light to moderate rainfall with thunderstorms over the next five days, the MeT office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-advances-in-gujarat-heavy-rain-likely-over-next-few-days/story-LutYv8GM7VTr6dQJbMww0M.html
14-06-2020||India||Odisha woman drags 100-yr-old mother on cot to bank to withdraw pension||A woman in Odisha’s Naupara has claimed that she had to pull her over 100-year-old mother to the bank on a cot to get the latter’s pension money after the manager demanded physical verification of the account holder. However, the district collector has refuted the claim, saying the woman brought her mother to the bank before the manager could visit their home for verification.The incident came to light after a video was widely shared on social media showing 60-year-old Punjimati Dei of Bargaon village in Naupara district dragging a cot with her mother lying on it. In March, the Centre had announced Rs 500 monthly assistance for women Jan Dhan bank account holders from April to June to help the poor tide over the Covid-19 crisis under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan package.According to the villagers, on June 9, Dei went to the local branch of the Utkal Grameen Bank to withdraw Rs 1500 from the account of her bed-ridden mother, Labhe Baghel who is over 100-years-old. However, the bank manager Ajit Pradhan reportedly told her that she had to bring her mother - the account holder – to bank for him to release the money. Dei claimed that since her mother is bed-ridden, she had no option but to drag her charpoy to the bank on the village’s kutcha road the next day. She added that the manager released the money after the duo went to the bank. Reacting to the incident after the video went viral, Naupara’s district collector Madhusmita Sahoo, said that the woman took her mother to the bank despite the manager offering to visit their house the next day for verification.“As the bank is managed by a single person, it was difficult for the manager to go to the woman’s house the same day. However, the manager had assured her that he would visit the woman’s house the next day. Before he would visit, the woman had dragged her mother on a charpoy to the bank,” Sahoo said.The Reserve Bank of India has time and again advised banks to provide separate basic banking facilities such as delivery of cash against withdrawal from the account, pick up of cash and instruments against receipt, delivery of demand drafts, submission of KYC documents and life certificates for senior citizens and individuals with disabilities at the residence of such customers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-woman-drags-100-yr-old-mother-on-cot-to-bank-to-withdraw-pension/story-VUMpNaNbVmF5dayMFm4UEI.html
14-06-2020||India||In plan to step up Jal Jeevan Mission in Covid times, Centre has 2 clear objectives||The Centre has decided to step up implementation of the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) to stick to its target and provide employment to migrant workers who returned to their villages due to the Covid-19 lockdown and do not want to immediately return to the cities, people familiar with the development said on Sunday.The mission targets supply potable drinking water through piped connections to 15 crore rural households by 2024. “We have asked state governments to scale up implementation of the mission. This will ensure that the mission, which was halted due to the lockdown, will not miss deadlines. It will also help states provide employment to workers at the grassroots,” a government official said.The official said Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat had started reaching out to chief ministers.“As the prime minister often underlines, we are determined to turn this challenge into an opportunity,” he said.Officials said the Centre had asked states to use funds from MNREGA {Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act} to dig trenches for laying pipes and funds from the Jal Jeevan Mission to lay the pipes and carrying out other specialised activities.The government is expected to spend Rs 3.6 lakh crore - Rs 2.08 lakh crore is the central state - to achieve its 2024 target of supplying 55 litres per capita per day.Officials said the government had already released the first tranche of the first installment to all states who needed funds. For 2020-21, a provision of Rs 23,500 crore has been made for the mission.Nearly 163 million Indians lack access to clean water, the highest number for any country, according to WaterAid, a non-government organisation. According to data from the Jal Shakti ministry, in states like Bihar, Odisha and Jharkhand, fewer than 5% of rural households have piped water. That compares with 99% of rural households that have piped water supply in Sikkim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-plan-to-step-up-jal-jeevan-mission-in-covid-times-centre-has-2-clear-objectives/story-tKbSzUyLYf5mAxTmjVpVIN.html
14-06-2020||India||Amit Shah orders inspection of all Covid-19 hospitals in Delhi||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday said that a joint team of the Centre and the Delhi government will inspect the national capital’s health systems amid the surge in Covid-19 cases.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“A joint team of doctors of health department of government of India, Delhi health department, AIIMS and the three municipal corporations of Delhi will visit all Covid-19 hospitals in Delhi and inspect the health systems and preparedness to fight the disease and prepare a report,” Shah tweeted after a meeting to take stock of the situation in Delhi.Union Health minister Harsh Vardhan, Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and officials of the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) attended the meeting.Also read: Door-to-door health survey, guidelines on last rites in Centre’s plan to help Delhi battle Covid-19Delhi’s Covid-19 tally now stands at 38,958 including 14,945 who have been cured/discharged. The death toll in the national capital is 1,271.Shah also said that the Centre has convinced the Delhi government to procure all medical equipment to fight the pandemic.“The Government of India has fully convinced the Delhi Government to meet the necessary resources like oxygen cylinders, ventilators, pulse oxymeters and all other requirements to fight this epidemic,” he said in another tweet.The home minister said all decision taken at the meeting needs to be implemented.“In today’s meeting with all these major decisions, many more decisions were taken. Along with this, the Health Department of the Central and Delhi Government, all the concerned departments and experts have been instructed to ensure that all the decisions made today are implemented,” Shah said.The Delhi expects Covid-19 cases to swell to 5.5 lakh by July 31 if the city has to treat both its residents and outsiders seeking treatment. Earlier, Shah said that the Centre has decided to send 500 railway coaches to the Delhi government to ensure that there is no shortage of beds to treat Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-orders-inspection-of-all-covid-19-hospitals-in-delhi/story-fj3aI0GUGYZa5QX2EBu9fN.html
14-06-2020||India||‘More than 6,000 Covid-19 cases, but Bihar discussing elections’: Prashant Kishor’s jibe at Nitish Kumar||Election strategist Prashant Kishor has attacked the Nitish Kumar government in Bihar, saying while the entire country is discussing the coronavirus crisis, the only topic of discussion in Bihar is the assembly election.The state elections are due in Bihar later this year.“Despite the lowest testing rate, 7-9 per cent positive case rate and more than 6,000 cases, elections are the favourite topic in Bihar instead of coronavirus. Nitish Kumar, who hasn’t stepped out of his home due to Covid-19 fear, thinks there is no harm in stepping out and vote,” he tweeted in Hindi on Sunday. देश में सबसे कम टेस्टिंग, 7-9% पॉज़िटिव केस दर और 6 हज़ार से ज़्यादा केस के बावजूद बिहार में करोना के बजाय चुनावों की चर्चा है।तीन महीनों से #Corona के डर से अपने आवास से ना निकलने वाले @Nitishkumar समझते हैं कि लोगों के घरों से निकलकर चुनाव में भाग लेने में कोई ख़तरा नहीं है।Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has been using the virtual outreach programme of his party the Janata Dal (United) or JD(U) for the build-up to the forthcoming election, when he would seek his seventh term since 2005.Though comfortably placed in the company of BJP due to Bihar’s poll arithmetic, Kumar has been out early to extol the virtues of his governance and social reforms initiatives, including prohibition and campaign against child marriage, to counter any hint of anti-incumbency factor and revive the memories of pre-2005 RJD regime of “pati-patni’ by presenting a statistical comparison on key parametres.In a series of virtual meetings, the Bihar chief minister booth-level workers and leaders to work on 90:10 formula, spending 90% time on acquainting people with the strides the state has taken since 2005 and just 10% on responding to Opposition’s meaningless clamour.“Last two assembly poll victories were due to people’s stamp of approval on Bihar government’s development work and the third one will also be no different,” he said, while interacting with workers of Samastipur, Begusaraai, Khagaria, Bhagalpur, Banka, Munger, Lakhisarai, Sheikhpura and Jamui.Kumar has also asked the workers of his Janata Dal (United) to ramp up social media presence with a special focus on first-time voters.Creating WhatsApp groups and Facebook pages, which could serve as an interface between the party and the masses, figured among the commandments received by JD(U) foot soldiers from Kumar during the six-day “virtual sammelan (conference)” that ended on Friday.Kishor has been constantly targeting Kumar over various issues, particularly those related to the Covid-19 situation in the state. Last week, he asked the chief minister to announce in public if the state government has received Rs 1.25 lakh crore aid from the Centre.He was expelled from the JD(U) by Nitish Kumar in January this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-6-000-covid-19-cases-but-bihar-discussing-elections-prashant-kishor-s-jibe-at-nitish-kumar/story-j6vfUFcvSGxmkDEWko9dzI.html
14-06-2020||India||Amit Shah steps up Delhi’s Covid battle, says triple testing in 6 days||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday held an important meeting on the Covid-19 situation in Delhi, which has been seeing a huge spike in the number of cases.Health minister Harsh Vardhan, Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and officials of the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) were present in the meeting.Shah announced the details of the meeting on Twitter where he said that the Centre has decided to send 500 railway coaches to the Delhi government in view of the shortage of beds to treat Covid-19 patients in the national capital. “These coaches will not only provide 8,000 extra bends, but will also be equipped with everything to fight the Covid-19 infection,” Shah tweeted in Hindi. दिल्ली में कोरोना से संक्रमित मरीजों के लिए बेड की कमी को देखते हुए केंद्र की मोदी सरकार ने तुरंत 500 रेल्वे कोच दिल्ली को देने का निर्णय लिया है।इन रेलवे कोच से न सिर्फ दिल्ली में 8000 बेड बढ़ेंगे बल्कि यह कोच कोरोना संक्रमण से लड़ने के लिए सभी सुविधाओं से लेस होंगे।He also assured all help in providing oxygen cylinders, ventilators, pulse oxymetres and other essential equipment to Delhi government. Shah also said that five senior officials from the central government will be deployed to Delhi to help the state government tackle the crisis.Also Watch l Delhi Covid crisis: Amit Shah meets CM Arvind Kejriwal & LG Anil Baijal “Health care workers will go to every house in the containment zone for effective contact mapping. The results will be out in a week. All the people living int he containment zones will be asked to download the Aarogya Setu app. The number of samples which are being tested will be doubled in the next two days. Int he next six days, it will be increased three-fold,” Shah said in a series of tweets. दिल्ली के कन्टेनमेंट जोन में Contact mapping अच्छे से हो पाए इसके लिए घर-घर जाकर हर एक व्यक्ति का व्यापक स्वास्थ्य सर्वे किया जायेगा, जिसकी रिपोर्ट 1 सप्ताह में आ जाएगी। साथ ही अच्छे से मोनिटरिंग हो इसके लिए वहां हर व्यक्ति के मोबाइल में आरोग्य सेतु एप डाउनलोड करवाई जाएगी।He also said that Centre has decided to form a panel of senior doctors at AIIMS to provide telephonic guidance to smaller hospitals on Covid-19. The helpline number will be released tomorrow.The home minister also announced that the government will release fresh guidelines for cremating those who died due to Covid-19.He further said that volunteers from Scout Guides, NCC, NSS and other organisations will be roped in to help fight against the coronavirus disease.Kejriwal called the meeting “extremely productive”. “Many key decisions taken. We will fight against corona together,” he said on Twitter. Extremely productive meeting betn Del govt and Central govt. Many key decisions taken. We will fight against corona together.On Saturday, Delhi added 2,134 new coronavirus disease cases, the second highest number of cases it has added in a 24-hour period (the highest was on Friday, 2,137).With the fresh spike in cases, Delhi’s tally crossed the 36,000-mark, and the death toll due to the disease climbed to 1,214.It was the second consecutive day when the number of reported cases breached the 2,000-mark. On Friday, Delhi had witnessed 2,137 cases,the highest single-day spike in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doubling-covid-19-testing-500-railway-coaches-with-beds-centre-s-plan-to-help-delhi-govt/story-zGjckgAT7GvFWX3na5hPCI.html
14-06-2020||India||Centre to provide 500 railway coaches to Delhi for Covid-19 patients: Amit Shah||The Centre will provide 500 railway coaches to Delhi in view of the shortage of beds for Covid-19 patients in the national capital, Union home minister Amit Shah said on Sunday after a meeting with Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.The home minister said that the coaches will add 8,000 beds to the existing strength of beds in Delhi and will have all the facilities and equipment to treat coronavirus infection. दिल्ली में कोरोना से संक्रमित मरीजों के लिए बेड की कमी को देखते हुए केंद्र की मोदी सरकार ने तुरंत 500 रेल्वे कोच दिल्ली को देने का निर्णय लिया है।इन रेलवे कोच से न सिर्फ दिल्ली में 8000 बेड बढ़ेंगे बल्कि यह कोच कोरोना संक्रमण से लड़ने के लिए सभी सुविधाओं से लेस होंगे।This was among a series of decisions taken after a crucial meeting called by the home minister to discuss the Covid-19 situation in Delhi. Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, Delhi Lieutenat-General Anil Baijal and officials of the State Disaster Management Authority were also present at the meeting.Delhi, the third-most affected state in the country after Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, added 2,134 new coronavirus disease cases on Saturday, taking its total count to 38, 958 including 22,742 active cases and 1,271 fatalities. At present, Delhi’s bed capacity across private and government hospitals for Covid-19 patients stands at 9,698. Of them, 4,248 are vacant, according to Delhi’s coronavirus app dashboard. To cope with the surge in coronavirus infections, the Arvind Kejriwal government plans to use 40 hotels and 77 banquet halls as makeshift hospitals. Two top South Delhi hotels – Vasant Continental and Hyatt Regency – were asked to place rooms at the disposal of the hospitals they were being attached to. Earlier this week, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had said that the national capital is likely to have over five lakh Covid-19 cases by the end of July and 80,000 beds would be needed to accommodate the infected patients.“Till June 15, there will be 44,000 COVID-19 cases and we would need 6,600 beds. We would hit one lakh cases and would require 15,000 beds by June 30.“Till July 15, the cases would mount to 2.5 lakh and we would require 33,000 beds and till July 31, there will be 5.5 lakh cases and we would need 80,000 beds,” Sisodia had told reporters after a meeting with L-G Baijal on June 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-provide-500-railway-coaches-to-delhi-for-covid-19-patients-amit-shah/story-3nxx8AAd1r1DHINIj8SJiP.html
14-06-2020||India||Article 370, Covid-19 to Rafale and ties with China in Rajnath Singh’s wide-ranging Jammu virtual rally: Highlights||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday addressed the Jammu Jan Samvad virtual rally and talked about a range of issues. Jammu and Kashmir and the abrogation of Article 370 dominated Singh’s address while he also talked about the Covid-19 crisis, Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), India’s defence preparedness and the situation with China. Singh said that by abrogating Article 370, the Bharatiya Janata Party fulfilled its decade-old promise and is committed to the development and growth Jammu and Kashmir. “Just wait, soon people of PoK will demand that they want to be with India and not under the rule of Pakistan, and the day this happens, a goal of our Parliament will also be accomplished,” he said.Also read: ‘Fate of J&K will change’: In Rajnath Singh’s address, a hint on PoKHere are the highlights from Singh’s address:• Earlier in Kashmir, protests demanding ‘Kashmir azaadi’ were held and flags of Pakistan and ISIS were seen, but now only Indian flag is seen there.• Our promise as a party back in the days of Jan Sangha was fulfilled right after we formed the government with a thumping majority last year. Article 370 and 35A were removed within 100 days of forming the government at the Centre.• In the six years of Modi government, nearly 2 lakh crore rupees have been spent on the development of Jammu and Kashmir. • If Congress had such affinity with Article 370, why was it still a temporary provision for all these years?• Our country, in the year 2013, was at ninth spot with respect to the size of its economy, and now it stands at the fifth spot. • Earlier, at international platforms, most countries used to side with Pakistan over the matter of Kashmir and Article 370, that isn’t the case now.• Talks underway with China at diplomatic and military level. China too expressed wish to resolve this issue via talks. • I’d like to inform Opposition that our government won’t keep anyone in the dark. I assure you that we won’t compromise with national pride in any situation.• Rafale with reach India in July. It will bolster out Air Force. We don’t want to scare anyone, we want to strengthen our defence system for our security and protection. • Our Government has decided that the import of goods from abroad should be stopped. Our country should not be known as an importing country in the world, but India should be known as an exporting country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/article-370-covid-19-to-rafale-and-ties-with-china-in-rajnath-singh-s-wide-ranging-jammu-virtual-rally-highlights/story-IM7wjmTF0SxbRX8We7s1OM.html
14-06-2020||India||Jail for 6 months, Rs 5,000 fine for not wearing mask in Uttarakhand||Residents of Uttarakhand could be sent to jail for up to six months or be fined Rs 5,000 if they do not wear a mask in public places and flout rules of social distancing and quarantine, the state government has said.This comes after Governor Baby Rani Maurya on Saturday gave her assent to the Uttarakhand Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, for amendment in the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageUttarakhand has become the third state in the country to make changes in the rules and regulations of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, after Kerala and Odisha to contain the coronavirus pandemic. “After the Governor’s assent to the ordinance, the amendment was made in sections 2 and 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act after which the norms related to wearing face masks, maintaining social distance or quarantine would now be implemented in a more strict manner,” a government official privy to the development said on the condition of anonymity.“The violator of the same could attract imprisonment of up to six months or a fine of Rs 5,000,” the official said. The Uttarakhand government had declared Covid-19 outbreak in the state as an epidemic on March 14 following which it had brought the ordinance for amendment in the concerned act. Earlier on Saturday, Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat directed officials to audit every death related to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state and analyse the reasons behind them. Rawat gave the directions while evaluating the pandemic situation in the state during a meeting with all the 13 district magistrates through a video conference. The chief minister also directed officials to resume the working of electric crematoriums in Haldwani and Haridwar apart from announcing a new one in Dehradun. The Himalayan state has so far reported 23 Covid-19 related deaths with 1,785 patients till Saturday. Only one of these 23 deaths has been attributed directly to Covid-19, according to health officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jail-for-6-months-rs-5-000-fine-for-not-wearing-mask-in-uttarakhand/story-F9myG9CoNv1OE2WykjBMxL.html
14-06-2020||India||‘Unacceptable’: HC raps Punjab police for using controversial term for Africans||The Punjab and Haryana high court has rebuked the Punjab Police for using the term ‘nigro’ while referring to an African person in police documents. In a strongly-worded order passed on June 12, the court said that use of derogatory terms like “Kalla” or “negro” to address black people of African-origin is highly offensive and acceptable.Taking strong exception to the police force normalising everyday racism, the court said that black people deserve dignity and respect in foreign land and police officials should be immediately sensitised about the issue.“The Director General of Police, Punjab is requested to consider the entire issue and notify instructions in this regard to the police force calling upon them never to use the offensive term ‘nigro’ or ‘negro’ while referring to “black” persons in case papers”, justice Rajiv Narain Raina ordered during the hearing related to a drug case.The matter has been listed for further hearing on June 18 when the court will consider the limited aspect of the action proposed to be taken by the police to address this issue.“This aspect needs to be corrected by sanction of the law by ordering strict action against the policemen who indulge in this character assassination based on physical features”, the court said.The Punjab police had used the term ‘nigro’ while referring to an African person in the challan papers presented before the trial court while filing the charge sheet in a case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.“I am appalled to find the term ‘Nigro’ used while referring to an African national in the challan papers…This is a highly offensive word across the globe and no one has any business to use it, and much less the police. The police appear to have assumed that every black is a drug peddler and should be treated as such. This is terrible thinking”, justice Raina said in his order.There have been many instances of racism against African people in India in the recent past.Former West Indies captain Darren Sammy recently revealed that he faced racial comments while playing for the Sunrisers Hyderabad in the Indian Premier League (IPL). He alleged that he was called ‘Kalu’ by some of his team mates during the 2013 and 2014 seasons.“I just learnt what that kalu meant when I played for Sunrisers in the IPL. They called me and Perera (Sri Lankan cricketer Thisara Perera) by that name. I thought it meant strong Stallion. My previous post tells me something different and I am angry,” Sammy’s post on Instagram read.Many people from African countries have also been subject to racist attacks in the national capital, Delhi over the past few years.The Punjab and Haryana HC said that despite (India) being a “sub-continent of browns in all its shades, we display a perverted and primitive mind-set of looking down on others.”“We are, professedly, a tolerant sub-continent of “browns” in all its shades, but more often than not, display a perverted and primitive mind-set looking down on others without looking within ourselves. For many centuries we have been slaves. Freedom does not lend its wings to our countrymen to fly anywhere they wish and in any manner they like and abuse foreigners on the street calling them ‘kalla’”, the Punjab and Haryana high court said.The court also said that black people should be referred to only by their country of origin in case papers.“All Africans are our friends and when they come to India either as visitors or students they are our valuable guests and we should be reminded that India is rich in its traditions of ‘mehman nawazi’ and ‘attithi sanskar/satkar’ and prides itself on this”, the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unacceptable-hc-rebukes-punjab-police-for-using-nigro-to-address-africans/story-HVCqZ8JsLRjH9PRfTEAhRO.html
14-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘Fate of J-K will change’, says Rajnath Singh while addressing ‘Jammu Jan Samvad rally’ and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Fate of J&K will change’: In Rajnath Singh’s address, a hint on PoKThe fate and the picture of Jammu and Kashmir will change in the years to come under PM Modi’s leadership, defence minister Rajnath Singh said while addressing the ‘Jammu Jan Samvad rally’ via video conferencing on Sunday. Read more11 states and UTs have less than 500 Covid-19 cases, some have no deathsEleven states and Union territories in the country have reported less than 500 Covid-19 cases and most of them have recorded no deaths so far, data shows. Read moreApple Maps inches closer to Google Maps, rolls out ‘Nearby’ feature in IndiaApple seems to have expanded its ‘Nearby’ feature to all those who are using the company’s Apple Maps app in India. There’s no public announcement but a mere mention of it in the ‘Nearby’ feature page for Maps in the ‘iOS and ipadOS feature availability’ website. Read moreAnushka Sharma, Virat Kohli’s elegant house is straight out of a dream. See inside picsAnushka Sharma and her cricketer husband Virat Kohli have kept their army of fans curious about the interiors of their lavish house in Mumbai. Read more‘Nobody should get infected’: Gautam Gambhir wishes Shahid Afridi a speedy recoveryGautam Gambhir and Shahid Afridi may not have enjoyed the best of relations on the cricket field, and may even share different political opinions, but the former India cricketer has wished Afridi a ‘speedy recovery’. Read moreHappy 65 Birthday Kirron Kher: Kanjeevaram to Banarasi, nobody does sarees like Kirron KherBorn on June 14th in Chandigarh to a Punjabi family, Kirron Kher was originally named Kiran Thakur Singh Sandhu. She made her film debut in a Punjabi film Asar Pyaar Da in 1983 and subsequently took a break from cinema right up till 1996 when she starred in Shyam Benegal’s, Sardari Begum and quickly became one of the most versatile and unique actors in Indian cinema. Read moreSaree-clad woman aces backflip, video is all kinds of wow. WatchHave you ever seen a video which makes you say “wow” and you also end up seeing it on a loop? In case you’ve come across such a clip, you know what we’re a talking about. If not, let this video of a woman doing a backflip, while wearing a saree, be your first. Read moreCovid cure found, claims Ramdev’s Patanjali: ‘100% effective in clinical study’Patanjali Ayurved Ltd has claimed to have found Covid-19 cure. Patanjali CEO Acharya Balkrishna cited results of ‘clinical case studies’. Many researchers are working on a vaccine for Covid across the world. Experts have said that it would take 1-1.5 years to develop a vaccine. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tes-from-hindustan-times-fate-of-j-k-will-change-says-rajnath-singh-while-addressing-jammu-jan-samvad-rally-and-all-the-latest-news/story-zLUBkgpVzmZyks7PLbKi5I.html
14-06-2020||India||‘Won’t keep anyone in dark’: Rajnath Singh’s swipe at Opposition over LAC tension||Defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Sunday that the central government is engaged in talks with the Chinese side at diplomatic and military levels to resolve the border standoff.He also took a jibe at the Opposition parties, saying the government will not compromise with the national pride.“Talks are underway with China at diplomatic and military levels. China too has expressed wish to resolve this issue via talks. I’d like to inform Opposition that our government won’t keep anyone in the dark,” Singh said while addressing the ‘Jammu Jan Samvad rally’ via video-conferencing.“I assure you that we won’t compromise with national pride in any situation,” he added.His comments came a day after Army chief General MM Naravane said that disengagement of Indian and Chinese forces is taking place in a “phased manner” along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC).“I would like to assure everyone that the situation along our border with China is under control,” said General Naravane.“Both sides are disengaging in a phased manner. We have started from the north, from the area of the Galwan river, where a lot of disengagement has taken place,” he had further said.The disengagement began after a meeting between Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the People’s Liberation Army in South Xinjiang region, on June 6.Army delegations from India and China, led by major general-rank officers, on Friday held discussions in eastern Ladakh to resolve the standoff between the border troops. This was the fifth meeting between the two major generals to break the stalemate that began with a violent confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5.Also read: Decoding China’s playbook | HT EditorialLast month’s violent confrontation triggered a military build-up on both sides of the LAC that stretched from Ladakh to Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh.The Opposition parties had attacked the government with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi leading the charge. He had questioned if the Chinese troops have entered Indian territory. Rajnath Singh had replied to his commentd, with a stinging attack on the Congress party.Later, the Trinamool Congress also attacked the government on the LAC standoff. Abhishek Banerjee, the nephew of chief minister Mamata Banerjee and TMC’s youth wing chief, asked Union minister Amit Shah if the Chinese have occupied the Indian territory. The tweet was ahead of Shah’s virtual address to the people of West Bengal where he stung the state government on issues related to political violence, corruption, politics of appeasement, politicisation of people’s welfare and other administrative failures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/won-t-keep-anyone-in-dark-rajnath-singh-s-swipe-at-opposition-over-lac-tension/story-NXhMzvAuZhM6Gwqi7g0ZnJ.html
14-06-2020||India||‘Fate of J&K will change’: In Rajnath Singh’s address, a hint on PoK||The fate and picture of Jammu and Kashmir will change in the years to come under PM Modi’s leadership, defence minister Rajnath Singh said while addressing the ‘Jammu Jan Samvad rally’ via video conferencing on Sunday. The minister said that, under PM Modi’s leadership, Jammu and Kashmir will touch great heights and “people from the Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK) will wish they were part of India”. “Just wait, soon people of PoK will demand that they want to be with India and not under the rule of Pakistan, and the day this happens, a goal of our Parliament will also be accomplished,” he said. The minister said that earlier in Kashmir, protests demanding ‘Kashmir azaadi’ were held and flags of Pakistan and ISIS were seen. “Now only Indian flag is seen there,” he said. #WATCH Just wait, soon people of Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK) will demand that they want to be with India & not under the rule of Pakistan, and the day this happens, a goal of our Parliament will also be accomplished: Defence Mini Rajnath Singh at 'Jammu Jan Samvad rally' pic.twitter.com/kQUtV2CanP“Many landmark decisions were taken under PM Modi’s leadership and the abrogation of Article 370 was one of them,” Singh said. The defence minister talked in detail about the abrogation of Article 370 and described the move in tune with the development and progress of Jammu and Kashmir. He said that the development of the region is among the top priorities of the Modi government. “Our promise as a party back in the days of Jan Sangha was fulfilled right after we formed the government with a thumping majority last year. Article 370 and 35A were removed within 100 days of forming government at the Centre,” Singh stated.Singh said that PM Modi has bolstered India’s footing internationally. Global powers respect and laud the country, he said. “Earlier, at international platforms, most countries used to side with Pakistan over the matter of Kashmir and Article 370, that isn’t the case now,” Singh noted. Singh’s Jammu Jan Samvad virtual rally follows a series of virtual addresses by Union home minister Amit Shah in the past couple of weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fate-of-j-k-will-change-in-rajnath-singh-s-address-a-hint-on-pok/story-8gYgJN7W35QqSAAueBDijK.html
14-06-2020||India||SC refuses to stay Himachal police probe against Vinod Dua in sedition case, seeks status report||The Supreme Court on Sunday sought the response of the Himachal Pradesh and central governments in a plea by journalist Vinod Dua seeking quashing of the first information report (FIR) registered against him in the state in connection with a video uploaded by him on YouTube criticising the Centre’s implementation of the Covid-19 lockdown.A three-judge bench headed by justice UU Lalit, which held a special sitting to hear Dua’s plea, granted him protection from arrest till July 6—the next date of hearing in the case.However, the bench which also comprised justice M Shantanagoudar and justice Vineet Saran, allowed the Himachal Pradesh police to continue with the probe turning down Dua’s plea for a stay on FIR.The top court ordered Dua to cooperate with the investigation and said that the police will have the liberty to interrogate him at his residence in Delhi after giving a 24-hour notice.Vikas Singh, Dua’s counsel, vehemently pressed for a stay on the FIR stating that allowing the probe to continue in a flimsy case like this one will send wrong signals.Dua has been charged with grave offences under the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including sedition (section 124A), public nuisance (section 268), printing defamatory matter (section 501) and intent to cause public mischief based (section 505) on a complaint filed by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ajay Shyam.The March 30 video, Dua submitted, critically analyses the failure of the government of India regarding the declaration of nationwide lockdown and the manner in which the same was implemented.“If this kind of content can attract sedition, then half the country will be committing sedition. If what he has said is sedition, then only two (news) channels will work in this country,” Singh said.The court, however, refused to stay the probe but sought a status report from the police regarding the probe.A team of police from Himachal Pradesh had landed at Dua’s house on June 12 for serving a notice requiring his presence at Kumarsain Police Station in the state at 10am on June 13 for an investigation into FIR registered against him on May 6 for the contentious video.Dua had approached the Supreme Court on Saturday submitting that he was shocked to see the police of Himachal Pradesh at his doorstep.“The petitioner (Dua) suspects that all efforts are being made to somehow arrest him. Any arrest at this point of time, (on the) basis such frivolous FIRs would not only be a blatant infringement on the rights of the Petitioner but will also endanger his life due to the high risk to the health of people from the COVID-19 virus,” his petition said.The Delhi Police had also registered an FIR against Dua on June 4 for his March 30 video. That FIR was, however, stayed by Delhi High Court on June 10.“The petitioner also made a reference (in the video) to the politicization of the army’s attack in response to the Pulwama Attack and usage of the same in the last elections. There was nothing in the video which could be remotely termed to be criminal,” his lawyer had argued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-refuses-to-stay-himachal-police-probe-against-vinod-dua-in-sedition-case-seeks-status-report/story-13hF1bFM53TDIbB4JBbdKJ.html
14-06-2020||India||‘PM Modi’s leadership amid Covid-19 crisis lauded across globe’: Rajnath Singh at Jammu Jan Samvad rally||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership during the Covid-19 crisis is laudable, not just within the country, but across the globe, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Sunday while addressing the ‘Jammu Jan Samvad rally’ via video conferencing. “Many landmark decisions were taken under PM Modi’s leadership and the abrogation of Article 370 was one of them,” Singh said. The Bharatiya Janata Party fulfilled its decade-old promise by abrogating Article 370 and is committed to the development and growth Jammu and Kashmir, he said.The minister said that the prime minister took a timely decision by implementing the Covid-19 lockdown in the country at a time when some of the greatest countries, like the US, were struggling with the menace of coronavirus. “Even the World Health Organisation has lauded PM Modi’s leadership amid these trying times,” he said, adding that entire country has followed the nationwide coronavirus lockdown in a disciplined manner. The defence minister talked about Jammu and Kashmir and said that the development of the region is among the top priorities of the Modi government. “In the years to come, the fate and the picture of Jammu and Kashmir will change. People from Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (PoK) will make the demand, will wish they were part of India,” the minister said. Singh said in the six years of Modi government, nearly 2 lakh crore rupees have been spent on the development of Jammu and Kashmir.Singh’s Jammu Jan Samvad virtual rally follows a series of virtual addresses by Union home minister Amit Shah in the past couple of weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-leadership-amid-covid-19-crisis-is-being-lauded-across-globe-rajnath-singh-during-jammu-jan-samvad-rally/story-ah5URzmJ4KiLcSmw3RkoUJ.html
14-06-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: With over 13,000 cases, Uttar Pradesh overtakes Rajasthan as 5th worst-hit state||India’s Covid-19 tally jumped to 320,922 on Sunday with Maharashtra being the leading state with over one lakh cases. Together with Tamil Nadu, which has reported over 42,000 cases till date, the two states account for more than 45 percent of the national Covid-19 numbers.  Delhi and Gujarat are also bearing the brunt of the rising number of coronavirus cases. Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh has overtaken Rajasthan as the fifth most affected state.  Also read: 15 cities with rising Covid-19 cases have emerged as new areas of concernHere’s taking a look at the statewise breakup of Covid-19 numbers.  The Big FiveMaharashtraCovid-19 tally here jumped to 104,568 on Sunday. As many as 3,830 people have died of coronavirus in Maharashtra while 49,346 have recovered. Tamil NaduCovid-19 cases have jumped to 42,687 in the southern state. Three hundred and ninety-seven people have died of Covid-19 in the state, over 23,409 people have recovered. DelhiIn the national capital, the Covid-19 tally rose to 38,958 on Sunday, 14,945 patients have recovered here while 1,271 have died due to Covid-19. Gujarat PM Modi’s home state saw the Covid-19 rise to 23,038 on Sunday. The state has seen 15,883 people recover from coronavirus while 1,448 people have died.Also read: India records 11,929 Covid-19 cases, 311 deaths in 24 hours; tally over 3.2 lakhUttar PradeshThe state has reported 13,118 cases of coronavirus so far. As many as 7,875 people have recovered in the state while the death toll stands at 385.Situation in other statesIn Madhya Pradesh, Covid-19 tally has crossed 10,000 while Rajasthan has seen Covid-19 cases jump beyond the 12,000-mark.  In West Bengal, Covid-19 cases have zoomed beyond the 10,000-mark. Covid-19 cases in Bihar stand at 6,290 while Andhra Pradesh has reported 5,965 Covid-19 cases till date. Karnataka has reported nearly 6,824 coronavirus cases till date. Telangana has over 4,737 coronavirus cases while in Jammu and Kashmir the tally has crossed the 4,800-mark. Haryana nears the 6,700-mark while Odisha and Assam have reported over 3,700 cases. Punjab’s Covid-19 tally has crossed the 3,000-mark. Uttarakhand, Kerala, Jharkhand, Tripura, Goa, Himachal Pradesh are states where Covid-19 cases are under the 3,000-mark. States like Manipur, Chandigarh, Nagaland, Puducherry, Mizoram have reported under 500 Covid-19 cases or less. Meghalaya, Ladakh, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Dadra Nagar Haveli have less than 100 Covid-19 cases. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-with-over-13-000-cases-uttar-pradesh-overtakes-rajasthan-as-fifth-worst-hit-state/story-SRnsctaEgBom5yFnj4YihK.html
14-06-2020||India||Covid-19 impacts C-section deliveries, most states register a drop: Report||The coronavirus disease has led to a decrease in the number of caesarian deliveries across the country. Districts like Lucknow, Moradabad and Agra in Uttar Pradesh have seen the C-section deliveries drop by up to two-third, Hindustan Times’ Hindi language publication Hindustan reported on Sunday.In Uttar Pradesh, 3.6 lakh babies have taken birth in the last 80 days. Usually, the women opted for C-section, but during Covid-19, they have avoided the procedure. In the last 20 days, just one thousand babies out of a total number of 90,000 were born surgically.Hindustan spoke to Dr Deepa Tyagi, the chief medical superintendent (CMS) of women’s hospital in Ghaziabad, who said that the fall in the number C-section deliveries is marginal in the district. However, the number of deliveries have dropped in the city hospitals. Women are preferring to give birth at their homes with the help of personal physicians.In Noida, 1,246 children were born through surgery. By April, this number fell to 811. This shows a drop of 35 per cent. According to senior gynecologist Dr Nirupama Singh, 4,572 children were born in the month of January, out of which 1,194 were through C-section. In May, there were 2,204 births out of which 708 were surgical.In Aligarh, the number has dropped by a staggering 90 per cent.In Faridabad, part of the National Capital Region (NCR) near Delhi, registered a drop in the number of C-section deliveries during the Covid-19 crisis. The district recorded 140-160 caesarian deliveries and 400 normal ones on an avergage every month. Since the Covid-19 outbreak was reported in March, 81 children were born surgically and 310 came into the world naturally. This was a drop of 57 per cent.“There has been a fall in C-section deliveries due to the fear of infection,” said Dr Punita Hasija, president of the Faridabad chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA).In Uttarakhand, the US Udhamsingh Nagar has seen a drastic fall in the number of caesarian deliveries. The Rudrapur hospital in the district held 40-42 such surgeries. The number halved in the month of April. However, other districts in the state are reporting marginal fall in such procedures.Jharkhand has seen the trend reverse during the Covid-19 pandemic. In fact, the C-section deliveries increased 8-9 per cent in the state in May as compared to April. At the Sadar hospital in Ranchi, there were 101 C-section deliveries out of a total of 240 in the month of April. In May, 119 out of 315 deliveries were held surgically.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-impacts-c-section-deliveries-most-states-register-a-drop-report/story-lLNgrBWg9SuMwTBvJp074L.html
14-06-2020||India||Youth murdered by former colleagues in Guwahati, 5 arrested||At least five persons were arrested for allegedly killing a youth in the state capital, police said on Saturday.The incident took place on Friday at Noonmati area of Guwahati when an altercation at a home furnishing shop over a petty issue turned ugly and some of the employees allegedly killed their former colleague in broad daylight by stabbing him in the neck, police said.He was taken to a private hospital by police, but doctors declared him brought dead.The deceased has been identified as Rituparna Pegu (26), who was working as an Uber cab driver.Meanwhile, Guwahati Police in a tweet said that five persons were arrested for the alleged murder and a case has been registered at Noonmati police station .During the day some locals gathered in front of the police station and demanded strict action against the culprits.Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal ordered a fast track investigation into the case and handed over the investigation to the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of Assam Police.“CM Shri @sarbanandsonwal has directed @AssamCid to investigate into the murder of Rituparna Pegu at Noonmati in Guwahati. It is informed that within 24 hours, five persons have been arrested,” the Chief Minister’s Office tweeted. “Under orders of the CM, a fast-track investigation is underway to bring to justice perpetrators of the dastardly murder of #RituparnaPegu and ensure strictest punishment to the guilty,” the CMO said in a separate tweet.Assam Police Additional Director General (CID) L R Bishnoi said his department has already begun probing the murder and tweeted that “CID, Assam will ensure that the case is investigated properly & expeditiously”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/youth-murdered-by-former-colleagues-in-guwahati-5-arrested/story-52GG7MtZtaW1XAydyLQN2L.html
14-06-2020||India||Four forest officials suspended over elephant deaths in Chhattisgarh||The Chhattisgarh forest department has suspended four officials, including a sub-divisional forest officer (SDFO), over the deaths of three elephants which took place earlier this week.As per the suspension order, the officials have been found guilty of negligence in duty.Bodies of the three female wild elephants were found in the jungles of Balrampur and Surajpur district between Tuesday and Thursday. All of them were from the same herd and were roaming in the forests of Surguja.“The SDFO KS Khutiya was attached to Chief Conservator of Forest (Regional) Forest Circle of Surguja. Two forest rangers and one forest guard was also suspended,” said a senior officer.A show cause notice has also been served to district forest officer (DFO) Balrampur, he added.It is worth mentioning that on Thursday, the state’s forest minister Mohammad Akbar had ordered a high-level probe in the matter. The probe will be headed by former principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF).Forest officials on Friday claimed that the first death was reported on Tuesday in Ganeshpur forest. The animal had died due to cardiac issues, they said.The second death took place in the same beat on Wednesday - that elephant died due to toxicity and third one died because of infection, the forest officials claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-forest-officials-suspended-over-elephant-deaths-in-chhattisgarh/story-plFIU16gLr59JORg5wsO0O.html
14-06-2020||India||1 army soldier killed, 2 injured as Pakistan shells forward posts in J-K’s Poonch||An Indian Army soldier was killed, the third personnel to die in the region this month, after Pakistan violated the ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district, police and defence officials said on Sunday.Two other soldiers were also injured late on Saturday after the heavy shelling by Pakistan in Poonch district Shahpur-Kirni sector, they said.Ramesh Kumar Angral, the senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Poonch, said 29-year-old Sepoy Lungambui Abonmei died in the shelling and sepoys Lienkhothien Senghon and Tangsoik Kwianiungar were injured, Angral said.The injured soldiers have been airlifted to the Command Hospital in Udhampur for further treatment, he added.All the three soldiers belong to the 10th Battalion of Assam Regiment.Before this, Havaldar P Mathiazhagan fell to Pakistani firing in Sunderbani sector of Rajouri district on June 4 and Naik Gurcharan Singh lost his life in a similar incident on June 10 in Tarkundi sector that runs along the Rajouri and Poonch districts. Lt Col Devender Anand, the defence spokesperson, said the Pakistan army resorted to an unprovoked ceasefire violation on LoC in Poonch sector on Saturday. “Own troops responded strongly to the enemy fire. In the incident, Sepoy Lungambui Abonmei was critically injured and later succumbed to his injuries,” Anand said.“Sepoy Lungambui Abonmei was a brave, highly motivated and sincere soldier. The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty,” he added.Pakistan also violated the ceasefire in Rampur sector of Baramulla district on Sunday morning. “A befitting response is being given,” the Indian Army said.Indian and Pakistani troops have been exchanging gunfire and mortar shelling along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir almost every day now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-army-soldier-killed-2-injured-as-pakistan-shells-forward-posts-in-j-k-s-poonch/story-F16OSN3jNkkFhyrSIOebuO.html
14-06-2020||India||India records 11,929 Covid-19 cases, 311 deaths in 24 hours; tally over 3.2 lakh||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reached beyond 3.2 lakh on Sunday after nearly 12,000 new cases and 311 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry.The number of active Covid-19 cases now stands at 149,348 and the death toll is at 9,195 so far, taking India’s tally to 320,922, according to the health ministry’s dashboard.On June 1, there were 190,387 infections and 5,394 deaths, indicating that Covid-19 cases and fatalities have nearly doubled in two weeks.Also read: As Covid-19 cases spike in Delhi, Amit Shah to meet Arvind Kejriwal todayAs the cases have surged, the number of recoveries have shown improvement with 162,378 or 50.59% of people discharged from hospital, data shows. Globally, 7.7 million people have contracted Covid-19 and 429,666 people have died, according to America’s Johns Hopkins University. The Covid-19 situation in India’s major cities, including Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai, Thane, Ahmedabad and Indore, have worsened, prompting the government to take additional steps to ramp up its fight against the pandemic.A statement from the Prime Minister’s office said testing, as well as the number of beds and services, will be augmented to effectively handle the peak surge of daily cases in all these hotspots of the viral pandemic.It came after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, NITI Aayog member Vinod Paul and key officials in charge of the various empowered groups managing various facets of India’s response to the pandemic met on Saturday. Also read: How Mumbai’s Dharavi chased Covid-19 has lessons for other developing nationsOn Saturday, Delhi added 2,134 new cases, the second-highest number of cases it has added in a 24-hour period—the highest was on Friday at 2,137—and Chennai, 1989, the highest the city has added in a day. Shah will meet with Kejriwal to discuss the situation in Delhi on Sunday.The Prime Minister is scheduled to meet with chief ministers on June 16 and 17, with the second day reserved for meetings with the chief ministers of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and a few other states that are seeing a sharp rise in the number of cases.The Union health ministry has revised its clinical management protocol for Covid-19 to include loss of smell, taste along with fever, cough, sore throat and shortness of breath as symptoms of the coronavirus disease.Muscle pain, diarrhoea, expectoration (coughing up phlegm), and fatigue have also been added to the protocol released on Saturday.“Older people and immune-suppressed patients, in particular, may present with atypical symptoms such as fatigue, reduced alertness, reduced mobility, diarrhoea, loss of appetite, delirium, and absence of fever. Children might not have reported fever or cough as frequently as adults,” says the revised document, a copy of which HT has seen.A health ministry official underlined that fresh evidence keeps emerging daily.“The ministry is constantly reviewing the evidence to update its protocols. The current one is being released today [Saturday] based on the latest information available on the disease,” said the official. The health ministry has also recommended the use of antiviral drug remdesivir in moderate stages of a Covid-19 while changing its earlier stance on hydroxychloroquine, saying the anti-malarial drug should be used in the early course of the disease and not on critically ill patients.In its revised ‘Clinical Management Protocols for COVID-19’ the ministry dropped the use of azithromycin in combination with HCQ in severe cases.HCQ has demonstrated in-vitro activity against Sars-CoV-2, the virus which causes Covid-19, and was shown to be clinically beneficial in several small single-centre studies though, with significant limitations, it stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-11-929-covid-19-cases-311-deaths-in-24-hours-tally-over-3-2-lakh/story-CvKQWnemT5RiAQeAeLtleO.html
14-06-2020||India||‘You’ll have much to say’: PM Modi invites ideas for Mann ki Baat on June 28||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday invited suggestions from the people for his monthly radio address ‘Mann ki Baat’ which is scheduled to take place on June 28.“This month’s #MannKiBaat will take place on the 28th. Though 2 weeks away, please keep the ideas and inputs coming! It’ll enable me to go through maximum number of comments and phone calls,” PM Modi said on Twitter.Also read: India records 11,929 Covid-19 cases, 311 deaths in 24 hours; tally over 3.2 lakh“Am sure you’ll have much to say, on fighting COVID-19 and topics in addition to that,” he added. This month’s #MannKiBaat will take place on the 28th. Though 2 weeks away, please keep the ideas and inputs coming! It’ll enable me to go through maximum number of comments and phone calls. Am sure you’ll have much to say, on fighting COVID-19 and topics in addition to that.The Prime Minister also gave a number for the people to record their messages, and urged them to post their suggestions on the NaMo app and other forums like MyGov. Your ideas have always been the strength of #MannKiBaat, making it a vibrant platform that showcases the strengths of 130 crore Indians!Record your message:Dial 1800-11-7800Write on:NaMo App.MyGov Open Forum. https://t.co/UDEIWKoTpXIn his last ‘Mann ki Baat’ address on May 31, PM Modi had exhorted people not to lower their guard against the coronavirus pandemic and adhere to the protocols of social distancing, wearing masks and washing hands.The PM’s message came a day after the government announced a phased exit from the lockdown imposed since March 25.Referring to India’s fight against the coronavirus pandemic, the PM said with its diverse challenges and population, the country has been able to contain the spread of infection and the death toll is comparatively lower.Also read| 50,000 cases, over 2,000 deaths: How Covid-19 devastated India in the past weekThe Prime Minister said though every section of society has been affected by the pandemic, the pain being felt by the poor cannot be measured in words.He appreciated the efforts being made by individuals and organisations in helping those in need and said there is no section in the country that is unaffected by the difficulties caused by the pandemic.PM Modi urged people to explore the benefits of yoga and said several international leaders had shown interest in knowing more about Ayurveda and yoga.Meanwhile, the tally of confirmed Covid-19 cases in India saw the biggest one-day jump of over 11,000 and reached 3,08,993 lakh on Saturday.In terms of overall count of confirmed cases, India is ranked fourth after the US (more than 20 lakh), Brazil (8.3 lakh) and Russia (5.2 lakh).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-ll-have-much-to-say-pm-modi-invites-ideas-for-mann-ki-baat-on-june-28/story-hZhu1Q6MSKL6jOqKJO1o1J.html
14-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Covid-19 affects almost every level of nervous system, reveals study and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Studies reveal impact of Sars-CoV-2 virus on all levels of nervous systemA review of over 50 studies published on June 11 has revealed that the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) affects almost every level of the nervous system and may lead to strokes, seizures and muscular pains in people who catch the infection. Read more15 cities with rising Covid-19 cases have emerged as new areas of concernAs the number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country crossed the 3 lakh-mark, several cities have reported an increase in the number of infections. Gurugram, Faridabad, Vadodara, Solapur and Guwahati are among the 15 cities which have seen a 45-50% rise in Covid-19 cases in the last 10 days. Read moreCM Yogi Adityanath transfers Rs 104.82 crore to 10.48 lakh families of labourersChief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday made an online transfer of Rs 104.82 crore to 10.48 lakh more families of labourers, giving an assistance of Rs 1,000 to each family under the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) scheme. Read moreMexico registers 142,690 Covid-19 cases, death toll over 16,800The total number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Mexico now stands at over 142,600 while the country’s Covid-19 death toll has surpassed 16,800, the country’s Deputy Health Minister Hugo Lopez-Gatell has announced. Read moreVirat Kohli can be the best after Sir Don Bradman: Sri Lankan great’s bold praise for India captainMany cricketing greats have backed Virat Kohli to do incredible things in the world of batting but Kumar Sangakkara’s latest comments about the India captain promises to garner a lot of attention. Read moreMi NoteBook 14 Horizon Edition hands-on: More hits than missesIf it were not for the lockdown, Xiaomi would have held an extravagant event to announce its foray into the laptop segment in India. After all, it has been one of the most sought-after products from Xiaomi fans, for years. Read moreAnupam Kher misses wife Kirron Kher as she is away from him on her birthday: ‘Sorry you are on your own in Chandigarh’Anupam Kher dug into the archives and pulled out some priceless throwback pictures to wish his wife Kirron Kher on her 65th birthday with a sweet Instagram post. He also said that he misses her but will see her soon. Read moreBack to work? Style your hair in under 10 minutes for the perfect office lookWhether you are organizing conference calls from the comfort of your home or dominating meetings during office days, it is essential to look the part of someone who does it all and looks flawless while doing it. Read moreWatch: ‘Maharashtra govt not testing enough to hide Covid cases’: Devendra Fadnavis||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-covid-19-affects-almost-every-level-of-nervous-system-reveals-study-and-all-the-latest-news/story-aFT2CU8nfqKFqeRDvYfS8H.html
14-06-2020||India||50,000 cases, over 2,000 deaths: How Covid-19 devastated India in the past week||India has seen the coronavirus disease spread rapidly. In the past week, the country has daily seen 10,000 cases of Covid-19 on an average which has taken the overall tally to over three lakh. India had crossed the one-lakh mark on May 19.According to Union health ministry, India’s Covid-19 tally breached the three-lakh mark with a record single-day spike of 11,458 infections on Saturday, while the death toll rose to 8,884 with 386 new fatalities.Coronavirus deaths in India crossed 9,000 on Saturday, with the country adding the last 1,000 deaths in three days. Maharashtra, Gujarat and Delhi account for roughly two-thirds of all deaths in India. On Saturday, the country’s death toll touched 9,196, having crossed 8,000 on June 10 and 7,000 on June 3.With 3,21,405 cases, India’s case fatality rate is 2.9 per cent, compared to the world’s 5.5 per cent.India on Friday overtook the United Kingdom to climb the fourth spot in the list of nations worst hit by the coronavirus pandemic, a week after surpassing the tallies of Italy and Spain. Only the US, Brazil and Russia have more number of Covid-19 cases than India now.Apart from this, the past week also saw the government easing restrictions as part of the nationwide lockdown to open shopping malls, restaurants, religious places and other things. The decision came into effect on June 8. It has been taken to kickstart the economy which has been stalled and battered by the lockdown.This was the first of the three-phased unlocking planned by the government. A decision on reopening educational institutions and other places will be taken in July.There are a few cities where the disease saw a huge spike in the last 10 days, so much so that the Centre has stepped in. These 15 cities, including Guguram, Faridabad, Vadodara, Solapur and Guwahati, have seen the Covid-19 cases rise by 40 to 45 per cent in the last 10 days.Delhi has been recording its highest single-day numbers for the last few days. On Saturday, the national capital recorded 2,134 cases and 57 deaths. Almost one in three persons tested for the coronavirus disease in Delhi this week had the infection, according to government data. Delhi’s positivity rate has been rising rapidly, from an average of 23 per cent in the week ending on June 7, and, before that, an average of 14 per cent the previous week.The situation in Gurugram is also worsening. Delhi’s neighbour has seen 1,839 Covid-19 cases in the last 10 days - the rate of infection here is 63 per cent. On June 2, the number of patients in Gurugram was 1,000, and now the number has crossed 3,000-mark.Maharashtra has seen the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country, The state has 32 per cent of India’s Covid-19 patients. Out of the total cases in Maharashtra, 54.73 per cent are from Mumbai. On Saturday, Mumbai saw 1,380 new infections and 69 more deaths taking the tally of the cases to 56,831 and deaths to 2,113. The city accounted for 63.73 per cent of the state’s new cases on May 14, 56.47 per cent on May 28 and 49.06 per cent on June 4. This percentage stands at 39.10 per cent now.On June 7, Maharashtra recorded 3,007 coronavirus cases that pushed its tally to 85,975 - more than that of China.Nagpur is another city in Maharashtra where the caseload is very high. The city’s tally saw 100 cases in about eight days, but the rate increased from the last week of May. Nagpur recorded more than 100 Covid-19 cases in the last two days which took the city’s tally to over 1,900.In Guwahati, the number of cases has seen a spike of 50 per cent in then last 10 days. On June 5, Assam had 1,000 cases which have now risen to 3,693.Another hotspot in the country is Jaipur. The capital of Rajasthan has seen 100 daily cases in the last week of May. In the last 10 days, more than 500 people have been infected by the coronavirus disease in the city. At least 30 people have died during this period.Vadodara, in Covid-19 hotspot Gujarat, has seen the number of cases rise by 40 to 45 per cent in the last 10 days. So far, the umber of cases has reached 1,471.Indore and Bhopal are the other cities where the spread of the coronavirus disease has been rapid. While Indore saw 147 cases in the last four days, Bhopal has recorded 163.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/50-000-cases-over-2-000-deaths-how-covid-19-devastated-india-in-the-past-week/story-xXcwETycN26CGgF1aJFuBK.html
14-06-2020||India||15 cities with rising Covid-19 cases have emerged as new areas of concern||As the number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country crossed the 3 lakh-mark, several cities have reported an increase in the number of infections.Gurugram, Faridabad, Vadodara, Solapur and Guwahati are among the 15 cities which have seen a 45-50% rise in Covid-19 cases in the last 10 days.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn Guwahati, 50% of the cases have come in the last 10 days. While in Vadodara, an average of 50 cases are being reported every day. The situation is grim in Gurugram as well where 1,839 new cases were recorded between June 2 to June 12. The rate of infection remained close to 63% during this period.At the same time, cities like Bharatpur and Nagaur in Rajasthan; Raigarh in Chhattisgarh; Faridabad, Agra and Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh; Bhopal, Indore and Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh and Nagpur in Maharashtra are also areas of concerns.As the number of cases has risen in these cities, the government is ramping up measures to contain the spread of infections.The Haryana government created 32 new containment zones in Gurugram on Saturday and Madhya Pradesh government is going to increase tests in Bhopal just like it did in Indore.There have been 147 cases in the last four days in Indore and 163 in Bhopal.The state government in Maharashtra has increased the number of hotspots in Nagpur, where more than 100 infections were reported in two days. Nagpur had reported 100 Covid-19 cases in eight days and the number has been going up since the last week of May.Data on the coronavirus infection from across the country show that 63% of India’s Covid-19 patients are in 15 cities. Also, 54.73% of Maharashtra’s cases are from Mumbai. More than 70% of Tamil Nadu cases are from Chennai. Gujarat has 70.86% of the cases from Ahmedabad.In terms of the number of patients in the country, Maharashtra with 18% has the most. Delhi follows at 12.22% and then Tamil Nadu which accounts for 9.65% of the country’s total Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-cities-with-rising-covid-19-cases-have-emerged-as-new-areas-of-concern/story-DhhKXsIk4rwUxVeZYUlyyN.html
14-06-2020||India||CM Yogi Adityanath transfers Rs 104.82 crore to 10.48 lakh families of labourers||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday made an online transfer of Rs 104.82 crore to 10.48 lakh more families of labourers, giving an assistance of Rs 1,000 to each family under the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) scheme.The chief minister spoke to some of the beneficiaries in Gorakhpur, Varanasi, Azamgarh, Jhansi, Siddharth Nagar and Gonda at a video conference with them. He said the state labour department was also formulating a scheme for the marriage of labourers’ daughters.Uttar Pradesh did good work during the Covid-19 crisis and this was an example for others in the country, he added. Everybody joined hands, he said, adding that the state revenue department and the relief commissioner’s office did a good job too.The state government was setting up a migration commission to provide jobs to migrant workers/labourers, the chief minister reiterated. He said 35 lakh migrant labourers had to return home in adverse circumstances due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The district administration officers should provide a list of the bank account numbers of the migrant labourers after completing skill mapping, he added.Listing welfare measures, he said the state government was providing free of cost treatment to Covid-19 patients and Atal residential schools were being set up in every division to provide education to the children of labourers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-yogi-adityanath-transfers-rs-104-82-crore-to-10-48-lakh-families-of-labourers/story-1BufqKM9vHvgfuojDzseGJ.html
14-06-2020||India||Jammu, Srinagar Airports receive 18 domestic flights with 2,403 passengers||Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) [India], June 14 (ANI): On day 20 of resumption of operation of routine domestic operations in Jammu and Kashmir, 18 domestic flights with 2,403 passengers on board arrived at Jammu and Srinagar Airports on Saturday.According to a press release, a total of 593 passengers aboard six regular commercial flights arrived at the Jammu Airport while 12 domestic flights with about 1810 passengers on board landed at Srinagar Airport today.After arrival, all the passengers were tested for the Covid-19 virus and transported to their destinations at both the airports amid strict observance of all necessary preventive protocols.The Government has made elaborate arrangements for the arrival, screening, sampling and proper transportation of the passengers to the quarantine centers taking special care of guidelines and Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) prescribed by the Union Ministries of Civil Aviation and Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-srinagar-airports-receive-18-domestic-flights-with-2-403-passengers/story-EMCb97MXEfVQ5AWOPRd2LJ.html
14-06-2020||India||Supreme Court to hear Vinod Dua’s plea against sedition case||The Supreme Court will hold a special sitting on Sunday to hear a petition filed by journalist Vinod Dua who has approached the apex court seeking the quashing of an FIR registered against him by the Himachal Pradesh Police. The FIR is regarding a video uploaded by Dua on March 30 on the online video streaming platform, YouTube, which criticises the union government for its implementation of the national lockdown.Besides seeking the quashing of FIR, Dua has also asked the top court to issue a direction that FIRs against mediapersons with at least 10 years’ of experience should not be registered unless cleared by a committee constituted by every state government comprising the Chief Justice of the concerned High Court or a judge designated by him, the leader of the opposition and the home minister of the state.“State governments who do not find a particular telecast to be in sync with their political ideologies register FIRs against persons of the media to harass and intimidate them so that they succumb to the line of the state or else face the music,” the petition stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-hear-vinod-dua-s-plea-against-sedition-case/story-vQHR1xpI7Q6PYmiiLMCSFO.html
14-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand to audit every coronavirus-related death: CM Trivendra Singh Rawat||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Saturday directed officials to audit every death related to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state and analyse the reasons behind them. Rawat gave the directions while evaluating the pandemic situation in the state during a meeting with all the 13 district magistrates through a video conference. The Himalayan state reported 21 Covid-19 related deaths with 1,759 patients till Saturday evening. Only one of these 21 deaths has been attributed directly to Covid-19, according to health officials.“Every Covid-19 related death will be audited along with a thorough analysis of the reasons behind the death. Also, if a patient dies only after 24 hours of testing positive, then it would be considered that there was some laxity in the surveillance,” Rawat said. During the evaluation meeting, he expressed his concerns over some reports of protests by people in certain places of the state against cremating those who died of Covid-19 at crematoriums in their area. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“It is really unfortunate that there have been some incidents where people have protested against the cremation of people who died of Covid-19, fearing it would spread the infection,” Rawat said.“It is not true because the cremation of such bodies are done as per the Centre’s guidelines on the same under which the body is first sanitised. It is then put in a sanitised bag or cloth and then taken for cremation by trained people and not the family members to ensure the infection doesn’t spread,” he said.“I humbly request the people to allow respectful cremation of the deceased and not create any problem in it.”The chief minister also directed officials to resume the working of electric crematoriums in Haldwani and Haridwar apart from announcing a new one in Dehradun. Rawat, while taking cognizance of an alleged suicide by a 19-year-old man in a Dehradun-based quarantine centre on Friday, suspended the nodal officer and the doctor responsible for monitoring the quarantine centre. The man from Jabalpur had allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself inside the quarantine centre. No suicide note was found from the spot and reasons behind his suicide is not known.It was found during a probe that he was recruited as an AC assistant in the Indian Railways in Jabalpur and was in Baroda during the lockdown. He last spoke to his family members on June 2 and didn’t inform them about going to Dehradun. “Primarily it has been found that the officials who were responsible for the quarantine centre, were at fault in the incident. Hence, I ordered their suspension with immediate effect and initiated an inquiry into the whole incident,” said Rawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-to-audit-every-covid-19-related-death-cm-trivendra-singh-rawat/story-XbBSZM2PQLK4cZy0wyfdXO.html
14-06-2020||India||Social distancing norms flouted at Cong MLA’s protest in Chhattisgarh||Norms of social distancing were allegedly flouted at a protest organised by Congress MLA Vinay Jaiswal in the district here.Jaiswal was staging a protest to demand the reinstatement of 32 workers of a company.Jaiswal said, “Based on a fictitious probe, the workers were sacked by South Eastern Coalfields Ltd. during previous BJP government in the state.”In a video of the incident, Jaiswal could be seen surrounded by nearly a dozen protesters with some of them seen without masks. They raised slogans and held placards against the sacking of workers amid the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/social-distancing-norms-flouted-at-cong-mla-s-protest-in-chhattisgarh/story-O1MtS0FJ9SPcEnigeZQKNP.html
14-06-2020||India||Congress hits out at govt, seeks cash transfers||The Congress on Saturday attacked the government and demanded lower fuel prices, injection of cash into the economy while questioning India’s China policy.“If GOI [the government of India] doesn’t inject cash to start the economy now: 1. The poor will be decimated. 2. The middle class will become the new poor. 3. Crony capitalists will own the entire country,” Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet. Gandhi has maintained that the government needs to offer cash transfers for the poor to tide over the Covid-19 crisis. The Congress, which has been critical of the Centre’s Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus announced last month saying it was not enough, on Saturday pointed out the government has increased central excise duty on petrol and diesel by 258% and 819% since it came to power in May 2014.Former Union minister and Congress leader Kapil Sibal said even as the international crude prices are lowest in 15 years, oil prices are skyrocketing and the common people continue to suffer. He pointed out over the past 11 months, the government has gained Rs 1.6 lakh crore. “Together with Rs 39,000 crore in annual revenues gained from the March 14 excise duty hike of Rs 3 per litre each on petrol and diesel, the government stands to gain as much as Rs 2 lakh crore,” Sibal said.He said instead of passing the benefit of lower crude prices to the common people, oil prices have been increased for the seventh day on Saturday. Another Congress leader, Ahmed Patel, questioned the government’s China policy in the wake of the standoff between Indian and Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh. “Since 1947, [Narendra] Modiji is the only Prime Minister who made 9 official visits to China...Despite numerous visits by the incumbent PM we have this situation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-hits-out-at-govt-seeks-cash-transfers/story-LK1LsVo6kZoH8CzzDAdJEM.html
14-06-2020||India||Maharashtra records spike of over 3,000 Covid-19 cases; Mumbai worst affected||A day after it breached the 100,000 mark, Maharashtra on Saturday reported its third highest single-day spike of 3,427 new coronavirus disease cases, taking the tally to 104,568. The death toll in the state has reached 3,830. Mumbai, the worst affected Indian city, saw 1,380 new infections and 69 more deaths taking the tally of the cases to 56,831 and deaths to 2113. The city accounted for 63.73% of the state’s new cases on May 14, 56.47% on May 28 and 49.06% on June 4. This percentage dropped further to 39.10% on Friday. While Mumbai has been able to restrict the virus spread to some extent, a spike in the caseload in rural parts of the state and districts like Solapur, Aurangabad, Yavatmal, Jalgaon remains a cause of concern for the administration. The district administrations have been directed to focus on the containment by ramping up the health infrastructure. “We are implementing Dharavi pattern in districts like Aurangabad to bring mortality rate down and effective tracing of the patients. Thermal scanners and oximeters are being aggressively used in these districts that have witnessed a rising caseload. Asha workers and other health workers are being roped in to form surveillance squads for tracing and testing,” said Dr Sadhana Tayade, director, health services.The state authorities have also directed the Mumbai corporation for the immediate acquisition of beds in private hospitals. This has come after the Central government on Thursday expressed concerns over the high mortality rate and pointed at the possibility of the shortage of the ICU beds in a few districts and cities of Maharashtra.“Barring Mumbai, we have been able to cope with the demand for ICU beds required for patients. While acquiring additional stock of ventilators, we have also asked the district authorities to trace the vulnerable patients early so that they would not need to be put on ventilators,” said an official from the state government. Meanwhile, state health minister Rajesh Tope on Saturday said that the government has reduced the rates of the Covid-19 tests conducted by private laboratories from ~4,500 to ~2,200.“~2,200 will be charged for collecting the swabs through viral transport media (VTM) from hospitals, while it would cost ~2,800 for collection of swab from home. Earlier, the charges were ~4,500 and ~5,200 respectively,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-spike-of-over-3-000-covid-19-cases-mumbai-worst-affected/story-7oi8wKjEbaY9Pw8wvbyWrK.html
14-06-2020||India||Govt issues advisory to revive urban transport amid Covid-19 pandemic||The Centre has issued an advisory to states with measures to revive urban transport amid the coronavirus disease pandemic. The states have been asked to encourage and revive non-motorised transport, recommence public transport by adopting the right sanitization, containment and social distancing measures and utilize technology to curb the spread of virus through contact-less payment and common mobility card.“Covid-19 pandemic has suddenly impacted our way of life and that of our local, regional and global transport systems. Evidence shows that there is a steep drop in public transport ridership volumes by 90%,” the advisory said.The advisory issued by the ministry of housing and urban affairs on Friday has provided a three-pronged strategy to states.The advisory suggests non-motorised transport (NMT) for trips under five kilometres. “As most of the urban trips are clocked in under five kilometres, NMT offers perfect opportunity to implement in this COVID 19 crisis as it requires low cost, less human resource, easy & quick to implement, scalable and environment friendly,” it said.Public places will need to become more suited for pedestrians and walking and cycling networks will need to be expanded, the ministry had said earlier.“They need to demonstrate it in Delhi, where urban development is directly under the Centre’s control,” said KT Ravindran, former chairman of Delhi Urban Art Commission (DUAC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-issues-advisory-to-revive-urban-transport-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-xphMJGMyzyJ6T1CSKWeshJ.html
14-06-2020||India||Man held by Nepal over firing freed, alleges assault||A day after a man from Bihar’s Sitamarhi district was shot dead and three others injured when Nepal’s police guarding its border with India opened fire, the neighbouring country on Saturday released another man who it had been taken into custody. Body of Vikesh Yadav (25), who was shot dead by soldiers of Nepal’s Armed Police Force (APF) on Friday, was consigned to flames amid tight security.Meanwhile, Ramlagan Rai, a resident of Jankinagar village, was released unconditionally. Rai said he had gone to meet his relatives in Nepal. “I was accosted by APF men so I started walking back. I had hardly travelled 100 metres into Indian side when they caught me by my neck and dragged me back. They beat me up when I refused to write in their register that I had entered Nepal for smuggling purposes,” he said. Bihar shares over 750-km-long border with Nepal. Of late, the porous border has been witnessing skirmishes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-held-by-nepal-over-firing-freed-alleges-assault/story-PGOHVgda2EN6NFJ633oPhI.html
14-06-2020||India||Rain brings down temperature; monsoon on time, says IMD||After four days of uncomfortable heat—a mix of high temperature and humidity—Delhi received light rain in some parts on Friday and Saturday. India Meteorological Department scientists are hoping the monsoon will arrive on its normal date around June 27 in Delhi as it has already reached parts of Bihar in the east and is likely to reach Gujarat in the west in a day.“It rained in different parts of the city, including Lodhi Road on Saturday. On Friday, there was light rainfall in north Delhi. This is happening because of a combination of factors. There is a cyclonic circulation over Delhi and Haryana and a trough, or a line of low pressure, stretching from Punjab to Odisha. There are moist easterly winds. We can expect some light rainfall in the next couple of days also,” Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, said. “Monsoon is likely to arrive in Delhi around June 27 after crossing east and west UP,” he added.The monsoon has advanced into Madhya Maharashtra, most parts of Marathwada and Vidarbha, parts of Chhattisgarh, all of Odisha and West Bengal and most parts of Jharkhand and Bihar according to IMD’s Saturday bulletin. Conditions are becoming favourable for the further advance of the monsoon into all of central Arabian Sea, some parts of North Arabian Sea, the remaining parts of Maharashtra including Mumbai some more parts of Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Bihar and even some parts of south Gujarat by Sunday.“The monsoon has strengthened because of the low-pressure system which developed over the Bay of Bengal. By next week, it will enter Gujarat, covering many parts of central India. This system has helped the monsoon move at its pace. It’s too early for us to tell if it will arrive over Delhi on its normal date, June 27,” K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-brings-down-temperature-monsoon-on-time-says-imd/story-HEJc54jzxN1adaq2xot7rI.html
14-06-2020||India||Masks can reduce Covid-19 growth rate by 40%: Study||Masks can reduce the growth rate of coronavirus infection by 40%, a paper on the impact of the staggered use of masks in public places in different cities and municipalities in Germany has found.After the city of Jena made it mandatory on April 6 to wear masks, new confirmed Covid-19 infections reduced by 25% compared to that in a group with similar demographics, local health care systems and pre-April Covid-19 levels, the analysis found. The findings were released on Friday. “Depending on the region we analyse, we found that face masks reduced the cumulative number of registered Covid-19 cases between 2.3% and 13% over a period of 10 days after they became compulsory. Assessing the credibility of the various estimates, we conclude that face masks reduce the daily growth rate of reported infections by around 40%,” said the discussion paper by IZA Institute of Labor Economics in Bonn, Germany.The long incubation period of the Covid-19 infection, among other factors, contribute to its spread, according to experts. Symptoms appear on average after four to five days of getting infected, according to a study published in March in The Annals of Internal Medicine. In this period, patients might not develop symptoms of cough, fever or difficulty in breathing, but can spread the infection.Several studies have also found that Covid-19 is also spread by those who have a very mild disease but do not show symptoms.A paper published in New England Journal of Medicine on Friday, which followed asymptomatic and pre-symptomatic cases on the Diamond Princess cruise ship that saw an outbreak in February, found that the majority of asymptomatic cases did not develop symptoms at all throughout the course of the infection.People with advancing age, hypertension and diabetes were pre-symptomatic for longer, it found. “This important study clarifies many facts. People develop symptoms in an average of four days, and a large proportion of Covid-19 positive patients (58%) are asymptomatic throughout the duration of illness, which ranges from three to 21 days, with the median period being nine days. The study also found that asymptomatic patients transmit infection throughout the duration of illness,” said Prof GC Khilnani, chairman, pulmonary, critical care and sleep medicine, PSRI, and the former head of the pulmonology department at Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences.At least 28% of 40,184 people who tested positive for Covid-19 between January 22 and April 30 in India were asymptomatic, according to an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) study. Wearing masks in public is already compulsory or recommended for all in several countries, including India, Singapore, France, Spain, Germany and Argentina, among others. A study in The Lancet on June 2 said social distancing, masks and hand hygiene do not offer complete protection on their own.“As the lockdown lifts and people become mobile, social distancing, wearing masks and hand washing are the only defence against Covid-19 till we get an effective vaccine or cure,” said Dr Ambarish Dutta, associate professor of epidemiology and public health, Indian Institute of Public Health, Bhubaneswar.The World Health Organization (WHO) updated its guidelines for countries earlier this month and advised “governments to encourage the general public to wear masks where there is widespread transmission and physical distancing is difficult, such as on public transport, in shops or in other confined or crowded environments”.Two days later, the global health agency was forced to retract a statement by its coronavirus lead, Maria Van Kerkhove, who said asymptomatic transmissions were “very rare”. It triggered a global debate and led sceptics to use the remark to discredit mandatory masks and social distancing policies. WHO clarified that much remains unknown about asymptomatic transmission. “Most transmissions seem to occur from those with symptoms. However, we have to be careful because people can be infectious one to two days before they develop symptoms. So right now it is important for everyone to wear face coverings when they cannot maintain physical distancing,” said Dr Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist, WHO, Geneva.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/masks-can-reduce-covid-19-growth-rate-by-40-study/story-x3AY1QMIPvBthiertbzCZJ.html
14-06-2020||India||Can politics shape revival of economy after Covid-19?||India’s GDP will not reach 2019-20 levels until 2021-22 according to World Bank projections. There will be immense economic pain in the days to come. The impact will vary for different stakeholders in the economy. Both policy and politics will have an important role to play in recovery. The first part of this series, which was published on June 13, argued that states with higher non-farm, non-government share in the economy will suffer more. It also argued for collecting more data to come up with an informed policy response.What about politics? The Indian economy is entering a contraction phase after a prolonged slowdown. Resources of both businesses and government were already stressed. India’s policy response will also be an exercise in distributing very scarce resources across practically unlimited demands. In a democratic set-up, politics can be used to influence policy in the interests of the majority by collective mobilization. The agriculture sector is expected to show positive growth despite the disruption caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. This does not guarantee a rise in farm incomes. Mass incomes outside the farm sector will drop in a big way due to economic contraction. This is bound to affect purchasing power, and eventually, food demand.India’s farmers have very little bargaining power when it comes to prices. Anecdotal accounts of crops being abandoned due to price crashes are quite common. A collapse in food prices due to poor demand cannot be ruled out. Real agricultural growth figures will not capture this development. This is because it discounts for price changes. Nominal growth statistics will have to be observed carefully. The Indian economy suffered a phase of collapse in nominal agricultural growth in the period before the 2019 general elections.This created large scale farm distress and anger. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) paid heavily for it. It lost the crucial assembly elections in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh in 2018. A policy correction followed. Direct cash transfers of ₹6,000 per year were announced under the PM-KISAN scheme. The government announced the Minimum Support Prices (MSPs) for the 2020-21 kharif season earlier this month. The MSP hike for paddy, the main kharif crop, is the lowest in 10 years. The MSP for paddy has increased 2.9% from Rs 1,815 per quintal last year to Rs 1,868 per quintal. The last time the hike was lower than this was in 2010-11, when the MSP was not increased at all. These are nominal price comparisons, as real MSP for 2020-21 requires inflation data for the entire year. Holding back on MSPs at a time of weaker demand is bound to generate headwinds for farm incomes. But this will save resources for the government. Whether or not this changes will depend on agrarian mobilizations. Caste is an important political fault line in India. Economic fortunes follow caste hierarchies. Many political parties claim to represent the interests of socially backward caste groups. Reservation in government jobs is one of their key demands. This is not surprising. Government jobs are better paying and secure. Historical discrimination has led to under-representation of the Scheduled Caste (SC), Scheduled Tribe (ST) and Other Backward Class (OBC) workers in government jobs. The Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) data for 2018-19 shows this. Of the total jobs in the government, local body, and public sector enterprises sector in 2018-19, 33.2% were held by workers who were not from SC-ST or OBC communities. Their share in the total workforce was 26.3%. This implies their share in government jobs was 1.27 times that in the Indian workforce. This relative share in government jobs was 1.03 for SC workers, 0.82 for ST workers, and 0.87 for OBC workers. In normal times, prioritizing the rhetoric around reservations is justified. It promises upward mobility in the future. However, there is merit in recalibrating this strategy going forward.Politics, during a recession, should be about protecting current jobs and incomes rather than eying future gains. PLFS data shows that the share of SC-ST and OBC workers in regular jobs (which offer reservations) is significantly lower than that of upper castes. It makes sense for parties representing the interests of these groups to focus more on demanding relief in sectors and areas for where their base is currently employed. Social justice rhetoric should focus more on the vulnerabilities in private sector, especially casual workers and self-employment, than reservation. Reverse migration due to the lockdown is among the most important economic consequences of the pandemic. The 2016-17 Economic Survey, an annual publication of the ministry of finance, says that domestic remittances serve 10% of households in rural India. (See Chart 2) In remittance receiving households, they financed over 30% of consumption. These incomes will have to be revived in order to restore growth. Offering alternative employment opportunities in villages can at best be a palliative. Ultimately, migrant workers will have to be encouraged to return. Politics can play a role in this. An overwhelming majority of migrant workers are not unionized at their work place. They have very little bargaining power vis-à-vis employers. Being outsiders also makes them more vulnerable to the apathy of the local administrations. However, there is reason to believe that these workers are closely linked with each other by their place of migration. Workers returning in groups to their native places are the biggest proof of this. Political actors in their home states could use this opportunity to protect their interests. State governments could be pressured to defend the interests of migrant workers. This could take the form of organizing better transport facilities for their return. It could include extracting guarantees of better working conditions or social security, such as a ration card upon arrival, from the governments of states where they work. May be, there is some merit in demanding that migrant workers be allowed to vote in their home states, even if they are working outside. The 2016-17 Economic Survey gave a list of top 31 labour-importing and 73 labour-exporting districts in India. These places could be the epicentres of a new form of trade unionism in India. (See Chart 3)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-politics-shape-revival-of-economy-after-covid-19/story-rksCLp6r0V9X4LtphqUJgO.html
14-06-2020||India||First tranche of 100 ventilators shipped by United States to arrive on Monday||To help India in the fight against the deadly coronavirus, about one hundred ventilators shipped by the United States will arrive in the country on Monday, June 15, news agency ANI reported on Saturday.In the first tranche, 100 ventilators have been shipped to India, the first installment of 200 machines that the United States has promised to donate to the country. These ventilators are being manufactured by Zoll--an US-based firm and are arriving from Chicago in the United States.The ventilators, critical medical equipment needed to treat coronavirus patients, will arrive in India by an Air India flight on Monday. ALSO READ | Trump considers suspending H-1B, L-1 and other work visas, could hit Indians hard“Once the ventilators arrive in India, there is a small inaugural function at the India Red Cross Society, after which these ventilators would be distributed to hospitals for patient care,” a government official said on Saturday.On May 16, US President Donald Trump had tweeted, “I am proud to announce that the United States will donate ventilators to our friends in India. We stand with India and @narendramodi during this pandemic. We’re also cooperating on vaccine development. Together we will beat the invisible enemy!”In response to Trump’s tweet, PM Narendra Modi had thanked him in a tweet and highlighted India and America’s bilateral relationship.President Donald Trump had first announced the plan to donate the ventilators through a tweet on May 16, when he said both countries were also working on developing a vaccine for Covid-19.ALSO READ | India has highest number of serious Covid-19 cases after United States: ReportThe donation of the ventilators came up during President Trump’s phone call to PM Modi last week. The US government, private companies, and non-profit and academic organisations have shared their expertise with partner countries such as India on the production of ventilators and other equipment.India, this week climbed to the fourth spot in the list of nations that have the highest number of coronavirus cases, surpassing the United Kingdom, which was in the fourth place so far and has also been hit hard by the pandemic. India is now preceded only by Russia, Brazil and the US. Russia currently has nearly 5 lakh cases and Brazil 7.75 lakh. The United States, however, has the maximum number of Covid-19 cases globally – with the number of patients being more than 20 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-tranche-of-100-ventilators-shipped-by-united-states-to-arrive-on-monday/story-WtyjesYq6dnLusxcGUfFSK.html
14-06-2020||India||Delhi details plans to use hotels in Covid-19 war||The Delhi government is preparing for a surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and plans to use a total of 40 hotels and 77 banquet halls as makeshift hospitals, a move that is expected to add over 15,800 beds to the city-state’s health care infrastructure, according to documents seen by HT. On Saturday, two top hotels in South Delhi, Vasant Continental and Hyatt Regency, were asked to place rooms at the disposal of the hospitals they were being attached to. Authorities plan to set up 11,229 beds in 77 banquet halls, which will function under the Delhi government, and 4,628 beds in 40 hotels, which will be supervised by private hospitals, a list released on Friday night showed. On May 29, the Delhi government identified the first five hotels in the first-of-its kind move in the country and issued an order to this effect.“Today (Saturday), all district magistrates were asked to submit the time they will take to set up such facilities. The aim is to get the hotels and banquet halls readied within a week,” a senior government official said on the condition of anonymity.Patients opting for the hotel facility, which is primarily for those with moderate symptoms, will have to pay a minimum of Rs 63,000 a week if it’s a three- or four-star hotel. If it’s a five-star hotel, the weekly charge will go up to at least Rs 70,000. In addition, patients needing oxygen support will have to pay Rs 2,000 a day. The charges will vary with medical investigations, which private hospitals overseeing these facilities will bill at their own rates, and the duration of treatment.The Delhi government move came against the backdrop of a spike in Covid-19 cases; the national capital added 2,134 new cases on Saturday to end the day with a total of 38,958 infections (22,742 of them active) and 1,271 fatalities. At present, Delhi’s bed capacity across private and government hospitals for Covid-19 patients stands at 9,698. Of them, 4,248 are vacant, according to Delhi’s coronavirus app dashboard. Between Monday and Saturday, Delhi has added 9,015 cases.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Wednesday that the city will need 150,000 beds by the end of July as he accepted Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal’s order overruling his government’s decision allowing only Delhi residents to be treated in government and private hospitals. And on June 7, while Kejriwal announced the reopening of malls, dine-in restaurants and places of worship after two-and-a-half months, he said hotels and banquet halls will continue to be closed as they will be used to augment the city’s health care infrastructure. Meanwhile, L-G Baijal, who is the chairperson of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority, directed government officials to immediately start scouting for banquet halls, hotels and stadiums to increase the city’s bed capacity.Of the 11 districts in Delhi, Northwest District will have the maximum banquet halls (21) that will be turned into Covid-19 hospitals. West District will have the maximum such hotels (12).The list of hotels include Maidens Hotel of the Oberoi Group in Civil Lines (supervised by Sant Parmanand Hospital); Hyatt Regency in Bikaji Cama Place (Fortis Hospital, Vasant Kunj); Park Inn by Radisson in Lajpat Nagar (Moolchand hospital); Hotel Ramada in Pitampura (Jaipur Golden Hospital); and Holiday Inn in Mayur Vihar (Apollo Hospital). The five hotels in the May 29 order were Crowne Plaza (Batra Hospital); Hotel Surya (Apollo); Hotel Siddharth (BL Kapur Memorial Hospital); Hotel Jivitesh (Sir Gangaram Hospital); and Sheraton Saket (Max Super Speciality Hospital)Officials in Apollo Hospitals, which will supervise five hotels, pointed to the challenges. “We reached out to two hotels, but they said they will let us start only after the judgment of the high court…We have not been able to do a recce,” a hospital official said, requesting anonymity.On June 4, CHL Ltd, which owns and runs Surya hotel, approached the Delhi HC against the state government’s May 29 order directing five luxury hotels, including Surya and Crowne Plaza, to be converted into hospitals. The hotels argued that the government took the decision unilaterally and that they were not consulted.The court directed on Thursday a committee of two doctors --- All India Institute of Medical Sciences director Randeep Guleria and NITI Aayog member VK Paul --- to check the plan’s feasibility. The matter will now be heard on Monday (June 15).An official in Max Hospital, who asked not to be named, said work at Sheraton Hotels in South Delhi’s Saket was complete. Max is supervising four hotels. “We are treating several patients at Sheraton, which was among the first five hotels…However, we too have not been able to extend our services to the other hotels because they are all awaiting the court verdict,” said the official.The Delhi government is setting up health care facilities on its own at the banquets. The fee structure for a banquet-turned-hospital was not immediately available.“All these facilities will have separate entry and exit points. A tender has already been floated for cots. The water and electricity bills that will be generated in these banquet halls/hospitals will be paid by the health department from its funds. The medical equipment and the staff will be arranged by the health department,” said a second government official.The Delhi Medical Association, which is holding regular meetings with the state government to discuss bed augmentation plans, said the city-state’s administration has approached it for medical staff, including nurses.“Nursing associations are also being reached out, but manpower is going to be a serious challenge,” said Dr Girish Tyagi, president of the association.As for stadiums, the government plans to set up 2,500 beds at Pragati Maidan and 200 beds at Talkatora, emulating Maharashtra. “But stadiums need more medical engineering...We are first going with hotels and banquet halls, which are easier and quicker because their structure resembles that of hospitals; there are rooms and washrooms,” said an official in the health department who did not want to be named.Dr Lalit Kant, the former head of epidemiology and communicable disease at Indian Council of Medical Research, said such arrangements should have been done by now. “…all that needs to be done is ramping up of health infrastructure as soon as possible. However, simultaneously, it is also very important to ensure strict enforcement of civic rules such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/capital-details-plans-to-use-hotels-in-covid-war/story-X5EGyoHFIZvkhfEFGY3XqI.html
14-06-2020||India||500-year-old Odisha temple submerged under Mahanadi river reappears||A 500-year-old ancient temple of Lord Vishnu that was submerged in Odisha’s Mahanadi river sometime in 19th century due to change of course of the river, has resurfaced after 15 years.An archaeological survey team from the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage that visited the village in Nayagarh district, said the top of the Gopinath Dev temple was visible due to the reduction in the water-level of the river.Anil Dhir, project coordinator, Mahanadi Project (INTACH), said the top of the submerged temple was discovered in the mid-river near Baideswar in the Padmavati area near Nayagarh district. “The 60-ft tall submerged temple dates back to late 15th or early 16th century, considering the construction style of the Mastaka and the materials used for the construction. It is made of sandstone and among the oldest temples that have been submerged in Mahanadi,” said Dhir.The 60-ft temple made of sandstone belongs to Lord Gopinath, an incarnation of Lord Vishnu. The temple used to be visible frequently 15 years ago, but due to release of water at Mundali barrage the temple was not visible to fishermen. In the last one and half years, INTACH team led by Dhir has documented submergence of 65 such temples in Mahanadi river that runs through much of western Odisha before draining into Bay of Bengal.“Whatever heritage has been submerged, we are documenting it. People already knew there was a shrine submerged in the river, but it had not resurfaced in years,” said Dhir.Sometime in the middle of the 19th century, the Gopinath Dev temple as well as the village named Padmabati was located submerged when Mahanadi River changed its course after 1933 flood. “The village was submerged under the waters and the villagers moved to higher places to set up a new village renamed as Padmabati. However, the deity of the temple was taken by the villagers and installed in another temple in their present village,” said heritage enthusiast Rabindra Rana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/500-year-old-odisha-temple-submerged-under-mahanadi-river-reappears/story-BsxxeXvRdIZu9IygGVlkEM.html
14-06-2020||India||116 districts to start re-skilling migrant labourers||The Skill Development ministry has zeroed in on 116 districts of the country to re-skill migrant labourers who have returned to their home states. The ministry is trying to make district-specific plans for migrant labourers, a key aspect of which involves identifying their current skills and re-skilling them according to the needs of the job market.A letter written by the Skill Development ministry to the district collectors and district magistrates mentions that the Covid-19 has created an unprecedented social and economic disruption leading to large-scale reverse migration. “This migration is likely to cause a lot of stress on the local economy and society which is already under considerable stress due to COVID-19,” says the letter by KC Gupta, Joint Secretary in the ministry to various district chiefs.The said that “district specific” plans will be created to create sustainable livelihood opportunities in the identified districts under the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana and the Apprenticeship scheme. The ministry plans to hold short-term training as well as recognition of prior learning programmes in the next four months to give direction to its initiatives.“The Centre and state are in cognizance of the massive reverse migration that has happened in the country and are working jointly to ensure opportunities of better livelihood for them by engaging them in local economic activities. Under the guidance of the Hon’ble Prime Minister Narendra Modi, our ministry is working in close conjunction with other central ministries the state governments and related organisations to map the existing skills of these migrant labourers basis a certain framework provided by us and future skills that will be in market demand. We are certain this exercise will connect the right workforce with the right work profile,” Skill Development minister Mahendra Nath Pandey said.In the letter, Gupta sought the support of the district administrations to identify migrant labourers and do skill mapping, job role identification for fresh skilling and surveys of eligible enterprises for proving apprenticeship at the district level.“The government is trying to move with a focused approach therefore 116 districts have been identified. However, based on the need the number could be further increased. Several flagship programmes of the government, around 15 in all, have been aligned to meet the needs of migrants and job aspirants in the COVID-affected scenario. The skill development ministry can play a key role in this regard,” said the official cited above.According to information accessed by HT, around 32 districts of Bihar, including East Champaran, Katihar, Madhubani, around 20 from Uttar Pradesh and 20 each from Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan are among districts that have been identified as most-affected due to the high reverse migration.The government had earlier formed an empowered group that looked into these aspects. A group of ministers had also suggested a slew of measures including bringing a National Employment Policy as part of its suggestion to help the migrants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/116-districts-to-start-re-skilling-labourers/story-L8gyRqND3t15kuWveglEhK.html
14-06-2020||India||Govt approves remdesivir for moderate Covid-19 cases, HCQ early on||The health ministry on Saturday recommended the use of antiviral drug remdesivir in the moderate stage of Covid-19 while changing its earlier stance on hydroxychloroquine, saying the anti-malarial drug should be used only in the early course of the disease and not on critically ill patients.Convalescent plasma therapy has also received approval for off label use. This involves transfusion of the plasma of recovered individuals into Covid-19 patients. “…may be considered in patients with moderate disease who are not improving (oxygen requirement is progressively increasing) despite use of steroids,” says the health ministry protocol.Also read: Delhi details plans to use hotels in Covid-19 warThese changes are part of the revised clinical management protocol for the disease released on Saturday by the Union health ministry. The revised guidelines say HCQ should be given early on in the course of the disease for maximum benefit and should not be given to severely ill patients. The earlier protocol recommended HCQ for critically-ill patients in the intensive care unit.The antibiotic, azithromycin, that was being given in combination with HCQ has been dropped, even as some precautions have been added to make the use of the latter safer. ”... this drug should be used as early in the disease course as possible to achieve any meaningful effects and should be avoided in patients with severe disease. An ECG should ideally be done before prescribing the drug…” say the updated recommendations. A government official, a domain expert who asked not to be named, said the evidence against the use of HCQ is not compelling enough to withdraw its use. The expert added that decisions are made on the basis of available evidence. “If tomorrow, we get more robust evidence for or against any medicine, then the experts concerned will take a call accordingly.” As part of investigational therapies, the new treatment protocol also includes immunosuppressant drug tocilizumab (off label).Also read: 15 cities with rising Covid-19 cases have emerged as new areas of concernDr Yatin Mehta, the head of Medanta Hospital’s critical care department said: “These antivirals have shown promise against Sars-Cov-2 [which causes the disease] in initial studies and tocilizumab blocks the cytokine storm that starts building inside the body after a week or so. However, there are certain contraindications in the use of these medicines. So the medicine is not for everyone and needs to be started under strict medical supervision.” Dr Vanshree Singh, director (blood bank), Indian Red Cross Society, said: “Plasma therapy has shown promise but not all patients will benefit from it, which is why there is a separate protocol for administration of plasma therapy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-approves-remdesivir-for-moderate-cases-hcq-early-on/story-3OQL3X6VP3nAbupB32P4pJ.html
14-06-2020||India||Two terrorists killed in Jammu & Kashmir’s Kulgam gunfight||Two terrorists were on Saturday killed in an exchange of fire with security forces at Niapora Zadoora in Jammu & Kashmir’s Kulgam district amid an escalation in violence in the region, police said and added the firefight was triggered after an operation was launched following a specific input about the terrorist presence there.As many as 16 terrorists have been killed in Kashmir since Sunday last. Unidentified assailants also shot dead a village council head and two civilians believed to be working for the security forces. As many as 90 militants have been killed in Kashmir since January, according to the Jammu & Kashmir police.The two killed in Niapora Zadoora are believed to have been affiliated with the Hizbul Mujahideen group even as their identities were not immediately revealed. The police said the terrorists were given opportunity to surrender during a search operation before the firefight. They added instead the holed up terrorists fired and lobbed grenades on the joint search party and triggered the gunbattle. “On a specific input about the presence of terrorists in village Nipora Zadoora, Kulgam, a joint cordon and search operation was launched by [Jammu & Kashmir] Police, 19 RR [Rashtriya Rifles] and 18 Bn [battalion] CRPF [Central Reserve Police Force] in the village,” the police said in a statement. “During the search operation, the terrorists were given opportunity to surrender, however instead they fired and lobbed grenades upon the joint search party, which was retaliated leading to an encounter in which the two terrorists were killed.”It said the security forces conducted the operation professionally and there was no collateral damage. Two pistols and three hand grenades were also recovered from the gunbattle scene.A group of terrorists escaped during a cordon and search operation in the neighbouring Tral area after a separate operation was launched on Saturday, people aware of the matter said without giving more information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-terrorists-killed-in-j-k-s-kulgam-gunfight/story-SJZDwwOo4KyH5coSqfR0MK.html
14-06-2020||India||Social distancing, no parents at IMA passing-out parade||A batch of 423 young officers graduated from the Indian Military Academy (IMA) in Dehradun on Saturday, but parents were not allowed for their passing-out parade in a departure from practice due to restrictions imposed to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Instead, the academy’s staff and instructors, and their wives placed stars on the uniform of the Gentlemen Cadets after their oath ceremony as a mark of them being commissioned in the army --- an honour usually reserved for friends and family. Wearing masks, 333 officers from India and 90 from friendly foreign nations took part in the event at IMA grounds. The event was live-streamed on YouTube.As the event started around 7pm, the Gentlemen Cadets maintained social distancing during their ceremonial parade. Flower petals from helicopters were not showered, another departure from practice. The newly commissioned officers did not get leaves to visit their homes before joining their units due to the pandemic situation, according to IMA officials. They will join their units straight out of the academy. “Obviously, it felt bad that my parents couldn’t see me wearing the officer’s uniform despite living in the same city. But then, it is for the safety of all. We are thankful to our instructors at the academy who played the role of our parents and made us realise once again that we all are one big family,” said Abhishek Negi, 22, a newly commissioned officer from Dehradun.Samrat Thapa, 22, a Bhopal resident, said his father, a Colonel in the Indian Army, wanted to see him passing out of the academy. “Unfortunately, due to obvious reasons, he couldn’t come… he cried over the phone when I called him after the ceremony,” Thapa said. Sumati Gakhar, the wife of an Indian Army officer who put stars on the uniform of Gentlemen Cadets, said: “I felt extremely proud while putting the stars on the shoulders of these young officers along with my husband.”Saturday’s event also witnessed a significant change with the introduction of ‘pahla Kadam’, or the first step. Lt Col Amit Dagar, the public relations officer, IMA, said earlier there was the “antim pag”, or the last step after the parade, which symbolised the conclusion of training. He added that this season authorities introduced the “pahla kadam”, or the first step, after the “antim pag” to denote the beginning of the new journey of the officers.IMA, which is one of the most prestigious training institutes of the Indian Army, was established in 1932 under the British rule. At the academy, Gentleman Cadets are trained to be commissioned as officers in the army, along with students from friendly foreign countries. With Saturday’s passing out parade, the academy has trained a total of 62,561 Gentlemen Cadets, including 60,059 from India and 2,502 from foreign countries. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/social-distancing-no-parents-at-ima-passing-out-parade/story-NFQ0FZs8iVStF5oAPHyyKJ.html
14-06-2020||India||Loss of smell, taste added as symptoms of coronavirus disease||The Union health ministry has revised its clinical management protocol for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to include the loss of the sense of smell and taste along with fever, cough, sore throat and shortness of breath as symptoms, while also adding that children may not be reporting fever and cough as frequently as adults. Muscle pain, diarrhoea, expectoration (coughing up phlegm), and fatigue have also been added to the protocol released on Saturday.HT reported on Thursday that the government was considering the revision to include loss of smell and taste as the symptoms for diagnosis and testing of the disease.“Older people and immune-suppressed patients, in particular, may present with atypical symptoms such as fatigue, reduced alertness, reduced mobility, diarrhoea, loss of appetite, delirium, and absence of fever. Children might not have reported fever or cough as frequently as adults,” says the revised document released on Saturday. A health ministry official underlined Covid-19 is a new disease and fresh information on it keeps emerging daily. “The ministry is constantly reviewing the evidence, both nationally and globally, to update its protocols. The current one is being released today [Saturday] based on the latest information available on the disease,” said the official, who did not wish to be named.The first Covid-19 testing criteria was fixed in January and included symptoms such as fever, cough, and breathlessness. In May, gastrointestinal issues such as diarrhoea or vomiting were also added to the list. Until the revision, there were 13 clinical symptoms and signs in the specimen referral form and included fever, cough, diarrhoea, vomiting, abdominal pain, breathlessness, nausea, haemoptysis (coughing up of blood), body ache, sore throat, chest pain, nasal discharge and sputum. Any patient with one or more symptoms was to get tested for Covid-19. In April and May, the World Health Organization, some European countries, the US, and Australia, added loss of smell and taste as one of the key Covid-19 symptoms. An article published in the medical journal Lancet last week said the prevalence of loss of smell and taste was three-fold higher in individuals testing positive (65.03%) than in those testing negative (21·71%), for the disease suggesting that people with such symptoms should self-isolate.Experts here have been asking for updating the clinical features for some time.“The move by the ministry of health is in the right direction. There is growing concern among the public about asymptomatic people. Among the asymptomatic, a major subgroup comprises people who might be having atypical symptoms such as loss of smell, taste and weakness. Earlier these were not fitting the case definition of Covid-19, and therefore were not tested… with this expansion... we can prevent the spread aggressively…,” said Dr Giridhara Babu, the life course epidemiology head at the Indian Institute of Public Health, Public Health Foundation of India.Dr GC Khilnani, a pulmonologist, said a number of people have been reporting to hospital emergencies with non-specific symptoms such as loss of smell and taste, and diarrhoea etc. “So it [the revision] makes sense to include these [symptoms] also.”The revised document has also underlined certain risk factors that include age (over 60) and underlying non-communicable diseases such as diabetes, hypertension, cardiac disease, chronic lung, cerebro-vascular, chronic kidney diseases, immune-suppression and cancer.“This category will need extra care, and if it is managed well then in the long run, we will be able to bring down the death rate even further,” said Dr Khilnani.India’s case fatality rate is currently 2.86% as compared to the global 5.5%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/loss-of-smell-taste-added-as-symptoms/story-pPIFlyvnrIKfqWduK0mAAK.html
14-06-2020||India||PM Modi, Amit Shah meet officials to review Covid-19 response||The Covid-19 situation in Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai, Thane, Ahmedabad and Indore, all hotspots of the viral pandemic, was in focus during an extended review meeting attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah, health minister Harsh Vardhan, Niti Aayog member Vinod Paul, and key officials in charge of the various empowered groups managing various facets of India’s response to the pandemic. Shah will meet with Kejriwal to discuss the situation in Delhi on Sunday. On Saturday, Delhi added 2134 new cases, the second highest number of cases it has added in a 24-hour period (the highest was on Friday, 2,137) and Chennai, 1989, the highest the city has added in a day. Mumbai, Thane, Ahmedabad, and Indore are also hotspots. ”60-70% of the cases are confined to these cities and their containment strategies need to be reviewed,’’ said the member of an empowered group present at the meeting and who asked not to be identified. A second official present in the meeting said on condition of anonymity that discussions at the meeting also focused on the states where these cities are located falling behind on testing and contact tracing, and not ensuring strict adherence to social distancing norms. It as decided that senior central ministers would reach out to each of the states to discuss this, the official added. For instance, recent days (and weeks) have seen a spate of media reports about the crowds and lack of social distancing at Chennai’s Madhavaram fruit market, bringing back memories of the crowds at the city’s Koyambedu market responsible for a sharp spike. The Prime Minister is to meet with chief ministers on June 16 and 17, with the second day reserved for meetings with the chief ministers of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and a few other states that are seeing a sharp rise in the number of cases. On Saturday, for instance, Delhi, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu alone accounted for 7550 of the 12,081 new cases recorded in the country. A statement from the Prime Minister’s office said: “In view of the challenges being faced, particularly by the large cities, it was discussed to augment testing as well as the number of beds and services to effectively handle the peak surge of daily cases. Prime Minister took cognizance of the recommendations of the Empowered group and instructed Health ministry officials to undertake emergency planning in consultations with states/UTs.’’The second official said that despite the spike in cases “nobody should be feeling helpless.” “We have already increased testing from the 2,000 that we started out with to around 1.5 lakh tests daily and we will ramp it up further.’’The ministry of health and the empowered groups on hospitals and availability of essential supplies has already submitted their projected figures of the rise of cases and the need for medical infrastructure till August. There isn;t a shortage of essential medical supplies, the second official added, but the government is worried about a number of reports about paucity of hospital beds in the worst affected cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-shah-meet-officials-to-review-covid-response/story-FJYco5wUXAjVaIF77aDdEK.html
14-06-2020||India||Covid-19 toll crosses 9,000-mark with 1,000 deaths in 3 days||Coronavirus deaths in India crossed 9,000 on Saturday, with the country adding the last 1,000 deaths in three days.Maharashtra, Gujarat and Delhi account for roughly two-thirds of all deaths in India, which recorded an average of 377 deaths every day over the past week.On Saturday, the death toll touched 9,196, having crossed 8,000 on June 10 and 7,000 on June 3. With 321,405 cases as on Saturday night, India’s case fatality rate is 2.9%, compared to the world’s 5.5%.In all, India’s Covid-19 toll has increased by at least 6,000 in less than four weeks, with total deaths crossing the 3,000 mark on May 18. The toll in India touched 1,000 on April 28, 47 days after the first Covid-19 death was confirmed in Hyderabad on March 12.Over the past 24 hours, 7,135 Covid-19 patients have been cured and returned home , taking the recovery rate is 49.95%, according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare data. The number of recovered patients continues to remain more than the number of those with infections, 162,271 to 149,938. “I think mortality per million population is a much better metric to judge how Covid-19 has affected us. The case fatality rate can change depending on the denominator of the number of people who are tested and turn out to be positive,” said Amit Singh, associate professor at the Centre for Infectious Disease Research, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru.With the number of cases rising rapidly following the easing of restrictions, experts say the focus must be on preventing deaths. “To reduce the number of deaths, cities and states have look at the number of people being hospitalised. If that number shoots up, then the beds and ventilators will be occupied, leading to more deaths. So wherever the number of hospitalizations is going up, the local governments need to implement lockdown measures. By unlocking at a time when the number of cases and hospitalizations are rising, we are doing more harm than good,” said Singh.Where lockdowns are not an option, the next best thing is to use personal protection measures such as face masks, frequent handwashing and maintaining social distancing of at least 2 metres, experts say.“Reducing the exposure of the vulnerable, which includes the elderly, people with co-morbidities, and pregnant women should be done as much as possible. My mother is 90 (years old), I wear a mask even at home. Young people have to step out to work, but they must take precautions to stay safe so they don’t expose older people at home to infection, which can potentially kill them,” said Dr Dileep Mavalankar, director, Indian Institute of Public Health Gandhinagar, Gujarat.Gujarat has the second highest number of deaths after Maharashtra, and is among the five cities -- along with Mumbai, Delhi, Thane and Chennai -- that account for close to half of the Covid-19 cases in the country. The state’s case fatality rate, at 6.3%, is also the highest in India.“The hotspots have begun shifting to newer areas and in Ahmedabad, new infections are going down in the central-south zones such as Dariapur, Shahpur, Danilimda, Jamalpur, and Saraspur, among others. Only sero-surveillance data from the hotspots will indicate whether it’s (because of) herd immunity or whether the virus has exhausted susceptible people in these wards, which is leading to a reduction in cases and deaths.” said Dr Mavalankar.Sero-surveillance is simply blood tests conducted to test for the antibodies to the virus that causes the disease. Their presence indicates past infection and, more importantly, immunity. A multi-city sero-surveillance being conducted by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to estimate the fraction of the population that has past exposure to Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, in containment zones is ongoing.The results of the population-based serosurvey in districts with zero cases and low, medium and high incidence released by ICMR on Friday said 0.73% of the population had been infected with Sars-CoV2, which indicates that a large proportion of the country’s population is still susceptible to infection. Still, this survey was conducted in early May, a month when India added at least 150,000 new cases. Health ministry data on Saturday said 885 labs have been approved to test for Covid, of which 642 government labs do free testing, and 243 private labs charge a maximum of Rs 4,500. Testing in the past 24 hours reached 143,737, taking the total number of samples tested to 5.5 million to date, which translates into a little over 4200 tests per million population. “Testing is an important component of surveillance and guides contract tracing, isolation and treatment. It also shows where response efforts need to be directed to combat the disease. India has been calibrating its testing strategy as per the changing situation, taking into account scope, need and capacity. With increased testing, the trajectory of positive cases will go up – but it will also help in better preparedness and response,” said Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, regional director, World Health Organisation South East Asia Regional Office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-toll-crosses-9k-mark-with-1-000-deaths-in-3-days/story-FrvX6wKrfmNFRHTipAB7oL.html
14-06-2020||India||Man held for minor’s rape, murder in Uttar Pradesh’s Handia||A 20-year-old man allegedly raped and murdered a three-year-old girl in a village in Uttar Pradesh’s Handia area on Friday night, the police said.The suspect, a relative of the girl, was arrested and sent to police custody.Sunil Singh, the station house officer of Handia police station, said the accused allegedly took the girl to a deserted place around 8pm on Friday on the pretext of giving her sweets. He allegedly raped the child and killed her by strangulating her. The girl’s father said he returned home from a nearby village around 9pm after taking part in the preparations for a relative’s wedding and noticed his daughter was missing. “I asked my wife; she said her distant uncle (the accused) had taken her to get some sweets. After waiting for some time, we launched a search and managed to find him He later confessed to killing her and dumping the body in a field,” the father added.A first information report (FIR) was filed on the complaint of the victim’s father, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-held-for-minor-s-rape-murder/story-Datwj12L056Vb9DArOnTFO.html
14-06-2020||India||Nepal okays map tweak, India calls it ‘untenable’||Nepal’s Parliament on Saturday passed a constitutional amendment to give legal backing to a map depicting disputed areas such as Lipulekh as Nepalese territory, prompting India to say such “artificial enlargement of claims” violates an understanding to resolve boundary issues through talks.On Saturday afternoon, the House of Representatives or lower house of Nepal’s Parliament unanimously adopted the constitutional amendment bill for including the country’s new political map in the national emblem. This map, cleared by the KP Sharma Oli government on May 20, depicts Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as part of Nepal.All 258 members of the 275-strong House of Representatives present in the lower house voted for the bill. The ruling Nepal Communist Party doesn’t have a two-thirds majority in the lower house, and the bill was supported by key opposition parties such as Nepali Congress and Rastriya Prajatantra Party.The bill is set to be taken up by the National Assembly or upper house next week, people familiar with developments said. The Nepal Communist Party has a two-thirds majority in the upper house and the bill’s passage by the National Assembly is considered a formality.Reacting to the development, the external affairs ministry – which has said in the past that the matter should be resolved through talks – described the passage of the bill as an “artificial enlargement” of Nepal’s territorial claims.“We have noted that the House of Representatives of Nepal has passed a constitution amendment bill for changing the map of Nepal to include parts of Indian territory. We have already made our position clear on this matter,” said external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava.He added, “This artificial enlargement of claims is not based on historical fact or evidence and is not tenable. It is also violative of our current understanding to hold talks on outstanding boundary issues.”Nepal’s Speaker Agni Sapkota was quoted by The Kathmandu Post as saying: “All 258 lawmakers present in the meeting voted for the bill, while there was no vote against it. I announce that the bill has been endorsed by more than a two-thirds majority.”When the Nepal government presented the bill in the lower house on Tuesday for discussion, it was unanimously backed by lawmakers from all political parties. After being passed by the upper house, the bill will have to be signed by the president to come into effect.Nepal’s move to issue the new political map was triggered by India’s inauguration of an 80-km road to Lipulekh on the border with Tibet to facilitate the movement of pilgrims going to the Kailash Mansarovar site. Last year, Nepal had been irked when India depicted Kalapani as part of a new map of the union territory of Ladakh.Nepalese officials claim they made three proposals to India for talks since last November, with the most recent one in May, but that there was no response from the Indian side. Nepal’s Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has maintained that Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura are part of his country’s territory on the basis of the Treaty of Sugauli signed with the British in 1816, which says all areas east of the Kali river belong to Nepal.Oli has also accused India of creating an “artificial” boundary in the region and of encroaching on Nepalese territory by deploying the army.India has dismissed these claims, saying they are not based on historical facts and records.Hours before the lower house of Nepal’s Parliament voted on the amendment, Indian Army chief Gen MM Naravane emphasised the strong relations between the two countries. The remarks marked a U-turn from his earlier comments about Nepal working at someone else’s behest to raise the border issue.“We have a very strong relationship with Nepal. We have geographical, cultural, historical, religious linkages. We have very strong people-to-people connect. Our relation with them has always been strong and will remain strong in the future,” Naravane told reporters.The India-Nepal border row comes at a time when India is engaged in a tense stand-off with Chinese troops in several sections of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and Constantino Xavier of Brookings India said it was time for New Delhi to move towards de-escalation with Kathmandu.“India spent too many years wasting scarce resources on micro-managing Nepal politics. Useless, counter-productive. Delhi can’t be petty. Ignore symbolic amendment. Olis will come and go. Move on, focus on de-escalation, delivery,” Xavier tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-okays-map-tweak-india-calls-it-untenable/story-VnVPb8CSvGpJHyTo0ykrrK.html
14-06-2020||India||Studies reveal impact of Sars-CoV-2 virus on all levels of nervous system||A review of over 50 studies published on June 11 has revealed that the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) affects almost every level of the nervous system and may lead to strokes, seizures and muscular pains in people who catch the infection.Some Covid-19 patients may exhibit mild symptoms like headache, dizziness, reduced alertness, difficulty in concentrating and disorders of smell and taste, according to the review that comes at a time when India is considering adding the sudden loss of smell and taste to the list of Covid-19 symptoms, such as fever and shortness of breath, to watch out for. Based on previous experience with coronaviruses, Sars-CoV-2 could impact the nervous system in three ways: by direct invasion, by consequence of other medical conditions such as stroke, and post-infection diseases such as the Guillain-Barre Syndrome, a disorder of the immune system, according to the review published in the journal Annals of Neurology.Other diseases caused by coronaviruses, including the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (Sars) and the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (Mers), led to few cases with neurological symptoms. Those two viruses affected 10,500 people. By Saturday, June 13, Covid-19, which first manifested itself in the central Chinese city of Wuhan at the end of 2019, had affected at least 7 million people worldwide.“Head ache, dizziness, disturbance of smell and taste, difficulties with memory can occur before any other respiratory symptoms. This is very important since those people should be tested for Sars-CoV-2 and if positive, they should be isolated and their contacts should be traced to avoid spread of the virus in their family and community.,” said the lead author of the review, Dr Igor Koralnik, professor of neurology at the Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine in Chicago. “It appears likely that this should also be the case in India, but it is possible that physicians focus on the respiratory disease first and that neurological manifestations are not recorded systematically. It is also possible that different viral strains affect people in India compared to those in the rest of the world or the different ethnic background of the population may affect the spectrum of neurological manifestations of Covid-19. Whether this is the case in India has to be determined through systematic analysis.”Respiratory distress is still considered to be a defining symptom of Covid-19. “Several ongoing studies in Italy are finding strong evidence that this virus can affect the peripheral nervous system (sensory), but in some patients, who already have a weak system, it can affect the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord) and affect their cognition and memory,” said Dr Ramesh K Mishra, professor and head of the Centre for Neural and Cognitive Sciences (CNCS) at the University of Hyderabad, who reviewed the study.More studies are needed on the cognitive consequences of those who survive the infection, Mishra said. “There have been cases of cognitive degenerative disorders previously in HIV and Ebola, but only a few cases. It is because these patients live long now that these have been observed.”Mishra cited a study conducted in Wuhan and published in JAMA Neurology, a peer-reviewed medical journal, that found nervous system symptoms in 36% of 214 Covid-19 patients in three hospitals. “The Northwestern University researchers are basing their review around it because they themselves have not done much. They are telling the government that the neuro team should be on high alert. That should be our aim also,” he said.“Serious neurological manifestation is stroke, which is rare,” said Dr Gagandeep Singh, head of the department of neurology at Dayanand Medical College & Hospital in Ludhiana, and secretary of the Indian Academy of Neurology.In India, such cases have been reported from Chennai and Delhi. “We are currently pooling in anonymised data on the occurrence of stroke in Covid-19 patients,” Dr Singh said.The ACE receptors, to which Sars-Cov-2 locks on to enter and infect human cells, are also present in the brain and blood vessels, which become inflamed, leading to endotheliitis, or inflammation in the inner walls of the arteries, said Dr Rajinder K Dhamija, head of the neurology department at the Lady Hardinge Medical College & Hospital in Delhi.“This may form clots that can lead to stroke,” Dr Dhamija said. “There is literature to show that Covid-19 is beyond cough and fever. We should proactively probe the history of the patient.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/studies-reveal-impact-of-virus-on-all-levels-of-nervous-system/story-2Lhzo4PYMx30SKS8ToF9hJ.html
14-06-2020||India||Nepal parliament clears new map, shuts possibility of talks on boundary row||Nepal’s lower house on Saturday cleared a constitutional amendment bill to reflect its new map in the national emblem, a move that is seen to virtually make the boundary row a permanent irritant in relations between Kathmandu and New Delhi. The bill was supported by all the 258 lawmakers present and voting.The passage of the bill, which consolidates Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli’s standing within and without the ruling Communist Party of Nepal, came on a day hundreds of protesters hit the streets of capital Kathmandu over his government’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic.India’s response to Saturday’s development was curt and pointedly shut the door on any possibility of talks.“ We have noted that the House of Representatives of Nepal has passed a constitution amendment bill for changing the map of Nepal to include parts of Indian territory. We have already made our position clear on this matter,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said.“This artificial enlargement of claims is not based on historical fact or evidence and is not tenable. It is also violative of our current understanding to hold talks on outstanding boundary issues,” he said.Also Read: Why PM Oli rejected India’s offer for dialogueAt the four-hour-long discussion in the House of Representatives that preceded the vote, PM Oli was asked by several lawmakers to take the next steps to reclaim control of Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura from India. Some others from the Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist) favoured continuing with some of the border restrictions on movement of people that have been introduced due to Covid-19 to continue, according to local media portal eKantipur.To be sure, the Oli government, which had gone ahead to issue the new map last month, has repeatedly claimed that Nepal would “get back the land occupied by India” through dialogue. Nepal has already asked India to convene a foreign secretary-level meeting to discuss the boundary row.Also Read: In 4 sentences, Army chief hints India’s approach to Nepal after map rowOfficials told Hindustan Times that Nepal had precluded the option of dialogue to resolve differences over Lipulekh since it had already gone ahead to formalise the new map.India will, however, continue to focus on strengthening people-to-people contact.Army chief General MM Naravane had also hinted at this approach earlier on Saturday when he sidestepped a question on the row over the map, preferring to focus on relations between the people of the two countries.“We have a very strong relationship with Nepal. We have geographical, cultural, historical, religious linkages. We have very strong people-to-people connect. Our relation with them has always been strong and will remain strong in the future,” General Naravane said.Gen Naranave was the first top Indian official to go public with his assessment that Nepal’s loud protests over the 80-km road to Lipulekh pass built for Kailash Mansarovar pilgrims were probably at the behest of “someone else”. That veiled reference to China’s influence over the Oli government had riled PM Oli, particularly given that he had been trying to build a narrative that he was a strong prime minister who was standing up to its giant neighbour India.Officials said the army general had echoed the assessment in New Delhi that found the timing of Kathmandu’s shrill protests over a road close to Nepal’s northwestern tri-junction with India and China particularly suspect.Around the time that General Naravane made the statement, China had mobilised troops along the Line of Actual Control to set off a standoff with Indian soldiers at four locations in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-parliament-clears-new-map-shuts-possibility-of-talks-on-boundary-row/story-HV6CttOxVQulY5edtKtigO.html
14-06-2020||India||‘Hope all perceived differences between India, China will be set to rest’: Army chief||The entire situation along our border with China is under control and there have been significant disengagements from both sides in the area near Galwan river in Ladakh, said Chief of Army Staff General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Saturday in Dehradun. General Naravane made the statement while interacting with media persons at the Passing Out Parade (POP) of Indian Military Academy (IMA) Dehradun where he attended the ceremonial event as a reviewing officer of the POP. “I would like to assure everyone that the entire situation with our border with China is under control,” said General Naravane.Also read: As Nepal preps to vote on new map, a hint about India’s stance from Army chiefHe said, “We are having a series of talks which started on June 6 followed up by a number of meetings at the local level between commanders of equivalent ranks. As a result of this, a lot of disengagements have taken place in the region and we are hopeful that through this continued dialogues, the perceived differences between us would be put to rest.”On the standoff majorly in the Galwan river area and Pangong Tso lake between India Army and China’s People’s Liberation Army, he said, “Both sides are disengaging in a phased manner starting from the north in the Galwan river area where a lot of disengagements have happened. We have a fruitful dialogue which will continue and the situation will keep improving as we go on.”He, however, didn’t say anything on the standoff at Pangong Lake area. On the recent border issues at the Nepal border, General Naravane said, “As far as Nepal is concerned, we have a very strong relationship with them including strong people-to-people connect, geographical, cultural and historical linkages. Our relation with them has always been strong and will always be strong.”He also spoke on the recent anti-terrorist operations in Jammu and Kashmir in the last few days. “We had a lot of success in the UT of Jammu and Kashmir where in the last 10 days, at least 15 terrorists have been killed. All these operations happened with inputs from locals which shows that they are also fed up with this terrorism and militancy, and want the situation to get normal as soon as possible,” he said. Earlier during the POP, total 424 Gentleman Cadets (GC)s passed out as army officers. The GCs include 333 from India and 90 from friendly foreign countries. Amid Covid-19 pandemic, this time the academy implemented certain precautionary measures including wearing of facemasks by the GCs and maintaining extra distance during the parade. Also, considering the health safety of the GCs and IMA staffers, the family members of the GCs were not allowed to witness their wards passing out as army officers, which happened for the first time in the history of the IMA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hope-all-perceived-differences-between-india-china-will-be-set-to-rest-army-chief/story-u1eG4Mfgke0SLrZXzaqtwI.html
14-06-2020||India||Economic impact of Covid-19 pandemic to vary in sectors||If the Indian economy were a person, her income in 2020-21 and 2021-22 would be less than what it was in 2019-20. At least, this is what the latest World Bank forecasts tell us. There is enormous, perhaps unprecedented, economic pain ahead. Both policy and politics will have to play an important role to alleviate this. Bad policy can delay, even derail economic revival. Good politics can ensure that the suffering of the masses is minimized. What can be done to ensure this?A three-part series in these pages looked at the nature of economic challenge facing India in detail. Its main argument was that India needs a demand-side intervention. But Indian economy is both huge and diverse. The policy response will have to be mindful of this diversity. Only then can suitable measures be applied where they are needed. Policy, especially in times of crisis, is also a question of distributing scarce resources among competing needs. In a democracy, politics influences this process in a big way. This two-part series tries to address these questions. The first part will highlight how the contraction in growth will not be uniform across regions and sectors. The second part will discuss possible avenues of political mobilization.Earlier this week, the World Bank released its Global Economic Prospects report. It expects India’s gross domestic product (GDP) to contract by 3.2% in 2020-21. There will be a moderate recovery to 3.1% growth in 2021-22. This means that 2021-22 GDP will be less than what it was in 2019-20. To be sure, India is not the only country which will face this predicament. The East Asian region seems to be the only exception. (See Chart 1)What does a contraction in GDP mean in real life? Incomes will drop. Jobs will be lost. However, the impact of the contraction will vary across sectors, states, even social groups. This knowledge is indispensible for an effective policy intervention. For example, it can be expected that at least two sectors; agriculture and government, will not see a contraction. In 2019-20, these two sectors had a share of almost 30% in total Gross Value Added (GVA). This means that the economic pain will be far more severe in the rest of the economy.Let us assume that the growth rate of agriculture and government sectors in the next two years will be the simple average of what they were in the past three years. This comes to 4.1% for agriculture and 9.7% for government. Using the World Bank’s headline projections of 3.2% contraction in 2020-21 and 3.1% growth in 2021-22, we can calculate the projected growth for rest of the economy. This comes to a 7.2% contraction in 2020-21 and 1.4% growth in 2021-22.The non-farm, non-government economy contains many sub-sectors. A contraction in each sub-sector will have different impact across states and jobs. For example, the non-farm, non-government sector had a share of 86% in Gross State Value Added (GSVA) for Delhi. This share was 56% for Madhya Pradesh, and only 38% for Arunachal Pradesh. This means that Delhi’s economic pain will be far more severe than Arunachal Pradesh’s. (See Chart 2)What about employment? A contraction in some sectors can have a bigger impact on jobs than others. For example, construction had a share of 8% in GVA in 2018-19. But its employment share, according to the 2018-19 Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS), was 12%. Financial services, real estate and professional services, on the other hand, had a GVA share of 22% in 2018-19. The employment share of this sector was only 3.4%. This means that construction is a more labour-intensive sector than finance. So, for an equal value of loss in output, job losses in construction would be far higher than in the financial sector. Bailing out the construction sector can save a lot of jobs, and mostly of the poor. Supporting finance will probably cushion the not-so-poor, and the sectors which depend on their demand. A useful way to measure job losses during a contraction is by using what is referred to as employment elasticity of output in economics. It is equal to the change in number of jobs per unit change in economic output. The concept captures the idea that for the same amount of growth, job creation varies across sectors. This also means that job losses during a contraction phase will vary across sectors. A comparison of year-on-year growth in GVA and jobs in 2018-19 shows that the construction sector and the trade, hotels, transport, storage and communication sector had the highest employment elasticity in the non-farm, non-government sector. (See Chart 3)Which states or sectors to support is not the only policy question going forward. There will also be a choice in terms of supporting producers and consumers. For instance, according to the Annual Survey of Industry (ASI) data, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, and Maharashtra had a share of 45% in value of output of textile and apparel in 2011-12. This output was consumed across the country. An analysis of the 2011-12 Consumption Expenditure Survey shows that Uttar Pradesh and Bihar had a share of 19.9% in total consumer expenditure on clothing and bedding. These two states had a share of just 3.9% in value of output of textile and wearing apparel. If consumer demand does not revive in these two states, supporting textile manufacturers will not yield results. (See Chart 4)There is a major blind spot for policymakers in tracking consumption trends. India does not have a consumption expenditure survey (CES) after 2011-12. This will be a decade-old in 2021-22. The 2017-18 CES findings were junked by the government.After the 2008 financial crisis, there was a lot of uncertainty about job losses. India did not have high-frequency employment data. The United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government asked the Labour Bureau to start tracking quarterly employment-unemployment  rates. Today, the PLFS does collect employment data in each quarter of the year. However, the government has not been releasing the quarterly data regularly. The 2018-19 findings were released only earlier this month. It will also be a good idea to start collecting and publishing high-frequency data on consumption. Unless, there is more and better high-frequency data on the state of the economy, policy intervention will continue to be ill-informed. If the surveys show bad news, so be it. We are officially in a recession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/economic-impact-of-covid-19-pandemic-to-vary-in-sectors/story-DIWjwnBZoON7ZUvgSMSFOL.html
14-06-2020||India||Delhi breathes clean air as overall AQI drops to 77||The quality of air in Delhi on Saturday improved slightly with the overall Air Quality Index (AQI) standing at 77 at 9 am on Saturday, according to the Centre-run System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR).The concentrations of prominent pollutants such as PM 10 and PM 2.5 docked at 77 and 29 respectively.The SAFAR has predicted that the air pollution levels in the national capital are expected to further improve on Sunday [May 31, 2020].The concentration of PM 2.5 particles is expected to be at 27 while PM10 is expected to be around 106.SAFAR further stated in its advisory that for the next two days, the air quality is likely to hover between the ‘satisfactory’ and ‘moderate’ category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-breathes-clean-air-as-overall-aqi-drops-to-77/story-PzR2O94r9UbtZZQBF2VJ4H.html
