17-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand forest watcher crushed to death by wild elephant in Kumaon||A forest watcher was crushed to death by a wild elephant on Wednesday in Uttarakhand’s Kumaon region’s Haldwani forest division while on patrolling duty, forest officials said.“One of our forest watchers was on patrol with other forest officials in Haldwani forest division in Kumaon. An elephant suddenly appeared and trampled him to death. Other forest officials drove away the tusker and recovered the body of the forest watcher,” said Parag Madhukar Dhakate, conservator of forests, western circle, Kumaon.Bhuwan Ram, 51, a resident of Lakhamandi, Chaurgalia was on patrol in Karakot beat of the forest division when attacked. Other officials tried to save him by raising an alarm but by that time Bhuwan had lost his life, officials said.“Our department has sanctioned ex-gratia of Rs 3 lakh for the deceased’s family and officials on patrolling have been advised to be more alert these days,” Dhakate said.This is not the first incident of elephants killing people in the hill state in the recent past. In May this year, a 65-year-old old labourer working in Chilla range of Rajaji National Park was mauled to death by a tusker.Also Read: Uttarakhand: 43 fresh Covid-19 positive cases take state tally to 1,985Last year in November, a 52-year-old man died after a wild elephant used his trunk to pull him out of a bus he was travelling in, and flung him out in the air near Corbett Tiger Reserve. In the same month, a wild elephant killed two people, including a woman in Haridwar district while on a rampage in two villages. In June last year, a 60-year-old man was crushed to death by a wild elephant in the forests of Kaladungi area in Nainital district.Uttarakhand has 1,797 elephants, including 1,035 in Corbett landscape and 309 in Rajaji landscape according to forest officials. Man-elephant conflict is on the rise in the state. The aggression of elephants in Uttarakhand’s Corbett landscape, Rajaji National Park landscape and Tarai areas is becoming a major concern for wildlife officials. People are killed by elephants on a regular basis and elephants also get killed due to electrocution and train-hits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-forest-watcher-crushed-to-death-by-wild-elephant-in-kumaon/story-sFThkuuUqEcth0yk4NBAuN.html
17-06-2020||India||Andhra Pradesh assembly adopts resolution opposing NRC and NPR||The Andhra Pradesh assembly on Wednesday adopted a resolution opposing the implementation of National Register of Citizens (NRC) and the revised format of National Population Register (NPR) in the country.Moving the resolution, deputy chief minister and minister for minority welfare Amzad Basha said the NRC was creating a sort of fear psychosis and insecurity among the minorities.“There has been strong opposition against the NRC all over the country. Our government led by chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy has always been safeguarding the interests of minorities. There is no question of implementing the same,” the deputy CM said.He said the cabinet had also adopted a resolution strongly opposing the NRC and the present resolution was in tune with the cabinet decision.Basha also said the state government would oppose the revised format of the NPR-2020. “The central government should stick to the old format of NPR 2010 and not the revised one,” he said.The state assembly passed the AP Appropriation Bill approving the state budget for 2020-21, before it was adjourned sine die by Speaker Tammineni Sitaram.Earlier, the assembly paid tributes to the Army personnel who laid down their lives in line of duty at Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh.Moving the resolution, the chief minister said Andhra Pradesh would join the nation in expressing deep sorrow to the family members of 20 brave soldiers who had laid down their lives fighting at the Galwan Valley to safeguard the integrity and sovereignty of the country.The House observed silence as a mark of respect to the fallen soldiers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anahra-pradesh-assembly-adopts-resolution-opposing-nrc-and-npr/story-ltXjfeLhje2GKgS0IKBB3M.html
17-06-2020||India||‘Conscience of the nation bruised’: Pranab Mukherjee seeks bipartisan consensus on Ladakh clash||Former President Pranab Mukherjee who also served as India’s defence minister during UPA-1 has said that the violent clash with Chinese military at Galwan Valley in Ladakh is of grave concern not only for India’s national strategic interests but will also have “far reaching” global geo-political ramifications.The senior Congress leader also said that a bi-partisan consensus among the political class was needed to address the bruised conscience of the nation. He said the onus of achieving that consensus mostly lied with the government of India.“I would like to underline that this particular situation at the Indo-Chinese line of control (line of actual control) in Ladakh is of grave concern for not only our national strategic interests but also have far reaching global geo-political ramifications,” Mukherjee’s statement read.Mukherje, who also served as India’s defence minister between May 22, 2004 and October 26, 2006, said that it was his “considered opinion that no service in the cause of Mother India could be greater than the service rendered by the brave hearts, who guard our sovereignty and integrity”.Mukherjee’s statement comes on a day when Congress President Sonia Gandhi sought to know from the central government, the details of the clashes between Indian and Chinese Army in the Galwan Valley on Monday that led to the deaths of 20 Indian soldiers. “The PM should tell the nation how the Chinese occupied Indian territory, why 20 brave soldiers were martyred,” she said in Hindi during a live address. She also added that her party stands behind the government.Also Read: ‘PM should tell how Chinese occupied Indian territory’: Sonia Gandhi on Ladakh face-offPrime Minister Narendra Modi has called for an all-party-meet on Friday to discuss the latest incident which has been described as an outcome of Chinese attempts to change the status quo of the LAC despite consensus between the two sides to refrain from such attempts.Also Read: PM Modi on the situation in India-China border areas: Complete statementMukherjee said the government of India needs to take various stakeholders including the armed forces on board.“The conscience of the nation has been bruised and needs to be addressed satisfactorily by the entire political class through a bipartisan consensus- the onus of achieving which lies mostly on the Government of India, by taking various stakeholders, including the Armed forces on board. It is for the Government of the Day to ensure that nothing but out National Interests are kept supreme,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/conscience-of-the-nation-bruised-pranab-mukherjee-seeks-bipartisan-consensus-on-ladakh-clash/story-2yVeF1jlqNDlLnaUFHz3wN.html
17-06-2020||India||Delhi’s Covid-19 tally crosses 47K after another record single-day spike||The national capital recorded its highest spike of 2,414 fresh coronavirus cases on Wednesday taking tally to 47,102 while 67 casualties took the death toll to 1,904, the Delhi health department said.A total of 510 people were declared cured/discharged on Wednesday. The cumulative number of cured/discharged now stands at 17,457. There are 27,741 active Covid-19 cases in the national capital now.Among the news cases on Wednesday was Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain who tested positive a day after his first report came out negative.Another AAP MLA, Atishi also said she had tested positive for coronavirus.Delhi’s Covid-19 count went past the 2,000 mark after remaining below it for the last two days.As the national tries to staves of a surge in Covid-19 cases, a high-level committee formed on Sunday after Union home minister Amit Shah’s meeting with Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, Delhi chief minister Arvinf Kejriwal and Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal to look into testing rates in Delhi has decided to fix the price at Rs 2,400.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-47k-after-another-record-single-day-spike/story-fiR40pxVw5HSGzHBabDz6M.html
17-06-2020||India||Amid Covid-19, a child heart care hospital chain comes to the aid of kids||As hospitals across India focus on the Covid-19 pandemic, congenital heart disease, which is most common among children, poses a threat to many young lives. To deal with the disease and save the lives of numerous children, the Sri Sathya Sai Sanjeevani chain of hospitals for child heart care has opened its doors for those in need in Nava Raipur (Chattisgarh), Palwal (Haryana) and Kharghar Navi Mumbai (Maharashtra). , are opening their doors to all in need. “The treatment is ensured keeping all the Covid-19 norms in mind,” said C Sreenivas, Chairman of Sri Sathya Sai Sanjeevani Hospitals.The treatment is totally free of cost.Common among newborns in India, congenital heart disease is caused by a defect in the structure of the heart. It can lead to disruption in blood flow through the heart. As a result, the blood flow can slow down, go in the wrong direction or get blocked completely.“Amidst surrounding peril, several parents from all over the country braved every danger and started queuing up at Sanjeevani Hospitals gates,” Sreenivas said.Among the cases the hospitals dealt with was that of Tanmay, son of laborer Devanand Bharati from Kharora, Chhattisgarh. The little boy was just 3.5 kg when he was admitted with obstructed TAPVC. He recovered in five days. Another case was that of Piyush, son of Rashmi and Deepak Marachini, a labourer couple from Dibrugarh in Assam. The little one returned to his home state after successfully repairing his Tetralogy of Fallot. happy. Mitansh , son of a fisherman from Alibaug near Mumbai also got a new lease of life in Sanjeevani Navi Mumbai during the recent Nisarga cyclone.The hospital treats kids as young 2-3 months old, weighing less than 4 kgs. They have successfully conducted operation for obstruction in heart valves, pulmonary valve (right side) and aortic valve. As many as 2,00 critically ill children have been treated so far.“Close to 200 critically ill children were successfully operated on and lives saved, over 750 patients were treated from various states of India during this pandemic. And the numbers are growing,” Srinivas claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-a-child-heart-care-hospital-chain-comes-to-the-aid-of-kids/story-fAuBdtxzXslFUbCu9ZxoAI.html
17-06-2020||India||AP govt faces financial crisis as legislature adjourned sine die without passing appropriation bill||In an unprecedented development, the Andhra Pradesh state legislative council was on Wednesday adjourned sine die without passing the appropriation bill which is mandatory for the state to spend the government funds under various heads as per budgetary allocations.As a result, the state government has been left in a quandary, as it cannot draw even a single rupee from the treasury with effect from July 1, in absence of the approval from the legislature for the bill.The state assembly in the morning passed the appropriation bill, 2020-21 and referred it to the state legislative council for approval. The state legislature was convened for only two days to approve the state budget and pass the appropriation bill.However, soon after the bill was brought before the legislative council, members of the ruling YSR Congress party and the opposition Telugu Desam Party indulged in heated arguments.TDP member and former finance minister Yanamala Ramakrishnudu insisted that the appropriation bill be introduced first and taken up for discussion, since it was mandatory for the bill to be passed to facilitate the state government draw money to spend as per budgetary allocations.The ruling party, however, did not agree for the same and insisted that the council first discuss the crucial bills which were passed by the assembly on Tuesday.Two of these bills – AP Capital Region Development Authority (Repeal) Bill 2020 and Decentralisation of Administration-Inclusive Development of All Regions Bill 2020 – aimed at creation of three capitals for the state were strongly opposed by the TDP.These bills were originally passed in the state assembly in January this year, but were stalled by the TDP in the council and were referred to the select committee. However, the legislature secretariat refused to constitute the select committee on the ground that due procedure was not followed by council chairman. The TDP members challenged the same in the high court.After four months, the YSRC government reintroduced the two bills in the assembly and got them passed on Tuesday. However, in the council, the TDP members on Wednesday stalled the bills again stating that they cannot be passed since the issue was still pending in the high court.Ramakrishnudu said the discussion on the two bills could be taken up later after the passage of the appropriation bill. However, minister for finance Buggana Rajendranath Reddy said as per the traditions, the appropriation bill should be the last bill to be passed in the House.With the state government refusing to take up the appropriation bill first, deputy chairman of the council Reddy Subrahmanyam asked Ramakrishnudu to take up the discussion under Rule 90 of the legislative procedures to reject the two bills pertaining to the three capitals.This led to a pandemonium in the House till late in the evening, forcing the deputy chairman adjourn the council sine die, without passing any bill including the mandatory appropriation bill.Even after the adjournment of the council, members of the ruling party and TDP indulged in arguments and counter arguments. YSRC members alleged that two TDP members manhandled a minister who objected to TDP MLC Nara Lokesh taking pictures on his mobile on what was happening in the House.YSRC floor leader Ummareddy Venkateshwarlu said the TDP had created an unruly atmosphere in the House to ensure that the appropriation bill was not passed and the government would face Constitutional stalemate. He also criticised the deputy chairman for adjourning the House abruptly.“By not passing the Appreciation Bill, they created a situation where the government cannot draw even a single rupee from tomorrow. We cannot pay salaries from July. They will remain as a blot in the history of the state”, he said.Another senior member Pilli Subhash Chandra Bose said finance minister B Rahendranath Reddy had requested with folded hands to allow the appreciation bill be passed so as to avoid a Constitutional stalemate, but the deputy chairman ignored his request.Ramakrishnudu, however, said the TDP had repeatedly requested the government to take approval for the appropriation bill first and then move the other bills. “But they did not listen and wanted the capital bills first. Finally, their strategy boomeranged. The government should find alternatives to overcome the crisis,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ap-govt-faces-financial-crisis-as-legislature-adjourned-sine-die-without-passing-appropriation-bill/story-F1DB0HO2KZ8wHPVCjXQrcP.html
17-06-2020||India||Sanjay Jha removed as Congress spokesperson days after he penned critical article against party||The Congress on Wednesday cracked the whip and removed Sanjay Jha as party spokesperson after he publicly criticised the party’s functioning while questioning the leadership a few days ago.A party press release said Congress president Sonia Gandhi has “approved that Shri Sanjay Jha be dropped as AICC Spokesperson with immediate effect”.Jha had written an article in Times of India on June 7, saying it is a false claim that the Congress had an internal platform for frank exchange of ideas and counter-ideas to get the party back on track.“It is a false claim that there exists a robust internal democratic process that listens to individual voices, and more importantly, is continuously focused on party renewal, political strategy, tactical warfare, leadership development and resuscitation starting at the grassroots, the erstwhile USP of the Congress,” he wrote in the article.Jha’s comments had once again brought the focus back on the leadership issue, especially after Rahul Gandhi resigned as the Congress president in May last year following the party’s drubbing in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.Sonia Gandhi then assumed the charge of the Congress president once again in August last year but on the condition that the arrangement was temporary and that the party will elect a new chief soon.Also Read: ‘PM should tell how Chinese occupied Indian territory’: Sonia Gandhi on Ladakh face-offThe Congress had officially dismissed his contention. Senior leader Ajay Maken said there is no dearth of internal decision making or discussion mechanism in the Congress and the leaders and workers are free to air their views.In another decision, the Congress also appointed Abhishek Dutt and Sadhna Bharti as its national media panelists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sanjay-jha-removed-as-congress-spokesperson-days-after-he-penned-critical-article-against-party/story-cHG4SZysgjtHKqTt1vWouO.html
17-06-2020||India||Karnataka: Congress names Hari Prasad and Naseer Ahmed for legislative council||The Congress on Wednesday announced B K Hari Prasad and Naseer Ahmed as party’s candidates for the two seats it can win in the upper house of Karnataka. Hari Prasad recently completed his six-year Rajya Sabha term and while he was an aspirant for a ticket again, another senior leader Mallikarjuna Kharge was preferred by the party high command for the RS seat. Hari Prasad has twice in the past contested Lok Sabha polls from Bangalore South and lost on both occasions.Naseer Ahmed is retiring from the legislative council and has been re-nominated by the party. Seven seats will become vacant in the legislative council for which elections are scheduled on June 29. Ruling BJP, which is yet to announce its candidates, can win four seats, Congress two and Janata Dal Secular (JDS) one. The regional party is also yet to announce the choice of its candidate. Also Read: Karnataka govt to take steps to improve telecommunication system in state||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-congress-names-hari-prasad-and-naseer-ahmed-for-legislative-council/story-OiPKTOoYM6FkCwotcznTUO.html
17-06-2020||India||At CMs meet with PM Modi, KCR requests lockdown rumours be put to end||Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Wednesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to put an end to rumours about further extension of lockdown in the country to contain the spread of Covid-19.Earlier in the day, KCR took part in the video-conference with the Prime Minister and sought clarity from the Centre on the subject.“There have been rumours for quite some time that the Centre might re-impose lockdown in the country. People are speculating that an announcement could be made to this effect after the PM’s video conference with chief ministers of all the states. I have been telling people that the PM will not take a decision to reimpose lockdown without talking to all the CMs. It will be better if there is clarity from the Prime Minister in this regard,” KCR said.An official statement from the chief minister’s office said Modi had made it clear that lockdown in the country was over and that a period of Unlock 1 was underway“There will not be any lockdown in the country. The four phases of lockdown are over. The phase of Unlock 1 is going on now. We all should discuss what to do during the unlock 2.0,” the Prime Minister said.The Telangana chief minister explained to the Prime Minister several measures taken by the state government to contain the spread of coronavirus, adding that the Covid-19 situation was under control in the state. “Death rate is also registering a low percentage. We are confident that with the efforts put in by both the Centre and states, we will have a decisive victory over Corona,” he said.KCR explained that the Covid-19 positive cases were reported mostly in Hyderabad and neighbouring districts. “We are also putting strong efforts in these areas to contain the spread. I am confident that within days the spread would be under control. Life is coming back to normal in Telangana,” he said.Migrant workers and labourers from various states, said the CM, were getting ready to work in Telangana and the government was providing them work. Hamalis from Bihar are ready to come back to Telangana, the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-cms-meet-with-pm-modi-kcr-requests-lockdown-rumours-be-put-to-end/story-WYs8L49kdSroddXNnngoDL.html
17-06-2020||India||‘Overall border situation stable’: China after violent face-off in Ladakh||The overall situation at the India-China border is stable and controllable, the Chinese foreign ministry said on Wednesday, a day after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in an unprecedented violent face-off with Chinese soldiers in the Galwan Valley region of eastern Ladakh on Monday night.Zhao Lijian, spokesperson of the Chinese foreign ministry, refused to share details – including the casualties on its side – and repeatedly said border troops from both countries were dealing with the matter on the ground.China and India are in close communication on resolving relevant issues through both diplomatic and military channels, Zhao said, adding that China “…does not want to see more clashes”He said the incident was very clear, as it happened on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and the responsibility did not rest with Beijing.“As far as the right and wrong go, this is very clear - this incident happened at the Chinese side of the LAC and China is not to blame for this.“… both sides are having close communication with each other on resolving this relevant matter through diplomatic and military channels. The overall border situation is stable and controllable,” he said.Zhao repeated yesterday’s statement by People’s Liberation Army’s Western Theatre Command, which blamed Indian troops for provoking the Chinese side, leading to the violent exchange. New Delhi has already denied the charge.The spokesperson went on to repeat his own statement from Tuesday, almost word-for-word, in which he had also blamed the Indian army.When asked about specifics of the incident on Monday night, he said troops were jointly dealing with the matter on the ground.“I have stated that the Chinese and Indian border troops are now jointly dealing with the relevant matter on the ground. Have nothing to add at the moment,” he said.When asked about Indian and Chinese claims and counter-claims on the Galwan Valley, Zhao read out the one-day old PLA statement, which had claimed that sovereignty over the Galwan Valley had always been with China.Zhao said that China and India have both said that the two countries are committed to resolving differences through dialogue and safeguarding peace and tranquility in the border area.“As the world’s two biggest emerging economies and developing countries, the shared interest of China and India are far larger than the differences. Both sides should earnestly follow the important consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries and ensure that the bilateral relation can move forward in the right direction, that serves our people’s interests and expectations. We hope India can work with China to this end,” the spokesperson added.New Delhi has already said the violent face-off was the result of an attempt by the Chinese side to unilaterally change the status quo in the region.The Indian soldiers’ deaths were the first Indian casualties in a border skirmish with the PLA since October 1975 when Chinese troops ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector and shot four soldiers dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/troops-jointly-dealing-with-matter-on-ground-china-after-ladakh-face-off/story-Ko7IqtxQ2L1AYbOCojulfI.html
17-06-2020||India||Three cops test positive for Covid-19 in Goa, state’s tally rises to 656||Three police personnel tested positive in Goa for Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the number of cops testing positive to four. The three policemen were among 27 new cases that took Goa’s tally to 656 out of which 560 are active cases. Covid-19 cases have soared in Goa since June 1 when the state’s tally was 73.Eleven people were declared recovered on Wednesday.Health Secretary Nila Mohanan said that the police personnel were posted at the Vasco and Mormugao police stations, which cover areas that have been largely affected in terms of number of cases. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.Meanwhile ‘isolated cases’ began to emerge in parts of the state including urbanized localities and villages like Porvorim where the first case was detected, Quepem where four were detected, Margao two, Curtorim eight and Raia two, leaving Health authorities puzzled. “These isolated cases are those in which there is no clear link. It means there is no established link at the time. We begin the contact tracing in each of the cases from the time a person tests positive. It is possible that sometimes we are able to establish a link as to where the patient contracted the virus from,” Mohanan said. The emergence of isolated cases has sparked worries that the virus has spread beyond the state’s containment zones, where the bulk of the cases have registered to date and has spread to other villages other than those that are linked to either the containment zone or to the health workers who worked there. The state now has two major containment zones at Mangor Hill a locality in the port town of Vasco da Gama and at Morlem village in rural Goa where some health workers hailed from and spread it to their family members. A third micro containment zone has been set up at Baina, another locality in Vasco da Gama where three buildings have been declared as a containment zone. The number of cases in Goa continues to rise despite the efforts of the state government to track, test and isolate patients and their primary and secondary contacts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-cops-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-goa-state-s-tally-rises-to-656/story-DuGoWPvVV35FVLh4B8LUdK.html
17-06-2020||India||2 priests in Kerala suspended after alleged sleazy audio clips go viral||The Thalassery Arch Diocese of Syro-Malabar church in north Kerala on Wednesday suspended two priests after an alleged audiotape of the two engaged in a sleazy talk surfaced on social media and online sites. The diocese has also tendered an apology to believers.The two were supposed to “hold a high moral ground but they failed”, said a statement issued by the public relations officer of the diocese signed on June 14.Both Father Joseph Poothattil and Father Mathew Mullappallil were debarred and restrained from carrying out priestly duties indefinitely, said the diocese. Both are parish priests in north Kerala.Last year a woman believer had complained to the diocese about their alleged sexual advances. Some believers also complained about their behaviour. But the church brushed aside these charges and defended them.Last week, two audio clips surfaced on social media in which one of the priests was heard allegedly saying he had an illicit relationship with the woman in question and wanted to come out of it. One of them was also heard detailing his sexual dalliance with the woman. Later some video clips also surfaced.Soon these clips went viral, forcing church authorities to take action against them.“Whatever we want to say is there in the statement. We don’t want to make more comments on this,” said the spokesman of the archdiocese.Police said they are yet to get a complaint in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-priests-in-kerala-suspended-after-alleged-sleazy-audio-clips-go-viral/story-2QOtw0ZkynifhHk98nlYYN.html
17-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Railways provides 960 Covid isolation coaches across 5 states, Delhi gets 503 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Railways provides 960 Covid isolation coaches across 5 states, Delhi gets 503The Centre has deployed 960 Covid isolation coaches across five states - Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh - amid rising demand from the federal units as India’s total positive cases cross 3.5 lakh. Read moreOdia jawan killed at Ladakh may have premonition of the tragedy, says sisterTwo weeks before he was killed in the face-off with Chinese Army at Galwan valley in Ladakh, 28-year-old Chandra Kanta Pradhan, a sepoy in 16 Bihar Regiments, probably had a premonition of the things to come, says his sister. Read moreDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain tests coronavirus positiveDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain tested coronavirus positive on Wednesday, a day after his first came out negative. Earlier in the day, his party colleague Atishi said she had tested positive for coronavirus. Read moreMoto Razr 2 codenamed ‘Odyssey’ to launch by August-endMotorola has been rumoured of working on its next-generation foldable smartphone. A new leak now suggests the Moto Razr 2 will launch by August-end. Read moreCancel pending CBSE board exams considering prevailing situation: Sisodia to HRD ministerDelhi education minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday wrote to union Human Resource Development (HRD) minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ requesting him to cancel the plan of conducting the remaining CBSE board exams for classes 10 and 12 slated in July and promote all students based on their internal assessment citing rising cases of Covid-19 in the national capital. Read moreFather’s Day 2020: Best wishes, quotes, status to share with your DadFather’s Day is celebrated in India, the United States of America and several other parts of the world on the third Sunday of June. This day was commemorated to complement Mother’s Day celebrations. On this day the bonds of fatherhood, the role of fathers in families and society, and paternal bonds are celebrated. Read moreThat was my biggest legacy: Sourav Ganguly identifies players who helped India win 2011 World CupFormer India captain and current BCCI president Sourav Ganguly has always been credited with ushering in a new dawn in Indian cricket. He took over the mantle when Indian cricket was down in the dumps as it was reeling under the scourge of match-fixing. Read moreMumbai Police shares anti-drugs post with a punny twist. WatchAn advisory or PSA against drugs would usually be a serious and hard-hitting one that could really scare a person. But trust Mumbai Police to share an anti-drug post which will make you smile and also do the job it is meant to. In a post shared on June 16, Mumbai Police shared a ‘say no to drugs’ post but with a little twist. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-railways-provides-960-covid-isolation-coaches-across-5-states-delhi-gets-503-and-all-the-latest-news/story-TlVuyefA78c3HG6B8qoAfO.html
17-06-2020||India||Sepoy Ganesh Hansda, 22, killed in Ladakh face-off was on his 1st posting||A 22-year-old was one among the 20 soldiers killed in the line of duty in Galwan Valley in the border clash between troops of the Indian and Chinese army in eastern Ladakh on Monday evening.A pall of gloom descended on the nondescript house of Hansda family in Kosaphaliya village under Chingra panchayat in Jharkhand on Wednesday morning as the news of sepoy Ganesh Hansda’s death trickled in.The young sepoy was on his first posting at Leh. Despite the setback, the family, given a chance again, says they will fight for the country.“I am ready to join the army and fight for my country if given a chance. My brother sacrificed his life to protect the nation and we are all proud of him. He had joined Bihar Regiment in September 2018 and was deployed at Leh in his first posting after completing 9-month training at Danapur on July 27 last year,” said Dinesh Hansda, the sepoy’s brother. Ganesh, says his brother, was to be transferred but it was delayed due to the coronavirus crisis.“He [Ganesh] was to be transferred to Hyderabad but could not due to the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic,” Dinesh Hansda, Ganesh’s elder brother said this morning, adding that the sepoy had last visited them in February.The entire Kosapthaliya village near Basda chowk under Baheragora police station (PS), about 93 km from Jamshedpur, was in a state of shock as Dinesh said they were informed by a Colonel of Indian Army about the tragedy at around 10.30 pm Tuesday night.“Ganesh was the sole earning member from the family who had brought light of hope after long years of penury. Now that light has gone off. We don’t know how this darkness will be cleared. We hope and request the government to do something, give a job to me in the army or any other job so that we can survive, live a respectful life and carry forward his dreams. He was very fond of playing football and promoting Santhali language,” said Dinesh, who works as a daily wage labourer after completing ITI course from Jamshedpur.Ganesh had completed his three-year NCC training from LBSM College, Jamshedpur. His father Subda Hansda is also a daily-wage labourer while his mother Kapra Hansda is a housewife. Chief minister Hemant Soren said the sacrifices by the sons of Jharkhand in protecting the integrity and sovereignty of the country would be remembered for years to come. “I am absolutely shocked by this tragic news of Kundankant Ojha and Ganesh Hansda martyred in India-China violent standoff,” said Soren.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sepoy-ganesh-hansda-22-killed-in-ladakh-face-off-was-on-his-1st-posting/story-Q3rLPw8wNxuoYinHFdfg9L.html
17-06-2020||India||‘Nobody should have an iota of doubt’: PM Narendra Modi’s message to China in five quotes||Prime Minister Naredra Modi on Monday said that the sacrifice made by 20 Indian Army soldiers will not go in vain and reiterated India’s policy of not provoking anyone and of peaceful coexistence, while adding that there will be no compromise with the integrity and sovereignty of the country. He added that India had demonstrated its strength whenever needed for the purpose of protecting and defending the integrity and sovereignty of the country. The PM was reacting to violent clashes between Indian Army and the Chinese army at the line of control in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on Monday night. Here are five quotes from PM Narendra Modi on the latest faceoff with China.1. The brave sons of Mother India made the supreme sacrifice while protecting our motherland in the Galwan Valley. I salute them for their great sacrifice in their service to the Nation. I pay tributes to them with my heartfelt gratitude. In this difficult moment of grief, I express my condolences to the families of these Martyrs. Today the entire Nation is with you. The country’s sympathies are with you. This supreme sacrifice of our Martyrs will not go in vain.2. India is culturally a peace-loving country. Our history has been that of a peace-loving country.The ideological mantra of India has been -May all beings be happy and free. In every era, we have wished for peace and welfare of the entire world and humanity.Also Read: ‘Will seriously impact relations’: Jaishankar asks China to take corrective steps3. We have always worked closely with our neighbours in a cooperative and friendly manner. We have always wished for their development and welfare. Whenever there have been differences of opinion, we have always tried to ensure that those differences never turned into a dispute.4. We never provoke anyone, but we also do not compromise with the integrity and sovereignty of our country. Whenever it was needed, we have demonstrated our strength, proving our capabilities in protecting and defending the integrity and sovereignty of the country. Sacrifice and endurance are part of our national character, but at the same time bravery and valour are also equally a part of it. Whatever may be the situation and circumstances, India will firmly protect every inch of the country’s land and its self-respect.Also Read: Odia jawan killed at Ladakh may have premonition of the tragedy, says sister5. I want to assure the Nation that the sacrifice made by our soldiers will not go in vain. India’s integrity and sovereignty is supreme for us, and no one can stop us from defending it. Nobody should have an iota of doubt about this. India wants peace. But on provocation, India will give a befitting reply. The country will be proud of the fact that our soldiers have been martyred while they were fighting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nobody-should-have-any-iota-of-doubt-pm-narendra-modi-s-message-to-china-in-five-quotes/story-SSo9ih05CjIqZEvYiLuJKP.html
17-06-2020||India||Expert panel caps price of Covid-19 test in Delhi at Rs 2,400||A high-level committee formed on Sunday after Union home minister Amit Shah’s meeting with Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, Delhi chief minister Arvinf Kejriwal and Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal to look into testing rates in Delhi has decided to fix the price at Rs 2,400. “As per direction of HM @Amit Shah in providing relief to the common man high level expert committee’s report on #Covid19 has been further sent to Delhi govt for necessary action. It has been decided to fix the test rate at Rs 2,400,” the Union home ministry spokesperson tweeted Wednesday evening. As per the directives of HM @AmitShah in providing relief to the common man. High level expert committee's report on #COVID19 testing rates received by @MoHFW_INDIA has been further sent to Delhi Govt for necessary action. It has been decided to fix the test rate at Rs 2,400.In line with Shah’s directive to increase testing and quick delivery of results in Delhi, tests will be done via new Rapid Antigen methodology approved by ICMR from June 18. Delhi would be given priority for these kits. 169 centers have also been set up across Delhi, the spokesperson said.Authorities have also boosted contact mapping in containment zones and expect to complete the exercise by June 20.“To improve contact mapping in Delhi’s containment zones, health surveys have been started on the directions of HM @Amit Shah. Out of a total of 2,30,466 in 242 containment zones, survey of 1,77,692 people was conducted b/w 15-16 June. Remaining will be covered by 20 June,” the spokesperson said in another tweet.The Centre had announced a slew of measures to control the surge in Covid-19 cases in Delhi after Shah’s meeting on Sunday.The Delhi government has taken over a few hotels and attached them to hospitals for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The railways have also placed hundreds of isolation coaches for use by the Delhi government.Last month, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) removed the price cap of Rs4,500 for the real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test used to detect coronavirus disease (Covid-19). States were given a free hand to negotiate with the approved list of laboratories and fix the cost to conduct Covid-19 test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expert-panel-caps-price-of-covid-19-test-in-delhi-at-rs-2-400/story-1dtiGaPgrUUqOL5IqQYskI.html
17-06-2020||India||Odia jawan killed at Ladakh may have premonition of the tragedy, says sister||Two weeks before he was killed in the face-off with Chinese Army at Galwan valley in Ladakh, 32-year-old Chandra Kanta Pradhan, a sepoy in 16 Bihar Regiments, probably had a premonition of the things to come, says his sister.Pradhan was posted at Ladakh in February this year and seemed to be excited amid the snow-clad mountains. When he called up his sister Sandhyarani in Biarpanga village of Kandhamal district on June 1, he told her to take care of everyone. The eldest of the tribal family in Raikia block of Kandhamal, Chandra Kanta was known for his jovial nature and courage.“He was crying over the phone and asked for forgiveness over any hurt that he may have caused to me and my younger brother. He told me to look after my younger brother and our parents. He never cries, but that day he cried and said war may start,” said Sandhayarani.Also Read: Akhilesh calls for economic reply to China, has his hands on popular pulseAs TV channels started flashing the news of the killing of Indian Army personnel at Ladakh, Pradhan’s family could hardly remain calm. His father Karunakar Pradhan then rang his mobile phone, but no one picked up.Hours later, when a retired army man in the neighbouring village ran to Biarpanga to inform the family about the bad news coming from Ladakh, Karunakar’s heart sank.“When he was selected for the army, I pleaded with him to not join. But he was insistent that he would join and serve the country. Just the other day, he had told me that he had flown in a chopper three times. He said 14 of his mates have been selected and all of them are flying. I told him to be careful,” said Karunakar, a marginal farmer.The death was confirmed after Chandra Kanta’s sister spoke to the head of his brother’s unit. In one moment, the Pradhan family had lost their only breadwinner. Chandra Kant is the second soldier from Odisha to be killed in the action on Monday night.Also Read: Wife of Odia JCO killed at Galwan valley yet to know of husband’s death“He was like my father and my brother. I have lost everything. He was highly sincere towards his duty. He was courageous, simple and hard working,” said Sandhyarani, whose marriage was on the cards.Chandra Kanta left behind a younger brother, an elder sister, besides his parents.“I am proud that he has laid down his life for the motherland,” said his father.Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik announced an ex-gratia of Rs 25 lakh each from chief minister’s relief fund to the next of the kin of the two Odia jawans who were killed at Galwan valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odia-jawan-killed-at-ladakh-may-have-premonition-of-the-tragedy-says-sister/story-YheBsFyFN9sejpEWcKZ0EN.html
17-06-2020||India||960 Covid isolation coaches across 5 states, Delhi gets major share||The Centre has deployed 960 Covid isolation coaches across five states - Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh - amid rising demand from the federal units as India’s total positive cases cross 3.5 lakh.Out of the total 960 coaches, 503 Covid Care coaches have been deployed in Delhi alone, 20 in Andhra Pradesh, 60 in Telangana, 372 in Uttar Pradesh and 5 in Madhya Pradesh.The 503 have been deployed in Delhi alone across nine stations. Fifty Covid Care coaches are deployed at Shakurbasti station, 267 at Anand Vihar, 21 at Delhi Safdarjung, 50 at Delhi Sarai Rohilla, 33 at Delhi Cantt, 30 at Adarsh Nagar, 13 at Delhi Shahdara, 13 at Tughlakabad and 26 at Patel Nagar station, officials said.In Uttar Pradesh, total 372 Covid Care coaches have been deployed at 23 different locations: Pt. Deen Dayal Upadhyay Jn., Lucknow, Varanasi, Bhadohi, Faizabad, Saharanpur, Mirzapur, Subedarganj, Kanpur, Jhansi, Jhansi Workshop, Agra, Nakha Jungle, Gonda, Nautanwa, Bahraich, Varanasi City, Manduadih, Mau, Bhatni, Bareilly City, Farrukhabad and Kasganj.“The Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia has visited today and reviewed the coaches. They are seriously considering it and will inform us on the patients once the demand arises,” said Rajiv Chaudhary, General Manager, Northern Railways said. Thus far no patient has been admitted, he added.In Madhya Pradesh, 5 coaches are deployed at Gwalior. In Andhra Pradesh, total 20 Covid Care coaches are deployed at Vijayawada while in Telangana, a total of 60 Covid Care coaches are deployed at three different locations: Secunderabad, Kachguda and Adilabad.The isolation coaches will be under the complete care of the chief medical officer of the state government in the states where they will be deployed. Doctors and paramedics are to be provided by the state governments as per Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) issued by the health ministry, the railway ministry said adding that railways will deploy two liaison officers for each location of coaches to assist state government officials.“It is worth mentioning that Indian Railways is working as a service provider of coaches to Covid Care Centres as its contribution to national cause. Doctors and paramedics are to be provided by the state governments…All efforts are being made to reduce the heat in the coaches in the given weather conditions. Railways to assist the state government in all possible manners to help in care of Covid patients,” the ministry said.It may be noted that these coaches can be used for very mild cases that can be clinically assigned to the Covid Care centers as per guidelines issued by the health ministry, it added. These coaches can be used in areas where the state has exhausted the facilities and needs to augment capacities for isolation of both suspect and confirmed Covid cases.The first such Covid Care Centre was deployed at Shakur Basti railway station in New Delhi on May 31 consisting of 10 non-AC coaches with 160 beds and three AC coaches, for healthcare staffers, including doctors.The demand for the special coaches has come nearly two months after they were prepared. Trains with a composition of 10 coaches and patient capacity of 16 people have been made ready by the railways. A total of 5,231 coaches were modified to be used as Covid Care Centres.The Centre in May had drafted a plan to deploy 5,231 railway coaches as isolation wards across 215 stations in 15 states considering the possibility of an increase in cases of Covid-19.The railway board had written to zones in May seeking to take back 60% of the Covid-19 coaches to be utilised as Shramik Special trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/960-covid-isolation-coaches-across-5-states-delhi-gets-major-share/story-T1pSBQcYs2nGtVk0BRL5fJ.html
17-06-2020||India||Employees at 41 ordnance factories to go on indefinite strike against corporatisation||Eighty two thousand civilian employees of India’s 41 ordnance factories will go on indefinite strike after the second week of July in protest against the Centre’s decision to corporatise weapon and defence equipment manufacturing units run by the Ordnance Factory Board of the ministry of defence.The announcement was made on Wednesday afternoon by all three national trade unions, including the Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh (BPMS) affiliated to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the ideological parent of the Bharatiya Janata Party.The unions, however, said that the strike will be deferred if the killings in Galwan, in which the Indian Army lost 20 soldiers, leads to a crisis. “The nation comes first. If there is a crisis we have to work round the clock and supply equipment to the army,” Mukesh Singh, general secretary, BPMS, told HT.The date of the strike will be decided in mid-July. The unions decided to go on indefinite strike after their members gave their opinion through ballot between June 8 and 17.“Ordnance factory workers toiled day and night whenever India was at war with its neighbours. There was no need to corporatize the factories. We are ready to stand up to any crisis,” said C Srikumar, general secretary, All India Defence Employees’ Federation (AIDEF).In a statement, the trade unions described the decision to corporatise the plants “arbitrary, illegal and unjustified” and “in violation of assurances” given by former defence ministers.“In spite of the Covid-19 lockdown more than 99 per cent employees participated in the ballot and voted in favour of the indefinite strike,” said Srikumar.The unions started a movement against corporatization in July last year. The agitation started to build up soon after the Centre enforced Arms Rules 2016, which introduced new laws to facilitate production of weapons by private players in collaboration with foreign partners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/employees-at-41-ordnance-factories-to-go-on-indefinite-strike-against-corporatisation/story-xlGM6Q5uuDHp34GHZM3mUN.html
17-06-2020||India||Akhilesh calls for economic reply to China, has his hands on popular pulse||Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav has called for cancellation of contracts awarded to Chinese companies as part of an economic reply to China in addition to the strategic response for the killing 20 Indian soldiers at the line of actual control in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on Monday.Akhilesh’s call on Wednesday follows similar demands by some other groups including RSS linked Swadeshi Jagran Manch (SJM), whose members protested outside the Chinese Embassy earlier today.“Govt should not only give strategic but also an economic reply. Contracts awarded to Chinese companies should be suspended with immediate effect; restrain imports from China. Samajwadi Party will support the government in any such endeavour for the country’s sake,” Akhilesh Yadav tweeted in Hindi on Wednesday.Akhilesh’s suggestion comes close on the heels of demand by the SJM to oust Shanghai Tunnel Engineering Co Ltd (STEC)- a Chinese company—from the project to build the underground stretch of the Delhi-Meerut RRTS (Regional Rapid Transit System) corridor.Also Read: ‘Why not name China in your tweet?’, Rahul Gandhi asks Rajnath SinghSTEC has emerged as the lowest bidder for the project and the government clarified on Wednesday that the part of the project was funded by the Asian development bank and it was obligated to not discriminate between companies or countries.“Five bidders submitted bids and qualified for financial bid opening including (i) SKEC (Korea) +Tata, (ii) STEC (China), (iii) L&T (India), (iv)Afcons (India) and (v) GulermakAgir (Turkey). On 12th June 2020 - Financial bids were opened – M/s STEC emerged as lowest bidder. The tender is under process and yet to be finalised. Pl note that the ADB/World Bank/Multi-lateral procurement guidelines do not allow discrimination among firms/ countries,” a government press release clarified.A news agency reported that protestors in Varanasi burned Chinese flag and effigy of Chinese President Xi Jinping and said that similar protests were also seen in Patna and Gujarat.Also Read: ‘Will seriously impact relations’: Jaishankar asks China to take corrective stepsThe ‘boycott Chinese goods’ sentiment has surfaced in India from time to time and it witnessed a surge recently when innovator and education reformist Sonam Wangchuk posted a video last month asking Indians to shun all Chinese products including the popular mobile application TikTok in response to the Ladakh stand-off.Wagchuk’s video from Ladakh drew over 20 lakh views in two days.India has lodged a strong protest with the Chinese government over the Galwan Valley incident in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed and blamed Beijing for seeking to alter the status of the line of actual control by erecting a structure on the Indian side. A statement issued by the ministry on Wednesday evening said Chinese actions were directly responsible for the violence that led to casualties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-calls-for-economic-reply-to-china-has-his-hands-on-popular-pulse/story-kRTjvW4czC01Te91ecuz9J.html
17-06-2020||India||As fire at Assam gas well continues, studies under way to assess impact on environment||Several studies are underway by different agencies to assess the impact on the fragile ecosystem due to blowout and subsequent fire at the natural gas well of Oil India Limited (OIL) in Upper Assam’s Tinsukia district.The gas well in Baghjan, located close to the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park (DSNP) and Maguri Motapung wetland, had a blowout – an uncontrolled release of gas and oil on May 27 and it caught fire two weeks later on June 9.While the blowout had displaced nearly 7,000 local residents, the fire claimed the lives of two OIL firefighters. It also destroyed nearly 30 houses, burned trees and crops in the radius of few hundred metres from the well and also impacted flora and fauna in the national park and the wetland, a prominent bird-watching site.According to a release issued by OIL on Wednesday, ERM India, a company accredited by National Accreditation Board for Education and Training (NABET), is conducting an environment and ecological survey within the vicinity of Baghjan, including DSNP and Maguri Motapung wetland.“Preliminary assessment by the Delhi-based The Energy Research Institute (TERI) is in progress at the site for studying air quality and noise-level monitoring around Baghjan,” said the release.The TERI team is also carrying out bioremediation of the sludge accumulated in the area due to the blowout and the subsequent fire.Bioremediation is the process of introducing microorganisms to consume and break down environmental pollutants to clean a polluted site.Another study is being done by the Council of Science and Industrial Research-North East Institute of Science and Technology (CSIR-NEIST) to find out about the tremors being felt in the area since June 9, when the well caught fire.Assam Agricultural University did a preliminary assessment on the effect of the blowout on plants and tea gardens in the area.OIL authorities have asked them to conduct a post-fire damage assessment study to ascertain the impact of the fire on trees, crops, tea-gardens, etc; in Baghjan.The fire at the OIL well continued for the ninth day on Wednesday amid efforts to control it and plug the blowout.Earlier, OIL authorities had stated that it would take about four weeks to complete the process.Protests by local groups blaming OIL for the blowout and fire have affected gas and oil production in the area. OIL has recorded a production loss of 6,132 metric tonnes (MT) of crude oil and 7.97 million metric standard cubic metres (MMSCM) of natural gas since May 27, when the industrial disaster occurred.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-fire-at-assam-gas-well-continues-studies-under-way-to-assess-impact-on-environment/story-ln2wfXDM9B6D48Cbk3VVlM.html
17-06-2020||India||India primed to win unopposed UNSC’s non-permanent member seat today||India is expected to be elected unopposed to the UN Security Council on Wednesday and will hope to use its eighth term as a non-permanent member to further bolster its claim to a permanent seat with the avowed goal of forging a “new orientation for a reformed multilateral system”.India is the endorsed candidate of the Asia-Pacific Group of UN member countries and faces no competition. Its election to one of the five open seats on the 15-member council is a given, though some UN diplomats intimately involved with the election said they are “keeping our fingers crossed”.Voting by paper ballot got underway at 9:30 am (7:00 pm India time) and is expected to go on till 1:30 pm (11:pm, India), stretching a process that should hav been wrapped up, with the results, possibly by noon, as it happened in 2010, the last time India was elected to the UNSC. The results will be known around 4:30 pm (2:00 am Thursday in India).The 193 UN member countries will vote to elect five non-permanent members in a phased manner, for the first time in the world body’s 75-year history. They will be allowed on to the floor of the general assembly, where the voting takes place, in smaller groups of 20 or so because of the social distancing norms in place because of Covid-19, said diplomats familiar with the process. New York city, where the UN is headquartered, was, and remains, the epicenter of the US coronavirus epidemic and has only recently started lifting restrictions on businesses and public life.UN diplomats are not certain how many of the member countries who can vote — some like Venezuela are barred for non-payment of membership dues — will actually show up to cast their ballots, which must be done physically and not virtually or remotely through an electronic button.Candidate countries such as India need two-thirds of the votes cast to win; no-shows will not count as yes, no or abstention, said officials familiar with the rules. India won 187 votes in 2010, and started its seventh term on January 1, 2011. Its previous terms were 1950-1951, 1967-1968, 1972-1973, 1977-1978, 1984-1985 and 1991-1992.Mexico is the other endorsed candidate that is likely to go through unopposed from the Latin American and the Caribbean Group seat. Canada, Ireland and Norway are contesting for the two seats for the Western European and Other Group and Kenya and Djibouti are running for the African Group seat.The Security Council has 15 members. Five of them are permanent members — the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Russia and China — and 10 are non-permanent. Half the non-permanent members are elected every year, each for a two-year term, starting January 1.India expects to use its eighth term to further build its case for a permanent seat in a reformed Security Council, something that it has been pushing for years now along with other claimants such as Japan, Germany and Brazil — the G4 — calling the current council outdated and out of sync with the changed global realities.“Reformed Multilateralism to reflect contemporary realities” will be one of India’s priorities, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said June 5, as he released a brief document laying out India’s priorities and approaches as it sought another term on the Security Council. Responsible and inclusive solutions and “concrete and result-oriented action at the Security Council for an effective response to international terrorism”, a “comprehensive approach” to peace and security, the key responsibilities of the body and technology with a human touch, were the other four.India will pursue these priorities through a Five-S approach, according to the “priorities paper”: Samman (respect), Samvad (dialogue), Sahyog (cooperation) and Shanti (peace); to create Samriddhi (Prosperity).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-primed-to-win-unopposed-unsc-s-non-permanent-member-seat-today/story-aK4KzBqwkVRdiujFDC6skK.html
17-06-2020||India||‘Why not name China in your tweet?’, Rahul Gandhi asks Rajnath Singh||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tore into defence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday for not mentioning China in his tweet condoling the death of Indian soldiers in a clash with Chinese troops in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley.“If it was so painful:1. Why insult Indian Army by not naming China in your tweet? 2. Why take 2 days to condole?3. Why address rallies as soldiers were being martyred?4. Why hide and get the Army blamed by the crony media?5. Why make paid-media blame Army instead of GOI?” Gandhi tweeted.If it was so painful:1. Why insult Indian Army by not naming China in your tweet?2. Why take 2 days to condole?3. Why address rallies as soldiers were being martyred?4. Why hide and get the Army blamed by the crony media?5. Why make paid-media blame Army instead of GOI? https://t.co/mpLpMRxwS7 Rajnath Singh who hailed the courage of the fallen soldiers in his tweet had described their deaths as disturbing and painful.On Sunday, in a virtual rally for Jammu he said that India and China want to resolve the stand-off between their border troops through dialogue even as he underlined that the government will never compromise when it comes to national pride. “India is no longer a weak nation,” the defence minister had said.Rahul Gandhi’s tweet came hours after Congress president Sonia Gandhi asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to come clean about the situation in Ladakh.“The PM should tell the nation how the Chinese occupied Indian territory, why 20 brave soldiers were martyred,” she said in Hindi during a live address.The Congress has been hammering away at the government, asking it to reveal the extent of Chinese intrusions in Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-not-name-china-in-your-tweet-rahul-gandhi-asks-rajnath-singh/story-JF6LzE5cSvjnfZvrnjj5RM.html
17-06-2020||India||‘Will seriously impact relations’: Jaishankar asks China to take corrective steps||India on Wednesday conveyed its protest in “strongest terms” to China over the violent face off in the Galwan valley on Monday night and said that China had attempted to erect a structure on the Indian side of the LAC. New Delhi also said that the Chinese side took “premeditated and planned” action that was directly responsible for the resulting violence and casualties including deaths of 20 Indian soldiers.The protest was lodged during a telephonic conversation between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on Wednesday.A statement by the external affairs ministry following the conversation said that India had conveyed to China that the Galwan Valley development will have a “serious” impact on the bilateral relationship. It also added that the need of the hour was for the Chinese side to reassess its actions and take “corrective” steps.“EAM underlined that this unprecedented development will have a serious impact on the bilateral relationship. The need of the hour was for the Chinese side to reassess its actions and take corrective steps. The two sides should scrupulously and sincerely implement the understanding that was reached by the Senior Commanders on 6th June,” the official statement from the ministry of external affairs said.The ministry’s statement pointed out that according to the agreement reached on June 6, the two sides had agreed for de-escalation and disengagement, which was being followed through regular meetings between ground commanders last week before the Chinese side sought to erect a structure.“While there was some progress, the Chinese side sought to erect a structure in Galwan valley on our side of the LAC. While this became a source of dispute, the Chinese side took pre-meditated and planned action that was directly responsible for the resulting violence and casualties. It reflected an intent to change the facts on ground in violation of all our agreements to not change the status quo,” the EAM statement said.‘No compromise on borders’: PM Modi spells out India’s stance on row with ChinaThe ministry said that the state councillor and foreign minister of China conveyed the Chinese position on recent developments. However, the two sides at the end of the conversation agreed to implement the agreement reached on June 6 to strictly respect and observe the line of actual control and not take any unilateral action to alter it.“At the conclusion of the discussion, it was agreed that the overall situation would be handled in a responsible manner, and both sides would implement the disengagement understanding of 6 June sincerely. Neither side would take any action to escalate matters and instead, ensure peace and tranquillity as per bilateral agreements and protocols,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-sought-to-erect-a-structure-on-indian-side-of-lac-which-led-to-clash-mea/story-KAxdMuj6gKII6zgOdZ7HmO.html
17-06-2020||India||‘I will return after the lockdown’: India Army braveheart’s last message to family||Indian Army soldier Deepak Singh Gaharwar, one of the 20 bravehearts who lost their lives in the face-off with Chinese soldiers in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on Monday night, had told his family about his return after the Covid-19 lockdown.About 15 days back, Gaharwar told his family members that he would return when the situation gets back to normal after the Covid-19 lockdown.Deepak Singh, 30, hailed from Faranda village in Madhya Pradesh’s Rewa district, about 536 kilometres northeast of Bhopal. His wife, Rekha, works as a teacher at a Navoday school. The couple got married in November last year.Also read: ‘No compromise on borders’ - PM Modi spells out India’s stance on row with ChinaA pall of gloom engulfed the village when the news of Singh’s sacrifice reached his family on Wednesday morning.He was the younger son of Gajraj Singh Gaharwar, a farmer. Singh lost his mother in his childhood. He was raised by his father and grandmother Phoolmati Devi. They were inconsolable when they heard about his demise. Singh’s elder brother Prakash Singh also serves the Army and is posted at the India-Pak border in Rajasthan, the family shared.Also read: ‘He sacrificed life for nation, will send my grandsons too’ - Sepoy Kundan Kumar’s father  तूने सींचा है अपने लहू से वतन की मिट्टी को वीरों की इस मिट्टी पर हम अभिमान करते हैं। ऐ मेरे वतन के शेर तेरे जाने से चीत्कार रहा दिल तेरे लहू के हर कतरे, तेरी शहादत को सलाम करते हैं। भारत-चीन की झड़प में शहीद हुए रीवा के वीर सपूत दीपक सिंह के चरणों में विनम्र श्रद्धांजलि। pic.twitter.com/vism8TgPEWHis grandmother said, “He talked to me about a fortnight back. He told me, ‘Dadi tum pareshaan mat hona. Main lockdown khatam hote hi aaunga (Don’t worry. I will come home after lockdown restrictions are lifted)’. I didn’t know he would never come.”Singh’s cousin Sachin Singh said, “He called me up about the same time when he talked to his family. Since he was posted as a nursing assistant at the border, it was difficult to talk to him. Often, there would be no mobile network. He was the most adorable person in our village. He respected all and everyone had respect for him.”“This is the time when we must teach a lesson to China that it doesn’t dare to indulge in such a crime again,” the agitated cousin said.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan paid tributes to the soldier with a salute to his sacrifice for the nation and a patriotic verse. State Congress president Kamal Nath too paid condolences on the demise of the soldier.(With input from Vijay Vishwakarma in Rewa)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-will-return-after-the-lockdown-india-army-braveheart-s-last-message-to-family/story-pR2wSSDhfoSW4S0I37flbK.html
17-06-2020||India||HT Salutes: ‘Tandoorwala’ in Chandigarh lost his job, but cooked for migrants||Narinder Singh has a popular eatery in Chandigarh’s sector 19, and sold up to a hundred piping hot vegetarian meals to college students daily, in non-pandemic times. However, the ‘tandoorwala’ as he is known among his clients was forced into unemployment when the nationwide lockdown was announced in March. He did not make any money for well over two months, but he never stopped cooking.Between March 31 and May 21, the 54-year-old cooked two meals at a langar seva (food service) run by a local organisation. When the chairman of the organisation approached him to cook meals for the needy, Singh agreed instantly.“My immediate answer was yes but my family was concerned. After all, it is such a deadly disease which spreads by through contact with others,” he said. “I sat down with my wife, daughter and son and explained to them that if the doctors, police, and sanitation workers and other such Covid warriors also sat at home fearing the coronavirus, who will take care of our city?” he said.Singh has a 27-year-old daughter and 21-year-old son; his wife Baljeet is a home maker. Often, they had to make do with the food he would bring back from the langar at the end of the day.“I would cook lunch for 800 people [in the kitchen] of Kashyap Samaj in sector 37. In the evening, I would go to Maloya and cook dinner for 700 people,” he said. The community organisation provided the raw material — rice, dal, vegetables — and Singh along with two other cooks, would make two meals a day that would then be distributed in the colonies and slums of Maloya and Dhanas.“In these 50 days, this service became centre of my existence, so much so that one day it was raining heavily yet I decided to go, all drenched in the rain because my absence would have meant that over a 1000 people will sleep hungry.”Singh, who has worked his as a cook all his life — he opened his tandoor near the sector 19 gurudwara in the 1970s—was among the small business owners who were worst hit by the lockdown.Singh has also had to make many personal sacrifices due to the lockdown, which depleted his earnings.“My daughter was supposed to get married this year. I was saving for her wedding. For the last two months there was no income for my family,” he said.“But with god’s grace, we managed, somehow,” he said.Since June 8, his eatery has reopened but his client base has dwindled, as colleges still remain shut.He is hopeful that in a month or two, when colleges reopen, his eatery will start making profit. But he is nervous about the competition posed by online delivery outlets. He is not technology savvy and might lose out on orders if people start ordering online, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-salutes-tandoorwala-in-chandigarh-lost-his-job-but-cooked-for-migrants/story-It0p5pXIPS2WXHOgZzf7sJ.html
17-06-2020||India||‘No compromise on borders’: PM Modi spells out India’s stance on row with China||India wants peace but is capable of giving a befitting reply if provoked, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday, his first remarks on the border clash between soldiers of the Indian and Chinese army in eastern Ladakh on Monday evening. PM Modi’s sharply-worded statement was aimed not just at reassuring the country that the government was taking steps to protect India’s sovereignty but was also designed to deliver a stern message to Beijing.India has always promoted peace among nations, PM Modi said on Wednesday afternoon. PM Modi, who is meeting chief ministers via video conference on the Covid-19 pandemic, started with a reference to the border clash in Galwan Valley that cost 20 lives on the Indian side.Over the next five minutes, PM Modi summarised his government’s stand on the clash and his determination not to let anyone stop India from retaliation if someone does target the country’s sovereignty.In our neighbourhood, India’s constant effort has been that differences should not become disputes, PM Modi said a throwback to one of the principles that India and China had pledged themselves to at his meetings with Chinese President Xi Jinping.India has blamed China for the border clash that New Delhi says could have been avoided had the Chinese soldiers scrupulously followed the agreement and not tried to unilaterally change the status quo in the Galwan region.Colonel Santosh Babu and his men were outnumbered by the Chinese troops who attacked the Indian soldiers, but they still struck back at their adversary. In the process, Col Santosh, according to one estimate by the army, killed or critically injured over 40 Chinese soldiers including a commander of the People’s Liberation Army.PM Modi referred to the extraordinary courage that they displayed. “The country will be proud to know that they died after they killed their adversaries (Desh ko Is baat par garv hoga ki vae maarte, maarte, maren hai),” PM Modi said.Also read | PM Modi calls all-party meeting on June 19 to discuss India-China border situationThe Chinese military or the foreign office has not made public the casualties suffered by the PLA.Officials said PM Modi’s statement had omitted any reference to dialogue to signal that the government was not looking for a way out. To the contrary, PM Modi underscored that no one could stop India from hitting back if its sovereignty was targeted.“I would like to assure the nation that the sacrifice of our jawans will not be in vain. For us, India’s unity and sovereignty is the most important and no one can stop us from protecting it. No one should have a doubt on this point. India wants peace but is capable of a befitting reply in every circumstance,” PM Modi said.This clear message comes against the backdrop of Chinese PLA’s introducing a fresh claim over the Galwan Valley. This was one of the few areas along the Line of Actual Control where the difference in perception between the two sides was minimal. In New Delhi, the Chinese statement is seen as an effort to create fresh areas of differences even as older differences turn into disputes.Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, who was also present at the chief minister’s conference along with Home Minister Amit Shah, had earlier in the day described the loss of soldiers “deeply disturbing and painful”.“The nation will never forget their bravery and sacrifice. My heart goes out to the families of the fallen soldiers. The nation stands shoulder to shoulder with them in this difficult hour. We are proud of the bravery and courage of India’s bravehearts,” the defence minister tweeted.Shortly after the prime minister’s intervention, Amit Shah also paid rich tributes to the fallen soldiers.“The pain of losing our brave soldiers while protecting our motherland at Ladakh’s Galwan can not be put in words. Nation salutes our immortal heroes who sacrificed their lives to keep Indian territory safe and secure. Their bravery reflects India’s commitment towards her land,” Shah said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-compromise-on-borders-pm-modi-spells-out-india-s-stance-on-row-with-china/story-X2xKmstoBuaaYeWfUriXqL.html
17-06-2020||India||‘Control frontline troops’, says China’s Wang Yi in phone call with S Jaishankar||India should not misjudge or underestimate China’s will to safeguard its territory, Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi has told his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar, demanding that New Delhi immediately cease all “provocative” actions at the border and “thoroughly” investigate the clash between the border troops on Monday night.Wang told Jaishankar that Indian army’s adventurous act triggered the clash.A strongly worded statement released by the Chinese foreign ministry – after a phone conversation between Wang and Jaishankar on Wednesday -- said the former told the Indian minister that New Delhi “should strictly control frontline troops”.Also read| ‘No compromise on borders’: PM Modi spells out India’s stance on row with ChinaThe phone call took place two days after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in an unprecedented violent exchange with Chinese soldiers in the Galwan Valley region of eastern Ladakh.Until now, China’s foreign ministry and the People’s Liberation Army have squarely blamed the Indian army for the violent face-off, which India has rejected as well: Wang’s phone call clearly shows that China will continue to be aggressive.“Again, China expresses its strong protest to the Indian side. We demand that the Indian side conduct a thorough investigation into the matter, severely punish those responsible, strictly control the frontline troops and immediately cease all provocative actions to ensure that such incidents do not recur,” the statement released in Mandarin by the ministry said.Wang, who is also a state councillor, which makes him one of the most senior officials in China, said Indian border troops “brazenly” broke the consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries.“When the situation on the ground in the Galwan Valley had already eased, they once again deliberately provoked and even violently attacked officers and soldiers of the Chinese side who were on their way to negotiate across the Line of Actual Control.”Also read| ‘PM should tell how Chinese occupied Indian territory’: Sonia Gandhi on Ladakh face-off“This led to violent physical confrontations, resulting in injuries and deaths. This adventurous act by the Indian army is a serious violation of the agreements reached between the two countries on the border issue and a grave breach of the basic norms of international relations,” Wang said.The Chinese minister said India and China should step up communication through existing channels like special representatives’ mechanism on the Sino-India boundary and communication channels between border troops to safeguard peace and tranquillity in border areas.Wang himself, and national security advisor AK Doval are the two SRs for the ongoing boundary talks between the two countries.“Mutual respect and support between the two sides is the right way to go and is in the long-term interests of both countries; mutual suspicion and friction go against the fundamental aspiration of the two peoples,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/control-frontline-troops-says-china-s-wang-yi-in-phone-call-with-s-jaishankar/story-xJivzBrrRvqkX6NcMon0JP.html
17-06-2020||India||Odisha to set up Covid Care Homes in all the 6,798 gram panchayats||The Odisha government on Wednesday announced that Covid Care Homes (CCHs) and Ward Level Committees will be set up across the state to monitor the coronavirus situation.The announcement was made by Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik.“We have decided to set up Covid Care Home facilities in all the 6,798 gram panchayats across the state. About 10 to 20 people can stay in each home,” Patnaik said in a statement.As many as 70,000 people could be accommodated in CCHs in rural areas, the chief minister said.He said that the people showing corona symptoms like cold, cough and fever will be kept in the facility. If the patient tests positive for Covid-19 then only he/she will be shifted to the special Covid Hospitals.The chief minister said Odisha has enough special Covid Hospitals where about 10,000 beds are available with ICU facilities for critical patients. The state also has trained manpower to handle the Covid patients and there is sufficient medical equipment to deal with the situation, he said. If the corona test result comes negative, a person will go back home and get treatment at house, Patnaik said, adding that the government has also decided to decentralize the Covid-19 management system in the state.“Covid management committee in the ward level will be formed comprising ward members, ANM, ASHA and Women Self Help Group members. The committee will be given special power under Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897,” Patnaik said.He said the ward level committees will be provided Rs 10,000 each for expenditure. At present, the Gaon Kalyan Samiti (Village welfare committees) take care of the Covid management in villages. In urban areas, ward offices, local volunteers will be members of the Covid management committee which will monitor the corona situation in towns. “The urban committee is asked to focus on slums and if required Covid Care Homes can be set up in major slums,” he said.Following the return of above five lakh people to the state during the pandemic, Patnaik said the state government has decided a door-to-door survey to detect the Covid symptoms among the population. These people are being quarantined in the temporary medical centres before being allowed to go home.The state government has set up 16,815 Temporary Medical Centres/Camps in 67,98 gram panchayats. In all these centres, a total of 7,62,345 beds have been arranged to provide Covid-19 health services in rural areas.However, Patnaik said that many TMCs are now closed as the number of returnees are declining by the day. The TMCs presently operate in clusters where the returnees are being put in quarantine where their treatment and care is being taken by the sarpanchs, who have worked all along the three months with dedication.“I thank the panchayat level functionaries for their dedicated service for which the corona situation in Odisha is better than many states, Our recovery rate is high and the fatality rate low. Therefore, Odishas situation is in a good position,” the chief minister said.The Corona situation has impacted lives all sections, all categories and all people, Patnaik said, adding that the only alternative left is precaution and awareness since there is no such medicine or vaccines for the killer disease.“I have been repeatedly saying that June is a crucial month for the state because many people have returned to the state and movement has started in the unlock process.Gradually, many things will open up and possibilities of transmission can be reduced by maintaining social distancing, hand hygiene and using face masks,” he said.Therefore, under the changed circumstances, the state needs to change its strategy for which CCHs and Covid Management Committees are formed in the ward level to keep a proper tab on the situation.Patnaik also suggested the people keep special care of the elderly persons and kids below 10 years of age as they have low immunity power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-set-up-covid-care-homes-in-all-the-6-798-gram-panchayats/story-vEqYb0eq5nzqWbvi6X7rrO.html
17-06-2020||India||Centre responsible for death of 20 soldiers in Ladakh, says Congress||The Congress on Wednesday held the Narendra Modi government responsible for the loss 20 soldiers in clashes with Chinese troops in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley and alleged that the Centre’s priority was not the country but the rule of the BJP.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government is silent now. The country did not expect that the government’s 40-day silence would be so heart-wrenching. It is because of the flaws and failures of the central BJP government that the country has to see this sad day of martyrdom of our soldiers,” AICC spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala told reporters.Surjewala said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and the entire opposition repeatedly kept asking about the situation on the border and how far the Chinese had intruded. Former army officers were also constantly warning that the situation is serious and the government needs to be careful.“But the careless and failed government kept busy in its political processions, electoral battles, conspiracies to topple opposition governments and kept the truth of the border hidden from the country. The priority of the central BJP government is not the country but the power of its party,” alleged Surjewala.“There is a ban on questions and information in the Modi government. Today everything is being hidden from the country. But does the Modi government have any answer for those mothers who sacrificed their sons in defence of the country?” he said.The entire country and Congress party stands with the government on every issue of national security and integrity but the government will have to take the nation into confidence. The Prime Minister will have to tell the truth of how China occupied our land and how our 20 soldiers were martyred, he said.“What is the situation today on the ground and how many of our officers and soldiers are missing or injured? How much and where has China occupied our land? The government should tell what about its plan to deal with the situation,” Surjewala said.The BJP reacted by accusing the Congress of politicising the country’s security.“The Indian army was holding continuous talks with China but they betrayed the trust and attacked but our soldiers gave a befitting reply. The India army is standing strong to protect the country. The government is actively playing its role. Unfortunately, the Congress is politicizing a serious issue like the country’s security, which is unjustified,” BJP spokesperson Mukesh Pareek said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold an all-party meeting on Friday to discuss the situation in Ladakh.Earlier on Wednesday in his first remarks since the clash in Ladakh late Monday night, Modi said, “I would like to assure the nation that the sacrifice of our jawans will not be in vain. For us, the unity and sovereignty of the country is the most important,”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-responsible-for-death-of-20-soldiers-in-ladakh-says-congress/story-QvPrH1eAv2nVkto6CjE2vJ.html
17-06-2020||India||12 killed on way back from pilgrim centre in Andhra after truck rams vehicle||Twelve people, including four children, were killed and 14 others injured when a truck rammed the tractor-trolley in which they were travelling at Jaggayyapet in Andhra Pradesh’s Krishna district on Wednesday afternoon, the police said.While seven of them died on the spot, five others succumbed to their injuries at the government hospital in Jaggayyapet. The injured were also admitted to the same hospital and the condition of three of them is said to be critical.According to police, the tractor-trolley was carrying a group of 25 people belonging to Gopavaram village of Errupalem block in Telangana’s Khammam district. They were returning from Vedadri, a famous pilgrim centre, after having darshan of Lord Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy.“As they were approaching Jaggayyapet, a speeding truck loaded with cement bags rammed into the tractor-trolley, which overturned on the road side,” Jaggayyapet sub-inspector of police R Dharma Raju said.On receiving the information, the police rushed to the spot and took up the rescue operations with the help of locals. The injured were moved to the hospital. “We are yet to ascertain how the accident took place. We have registered a case and taken up the investigation,” the SI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-killed-on-way-back-from-pilgrim-centre-in-andhra-after-truck-rams-vehicle/story-yUFT8pYZQYZbqMZSxxulpO.html
17-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Expansion of health infra should be India’s top priority amid increase in Covid cases, says PM and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Need to expand health infra, says PM Modi on Day 2 of talks with CMs on Covid-19Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said expansion of health infrastructure should be the country’s top priority amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases. Read moreChhattisgarh CM writes to Nitin Gadkari, urges him to expedite work National Highways in the stateChhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has written to the Union Minister for Road Transport & Highways, Nitin Gadkari, urging him to expedite the tardy construction work of national highways (NH) that pass through the state and convert some state highways into NH. Read moreMumbai BJP leader booked by CBI for ‘cheating’ Bank of India of Rs 57.26 croreThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a case against local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Mohit Kamboj and directors of his company for allegedly cheating Bank of India to the tune of Rs. 57.26 crore. Read moreCureVac coronavirus vaccine cleared for human trials in GermanyGermany’s CureVac AG won approval to start human trials of a novel coronavirus vaccine just days after the company secured backing from Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government. Read more‘Sachin wanted to give up the game,’ How Gary Kirsten sparked a late career renaissance for TendulkarFormer India coach Gary Kirsten has opened up on a chapter from his coaching tenure with the Indian cricket team, where he helped Sachin Tendulkar thrive in the final leg of his career, and in turn, banishing the thoughts of retirement that had surrounded the mind of India’s batting genius. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput death: Ekta Kapoor says ‘beyond upset’ after abetment case filed against her, Salman Khan in BiharAmid the debate around nepotism and the treatment of outsiders in Bollywood triggered by the news of Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, a case has been filed against in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur against a number of influential people from the film industry. Read moreHappy Father’s Day 2020: Best wishes, images, quotes, Facebook messages and WhatsApp status to shareEvery year, the third Sunday of June is observed as Father’s Day in India, and this year the date is June 21. This day commemorates and appreciates the role that fathers, father figures and paternal bonds play in a family and society as a whole. Read moreWatch| ‘It’s a wake up call’: Bollywood actor on Sushant Singh Rajput’s death||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-expansion-of-health-infra-should-be-india-s-top-priority-amid-increase-in-covid-cases-says-pm-and-all-the-latest-news/story-3g6UEGIGJfCfd69kwD33xM.html
17-06-2020||India||New Delhi could opt out of Russia-India-China virtual meeting||India is unlikely to join a virtual meeting of foreign ministers of the Russia-India-China (RIC) grouping scheduled for June 23 in the aftermath of the violent clash along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) that left 20 Indian soldiers dead, people familiar with developments said on Wednesday.After a weeks-long military build-up along the LAC, Indian and Chinese troops were involved in what Indian officials described as a “violent face-off” on Monday night. One officer was among the 20 soldiers killed in the confrontation and several more were injured.Though the border stand-off was not on the agenda of the RIC meeting via video conference, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity it appeared unlikely the Indian side would join the meet in view of the prevailing tensions with China and the domestic situation.The meeting, which hasn’t been officially announced as yet, was originally scheduled to be held in March but was postponed because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Russia recently took the initiative to organise the virtual meeting on June 22, as first reported by HT on June 13. It was subsequently deferred by a day to June 23.The meeting was expected to largely focus on enhancing cooperation to tackle the fallout of the global pandemic and the agenda was to have been finalised by early this week.The situation in Afghanistan and regional connectivity projects such as the International North South Transport Corridor involving India, Russia and Iran were also expected to figure so that the three countries could reach common ground on issues such as regional security and stability.“The atmosphere has been vitiated by the developments of the past two days and Indian participation is looking unlikely,” said one of the people cited above.The people didn’t rule out a last minute push by Russia to go ahead with the meeting, especially in view of recent remarks by Russian officials about India and China taking steps to de-escalate tensions.“The existing situation is a concern but Russia is trusted by the other two countries. There is a need for all sides to keep in touch, especially in multilateral formats, to expand multilateral cooperation and accumulate more trust,” said a second person.Moscow’s relations with both New Delhi and Beijing are currently very good, and Russian ambassador Nikolay Kudashev and deputy chief of mission Roman Babushkin have, in recent remarks to the Indian media, spoken of the need for easing tensions for regional stability.Kudashev said Russia is confident India and China will be guided by commitments made by their leadership during two informal summits and work for peace and tranquillity on the border. He also said Russia is looking toward to further engagements in the RIC, SCO and Brics (Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa) groupings to enhance mutual trust and stability.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-delhi-could-opt-out-of-russia-india-china-virtual-meeting/story-yUzSQnDrnLZimUH0y1sCJI.html
17-06-2020||India||‘Bow to the families of great heroes’: Amit Shah pays tribute, says India is in their debt||Home minister Amit Shah has paid tribute to Indian soldiers who died in a violent clash with Chinese soldiers in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on Monday night and said their sacrifice can’t be put in words. He added that their bravery reflects India’s commitment towards safeguarding her land.Shah’s homage followed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s clear message that while New Delhi wants peace, it was capable of giving a befitting reply if provoked.“Pain of losing our brave soldiers while protecting our motherland at Galwan Valley can’t be put in words. Nation salutes our immortal heroes who sacrificed their lives to keep the Indian territory safe. Their bravery reflects India’s commitment towards her land,” said Shah in a tweet on Wednesday afternoon.Indian Army has reported loss of 20 lives on its side, including that of a commanding officer of the Bihar Regiment, in clashes with China during the de-escalation process in Eastern Ladakh on Monday night. The Indian government has blamed China for not honouring a consensus reached between the two sides to withdraw and said the clashes were a result of China’s attempts to change the status quo of the line of actual control (LAC) in the Galwan Valley.Shah went on to say that the country will always be in debt of the soldiers’ supreme sacrifice.“I bow to the families, who have blessed Indian Army with such great heroes. India will always remain indebted for their supreme sacrifice. Entire nation and the Modi government stands firmly with their families in this hour of grief. Praying for the speedy recovery of those injured,” Shah added.Earlier, during his meeting with the chief ministers of states, the prime minister had said that the sacrifice of the jawans will not go in vain.“I would like to assure the nation that the sacrifice of our jawans will not be in vain. For us, the unity and sovereignty of the country is the most important,” PM Modi said.Also Read: ‘India wants peace but capable of giving befitting reply if instigated’: PM Modi on Ladakh face-offAccording to intelligence inputs, China has suffered 43 injuries or deaths in the clashes. The deadly faceoff between the two neighbours, has marked a new low in the ties, however, both sides have disengaged at the site of the clash in Galwan Valley. Earlier today, defence minister Rajnath Singh had also offered his condolences and said the death of Indian soldiers was extremely disturbing.“The loss of soldiers in Galwan is deeply disturbing and painful. Our soldiers displayed exemplary courage and valour in the line of duty and sacrificed their lives in the highest traditions of the Indian Army,” he said in a statement.Also Read: Wife of Odia JCO killed at Galwan valley yet to know of husband’s deathOpposition parties, particularly the Congress, have been demanding that the government come out with a detailed account of the incident that resulted in casualties in Indian Army-- the first since October 1975 when Chinese troops had ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector killing four soldiers.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi should tell the country how the Chinese occupied the Indian territory, and why 20 soldiers were killed,” Congress president Sonia Gandhi said Wednesday.The Congress chief also asked the government to clarify if Indian territory has been occupied by China and what is the government’s strategy to deal with the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bow-to-the-families-of-great-heroes-amit-shah-pays-tribute-says-india-is-in-their-debt/story-4bRi7wUMnhHcQ6tqRxoG3L.html
17-06-2020||India||‘He sacrificed life for nation, will send my grandsons too’: Sepoy Kundan Kumar’s father||Father of Sepoy Kundan Kumar, one of the 20 bravehearts of the Indian Army who lost their lives in Monday’s violent face-off with China in Ladakh, said that he is proud of his son’s sacrifice. He said that if given a chance, he will send off his two grandsons to join the army as well so that they could serve the nation. “My son sacrificed his life for the nation. I have two grandsons, I will send them too,” he said. Also read: ‘Sacrifice of our jawans will not go in vain’ - PM Modi #WATCH Bihar: Father of Sepoy Kundan Kumar, who lost his life in #GalwanValley of Ladakh on June 15-16, says, "My son sacrificed his life for the nation. I have two grandsons, I will send them too." pic.twitter.com/WHkkJw0HEXThe killing of 20 Indian Army men in the face-off with China’s military earlier this week has angered New Delhi. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said that the sacrifice of the soldiers will not go in vain. “I would like to assure the nation that the sacrifice of our jawans will not be in vain. For us, the unity and sovereignty of the country is the most important. India wants peace but it is capable of giving a befitting reply if instigated,” the prime minister said. PM Modi will also hold an all-party meeting on Friday to discuss the situation on the country’s border with China.Earlier in the day, defence minister Rajnath Singh condoled the loss of the bravehearts in the Galwan Valley and described the incident as “deeply disturbing”. “The loss of soldiers in Galwan is deeply disturbing and painful. Our soldiers displayed exemplary courage and valour in the line of duty and sacrificed their lives in the highest traditions of the Indian Army,” he said. “The Nation will never forget their bravery and sacrifice. My heart goes out to the families of the fallen soldiers. The nation stand shoulder to shoulder with them in this difficult hour. We are proud of the bravery and courage of India’s bravehearts,” the minister tweeted.Tensions between India and China flared up in early May following clashes between Indian and Chinese troops in the Sikkim and Ladakh sectors of the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The two sides led a series of high-level delegation talks this month in a bid to settle the stand-off. The deployment of reinforcements by both sides led up to the face-off in Galwan Valley on Monday night that left 20 Indian soldiers, including a colonel, dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/he-sacrificed-life-for-nation-will-send-my-grandsons-too-sepoy-kundan-kumar-s-father/story-gHb7qtHTv3k6223EnalGMK.html
17-06-2020||India||Need to expand health infra, says PM Modi on Day 2 of talks with CMs on Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said expansion of health infrastructure should be the country’s top priority amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases“With increase in the number of corona patients, expansion of health infrastructure should be our utmost priority. This will happen when each corona patient will get proper treatment. For this, we’ll have to emphasize on testing so that we can test, trace and isolate infected persons,” he said during his virtual meeting with chief ministers and representatives of 14 states and the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir to discuss the pandemic situation.Modi said India has fought back from facing a supply shortage of medical kits to become self sufficient.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.“Just 3 months back, there was a shortage of PPE kits and diagnostic kits across the world. In India too, we had a very limited stock because we were completely dependent on imports. But today, more than 1 crore PPE kits and an equal number of N95 masks have reached the states,” he said on the second day of his interaction with chief ministers.On Tuesday, he had interacted with chief ministers, Lt Governors and administrators of 21 states and UTs on opening up the economy and at the same time preventing a surge in coronavirus cases.The PM reiterated that India has been able to fight Covid-19 and control its spread because of the timely measures it took. He also said that very few patients are currently on ventilators or in ICUs“The number of patients who have recovered from Covid-19 till now is more than the number of active cases in the country,” Modi said.India’s Covid-19 tally now stands at over 3.54 lakh. According to the government’s latest figures, 6,922 Covid-19 patients were cured in the last 24 hours taking the number of those cured/discharged to 1,86,934 patients. The recovery rate has risen to 52.80%.There are 1,55,227 active cases of Covid-19 in the country now.At the start of the meeting, a two-minute silence was observed as a tribute to the soldiers who lost their lives in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley in a clash with Chinese troops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-expand-health-infra-says-pm-modi-on-day-2-of-talks-with-cms-on-covid-19/story-4RmXnYkikpbKu0Nc3Tl9HM.html
17-06-2020||India||Chhattisgarh CM writes to Nitin Gadkari, urges him to expedite work National Highways in the state||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has written to the Union Minister for Road Transport & Highways, Nitin Gadkari, urging him to expedite the tardy construction work of national highways (NH) that pass through the state and convert some state highways into NH. Baghel urged in his letter to Gadkari sent on Tuesday that Ambikapur-Bhaisamuda-Wadrafnagar-Dhangaon-Bamhani-Renukoot road, whose 110-kilometre (km) stretch falls in Chhattisgarh, and Raigarh-Dharamjaigarh road, 72 km of which passes through the state, be declared as NH.The CM has also requested the Central minister to ensure the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) gives permission for upgrading and widening of NH-149B, which includes the Champa-Korba-Katghora stretch.Baghel also drew Gadkari’s attention to the tardy construction work for the past two years of NH-30, which runs between the state capital Raipur and Dhamtari district. He also pointed out that the condition of NH-43 that runs between Pathalgaon and Kunkuri is pitiable, and immediate efforts must be made to improve it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-cm-writes-to-nitin-gadkari-urges-him-to-expedite-work-national-highways-in-the-state/story-vc6cOV8pIhqyD3aw8PEPKN.html
17-06-2020||India||Mumbai BJP leader booked by CBI for ‘cheating’ Bank of India of Rs 57.26 crore||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a case against local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Mohit Kamboj and directors of his company for allegedly cheating Bank of India to the tune of Rs. 57.26 crore. The CBI has also booked unknown public servants and bank officials, while its inquiry in the case continues.The cases have been registered against two Mumbai-based firms known as Avyaan Overseas private limited-- now known as M/s. Bagla Overseas private limited, Mumbai--- and KBJ Hotels Goa private limited. Mohit Kamboj, managing director of the former has also been booked along with firm directors Jitendra Gulshan Kapoor, Siddhant Bagla and Irtesh Mishra.According to a CBI official, between 2013 and 2018, the Mumbai based firm ‘Avyaan Overseas private limited and its managing director Mohit Kamboj, along with unknown public servant, entered into an agreement with the bank’s Mid Corporate Branch in Fort, with an intention to cheat through FB purchase/ Foreign Bills Negotiation Limit and Export Packaging Credit Limit facilities worth Rs.60 crore (approx.) extended to the firm.It was further alleged in the complaint that the accused company diverted the funds obtained from the bank followed by forging and fabrication of documents in support of their claim, which resulted in a loss of Rs.57.26 crore to the bank, as per the CBI press release.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The CBI has been conducting searches at five places in Mumbai including at the residential and official premises linked to the accused individuals and companies. The search has led to recovery of certain incriminating documents pertaining to property, loan, various bank accounts and locker keys, said the CBI official.Mohit Kamboj, who changed his name to Mohit Bhartiya said, “Compromise in the above loan account has been done in 2018 by paying Rs 30 crore as one-time settlement of dues. I have also received no dues certificate from the Bank of India in March 2019. I don’t know why the bank has gone ahead with this complaint, after two and a half years of clearing all the dues. Nevertheless, I will cooperate with the CBI probe as I have full trust in them”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-bjp-leader-booked-by-cbi-for-cheating-bank-of-india-of-rs-57-26-crore/story-wZqQ8AmOUxhbSHXL5F5lHL.html
17-06-2020||India||Meghalaya’s Covid-19 count comes down from 44 to 43 after patient found ‘false positive’||Meghalaya’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases have reduced from 44 to 43 after it came to light that a senior citizen (70) became the first case of false positive in the entire north-east region, comprising seven states.“The patient, who belongs to Ri Bhoi district, had a severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and was admitted to a hospital in Shillong on June 9. His RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) test results had shown he was Covid-19 positive,” Meghalaya health minister AL Hek said on Wednesday.The patient was put under quarantine and 43 of his contacts were also traced. But the doctors were surprised, as none of his contacts, including the source from where he was suspected to have contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, were found to be infected.“A fresh round of RT-PCR and rapid tests were conducted and both came negative. It’s a case of false positive,” Hek said.According to health officials, the RT-PCR tests have an accuracy rate of 99%, and the case of the Meghalaya patient could belong to that rare 1% that shows false results.The patient, who suffers from hypertension and diabetes, is still admitted to the hospital, where his condition is stated to be stable.Meghalaya has the lowest number of Covid-19 positive cases among the north-eastern states. The state reported one death, 28 recoveries, and 14 Covid-19 active cases until Wednesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-s-covid-19-count-comes-down-from-44-to-43-after-patient-found-false-positive/story-tJLBSNfat1coxAKuXx3WnI.html
17-06-2020||India||‘Sacrifice of our jawans will not go in vain’: Highlights of PM Modi’s address on Ladakh face-off||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said that although India wants peace, when instigated it is capable of giving a befitting reply. The prime minister gave a brief address on the Ladakh face-off right before beginning his virtual meeting with the chief ministers and heads of 15 states and Union territories. PM Modi said that the sacrifice of soldiers who lost their lives on Monday will not go in vain. The PM, along with Union Home Minister Amit Shah and chief ministers, observed a two-minute silence as a tribute to the soldiers who got killed in the recent military stand-off with China.I would like to assure the nation that the sacrifice of our jawans will not be in vain. For us, the unity and sovereignty of the country is the most important...India wants peace but it is capable to give a befitting reply if instigated: PM Narendra Modi #IndiaChinaFaceOff pic.twitter.com/kFIC3F1fE4Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in a face-off with Chinese troops along the undefined Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh on Monday. According to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), PM Modi will also hold an all-party meeting on Friday to discuss the situation on the country’s border with China. Here are the key highlights of PM Modi’s address:• I would like to assure the nation that the sacrifice of our jawans will not go in vain. • India wants peace but it is capable to give a befitting reply if instigated. • India has always worked with its neighbours in a cooperative and friendly manner, hoped for their growth and development. • We’ve always tried to resolve differences and not let them turn into disputes. • The unity and sovereignty of the country is of the utmost importance and we won’t compromise with it. Nobody should test our patience.• Valour and courage are also part of our country’s character as much as sacrifice is. • Nation takes pride in the fact that our valiant soldiers lost their lives while fighting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sacrifice-of-our-jawans-will-not-go-in-vain-highlights-of-pm-modi-s-address-on-ladakh-ladakh-face-off/story-AvDNe8Ln4aXNZgHOcH6ILJ.html
17-06-2020||India||Jayant Khobragade set to take over as acting head of Indian mission in Islamabad||Jayant Khobragade, an Indian Foreign Service (IFS) officer of the 1995 batch, is expected to soon take over as the acting head of India’s mission in Islamabad, people familiar with developments said on Wednesday.Khobragade, who served as a counsellor in the Indian High Commission in Islamabad some years ago, has also held assignments in Russia, Kazakhstan, and Spain and was ambassador to the Kyrgyz Republic between 2013 and 2017.He is expected to take up the position in the near future, the people cited above said on the condition of anonymity. Khobragade has worked in different divisions of the Union ministry of external affairs (MEA), including the disarmament and international security affairs division, and joined the Department of Atomic Energy (DEA) on deputation in 2017.Last August, Pakistan had asked India to withdraw then high commissioner Ajay Bisaria as part of a slew of retaliatory actions in response to New Delhi’s decision to strip Jammu and Kashmir of its special status.Pakistan had also decided not to go ahead with the posting of the diplomat, who had been chosen as its next envoy to India.Since then, the Indian mission in Islamabad and the Pakistani mission in New Delhi have been headed by their charge d’affaires.In a separate development, JP Singh, who was till recently India’s consul-general in Istanbul, Turkey, is expected to take over the crucial position of joint secretary (Pakistan-Afghanistan-Iran). Singh has considerable experience in the region and has served in both Afghanistan and Pakistan, where he was the deputy chief of mission.The Pakistan-Afghanistan-Iran desk was until recently headed by Deepak Mittal, who has been named the new Indian ambassador to Qatar. The desk is playing a crucial role again, following a spurt in tensions with Pakistan and the uncertainty surrounding the Afghan peace process in the aftermath of the deal signed by the United States of America (USA) and the Taliban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jayant-khobragade-set-to-take-over-as-acting-head-of-indian-mission-in-islamabad/story-TSoGmM0mmsdICXu1KFzrJL.html
17-06-2020||India||PM Modi interacts with CMs on day 2 of consultations on coronavirus crisis||Continuing with his consultations with state governments on ways to check the spread of coronavirus during ‘unlock 1.0’, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday is holding interaction with chief ministers and representatives of 14 states and the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir.His virtual interaction on day two of his consultations with states is attended by the chief ministers of Maharashtra, Delhi, Karnataka, Gujara, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar among others, and assumes importance as some of these states account for a majority of the cases in the country.West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is not participating in the meet as her name was reportedly missing from the list of speakers.On Tuesday too, he had interacted with chief ministers, LGs and administrators of 21 states and UTs on opening up the economy and at the same time preventing a surge in coronavirus cases.The meeting comes on a day the country registered the highest-ever spike of 2,003 COVID-19 fatalities pushing the death toll to 11,903 after Maharashtra and Delhi added earlier deaths that were not attributed to the disease.Of the 2,003 new deaths, Maharashtra accounted for the highest 1,409 fatalities taking its COVID-19 death tally to 5,537, while coronavirus deaths in Delhi surged by 437 taking it to 1,837, according to the Health Ministry data updated at 8 am on Wednesday.On Tuesday, Modi had told the participants that the economy is showing “green shoots” as the country emerges from the coronavirus lockdown.He also underscored the importance of being focussed on both life and livelihood.He said on the one hand health infrastructure will need to be boosted with emphasis on testing and tracing, and on the other hand economic activity will also need to be increased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-interacts-with-cms-on-day-2-of-consultations-on-coronavirus-crisis/story-J14aZKo9VO1qnfmv6zc9xJ.html
17-06-2020||India||‘PM should tell how Chinese occupied Indian territory’: Sonia Gandhi on Ladakh face-off||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to come clean about the situation in eastern Ladakh, where 20 soldiers of the Indian Army were killed in a violent confrontation with Chinese troops in Galwan Valley late on Monday.“The PM should tell the nation how the Chinese occupied Indian territory, why 20 brave soldiers were martyred,” she said in Hindi during a live address.The Congress president also sought to know how many soldiers are injured or still missing. She said her party stands behind the government and sent her tributes to the families of soldiers who died for their country.“The sacrifice of our 20 jawans has shaken the conscience of the nation. I pay my tribute to all those brave soldiers from the core of my heart and pray to the almighty to give their families the strength to face this pain,” said Gandhi.The Congress chief’s address came almost simultaneously as the Prime Minister’s first reaction to the Indian Army’s face-off with Chinese troops late on Monday.Also Watch : Sonia Gandhi questions PM Modi over India-China faceoff The PM said the sacrifice of the soldiers who were killed in the line of duty in Galwan Valley will not go in vain.“I would like to assure the nation that the sacrifice of our soldiers will not be in vain. India wants peace but it is capable of giving a befitting reply if instigated,” said the PM.Earlier in the day, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi demanded to know “why is the PM silent?” and raised questions on the Chinese aggression. Shortly after came defence minister Rajnath Singh’s tweet mourning the loss of 20 Indian soldiers in the scrap with the Chinese troops. “The loss of soldiers in Galwan is deeply disturbing and painful. Our soldiers displayed exemplary courage and valour in the line of duty and sacrificed their lives in the highest traditions of the Indian Army.“The Nation will never forget their bravery and sacrifice. My heart goes out to the families of the fallen soldiers. The nation stand shoulder to shoulder with them in this difficult hour. We are proud of the bravery and courage of India’s bravehearts,” the minister tweeted.Since May, there have been tensions between the Indian and Chinese sides following clashes between the troops of the two countries in the Sikkim and Ladakh sectors of the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The deployment of reinforcements by both sides led up to the face-off in Galwan Valley on Monday night that left 20 Indian soldiers, including a colonel, dead. On the Chinese side, news agency ANI reported, 43 soldiers have been killed or seriously injured, though the Indian army’s statement did not refer to this.The army statement issued on Tuesday evening said the Indian and Chinese troops at the Galwan area where they had earlier clashed “ have disengaged”.The External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said Monday evening’s violent face-off took place after the Chinese side “departed from the consensus to respect the LAC” and attempted to “unilaterally change the status quo”.These are the first Indian casualties in a border skirmish with PLA since October 1975 when Chinese troops ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector and shot four soldiers dead. HT has learnt rival soldiers exchanged blows, threw stones at each other and Chinese troops even attacked Indian soldiers with rods and nail-studded clubs during the brawl that went on for over six hours.The deadly clash came on a day army delegations from India and China held talks at two locations along the LAC - brigadier-ranked officers met in the Galwan Valley and Colonel-ranked officers in Hot Springs - as part of continuing efforts to resolve the standoff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-should-tell-how-chinese-occupied-indian-territory-sonia-gandhi-on-ladakh-face-off/story-cDYmEj7y1ELk4ghcUYA6LK.html
17-06-2020||India||‘India wants peace but capable of giving befitting reply if instigated’: PM Modi on Ladakh face-off||India wants peace but is capable of giving a befitting reply if provoked, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday, his first remarks on the border clash between soldiers of the Indian and Chinese army in eastern Ladakh on Monday evening.The prime minister started his meeting with chief ministers on the Covid-19 with a two-minute silence as a tribute to the 20 soldiers who were killed in action in Galwan Valley this week. As he spoke, it became clear that the message was aimed not just at reassuring the nation but also delivering a sharp message to Beijing.“I would like to assure the nation that the sacrifice of our jawans will not be in vain. For us, the unity and sovereignty of the country is the most important,” PM Modi said. Home minister Amit Shah and defence minister Rajnath Singh were also present in the meeting.Also Read: PM Modi calls all-party meeting to discuss India-China border situationTwenty Indian soldiers were killed in the violent face-off which took place in Eastern Ladakh on Monday. The troops fought each other with fists and rocks. After the clash, the two sides “disengaged” from the area where the fighting happened, the Indian army statement said. News agency ANI quoting sources said four Indian soldiers are in critical condition after the face-off.ALSO WATCH | ‘We want peace, don’t provoke us’: PM Modi gives tough message to ChinaOn the Chinese side, news agency ANI reported, there have been 43 casualties.Defence minister Rajnath Singh mourned the death of 20 Indian soldiers. “The loss of soldiers in Galwan is deeply disturbing and painful. Our soldiers displayed exemplary courage and valour in the line of duty and sacrificed their lives in the highest traditions of the Indian Army,” he said in a statement.“The Nation will never forget their bravery and sacrifice. My heart goes out to the families of the fallen soldiers. The nation stand shoulder to shoulder with them in this difficult hour. We are proud of the bravery and courage of India’s bravehearts,” the minister further said in the statement posted on Twitter.These are the first Indian casualties in a border skirmish with PLA since October 1975 when Chinese troops ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector and shot four soldiers dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-wants-peace-but-capable-of-giving-befitting-reply-if-instigated-pm-modi-on-ladakh-face-off/story-1mnvax4CQm4VzvH1jpoePM.html
17-06-2020||India||Conditions rife for more pandemics in absence of curbs on deforestation and wildlife trade: WWF||Large-scale conversion of tracts of land for agriculture; trade and consumption of high-risk wild species are the two main drivers of zoonotic diseases, according to a report by Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF) released on Wednesday. Zoonotic diseases are viral infections that are transmissible from vertebrate animals to humans.The report, a compilation of existing evidence on SARS-CoV-2, which causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), and other zoonotic diseases, said the frequency of zoonotic disease outbreaks caused by a spillover of pathogens from animals to humans might have more than tripled in the last decade.The diversity of these pathogens has also increased with the number of new zoonotic diseases infecting people quadrupling in the last 10 years, the WWF report titled, “Covid 19—Urgent Call to Protect People and Nature” said, referring to a 2008 paper published in the Nature journal on emerging infectious diseases.“These increases are driven by more frequent contact between humans and dangerous animal pathogens, as well as by contact with a wider variety of species, resulting in the emergence of new forms of diseases in humans. These new zoonotic diseases have posed a grave threat to human health around the world, causing global pandemics such as HIV/AIDS, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), Swine Flu, Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS), Ebola and currently Covid-19,” the report said.Every year three to four zoonotic diseases are emerging.The increase in zoonotic outbreaks is a symptom of a broken relationship between humans and nature and is likely to worsen, the report said warning that ecological conditions are rife for another pandemic unless strong actions are taken such as a complete halt of wildlife trade, enforcing legislation to stop deforestation, a new deal for nature and people that safeguard biodiversity and halves consumption. It also called for the incorporation of a One Health Approach, which has shared policies for humans, animals, and the environment.The report underlined that though questions remain about the exact origin of Covid-19 by keeping different wild and livestock species in cramped conditions, the risk of genetic recombination between different viruses and transmission to new species, including humans, has increased.Improper handling of live domestic animals and their meat can also drive potential disease exposure, particularly, when these animals are slaughtered or kept along with other wildlife species. The initial Covid-19 disease outbreak is likely to have been attributed to human contact with infected palm civets and raccoon dogs at a wildlife market in China’s Guangdong province.This was substantiated by the discovery of SARS-like viruses in these animals in Chinese wildlife markets after the initial outbreak.Researchers have also found that several of the early SARS patients in Guangdong province were involved in selling or preparing wildlife for consumption, the report said.Globally between 1945 and 2005 land-use change has contributed to almost half of zoonotic disease events, WWF said, referring to findings of another scientific paper published in 2010 in the Nature journal. Extensive deforestation and fragmentation of land in West and Central Africa are linked to several Ebola outbreaks in these regions, according to WWF.Most habitat loss associated with agriculture is owing to only three commodities such as beef, soy, and palm oil.“As a result of extensive land conversion, about 70% of forests globally are now within one kilometre (km) of a forest edge and are exposed to further fragmentation. Not only forests are at risk – over half of the original Cerrado and North American grassland prairies have also been lost,” the report said calling for laws to stop the fragmentation of forests.Experts said India, which has its own rich biodiversity, also needs a One Health policy.“In a country like India, where people live cheek-by-jowl, not just with each other, but also with among the highest numbers of livestock, including both four-legged and two-legged, as well as in areas of high biodiversity. Such close proximity means that the diversity of pathogens that humans are potentially exposed to is very high. To understand the risks from these pathogens, it’s necessary for us to adopt a One Health approach, where we have to work in large interdisciplinary teams that can investigate not only human and animal health, but also the linkages with changes in the natural environment,” said Abi Tamim Vanak, fellow, Wellcome Trust and senior fellow at Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment.“It’s hard to think beyond the tragic impacts of the ongoing Covid-19 healthcare crisis. But, it’s also an opportune moment for us to act if we are to deliver a recovery that benefits both humans and nature. The challenge and opportunity before us are to begin to think of development through the lens of environmental health,” said Ravi Singh, secretary-general, WWF India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/conditions-rife-for-more-pandemics-in-absence-of-curbs-on-deforestation-and-wildlife-trade-wwf/story-78fqDzijw3Oqi9ROrqxF1N.html
17-06-2020||India||Bombay HC asks CISCE to submit exact methodology on marking for Class 10 and 12 students||The Bombay High Court has directed the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) board to place before it the exact methodology it would be adopting to address the issue of declaring the exam results of Class 10 and 12 students. The board was also asked to extend the date from June 22 for parents and students to decide whether they wanted to appear for the exams in July as per the rescheduled dates fixed by the board or opt for the internal assessment or pre-board exam marks to be declared as their class 10 and 12 results. The board has been asked to submit the methodology by Monday, June 22 and the matter has been posted for hearing on Tuesday.Also read: Delhi to get world’s biggest Covid-19 facility, the size of 22 football fieldsThe division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice SS Shinde, while hearing the petition filed by a parent and advocate Arvind Tiwari - who appeared in person through video conferencing on Wednesday, was informed that there was no clarity in the decision of the board wherein it had given two options to the parents and students to decide on how their class 10 and 12 results would be declared.The board had submitted before the court on Tuesday the two options namely —a student could appear for the remaining papers as per the revised schedule in July or they could opt for having their final results declared based on their performance in internal assessment or pre-board exams.Tiwari submitted that students had appeared for some papers and hence there was a confusion as to whether the marks of these papers and the performance of the student in internal assessment or pre-board exams would be jointly considered or the results of the papers in which the students appeared would be kept aside and only internal assessment and pre-board exam results would be considered.Meanwhile, advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni submitted that the state was empowered during the pandemic to regulate the functioning of the non-state boards and would decide on whether the board can conduct the exams as per the rescheduled dates. Kumbhakoni further submitted that the state would decide on the same after the board informed how many students were opting for the July exams.After hearing the concerns of the parents and students seeking clarity and transparency in the methodology that the board would adopt to declare results, the court directed the board to explain the exact methodology so that the parents and students could take an informed decision. The board has been asked to submit the methodology by Monday. On part of the board, senior counsel Darius Khambatta informed the court that the schools would be asked to extend the time for parents and students to decide on which option they wanted to choose and would submit the detailed methodology before the court by Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-asks-cisce-to-submit-exact-methodology-on-marking-for-class-10-and-12-students/story-NkioIUKnanaH98bghHGqWO.html
17-06-2020||India||Wife of Odia JCO killed at Galwan valley yet to know of husband’s death||Among the 20 Indian Army personnel killed during the face-off with Chinese Army at Galwan Valley in Ladakh on Monday, was Odisha’s Nandu Ram Soren, a Naib Subedar deployed in 16 Bihar Regiment.Soren, a 43-year-old Santhali tribal hailing from Champauda village of Bijatala block in Mayurbhanj district had joined the army in 1997 and was the only earning member of his extended family. “He was the youngest among us 4 brothers and used to help us financially after the passing of our parents,” said his elder brother Daman Soren.Daman said Ram’s wife Laxmi and three daughters who stay in Rairangpur town, about 3 km away, are yet to be told about his demise. “I don’t think she can bear the loss. We are dreading to pass on the news to her,” he said. Soon after news filtered in, local BJP MLA Naba Charan Majhi visited Soren’s family to console the grieving brothers.Also Read: Indian Army should give a befitting reply: Father of soldier killed in India-China border violenceNandu Ram’s senior in Bihar regiment and his native friend, Mahendra Nath Mahanta said both of them had met at Mayurbhanj six months ago when on leave from duty. Mahanta retired from 154 TA Battalion under 16 Bihar Regiment this month.“Both of us served in the same unit for about 8 years. I spoke to him two months ago when he called up. I can’t believe he is not any more. He had promised to meet me next time he visited home,” said Mahanta.Virat Kohli, Yuvraj Singh, Bhaichung Bhutia pay tribute to Indian soldiers killed in Galwan clashThe retired army man said soon after he heard about the death of Nandu Ram, he found it difficult to control his rage. “What China has done is nothing less than back stabbing. In Indian Army we are taught to look the enemy in the eye and fight. We never hit from the back. We have to teach China a lesson,” said Mahanta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wife-of-odia-jco-killed-at-galwan-valley-yet-to-know-of-husband-s-death/story-8B9brrneU2agDvoeBznOZJ.html
17-06-2020||India||Soldier, killed in Galwan Valley violence, planned to get married on his next visit home||Ganesh Kunjam, a resident of a nondescript village in Chhattisgarh’s Kanker district, last came home in January this year.The parents of the 27-year-old Indian Army soldier had fixed his wedding during that visit to Kukurtola in Bastar region of the state. Also read: Ladakh clash evokes memories of China’s brutal killing of Soviet troops in 1969He was among the 20 soldiers who lost their lives in the clash with Chinese troops in Galwan Valley of eastern Ladakh on Monday night.“In January, his parents fixed his marriage… He was going to be married on his next visit,” Surya Nevendra, a childhood friend of Ganesh’s, said.“His parents and his uncle live in a joint family. He had recently built a house and spent about Rs 10 lakh of his savings,” said Navendra.Tiharu Ram Kunjam, Ganesh’s uncle, said he got a call from an army official who told him about his nephew’s death.“He was speaking from Kashmir and said that Ganesh had got martyred on the China border. He told us to watch TV and when I switched on the TV, I got to know about three deaths, which did not include Ganesh,” Tiharu Ram said while speaking to reporters.“Ganesh has two sisters. One of them is married and another sister lives in Pune,” Tiharu Ram said and added that Ganesh had joined the army in 2011.Ganesh was in regular touch with his uncle but for the last one month, he had not made any phone calls.“Ganesh talked to me about one month ago. He told me that he going to be posted to some other place. Since then I was trying every day but was unable to contact him,” said Tiharu Ram.He said the officer who called him informed that his nephew’s body will reach Kanker by Wednesday evening.MR Ahire, Kanker’s superintendent of police, said he got the information about Ganesh’s death from his family members.“We are gathering more information. I have no official confirmation from authorities,” Ahire said.Chhattisgarh’s health minister TS Singh Deo condoled Ganesh Kunjam’s death on Twitter.“My tributes to Shri Ganesh Ram Kunjam from Kanker, Chhattisgarh who made the supreme sacrifice in Ladakh along with 20 of our brave soldiers defending our country. My thoughts are with their families in this moment of grief,” Singh Deo tweeted.The confrontation between the two armies came after tensions between India and China first flared up in early May following clashes between Indian and Chinese troops in the Sikkim and Ladakh sectors of the LAC. Both the sides have held a series of talks to resolve the six-week-long issue.Indian Army officials claimed 43 Chinese were killed or seriously injured, citing radio intercepts and other intelligence. HT couldn’t independently verify this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soldier-killed-in-galwan-valley-violence-planned-to-get-married-on-his-next-visit-home/story-YbnBRTXo92CKqglNCuCgmI.html
17-06-2020||India||Man found dead, police say he died of suicide; wife was arrested for corruption||A man was found dead in Hyderabad on Wednesday, the police said, adding that it was a suicide. He was the husband of a senior woman official of the revenue department who has been arrested in an alleged bribery case.The woman officer was arrested nine days ago by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) of the Telangana Police.The man had been staying along with his son at his sister’s place ever since his wife was arrested on June 8.“The body has been shifted to the Osmania General Hospital for post-mortem. We are yet to find out the exact reason behind his extreme step,” a police official said.The man was supposed to appear before the ACB authorities later in the day.According to the police, the man’s family members claimed that he had been in a state of depression after the arrest of his wife. During the searches, the ACB authorities found Rs 30 lakh unaccounted cash, besides jewellery from the woman’s house. She is presently in the judicial custody.Further investigation is on, the police said.If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Roshni Foundation (Secundrabad): 040-66202001, 040-66202000; ONE Life (from 11 am to 9 pm, Monday to Saturday): +917893078930 and Seva (between 9 am and 7 pm): 09441778290||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-found-dead-police-say-he-died-of-suicide-wife-was-arrested-for-corruption/story-THgn4Oh4rmH2miyyDYKWqN.html
17-06-2020||India||IIT-Guwahati develops low-cost, high-quality ‘Made in Assam’ Covid-19 kits||In order to boost testing capabilities, Indian Institute of Techonoly-Guwahati (IIT-G) has developed several low-cost and high-quality ‘Made in Assam’ Covid-19 kits.The institute has developed viral transport media (VTM) kits, RT-PCR kits and RNA isolation kits. The first lot of 20,000 VTM kits, used to keep the collected nasal and throat swab samples, was handed over to Assam government on Wednesday.“This is a very good development. Till now we were procuring all our VTM kits from outside the state. We faced some problems in sample collection during the initial lockdown phase because of paucity of VTM kits,” Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said while launching the kit on Wednesday. @IITGuwahati develops highquality affordable Sterile "SPILD" VTM, RT-PCR & RNA isolation kits. The ‘#MadeInAssam/ #MadeInIndia’ kits will spur product development & career opportunities to #healthcare professionals @DrRPNishank @SanjayDhotreMP @PMOIndia @himantabiswa pic.twitter.com/dC4ECoGxF3“This is an indigenous ‘Made in Assam’ product. We need nearly 10,000 VTM kits daily. Once they are made on a mass scale we won’t have to but from outside. Earlier each kit used to cost us Rs 206, but now we can get them for Rs 140 per unit,” he added.Due to huge demand and high price of these kits, National Health Mission (NHM), Assam, had asked IIT-G to develop them. Incidentally, the institute was already working on developing the kits, but the request from NHM speeded up the process.According to IIT-G, the VTM kit is suitable for collection, transport and long term freezer storage of the swab samples. The formulation of the transport medium helps in preserving viability of viruses for up to 72 hours (at refrigerated temperatures), said a release from the institution.“In addition to the VTM kits, we will also deliver the RNA isolation and RT-PCR kits to the Assam government. This would help in boosting large scale testing capacities and prevent spread of the pandemic,” Parameswar Krishnan Iyer, professor at department of chemistry and centre for nanotechnology, said.Assam has ramped up its testing facilities in recent weeks and nearly 10,000 tests are being conducted daily. Till Tuesday 4,511 Covid-19 positive cases have detected in the state. There have been eight deaths and 2,412 recoveries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iit-guwahati-develops-low-cost-high-quality-made-in-assam-covid-19-kits/story-VEAsSuM6WCCq6kjZdFxF2K.html
17-06-2020||India||Delhi Police detain at least 22 protesters outside Chinese Embassy||At least 22 protesters, who had assembled close to the Chinese Embassy at Chankyapuri in south Delhi on Wednesday, to protest against the death of 20 Indian soldiers, who were killed on Monday night in a violent clash between Indian and Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley, were detained by Delhi Police. While a small group of ex-servicemen, who had come to protest outside the Chinese Embassy, were asked to return, Delhi Police officials said.No one was injured in the protests, they added.The protesters started assembling near the embassy around noon.“They’re told to disperse, as no public gathering is allowed in the area. They’re detained, when they refused to obey the orders,” said a Delhi Police official, requesting anonymity.Deepak Yadav, an additional deputy commissioner of police (DCP), New Delhi, said the detainees belong to a group called the Swadeshi Jagran Manch.“At least 22 protesters have been detained. A small group of about 10 ex-servicemen had also reached the embassy to protest against the violent face-off between the Indian and Chinese troops along the LAC in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on Monday night, but they returned after we told them to disperse,” Yadav said.Vikas Chaudhary, co-convenor of Swadeshi Jagran Manch, said the protesters had assembled at Teen Murti Bhavan around 12 noon.“The protesters started marching towards the Chinese Embassy after paying homage to the 20 martyred Indian soldiers. However, they were stopped mid-way by the police, as the area was cordoned off with barricades. Photographs and effigies of Chinese President Xi Jinping were burnt as a mark of protest. There was a minor scuffle between the protesters and the police after which 22 of our members were detailed,” Chaudhary said.Security in and around the embassy has been intensified following inputs about several groups are planning to carry out similar protests.Delhi Police, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and reserved battalion have also been deployed in addition to the Diplomatic Security Force personnel, who are in charge of security of embassies and diplomatic missions in the national capital, Yadav added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-detain-at-least-22-protesters-outside-chinese-embassy/story-X8GX21EIjpG9JYO54S0FPM.html
17-06-2020||India||Army should give befitting reply to China, says father of fallen solider||The father of one of two soldiers from West Bengal, who were among the 20 personnel killed after a violent face-off with Chinese troops along the undefined Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, said the Indian Army should give a befitting reply to China.Twenty-six-year Rajesh Orang belonged to the Adivasi village of Belghoria at Md Bazar in south West Bengal’s Birbhbum district. His ailing father, mother and two sisters, the elder of whom recently got married, live in Birbhum.“I am proud of my son. My only request to the Indian Army is that they should give a befitting reply to China and avenge the killing of Indian soldiers,” Subhash Orang said.The martyr’s younger sister Shakuntala Orang, with whom he had last spoken two weeks back and his mother Mamata Orang echoed the same: “We want a the country to avenge his death. We want a befitting reply.”Chief minister Mamata Banerjee condoled the death of both the soldiers and said that the government will support the families with Rs 5 akh each and a government job to one member of the deceased’s family. West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar also condoled Rajesh’s death.It was around two weeks ago that Rajesh had called up his family members and spoke to his sister for around two minutes. He also spoke to his cousin Abhijit who stays nearby.“Mother was not at home as she had been to the bank. He asked to be stay well,” said an inconsolable Shakuntala.Rajesh joined the army in 2015 when he was in his second year of college. He was the sole earning member of his family and had recently built a pucca house, where his family presently stays. “His family got a call in which the family was informed that Rajesh was admitted in the hospital. A few hours later they again got a call in which they were informed that Rajesh had died. Since then his mother and younger sister have been crying inconsolably. They have stopped eating,” Prasenjit Malakar, a neighbour, said.The last time he came home was in September 2019. His family member said that he was planning to get married during his next visit.“He was good at sports and wanted to join the Indian Army since he was a child. He has made all of us proud. It is just that he died too early,” his uncle Nagen Orang said.Another soldier, Bipul Roy, belonged to Alipurduar district in north Bengal was also killed in the clash in Ladakh. His father, mother and brother live in at Bhatibari village of the district. The 36-year-old soldier used to live in Delhi with his wife and daughter, Roy’s family members said. He was posted in Ladakh for the past one month. “He has a five year old daughter. He came home in December 2019 and that when we last met. I am proud of him,” said Rajib, his cousin. Officials in the know the development said rival soldiers exchanged blows, threw stones at each other and Chinese troops even attacked Indian soldiers with rods and nail-studded clubs during the brawl that went on for over six hours. However, no shots were fired.These are the first Indian casualties in a border skirmish with the People’s Liberation Army since October 1975 when Chinese troops ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector and shot four soldiers dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-should-give-a-befitting-reply-father-of-soldier-killed-in-india-china-border-violence/story-bU93nNjWNi7OX9iYyLDNuK.html
17-06-2020||India||PM Modi calls all-party meeting on June 19 to discuss India-China border situation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold an all-party meeting on Friday to discuss the situation on the country’s border with China after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a face-off with Chinese troops along the undefined Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, his office said on Wednesday.Twenty Indian Army soldiers, including a commanding officer, were killed on Monday after over six hours of “violent face-off” with troops of China’s People’s Liberation Army along the undefined Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Galwan Valley of eastern Ladakh.Four Indian soldiers are in critical condition after the face-off, news agency ANI reported quoting sources. “In order to discuss the situation in the India-China border areas, Prime Minister @narendramodi has called for an all-party meeting at 5 PM on 19th June. Presidents of various political parties would take part in this virtual meeting,” the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) tweeted.The scrap came after tensions between India and China first flared up in early May following clashes between Indian and Chinese troops in the Sikkim and Ladakh sectors of the LAC. Both the sides have held a series of talks to resolve the six-week-long confrontation.Indian Army officials claimed 43 Chinese were killed or seriously injured, citing radio intercepts and other intelligence. HT couldn’t independently verify this.In first comments from the Centre, defence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday condoled the death of the 20 soldiers in Galwan Valley. “The loss of soldiers in Galwan is deeply disturbing and painful. Our soldiers displayed exemplary courage and valour in the line of duty and sacrificed their lives in the highest traditions of the Indian Army,” Singh tweeted.“The Nation will never forget their bravery and sacrifice. My heart goes out to the families of the fallen soldiers. The nation stand shoulder to shoulder with them in this difficult hour. We are proud of the bravery and courage of India’s bravehearts,” the minister added.The Congress party, including its senior leader Rahul Gandhi, have questioned the Prime Minister’s silence over the Chinese aggression.Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday demanded to know about the violent confrontation between Indian and Chinese armies.The Indian Army has said in a statement that the troops have disengaged since Monday’s confrontation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-calls-all-party-meeting-on-june-19-to-discuss-india-china-border-situation/story-VVZqgEIqgKyKbCDDcUheXM.html
17-06-2020||India||Ladakh clash evokes memories of China’s brutal killing of Soviet troops in 1969||The violent clash along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) between India and China in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on Monday night that left at least 20 Indian soldiers dead has revived memories of a conflict between Chinese and Soviet forces over 50 years ago that led to the brutal killing of 31 Soviet border guards.For old China watchers, there were several similarities between the two incidents – Chinese troops engaging in aggressive patrolling and intrusions along a disputed border, a large number of Chinese soldiers launching a brutal attack on an outnumbered adversary, and suggestions that Beijing wanted to cut a nuclear-armed opponent down to size.The build-up of Indian and Chinese troops along the LAC led to what Indian officials described as “violent face-off” on Monday night, when Chinese troops sought to alter the status quo in Galwan Valley along the LAC. Also Read: PM Modi calls all-party meeting on June 19 to discuss India-China border situationAt least 20 Indian soldiers, including the commanding officer of 16th battalion of Bihar Regiment Colonel Bikkumalla Santosh Babu (37), were killed, some brutally beaten to death by Chinese troops armed with rods and clubs wrapped in barbed wire.On the morning of March 2, 1969, Soviet border guards saw a Chinese patrol marching across the frozen Ussuri river, which formed the boundary between China and the erstwhile Soviet Union, toward a disputed riverine island called Zhenbao by the Chinese and Damansky by the Russians.A 2010 study of the incident by the Center for Naval Analyses (CNA), the US-government-funded research centre for the US Navy, said: “From the Soviet border outpost located on the bank of the Ussuri, a group of border guards, led by outpost commander Senior Lieutenant Ivan Strelnikov, was dispatched to the island to meet the advancing Chinese contingent.Also Read: All you need to know about Galwan Valley, the site of clash between India and China“At the time, such episodes were common: Soviet or Chinese border guards would patrol one of the many disputed islands, and guards from the other country would meet them on the island, claim that they were trespassing on their sovereign territory, and demand they leave. Up to this point, these confrontations had typically involved little more than shouting, fistfights, and the occasional use of clubs, sticks, and fire hoses.“On this morning, however, when Soviet border guards were within range, the Chinese opened fire with automatic weapons, killing Senior Lieutenant Strelnikov and six others at the outset.”After almost two hours of fighting, 32 Soviet border guards were dead, including one killed in Chinese captivity. The fighting continued sporadically till March 22, 1969, and a total of 58 Soviet troops – 49 border guards and nine soldiers –- were killed and 94 more were injured. Also Read: 20 Indian soldiers killed in LAC stand-off with Chinese troopsScholar Dmitri Ryabushkin of Tavrida National University, Ukraine, who compiled an account of the incident after studying Soviet documents, wrote that what military medical experts found after examining the bodies was shocking – “nineteen of the 31 men [killed on March 2, 1969] had only been wounded during the engagement, but were then summarily dispatched by the Chinese by rifle-butt blows to the head, by a point-blank shot into the brain, or most commonly, by stabbing/bayoneting in the head, chest, and neck area”.“The fact that only one prisoner…was taken and no first aid offered suggests that the Chinese soldiers were following direct orders to kill without mercy all Russians who fell into their hands,” Ryabushkin wrote.A diplomat from a country that was part of the Soviet Union, who declined to be named, said: “There were reports that most of the Soviet troops were repeatedly stabbed and killed.”As with the violent clash in Ladakh on Monday night, the Chinese side never offered any clarity on its own casualties.The CAN study of 2010 concluded there were “a still-unknown number of Chinese casualties”. Ryabushkin wrote: “As to Chinese losses, information about them is very discrepant. Chinese officials hide the true figures…”Though the Ussuri river was designated a boundary line between China and the Soviet Union by the Treaty of Peking of 1860, ownership of small, uninhabited, and strategically irrelevant riverine islands became a point of contention as tensions between the two sides grew in the 1960s. Also Read: Galwan face-off: Nyoma block chief had flagged Chinese activity in eastern Ladakh several timesSome analysts have concluded that China was possibly trying to cut India down to size for rapidly building up infrastructure along the LAC and for playing a greater role in efforts to reshape the world order, the CNA study concluded China’s decision to attack the Soviet border forces was influenced Chinese leader Mao Zedong’s efforts to teach the Soviet Union a “bitter lesson”.“For China, the attack on Zhenbao was designed to deter future Soviet provocations. The sharp downturn in Sino-Soviet relations, a significant Soviet military build-up in the border region…all convinced Mao of the need to forcibly demonstrate China’s courage, resolve, and strength in the face of what was perceived to be a looming Soviet threat. By initiating a limited attack, flexing some muscle, and killing a few Soviets, China sought to forcibly demonstrate that it could not be bullied…,” the study concluded.Indian experts believe the government should have done more to avert clashes such as the one on Monday night as the Chinese build-up had begun months ago and there was enough time to prepare a long-term strategy.Former Indian Navy chief Admiral (retired) Arun Prakash said: “This was going on for almost two months and there were already photographs of Indian troops tied up. There has to be a red line somewhere, as Indian soldiers were beaten to death.”He added, “The troops should have been given permission to use their weapons to defend themselves. There has to be a graded response to what’s happened. There was enough time for people at the top to create a long-term strategy after assessing what could be China’s likely course of action and the options available to India.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ladakh-clash-evokes-memories-of-china-s-brutal-killing-of-soviet-troops-in-1969/story-fmdjpOrNwPMmCbWqFuDWJI.html
17-06-2020||India||‘Don’t shoot the messengers’: Supreme Court tells Delhi govt over action against doctors, healthcare workers||The Supreme Court on Wednesday made strong observations against the Delhi government for taking action against doctors and health workers, who it said acted as messengers in bringing out the real picture in government-run hospitals in the Capital. “Don’t shoot the messengers. You stop registering FIRs against doctors fighting this war against Covid,” a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said.The Delhi government has been asked to file a better affidavit by Friday on this aspect on whether they have reinstated those doctors who were dismissed, withdrawn first information reports (FIRs) against doctors and payment of salaries to medical workers. The order came in a suo moto proceeding with regard to disposal of dead bodies and poor facilities in government hospitals in the national capital taken up last week. The top court had invited status reports particularly from Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu. The report of other states will also be taken up on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-shoot-the-messengers-supreme-court-tells-delhi-govt-over-action-against-doctors-healthcare-workers/story-9PC3HXgmMgHhsNzhMLLn3J.html
17-06-2020||India||All you need to know about Galwan Valley, the site of clash between India and China||A violent face-off took place between Indian and Chinese soldiers in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on Monday night in which 20 Indian soliders were killed. Defence minister Rajnath Singh issued a statament on Wednesday in which he mourned the loss of lives of 20 soldiers.In his first comments since the clashes on Monday, Singh said that the loss of soldiers in Galwan is “deeply disturbing and painful”. He also said that India will never forget the bravery and sacrifice of soldiers who displayed exemplary courage and valour in the line of duty and sacrificed their lives. Singh had briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday evening and held two other meetings with the Chief of Defence Staff and the three service chief.News agency ANI quoting sources said four Indian soldiers are in critical condition after the face-off.The US media quoted reported from its intelligence officials to say that 35 Chinese troops have been killed in the clashes.The troops fought each other with fists and rocks, people aware of the development said. Neither side fired any shots in the clash, they added.After the clash, the two sides “disengaged” from the area where the fighting happened, the army said in a statement.A protest was held outside the Chinese embassy in New Delhi on Wednesday.The stand-off at Ladakh’s Galwan Valley has escalated in recent weeks due to the infrastructure projects that India has undertaken in the recent years. India is building a strategic road through the Galwan Valley - close to China - connecting the region to an airstrip.China is opposed to any Indian construction in the area. In 1962, a stand-off in the Galwan area was one of the biggest flashpoints of the 1962 war, according to news agency Reuters.India last year abrogated Article 370 of the Constitution, thereby ending the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. It further bifurcated the erstwhile state into two union territories - Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. China was among the handful of countries to strongly condemn the move, raising it at international forums including the UN Security Council.Beijing said the move violated Chinese sovereignty but will also not change the situation on the ground as part of the area in the former state remains under Chinese control.The Indian and Chinese armies are engaged in the standoff in Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie in eastern Ladakh. A sizeable number of Chinese Army personnel even transgressed into the Indian side of the de-facto border in several areas including Pangong Tso.The Indian Army has been fiercely objecting to the transgressions, and demanded their immediate withdrawal for restoration of peace and tranquillity in the area. Both sides held a series of talks in the last few days to resolve the border row.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-you-need-to-know-about-galwan-valley-the-site-of-clash-between-india-and-china/story-dsoTEObOX3PWYO0NVNFASJ.html
17-06-2020||India||Election Commission to take strict action against candidates filing false affidavits||The Election Commission of India on Tuesday decided to take strict action against candidates filing false affidavits during the nomination process.In a meeting, chaired by chief election commissioner Sunil Arora and attended by election commissioners Ashok Lavasa and Sushil Chandra, the issue was discussed at length.“Filing of false affidavits by candidates during the nomination process, in terms of false or incomplete information, is a key challenge as it undermines the rights of voters to be fully informed about their political representatives,” the the EC said in a statement.Also read: State ECs hold mock elections, gear up for Rajya Sabha pollsAffidavits mandate that a candidate disclose any criminal antecedents, assets and liabilities and educational qualifications. Subsequently, the Commission in 2013, decided that the assets and liabilities of the candidates, as filed in their affidavits, would be verified by the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT).“The Commission has today decided to robustly address this challenge to further ensure free, fair and ethical elections in the country,” the statement said.The Commission has further decided to refer the cases to investigating authorities on a case-to-case basis.“Now, Commission has reviewed this position and decided that, in pursuit of a level-playing field, it will take cognisance of complaints, which indicate serious omission on the part of the candidate, and refer such matters to the relevant investigating authorities on a case-to-case basis,” it added.In September 2018, the EC had also asked the central government to make filing a false affidavit a “corrupt practice” under electoral law after the Congress party approached the Commission over “incomplete information” furnished by home minister Amit Shah.While the Supreme Court had earlier in the same month observed that filing a false affidavit is “in-principle a corrupt practice”, it had added that it couldn’t direct the Parliament to include it. As of now, bribery, appeal on grounds of religion, race and caste, creating enmity between people on the basis of religion, race and caste are considered corrupt practices under section 123 of the Representation of People’s Act, 1951.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-commission-to-take-strict-action-against-candidates-filing-false-affidavits/story-BH3IBb7WM0MgibQeua7rdO.html
17-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Top officials explain why Maharashtra recorded sudden spike in Covid deaths and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Maharashtra records sudden spike in Covid-19 fatalities. Top official explains whyOver 2,000 Covid-19 fatalities were added to the national death toll, taking the final figure to 11,903. This comes after Maharashtra and Delhi, two of the worst-hit states in the country, added unreported fatalities to their respective death tolls after review. Read moreAbove normal temperature in Delhi-NCR for 3 days, relief likely after June 20: IMDNational capital Delhi and the nearby areas in northwest areas will continue to experience above normal temperatures for the next three days. Read moreCovid-19: Supreme Court wants doctors to be paid full wages, says violators to be punishedThe Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the Centre to issue directions to states and union territories for complying with payment of full wages to doctors and healthcare workers. Read moreHong Kong Chief Executive urges people not to ‘demonize’ security lawHong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam said Tuesday that she hopes opponents of a new national security law being imposed by China do not “demonize and stigmatize” the legislation because doing so would mean pitting themselves against residents of the semi-autonomous Chinese territory. Read moreRishabh Pant immensely skilled but needs to be groomed: Syed KirmaniWicketkeeping has come a long way since the time Syed Kirmani – arguably India’s most skilled stumper – used to play. Back in the day, it wouldn’t matter if he didn’t score runs, but what did count was that Kirmani should bag a 100/100 when his performance behind the stumps would be assessed. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput’s home was a reflection of his love for science: ‘Made it by mending and fixing, like my career’Actor Sushant Singh Rajput perhaps loved space and science as much as he loved being an actor, if not more. Sushant, who died earlier this week, was a big fan of everything astronomical and it all reflected in the style he chose for his Mumbai home. Read moreSustainable fashion: Actress Emma Watson joins board of French Gucci owner Kering to promote slow fashionBritish actress Emma Watson, famed for playing Hermione in the Harry Potter film series, and former Credit Suisse boss Tidjane Thiam are set to join the board of French luxury group Kering as it pushes to raise its profile in areas such as sustainability. Read moreTransformation of this ‘Canadian sink seal’ into a fluffy doggie is pawsomeThis is a pawsome tale of the transformation of a ‘Canadian sink seal’ into a fluffy doggo and we bet that it will leave you amazed. Chances are many of you may also go “aww” and “wow” after seeing the change. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-top-officials-explain-why-maharashtra-recorded-sudden-spike-in-covid-deaths-and-all-the-latest-news/story-MR1bUkPoQeEGi8YGxBYH4J.html
17-06-2020||India||‘Disturbing and painful’: Rajnath Singh on 20 soldiers killed in China clash||Defence minister Rajnath Singh, in first comments by the Central government, on Wednesday mourned the loss of 20 soldiers who died in the line of duty in a violent face off with China in the Galwan Valley. News agency ANI quoting sources said four Indian soldiers are in critical condition after the face-off. “The loss of soldiers in Galwan is deeply disturbing and painful. Our soldiers displayed exemplary courage and valour in the line of duty and sacrificed their lives in the highest traditions of the Indian Army.“The Nation will never forget their bravery and sacrifice. My heart goes out to the families of the fallen soldiers. The nation stand shoulder to shoulder with them in this difficult hour. We are proud of the bravery and courage of India’s bravehearts,” the minister tweeted. The loss of soldiers in Galwan is deeply disturbing and painful. Our soldiers displayed exemplary courage and valour in the line of duty and sacrificed their lives in the highest traditions of the Indian Army.There was no word on the present situation at the border and what the casualties were on the Chinese side. Tensions between the two sides first flared up in early May following clashes between Indian and Chinese troops in the Sikkim and Ladakh sectors of the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The deployment of reinforcements by both sides led up to the face-off in Galwan Valley on Monday night that left 20 Indian soldiers, including a colonel, dead. On the Chinese side, news agency ANI reported, 43 soldiers have been killed or seriously injured, though the Indian army’s statement did not refer to this.Defence minister’s statement also comes shortly after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi sought answers from the government over the incident. Gandhi also demanded to know “why is the PM silent?” and raised questions on the Chinese aggression. “Why is the PM silent? Why is he hiding? Enough is enough. We need to know what has happened. How dare China kill our soldiers? How dare they take our land?” tweeted Gandhi. Why is the PM silent? Why is he hiding? Enough is enough. We need to know what has happened. How dare China kill our soldiers?How dare they take our land?The army statement issued on Tuesday evening said the Indian and Chinese troops at the Galwan area where they had earlier clashed “ have disengaged”. The External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said Monday evening’s violent face-off took place after the Chinese side “departed from the consensus to respect the LAC” and attempted to “unilaterally change the status quo”. New Delhi did not elaborate how the Chinese troops had tried to alter the status quo. Officials later said it could be a reference to an observation post set up by the Chinese troops on the Indian side of the LAC that was removed by Indian soldiers. The deadly clash came on a day army delegations from India and China held talks at two locations along the LAC - brigadier-ranked officers met in the Galwan Valley and Colonel-ranked officers in Hot Springs - as part of continuing efforts to resolve the standoff.These are the first Indian casualties in a border skirmish with PLA since October 1975 when Chinese troops ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector and shot four soldiers dead. HT has learnt rival soldiers exchanged blows, threw stones at each other and Chinese troops even attacked Indian soldiers with rods and nail-studded clubs during the brawl that went on for over six hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deeply-disturbing-and-painful-defence-minister-rajnath-singh-s-first-comments-on-20-soldiers-killed-in-line-of-duty-in-clash-with-china-in-galwan-valley/story-3ESry0I44DM7pHdu2tvs9H.html
17-06-2020||India||Maharashtra records sudden spike in Covid-19 fatalities. Top official explains why||Over 2,000 Covid-19 fatalities were added to the national death toll, taking the final figure to 11,903. This comes after Maharashtra and Delhi, two of the worst-hit states in the country, added unreported fatalities to their respective death tolls after review. The national capital’s death toll went up by 437 of which 93 occurred over the past 24 hours while the rest were added after a review of pending fatalities. Maharashtra added 1,409 more fatalities to its Covid-19 death toll of which 1,328 deaths were added to the tally after the reconciliation exercise. Together, Delhi and Maharashtra added a total of 1,672 deaths after reconciliation. The addition led to a spike in Maharashtra’s case-fatality rate – defined as the ratio of deaths to the total number of cases – and now stands at 4.9, against the national rate of 3.4.Also read: Why was there a sudden spike in coronavirus deaths in Delhi?Sudden spikeMumbai alone added 862 fatalities to its death toll on Tuesday with officials citing discrepancies in records filed from various counting centres, according to a Bloomberg report. All of these cases correctly recorded Covid-19 as the cause of death but weren’t integrated into the master database, it said.Why the mismatch?Bhushan Gagrani, principal secretary, the Chief Minister’s Office, blamed lack of information in private hospitals and poor record-keeping in government facilities.“The figures of the deaths have risen suddenly owing to the reconciliation of the figures. It is true that there was negligence to a certain extent at some level and it led to the mismatch in the figures,” he said. He admitted that the data was not being fed as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines, leading to the mismatch.Also read: India’s Covid-19 toll nears 12,000 after backlog data reconciled“Some private hospitals did not provide us the information in time while in some government hospitals, the records about the deaths were not kept properly. In some cases, the death certificates had the mention of Covid infection as the cause of the fatality, but in hospital records, the entry was missing. When we realised the lapses we, last week, asked all the municipal corporations and district collectors to reconcile the data on an urgent basis,” he added.Undercounting fatalitiesEarlier, health experts had warned that India was undercounting fatalities as some states used different criteria. Like elsewhere, the actual numbers are thought to be higher as testing remains limited.Tamil Nadu administration was recently under the scanner as reports of more than 250 unreported Covid-19 fatalities in Chennai surfaced. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said that the government has nothing to hide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-sudden-spike-in-covid-19-fatalities-top-official-explains-why/story-twCRShPqje5opLuzmGf4eL.html
17-06-2020||India||Odisha’s BJP MLA Madan Mohan Dutta dies of cardiac arrest||The MLA of Balasore Sadar constituency in Odisha and BJP leader Madan Mohan Dutta died of cardiac arrest on Wednesday, family sources said.He was 63 and is survived by his wife and two children.The first-time MLA was admitted to a hospital in Bhubaneswar a week ago with liver-related ailments and he died there due to cardiac arrest on Wednesday, they said.Dutta had successfully contested the 2019 Assembly elections from the constituency as a BJP candidate, defeating BJD candidate and sitting MLA Jiban Pradip Dash by a margin of 13,406 votes.He was chairman of Remuna block before being elected as an MLA and the president of the Balasore district unit of the saffron party.Chief Minister Naveen Pattanaik, Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan and Leader of Opposition in Odisha Assembly, Pradipta Kumar Nayak, have condoled Dutta’s death||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-s-bjp-mla-madan-mohan-dutta-passes-away-at-62/story-OI8FkBFTHHDfAzkrcV1YYL.html
17-06-2020||India||4 Indian soldiers injured in face-off with Chinese troops in critical condition: Report||Four Indian soldiers are in critical condition after the violent face-off with Chinese troops on Monday evening, according to sources.The violent clash started on late evening and night of June 15 in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley as a result of an attempt by the Chinese troops to unilaterally change the status quo during de-escalation in Eastern Ladakh and the situation could have been avoided if the agreement at the higher level been scrupulously followed by the Chinese side, India had said on Tuesday.At least 20 Indian soldiers were killed in the violent face-off, government sources had revealed and added that the casualty numbers could rise.Indian intercepts revealed that Chinese side suffered 43 casualties including dead and seriously injured in the violent clash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-border-face-off-4-indian-soldiers-in-critical-condition-say-sources/story-BvpzBy6m6j89j3aZfORofN.html
17-06-2020||India||Mortal remains of Col Santosh Babu arrive in Hyderabad||The mortal remains of Colonel Bikkumalla Santosh Babu (37), the commanding officer of 16th battalion of Bihar Regiment, who was killed in hand-to-hand combat with Chinese troops in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) on Monday night, will be consigned to flames at his native village Kasarabad in Telangana’s Suryapet district on Thursday, his family members said.The body of the slain Colonel will arrive in Hyderabad on Wednesday evening. However, earlier on Wednesday, Santosh’s wife Santoshi, along with their two children – daughter Abhigna (9) and son Anirudh (4) – arrived at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport at Shamshabad, located on the outskirts of Hyderabad, from New Delhi at around 9:30 am. Cyberabad police commissioner, VC Sajjanar, along with Shamshabad deputy commissioner of police, N Prakash Reddy, and other police officers received Santosh’s family members at the airport. Sajjanar expressed his grief and conveyed heartfelt condolences to fallen braveheart’s family.Santosh’s father B Upender, a retired manager of State Bank of India (SBI), could not come to the airport, as doctors have advised him to take rest because he is suffering from low blood pressure, the commissioner said.Later, the family left for Suryapet by a special vehicle, which was arranged by Telangana energy minister G Jagadish Reddy, who also hails from Suryapet.Santosh’s body will be taken to Suryapet in another special vehicle in the evening and kept at his residence for locals to pay homage.The last rites would be performed with full military honours at his native village Kasarabad on Thursday morning, the commissioner of police said.A pall of gloom descended on Suryapet town, as people in large numbers, thronged Santosh’s residence to share their condolences with the family. Many carried national flags and raised slogans like: “Santosh amar rahe,” (Long live Santosh) and “we are proud of our hero”,Police have put up barricades in Suryapet to ensure that the visitors would maintain social distancing because of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Hand sanitisers are in place and every visitor has been urged to undergo thermal screening in a bid to keep the viral outbreak at bay.Officials are trying to ensure that only close family members of Santosh and dignitaries are allowed to visit his ancestral house, as it has been cordoned off for the general public.His relatives, childhood friends, and acquaintances thronged to his residence and shared fond memories of the martyr.Minister Reddy is personally supervising the arrangements for his last rites in coordination with the Army officials. He visited Colonel Santosh’s parents and consoled them. The Telangana government assured the family all support in this hour of grief.Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao expressed shock over the Colonel’s death and said his sacrifice for the country is invaluable.The CM conveyed his heartfelt condolences to Santosh’s parents, wife, and children, and other family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mortal-remains-of-col-santosh-babu-arrive-in-hyderabad/story-lXaeDjX8zMdYsPx3q57S5K.html
17-06-2020||India||Covid-19: Supreme Court wants doctors to be paid full wages, says violators to be punished||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the Centre to issue directions to states and union territories for complying with payment of full wages to doctors and healthcare workers.The three-judge bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan directed the Centre to also issue direction to states to comply with providing accommodation to healthcare workers.The court said that any doctors or healthcare worker involved with care and treatment of Covid-19 patients must be kept under quarantine for at least a week. It asked the health ministry to issue directions by Thursday.The court also said that any violation by states will be treated as an offence under the Disaster Management Act and Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant).The court has given a month’s time to the Centre for compliance after which the hearing will take place.The top court had said last week that the country cannot afford to have “dissatisfied soldiers” in the war against the pandemic.“In war, you do not make soldiers unhappy. Travel extra mile and channel some extra money to address their grievances. Country cannot afford to have dissatisfied soldiers in this war which is being fought against Corona,” the court had said during the hearing on June 12.The bench also noted there are reports coming that in many areas doctors are not being paid.“We saw a report that doctors went on strike. In Delhi, some doctors have not been paid for past three months. These are concerns that should have been taken care off. It should not require court intervention,” it had said.On April 8, the apex court had observed that the doctors and medical staff are the “first line of defence of the country” in the battle against Covid-19 pandemic, and directed the Centre to ensure that appropriate PPEs are made available to them for treating coronavirus patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-supreme-court-wants-doctors-to-be-paid-full-wages-says-violators-to-be-punished/story-d6VUDOdZb31pCFlMOmo01H.html
17-06-2020||India||‘Brilliant guy both in studies and duties’: Col B Santosh Babu lived his dream in the Indian Army||Thirty-seven-year-old Colonel Bikkumalla Santosh Babu wanted to be with the Indian Army since he was a boy.Babu, who was one of 20 Indian soldiers killed during a “violent face-off” with China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on Monday night in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh, even completed his Class 12 from Sainik School under the ministry of defence in Andhra Pradesh’s Vizianagaram district. He then joined the premier National Defence Academy (NDA) in Pune and the Indian Military Academy (IMA) in Dehradun.The resident of Suryapet in Telangana was commissioned into the 16 Bihar regiment in 2004 and was posted in Jammu for the first time. Since then, he had been working on the borders in various locations. His father, B Upender, said he lived his ambition to join the armed forces through his son.Also read | What is China trying to achieve: 5 experts weigh in“In fact, I wanted to join the army in my student days. But somehow the family circumstances did not permit me. I realised my dreams through my son,” the 63-year-old said.Upender described his son, who was promoted as a colonel in February, as a “brilliant guy both in studies and duties”. “I never expected that he would desert us like this. But I am proud he gave up his life for the country,” he said.“I am shocked. But I am also feeling proud for my son who laid down his life in service of the country,” his mother, who was more composed than her husband, said.The colonel is survived by his mother Manjula, wife Santoshi, nine-year-old daughter Abhigna and four-year-old son Anirudh. His wife and children live in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brilliant-guy-both-in-studies-and-duties-col-b-santosh-babu-lived-his-dream-in-the-india-army/story-ftMlISJZcfMK5KflXwcUAN.html
17-06-2020||India||Above normal temperature in Delhi-NCR for 3 days, relief likely after June 20: IMD||National capital Delhi and the nearby areas in northwest areas will continue to experience above normal temperatures for the next three days.“Temperatures in Delhi-NCR region and northwest India are above normal which will continue in coming days. Maybe after June 20, the temperature will fall,” said Anand Sharma, Deputy Director-General, India Meteorological Department (IMD).“We are expecting a low-pressure system to form in the Bay of Bengal which will strengthen the easterlies and that can bring rain,” Sharma added.The weather is very uncomfortable due to humidity and heat, he added. “At isolated places in West Rajasthan, we have issued heatwave warning. Monsoon has arrived in Eastern UP yesterday, Gorakhpur has received good rainfall in the last 24 hours,” said Sharma.In its weather outlook for the coming week, the IMD said that western Rajasthan will experience sever heatwave for the next two days.It also said that deue to the advancement of the Southwest monsoon, Gujarat is likely to witness light to moderate rainfall at scattered places for the next two days.The IMD has predicted generally cloudy sky with light rain for the next four days in Ahmadabad with maximum and minimum temperature hovering around 36 degree Celsius and 26 degree Celsius respectively, while rain or thundershowers have been predicted for June 21 and 22.Fishermen have been advised not to venture out in the sea in coastal areas along the Arabian Sea.Thunderstorm accompanied with lightning and gusty wind is likely in Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, GilgitBaltistan & Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh & Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh on June 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/above-normal-temperature-in-delhi-ncr-for-three-days-relief-likely-after-june-20-imd/story-xURSpCoMdfKgVIenYXhvcJ.html
17-06-2020||India||Tamil Nadu inches toward 50,000-mark, rapidly escalating infections in Chennai: Covid-19 state tally||After Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu is the second worst-hit state in the country with over 48,000 coronavirus cases till date. Panic has gripped the capital city as more than 70 percent of cases in the state come from Chennai. Last week, chief minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said that Chennai is the largest city in the state and is densely populated owing to which maximum numbers of cases are arising from the city. In the view of a surge in Covid-19 cases, the chief minister has announced a complete lockdown in Chennai and three districts from June 19 to 30. Besides, Maharashtra continues to register more coronavirus infections with state tally jumping beyond the one lakh mark. Delhi stands third with over 44,000 cases followed by Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. India’s Covid-19 tally on Wednesday jumped to 354,065 with 11,903 fatalities till date.Also read: India’s Covid-19 toll nears 12,000 after backlog data reconciledHere’s a look at the statewise numbersWorst-hit statesMaharashtraCovid-19 tally here jumped to 113,445 on Wednesday. As many as 5,537 people have died of coronavirus in Maharashtra while 57,851 have recovered. Tamil NaduCovid-19 cases have jumped to 48,019 in the southern state. Five hundred and twenty-eight people have died of Covid-19 in the state, over 26,782 people have recovered. DelhiIn the national capital, the Covid-19 tally rose to 44,688 on Wednesday, 16,500 patients have recovered here while 1,837 have died due to Covid-19. GujaratPM Modi’s home state saw the Covid-19 rise to 24,577 on Wednesday. The state has seen 17,082 people recover from coronavirus while 1,533 people have died.Uttar PradeshThe state has reported 14,091 cases of coronavirus so far. As many as 8,610 people have recovered in the state while the death toll stands at 417.Rising numbersMadhya Pradesh saw its Covid-19 tally jump to 11,083 on Wednesday while in Rajasthan Covid-19 cases have increased to 13,216.  In West Bengal, Covid-19 cases have zoomed to 11,909. Covid-19 cases in Bihar stand at 6,650 while Andhra Pradesh has reported 6,778 Covid-19 cases till date. Karnataka has reported 7,530 coronavirus cases till date. Telangana has 5,406 coronavirus cases while in Jammu and Kashmir the tally has crossed the 5,200-mark. Haryana have sen more than 8,200 Covid-19 cases. In Odisha, cases stand at 4,163 while Assam has reported 4,319 cases till date. Punjab’s Covid-19 tally has crossed the 3,000-mark. States with less than 3,000 casesStates and Union territories where coronavirus cases are less than 3,000, but more than 500, include Uttarakhand, Ladakh, Kerala, Jharkhand, Tripura, Goa and Himachal Pradesh. Manipur, Chandigarh, Nagaland, Puducherry, Mizoram have reported under 500 Covid-19 cases or less. Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Dadra Nagar Haveli have less than 100 Covid-19 cases. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-inches-toward-50-000-mark-rapidly-escalating-infections-in-chennai-covid-19-state-tally/story-XOL9K9qpjSZx6j01DIhARN.html
17-06-2020||India||Commuters urge government to provide relief as fuel prices continue to rise||The rates of fuel have been increased again in the national capital on Wednesday causing more troubles for the commuters.With the hike in fuel prices, the petrol prices stand at Rs 77.28/litre (increase by Rs 0.55), and the diesel prices stand at Rs 75.79/litre (increase by Rs 0.69) in Delhi, according to a price notification of state oil marketing companies.“Even a one rupee increase has an effect on us. The government should not increase prices like this, they should try to stop this hike as and when they can,” a commuter told ANI here.Another customer, Naresh, at the same pump said that the hike in prices, especially during the phase when the city is trying to recover from the effects of Covid-19 induced lockdown is making it worse for the people and urged them to take immediate steps in this direction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/commuters-urge-government-to-provide-relief-as-fuel-prices-continue-to-rise/story-PPBzRrXLPrxq1xz5fRuhlJ.html
17-06-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 toll nears 12,000 after backlog data reconciled, infection tally tops 3.5 lakh||India recorded more than 2,000 deaths from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after Delhi and Maharashtra updated their figures taking the country’s toll to nearly 12,000 as the infection tally rose to 354,065, the Union health ministry’s report showed on Wednesday.According to the ministry’s Covid-19 dashboard, 10,974 fresh cases were reported from across the country in the last 24 hours and 2,003 patients succumbed to the respiratory disease. India’s death toll stands at 11,903 so far.The death toll surged after Delhi and Maharashtra took into account hundreds of fatalities that were pending review, officials have said. There are 155,227 active cases and 186,934 people have been discharged after being cured of the coronavirus disease, data showed.Also read| Nearly 12,000 deaths in 97 days: How India’s toll soared across statesThe recovery rate was at 52.79% slightly up from 52.46% on Tuesday.The surge in numbers comes on a day Prime Minister Narendra Modi will meet chief ministers of Delhi, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Karnataka, Gujarat, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh to discuss the pandemic situation.PM Modi has already held consultations with chief ministers from Punjab, Assam, Kerala, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Tripura and Himachal Pradesh among other states on Tuesday.The PM in his sixth such meeting on the pandemic between the Centre, and states and Union territories said once again that the national priority must be to protect both lives and livelihoods.“We must focus on both life and livelihood, boost health infrastructure, testing and tracing as well as increase economic activity,” he said during the virtual meeting.How the death toll roseAs of Tuesday, 83% of Covid-19 deaths in the country have been reported from the five worst-hit states of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu. The 10 worst-affected states account for more than 96% of all deaths reported in India.The country had recorded its first fatality in March when the Covid-19 infection tally was a little over 70.The first 5,000 fatalities took 80 days, the latest 5,000 deaths came in just 17 days, with more than 2,500 being reported in the last week.A 76-year-old man, who returned to Karnataka’s Kalburgi from Saudi Arabia, tested positive for Covid-19 and succumbed to the disease. It was reported on March 12.India’s case fatality rate (CFR) or the proportion of death to the total number of cases has gone up to 3.4% from 2.9% with the jump in the death toll.Also read| People with co-morbidities 12 times more likely to die of Covid: US studyIndia is the fourth worst-hit country in the world in terms of total Covid-19 cases but it has fared much better in terms of deaths where it comes on the eighth spot.Its total death trajectory is also a lot more gradual when compared to many other nations ravaged by the disease. India’s CFR is at 14% and is much lower than the global average of 56%.Worldwide, there are 8.6 million infections and 441,668 people have died till date, according to the Johns Hopkins coronavirus tracker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-death-toll-nears-12-000-after-backlog-data-reconciled-infection-tally-tops-3-5-lakh/story-S8biV1q5XMPPlbQkGDiXWO.html
17-06-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh Covid-19 tally reaches 14,091; Noida, Agra lead surge||The number of coronavirus disease cases in Uttar Pradesh reached 14,091 on Wednesday, according to Union health ministry update at 8 am.The districts with highest caseload are Gautam Buddha Nagar (Noida) - with 1,099 cases - and Agra - with 1,075 cases. The other such districts are Kanpur (over 800 in rural and urban combined), Ghaziabad (673) and Lucknow (653).Agra reported three deaths and 18 new cases reported till Wednesday morning, state health department officials said.Of the total Covid-19 affected patients in the city, 883 have recovered and been discharged.The specially appointed nodal officer state Energy Secretary M Devraj held extensive discussions with the department heads, and visited the Covid-19 hospitals. The police have, meanwhile, intensified patrolling and checking of vehicles.Noida recorded 27 new cases of the coronavirus disease till Tuesday. Thirteen people have died in the district due to Covid-19.A 29-year-old man died on Tuesday, the youngest to die due to the disease in the district. He was admitted to the private Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida.News agency PTI quoted health officials as saying that 13,682 samples have been collected so far for Covid-19 testing in the district. The recovery rate of patients stood at 50.57 per cent.Principal Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said on Tuesday that 8,904 people have recovered from the disease across Uttar Pradesh and the state has 5,259 active coronavirus cases.He said 13,966 tests were conducted in the state on Monday, adding that accredited social health activists (ASHAs) were visiting villages to trace those who have returned from other parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-covid-19-tally-reaches-14-091-noida-agra-lead-surge/story-7xNcOk3dxqHo8JGuxuWphP.html
17-06-2020||India||‘How dare China kill our soldiers?’: Rahul Gandhi demands answers over Galwan Valley face-off||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday demanded to know about the violent confrontation between Indian and Chinese armies along the undefined Line of Actual Control (LAC) at Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh.The Indian Army has said 20 of its soldiers, including a commanding officer, had been killed in clashes with Chinese troops in a major escalation of a weeks-long standoff between the two neighbours in the western Himalayas. “Why is the PM silent? Why is he hiding? Enough is enough. We need to know what has happened,” Gandhi tweeted.“How dare China kill our soldiers? How dare they take our land?” he asked.The Indian Army said in a statement that the troops have disengaged since Monday’s scrap and confirmed the number of dead at 20. Indian Army officials claimed 43 Chinese were killed or seriously injured, citing radio intercepts and other intelligence. HT couldn’t independently verify this.The immediate spark for the conflict at Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh isn’t known, although it could have been about Chinese soldiers dragging their feet about removing some of the installations they erected in May in an area India claims as its own. Anurag Srivastava, the ministry of external affairs’ spokesperson, has blamed Chinese troops for the incident and referred to the meeting between army commanders of the two sides on June 6 that agreed “on a process of de-escalation” after the two sides deployed heavily on their respective sides of the LAC, which has never been defined.Colonel Zhang Shuili, a spokesperson for the People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) Western Theater Command, in turn, blamed India for the clashes, on similar lines that the Chinese foreign ministry did earlier.These are the first Indian casualties in a border skirmish with PLA since October 1975 when Chinese troops ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector and shot four soldiers dead.No shots were fired this time.HT has learnt rival soldiers exchanged blows, threw stones at each other and Chinese troops even attacked Indian soldiers with rods and nail-studded clubs during the brawl that went on for over six hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-dare-china-kill-our-soldiers-rahul-gandhi-demands-answers-over-galwan-valley-face-off/story-JEryNJdiGaopyx6e4aydMI.html
17-06-2020||India||Shipped from India’s Telangana, 25-feet-tall Hanuman statue installed in US||Carefully crafted in India and widely worshipped in the United States, a towering statue of Hanuman was installed on Monday in the city of Hockessin- making it the country’s tallest Hanuman statue.Costing more than a whopping $100,000 for construction and logistics, Standing 25 feet tall and weighing more than 30,000 kg, this handcrafted statue has been chiselled from a single block of black granite in Warangal, a small town in southern India.The statue has been handcrafted by a number of artisans or shilpils, who specialized in the skill and It took more than a dozen of them working full-time for more than a year to carve out the installation.Donning bright orange shirts that read, “The Hanuman Project,” more than 300 families, temple devotees and resident priest organized the ten-day-long Sthapana or installation ritual.Back in January, the 25 feet tall installation Travelled from Hyderabad to New York by ship, and then by flatbed truck to Delaware, to the state’s largest Hindu temple. For the purification of the Moorty, after it arrived Nagraj Bhattar, a priest from Bangalore who has been with the Hindu Temple of Delaware performed several rituals including purification of the deity with rice grains, water and flowers beds.The priest and the devotees then performed the Puja for a Devine intervention at a time when Covid derailed so many lives. ‘“We all believe that with the moorty coming to Delaware, lord Hanuman will bring all the good things like he bought the Sanjeevani. So that was the main central focus for all devotees and the priest,” Bhattar told ANI.Once the statue was unveiled American Senator Chris Coons, New Castle County executive Matt Myer and Lt Governor of Delaware Bethany Hall-Long also stopped by to support the Indian community and seeks blessing at the Hindu Temple.The president of the Hindu Temple of Delaware association, Patibanda Sarma, says the statue was supposed to be celebrated by thousands of devotees. However, due to the coronavirus pandemic, there weren’t many gatherings of the public during the installation ceremonies, he added.In an interview to ANI, Sarma thanked everyone who made this happen with a special mention to those people of all faiths who worked tirelessly to make it happen.“It is a big tribute to all the people who handled the idol, we have been very fortunate, I must say whenever we have any contract, whether it is crane operators to lift or concrete operators to install. I am not exaggerating they take more than more care than we do ourselves very careful about handling the statue, and being respectful that’s more important,” he added.Sarma says the next step after the installation is to invite the Hindu community to come In batches and offer their prayers to the almighty and in the days to come the statue will be open to people of all faiths. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shipped-from-india-s-telangana-25-feet-tall-hanuman-statue-installed-in-us/story-HDRzuaooCi9CDrhFUJdmPI.html
17-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Petrol, diesel prices rise for eleventh consecutive day and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Petrol, diesel prices go up again. Here’s what you will have to payThe price of petrol and diesel went up for the eleventh consecutive day on Wednesday, touching the highest level since more than a year. Read moreBeijing’s Tibet plan, Delhi’s infra push possible triggers for China’s troop build-upAnalysts say there could be a host of reasons behind China’s massive troop build-up along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) that flared up into the first conflict between the sides in almost 45 years: from Beijing’s desire to tighten its grip on Tibet to anger over New Delhi’s rapid development of infrastructure in border areas. Read moreVictoria Beckham reveals how ‘insecurities’ pushed her to wear uncomfortably tight clothesSinger-turned-fashion designer Victoria Beckham says with age she has started feeling more confident and that reflects on the way she dresses up. Read moreRiddhima Kapoor Sahni says she and Ranbir Kapoor fight ‘all the time’, Neetu Singh is doing wellLater actor Rishi Kapoor’s daughter and jewellery designer Riddhima Kapoor Sahni held an Instagram AMA session with her followers on Tuesday. She answered questions about her mother Neetu Singh, brother Ranbir Kapoor and also her diet and fitness. Read moreHopes fade for T20I World Cup, brighten for Indian Premiere LeagueThe Indian cricket board has again sought a quick decision on the T20 World Cup after a Cricket Australia (CA) official said holding it this year would be ‘unrealistic’. Read moreToll collection on highways speed up after weeks of lull due to lockdown: ReportCollection at toll booths across Indian highways has started gathering momentum after a sharp decline owing to the national lockdown previously put into place which had resulted in only a trickle of vehicles moving from one part to another. Read moreWatch: Actor Gulshan Devaiah on ‘insider vs outsider’ debate in BollywoodIn the latest episode of In Focus, Hindustan Times’ senior editor Aditi Prasad discusses the issue of nepotism in Bollywood with actor Gulshan Devaiah & film trade analyst Komal Nahta after Sushant Singh Rajput’s suicide sparked a fresh debate. Watch to know more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-petrol-diesel-prices-rise-for-eleventh-consecutive-day-and-all-the-latest-news/story-dOPIXBVUYzy3P5XGBp7t0N.html
17-06-2020||India||Bengal dropped from speaker’s list, Mamata Banerjee likely to skip PM Modi’s virtual meet today: Report||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee may not attend the virtual meeting of Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the coronavirus pandemic with the chief ministers on Wednesday after the state was not allowed a spot as a speaker, reports said.The Prime Minister has been holding consultations with the chief ministers from Tuesday as the country gradually emerges out of lockdown in the backdrop of the rising number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the country.Prime Minister Modi will discuss the pandemic situation in Delhi on Wednesday along with Maharashtra, West Bengal, Karnataka, Gujarat, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. On Tuesday, he held a video conference with the CMs from Punjab, Assam, Kerala, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Tripura and Himachal Pradesh among other states.News agency PTI said Mamata Banerjee is “undecided” about participating in a virtual meeting.It cited unnamed sources from her party, the Trinamool Congress, saying that Banerjee is still undecided about attending the meeting and the state would be represented in it by a senior government official.“What is the need for attending the meeting if you are not allowed to speak ... The chief minister is still undecided about attending the meeting with the prime minister,” a senior TMC leader told PTI.The sources, PTI said, that West Bengal has been invited to the meeting but has not been slotted as one of the speakers.This has kicked off a political storm in the state with the TMC criticising the Union government and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for defending the “Centre’s decision as the right one”.“It seems the Centre’s so worried about exposing itself to @MamataOfficial’s constructive criticism on #COVID response that our hon’ble CM’s been reduced to just a mute spectator for the latest round of VCs with the PM. People of Bengal won’t forgive this,” Dinesh Trivedi, senior TMC leader and MP, tweeted.Trivedi’s remark was echoed by the TMC’s secretary general Partha Chatterjee. He said it is an attempt by the Centre to suppress West Bengal’s voice.“Just because Mamata Banerjee has been pointing out the lapses and wrong decisions in implementing the lockdown, she has been blacked out in the meeting. This is an attempt to scuttle democracy and the BJP government’s inability to face constructive criticism. We condemn it,” he said.The BJP’s West Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh supported the Centre’s decision of not giving Banerjee the chance to speak and said the state government, apart from seeking funds, has done nothing during the previous such meetings.“The West Bengal government has been a complete failure in implementing the lockdown in the state. It has been busy in blaming the central government. In previous meetings our chief minister has done nothing apart from seeking funds,” Ghosh alleged.Banerjee had slammed the central government for “playing politics” on the issue of Covid-19 by trying to shift the blame on the states during the last virtual meeting between Modi and the chief ministers.She had said the onus lies with the Centre to come out with a clear strategy for the way forward.West Bengal has reported 11,494 cases of the coronavirus disease and 485 people have died so far, according to the Union health ministry.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-dropped-from-speaker-s-list-mamata-banerjee-likely-to-skip-pm-modi-s-virtual-meet-today-report/story-3V8eAEb5EP3n9XfQlFKI8L.html
17-06-2020||India||Assam man picked up during counter-insurgency operation dies in custody; probe ordered||Authorities in Assam’s Jorhat district have ordered a magisterial inquiry after a 30-year-old man, who was picked by during a counter-insurgency operation, died in custody.Jayanta Bora, a resident of Kakodonga village, was picked up by a joint team of Indian Army and state police on Sunday night. He was declared dead on arrival later at the Jorhat Medical College Hospital (JMCH).According to district officials, a team of 244 Field Regiment of the army based in neighbouring Charaideo district and police personnel of Borholla in Jorhat carried out the search operation based on information of the presence of ULFA-I and NSCN-IM cadres in the area.During the operation, Bora, whose father is an ex-serviceman, was picked up from his residence on suspicion of being a United Liberation Front of Assam-Independent (ULFA-I) cadre.Bora was first taken to the Borholla police station where the army “reported the person was feeling uneasy”. He was first taken to the local health centre and from there to JMCH where he was declared brought dead.Alleging torture by army and police as the cause of Bora’s death, residents of the village refused to accept the body.Roshni Aparanji Korati, Jorhat’s deputy commissioner, ordered a magisterial inquiry into the incident on Monday.“We have directed the inquiry report to be submitted within 10 days. I have also written to the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to look into this incident,” Korati said while speaking to journalists.On Tuesday, three Assam police personnel were suspended in connection with the incident. The police have also registered a case and are investigating.“Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal assured that the case will be tried in a fast track court. A sum of Rs 6 lakh will be given to the deceased’s family as well as a government job to a kin,” Atul Bora, the state’s agriculture minister who visited Bora’s family on Tuesday, said.Following the incident, a meeting of the unified command comprising the army, police and administrative officials was held in Guwahati on Tuesday to discuss the security scenario in the state as well as counter-insurgency operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-man-picked-up-during-counter-insurgency-operation-dies-in-custody-probe-ordered/story-reU6bD6oe3PyxkHuA83H7M.html
17-06-2020||India||India-China border face-off at Galwan Valley: Latest developments||Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in a face-off with Chinese soldiers at the border on Monday night. Initially, the Indian Army had put the number at three, but in an update on Tuesday evening, it said that 17 soldiers who were wounded in the clashes succumbed to injuries.The face-off has been going on for weeks. It began near the Pagong Lake in Ladakh on May 5-6.This is the first deadly conflict between India and China in at least 45 years. Around 43 Chinese soldiers have been injured in the violent face-off, pushing the bilateral relationship between the two nuclear powers to an all-time low.Here are the latest developments on the India-China face-off:• The United States has said that it is “closely monitoring” the after the clashes between Indian and Chinese soldiers in eastern Ladakh. A senior State Department official said he hopes that the differences will be resolved peacefully.• The army has said that both Indian and Chinese troops have disengaged from the Galwan valley area where the clashes took place. Senior military officers had held talks in the area to defuse the situation.• In a statement, the army had said that it is firmly committed to protect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the nation.• The External Affairs Ministry said the violent face-off was the result of an attempt by the Chinese side to unilaterally change the status quo in the region. Officials later said it could be a reference to an observation post set up by the Chinese troops on the Indian side of the LAC that was removed by Indian soldiers.• The officer killed in the clash is Colonel Santosh Babu, Commanding Officer of the 16 Bihar regiment.• These are the first Indian casualties in a border skirmish with the People’s Liberation Army since October 1975 when Chinese troops ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector and shot four soldiers dead. However, no shots were fired this time.• Hindustan Times has learnt rival soldiers exchanged blows, threw stones at each other and Chinese troops even attacked Indian soldiers with rods and nail-studded clubs. The brawl went on for over six hours.• Defence minister Rajnath Singh briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the developments along the Line of Control (LAC) on Tuesday evening and also held two meetings with chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat and the three service chiefs to assess the ground situation and review options.• The situation remains tense at Pangong, which has been at the centre of the ongoing border scrap and where troops are still locked in a face-off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-border-face-off-at-galwan-valley-latest-developments/story-LxRQ4vr4g2wajNcFPOZGXK.html
17-06-2020||India||Nearly 12,000 deaths in 97 days: How India’s toll soared across states||India’s death toll from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has exceeded the 10,000-mark after nearly 100 days since the first fatality was recorded in the country in March.The country added 2,004 deaths, including the 1,672 backlogged fatalities, and 10,951 infections in its Covid-19 tally on Tuesday, taking the toll to 11,919 from 353,853 infections, according to the HT dashboard.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe country’s case fatality rate (CFR), which is defined as the proportion of death to the total number of cases, rose from 2.9% to 3.4%.The Union health ministry, which updates its data every morning, is yet to reflect the backlogged deaths.The death toll in India surged beyond the 10,000-mark after Delhi and Maharashtra took into account hundreds of fatalities that were pending review. Their toll went by 437 and 1,409 respectively. Maharashtra recorded 81 cases through the day to take its total death count to 5,537. The state has had 113,445 Covid-19 cases and the new death numbers take its CFR to 4.9% from 3.7 a day earlier.The national capital also recorded the highest number of deaths – 93 – in a 24-hour period. Delhi now has recorded 44,688 infections in all and 1,837 of the patients have succumbed to the disease. Tuesday’s reconciling of numbers takes CFR in the city from 3.3% to 4.1% in a single day.A senior official from Delhi’s health department said the jump in numbers was due to the death committee’s efforts over the last four days to go through all previous emails and add the deaths.“Some of the deaths were missed as a result of clerical and technological errors,” the official said asking not to be named.The official cited above said that most of the backlog deaths were from June.As of Tuesday, 83% of Covid-19 deaths in the country have been reported from the five worst-hit states of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Delhi, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu. The 10 worst-affected states account for more than 96% of all deaths reported in India.The first 5,000 fatalities took 80 days, the latest 5,000 deaths came in just 17 days, with more than 2,500 being reported in the last week.The first death due to Covid-19 in India was reported on March 12 after a 76-year-old man who returned to Karnataka’s Kalburgi from Saudi Arabia tested positive and succumbed to the disease.India is the fourth worst-hit country in the world in terms of total Covid-19 cases but it has fared much better in terms of deaths where it comes on the eighth spot.Its total death trajectory is also a lot more gradual when compared to many other nations ravaged by the disease. India’s CFR is at 14% and is much lower than the global average of 56%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-12-000-deaths-in-97-days-how-india-s-toll-soared-across-states/story-tSLP7x9IMebwDQ4Fo9LLGM.html
17-06-2020||India||Day 2 of PM Modi’s consultation with chief ministers on Covid-19 today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold the second round of consultation with chief ministers of various states on Wednesday, on the Covid-19 situation in the country. The meeting will take place at 3 pm.Today’s interaction will be held with chief ministers of 15 states, including Maharashtra, West Bengal, Delhi, Karnataka, Gujarat, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, and the LG of Jammu and Kashmir. These are the states where coronavirus cases are on a much higher side.However, there are reports that West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee may not attend the virtual meeting after the state was not allowed a spot as a speaker. News agency PTI said Mamata Banerjee is “undecided” about participating in a virtual meeting.The situation in national capital Delhi, which has seen a huge spike in the number of Covid-19 cases, will be discussed at length today. Home minister Amit Shah earlier held a series of meeting on the situation in Delhi - first with Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, and then with mayors of Delhi’s civic bodies.Home minister Amit Shah and defence minister Rajnath Singh will also attend today’s meeting, news agency ANI reported.On the first day of the consultations, the Prime Ministers told the chief ministers that the Indian economy was witnessing a recovery, and that “cooperative federalism” helped India deal with the Covid-19 pandemic.“We must focus on both life and livelihood, boost health infrastructure, testing and tracing as well as increase economic activity,” he said.PM Modi also said that deaths were contained to a minimum and that, with adequate precautions, India could emerge from the battle against the disease with “minimal damage”.The chief ministers provided feedback about existing health infrastructure in their states and efforts to augment the medical facilities. Tuesday’s interaction included CMs from Punjab, Assam, Kerala, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Tripura and Himachal Pradesh among other states.Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh spoke about micro-containment zones — an idea that found support from the Prime Minister. Singh said that in his state, the authorities were not sealing the entire street or an area if cases were found in a house; they were sealing only a few houses. Modi appreciated the idea and said other states could consider this model for replication.On the healthcare front, the PM said that timely decisions taken to tackle the pandemic contained the spread of the disease in India. “When India’s fight against Covid-19 will be analysed in the future, this time will be remembered for how we worked together and served as an example of cooperative federalism. We have tried to save each and every life.”In particular, he highlighted India’s lower case fatality rate compared to the rest of the world, and the recovery rate.The PM’s comments come at a time when India reported a total of 353,853 cases, with 11,919 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-2-of-pm-modi-s-consultation-with-chief-ministers-on-covid-19-today/story-NmTqP5SFceNtuYYnCog4WJ.html
17-06-2020||India||100 days of Covid-19: Pandemic presents a new political paradigm||Think back to February this year. The political lexicon of India revolved around the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, National Register of Citizens and the National Population Register; Shaheen Bagh and protests; Namaste Trump; Anurag Thakur, Kapil Mishra and violence; and an economy in decline. A little over 100 days later, examine what has animated the Indian political discourse: Lockdown; migrant workers; testing; hospital beds; inter-state movement; the Mahatma Gandhi Nation Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS); Tablighi Jamaat; eastern Ladakh; Centre-state relations; digital rallies; economic recession; and the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and its case count.It is now a truism to suggest that the pandemic has changed India, and Indian politics. But the past does not go away, and there is never — in history — a clean, new slate. But disruptive events have an ability to force transformation and throw out variables with long-lasting consequences.FIRST, RUPTURESOne, never in the history of Indian politics has public health been this significant. From testing capacity to providing personal protective equipment for health care workers, from increasing the number of beds across public and private hospitals to health services for patients with other medical conditions, public health and infrastructure has become central for the first time. What has changed is that all citizens across regions, castes, communities and classes today experience, simultaneously, the urgency of health care. Such a large collective experience cannot but have an impact on politics. Governments and parties will be judged on whether they were able to cope with the crisis; there will be louder demands for better health care; and India will need not just more doctors, but nurses, paramedical staff, and Accredited Social Health Activists (Asha workers) . Whether this translates into a longer term shift, where public services and quality of governance is the central issue in electoral debates and political discourse, is to be seen. Two, never in Indian history and politics have migrant workers been as central to public consciousness as they are today. When workers first began walking back to their villages and towns, soon after the lockdown was imposed on March 25, it was as if an invisible India appeared. In the absence of income and food, and given the deep yearning for emotional security of families and communities, tens of thousands of workers kept walking, as all public transportation had been stopped during the lockdown. The government, after 36 days of the lockdown, finally allowed their movement by buses, and then trains. This, however, was accompanied with a different set of controversies — from payment for their fares to lack of coordination between the Centre and states. The Supreme Court eventually stepped in, but its intervention was seen as coming rather late. The image of the migrant family walking back home will be the defining moment of this crisis and is a stark reflection of how the Indian State sometimes treats its poorest citizens. The scattered nature of migrant workers and their own heterogeneity made them politically weaker than usual. The weakening of trade union movements and the limited bargaining power of labour, especially in the unorganised sector, left them vulnerable.For the government, the challenge now is in providing opportunities to migrants who now want to stay home. For the opposition, the crisis presents an opportunity to channel the discontent of migrant workers. For the Indian political economy in general, the reverse migration could lead to a shift in the way labour markets operate. How migrant workers will act — will their economic identity become more important than other identity markers; will they stay home or return to the cities; will they be angry at the government or see it as a function of the pandemic — will determine political trends. Three, never in recent history has the country seen the kind of economic contraction that now seems inevitable. With the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the pandemic, factories and businesses shut down, supply chains got disrupted, company revenues went down and unemployment soared. There is a real possibility that millions of people may be pushed back to poverty. The government first announced a relief package of ₹1.7 lakh crore for the marginalised, and followed it up a month and a half later, with a cumulative ₹20 lakh crore stimulus. But the package has come under criticism for lacking a strong enough fiscal component. Economists believe that while the structural reforms announced are important, they may not solve the crisis at hand.There is a clear link between the state of the economy and politics. If distress grows, businesses continue to close down and millions find themselves deprived of basic incomes, there is a real possibility of social unrest. But if governments use this as an opportunity to rethink the nature of growth, provide immediate relief through a possible universal basic income, ramp up the welfare architecture, provide a buffer through a larger fiscal stimulus, and succeed in attracting investment, the future could be different. India’s political economy is at a crossroads. Four, never have political parties had to innovate on such a scale to continue their internal functioning as well retain their connect with people. To adhere to the norms of social distancing, large gatherings have been prohibited; even face-to-face meetings have declined. Political parties have turned to technology. The most visible symbols of this include the digital rallies that the Bharatiya Janata Party is organising across the country and the digital conversations Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is having with Indian and global thought leaders. This trend will accelerate, especially for elections. Parties will rely even more on the mobile phone to reach out to voters. Data will become even more powerful in the micro targeting of voters. Large rallies will have to give way to either virtual gatherings or very limited, localised small meetings. Normal political activity and the value of direct human interface can never be substituted. But the form of both political outreach and political communication will change. And five, never has Indian federalism been put to test as now. To be sure, India has always had a division of powers but rarely have states and the Centre had to work on a single issue, for weeks at end, together. This was most clearly reflected in the five meetings held between the PM and chief ministers (a sixth is scheduled this week). While this coordination began on a promising note, there have also been increasing differences between the Centre and Opposition-ruled states — especially on the duration of the lockdown, financial support, health protocols, and movement of migrant workers. What is clear is that the power balance that forms the basis of Indian federal arrangements will change. Some states which have performed credibly will manage to enhance their political capital; other states which have struggled will see an erosion of their power and greater central intervention. But fundamentally, this can open up a conversation on the division of powers (in terms of Union, state and concurrent lists) especially in a crisis. NOW, CONTINUITIESOne, leadership will continue to be a critical component in parties and a key basis on which voters judge parties. And on this metric, Narendra Modi still ranks above others. The structure of power between the BJP and the non-BJP parties remains tilted towards the former in substantial ways. Two, inter-community relations will remain fragile — as witnessed during the Tablighi Jamaat controversy, which was used by a section to introduce a communal element to the Covid-19 crisis.There is a clear possibility that the pandemic may reinforce existing cleavages in society and push people back to narrow, parochial identity grouping.Three, India’s security challenges will persist. As we can see with the Chinese aggression in eastern Ladakh, Pakistan’s continued efforts to create terror in Jammu and Kashmir, and now, Nepal’s decision to pass a map which incorporates territory claimed and controlled by India, the neighbourhood will remain difficult. And four, Indian institutions will remain under scrutiny. It took months for the judiciary to address the migrant crisis; the nature of investigation and arrests over the Delhi riots in February points to politics colouring independent probes; the fact that major legislations have been pushed through the ordinance route without parliamentary scrutiny speaks of the weakness of the legislature. The dialectic between the ruptures and continuities will determine India’s future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-days-of-covid-19-pandemic-presents-a-new-political-paradigm/story-ByKnMOm7C0NaZFKpjiqiyJ.html
17-06-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi writes to PM, asks for rollback in fuel price hikes||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to roll back recent fuel price hikes and pass on the benefit of reduced international crude oil rates to consumers. “(If) you want citizens to be self-reliant then do not place financial fetters on their ability to move forward,” she said.In her letter, Gandhi said the hikes came at a time when the country was facing unprecedented public health, economic and social challenges during the ongoing battle against Covid-19 pandemic. “I am deeply distressed that in these exceedingly difficult times since the beginning of March, the government has taken the wholly insensitive decision to increase petrol and diesel prices on no less than ten separate occasions,” she wrote.The letter came a day after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi criticised the government over the increase in petrol and diesel prices.The opposition party also wants that the rates of petrol, diesel and LPG be reduced to the August 2004 level. The price of petrol then was ~36.81 per litre; diesel was sold at ~24.16 per litre and LPG ~261.60 per cylinder in Delhi, it said.On Tuesday, petrol and diesel prices were hiked for the 10th straight day. Petrol was hiked by ~0.47 per litre to be at ~76.73 per litre, while diesel rates were increased ~0.57 to be at ~75.19 a litre. A petroleum ministry spokesperson declined to comment on the issue.However, an oil ministry official said on the condition of anonymity that fuel retailers enjoy pricing freedom and pair pump prices of petrol and diesel on the basis of international prices. The government deregulated the pricing of petrol on June 26, 2010 and that of diesel on October 19, 2014.Alleging that the government is earning out of the pockets of the poor by imposing high taxes on fuel, the Congress has been demanding that fuel be brought under the ambit of the Goods and Services Tax (GST).“Your government is seeking to earn an additional revenue of nearly ~2,60,000 crore by these ill-advised hikes in excise duty and increases in petrol and diesel. As it is, people across the board are facing unimaginable hardships...,” the Congress chief said.“These price increases are saddling our people with an additional burden of this enormous magnitude that is neither justified nor appropriate. It is the duty and responsibility of the government to alleviate suffering, not put the people to still greater hardship,” she added.Gandhi questioned the “logic” behind such an increase at a time when the economic impact of Covid-19 is “depriving millions of jobs and livelihood, devastating business big and small, rapidly eroding the income” of the middle class.She said it is a matter of record that despite historically low oil prices over the last six years, the government’s revenues have been massively enriched by the cumulative increase in excise duty on petrol and diesel on twelve different occasions (by an additional ~23.78 per litre on petrol and ~28.37 on diesel). Gandhi urged the Prime Minister to roll back these increases and pass on the benefit of low oil prices directly to the citizens. “If you wish for them to be ‘self-reliant’ then do not place financial fetters on their ability to move forward. And I am once again obliged to repeat what I have said before: please use the government’s resources to put money directly into the hands of those who need it in this time of severe hardship,” she said.The issue will also come up for discussion at a meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision-making body, on June 23.Later in the day, Rahul Gandhi once again attacked the Prime Minister over the issue. “PM Modi, these tragic times dictate putting money directly in the hands of the middle class and poor. STOP profiteering from their misery,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-writes-to-pm-asks-for-rollback-in-fuel-price-hikes/story-ZOCHWnHZvUnIPlMDz8WpOO.html
17-06-2020||India||US ‘closely monitoring’ India- China border issue, supports peaceful resolution||The United States on Tuesday said it is “closely monitoring” the situation between India and China after a violent face-off between troops of the two countries at the Line of Actual Control and has extended support to a peaceful resolution of the current situation.“We are closely monitoring the situation between Indian and Chinese forces along the Line of Actual Control. Both India and China have expressed a desire to de-escalate, and we support a peaceful resolution of the current situation,” a State Department spokesperson said.This comes hours after India said that 20 of its army personnel were killed in violent clashes with Chinese troops at Galway Valley at the Line of Actual Control (LAC). “We note the Indian military has announced that 20 soldiers have died, and we offer our condolences to their families. During their phone call on June 2, 2020, President Trump and Prime Minister Modi discussed the situation on the India-China border,” the spokesperson further said. Also read| A timeline: India-China’s deadliest border clash since 1975 explainedDuring the faceoff, the external affairs ministry said, both sides suffered casualties and the Chinese side had departed from the consensus to respect the LAC in the Galwan Valley.The faceoff happened on late evening and night of June 15 in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley as a result of an attempt by the Chinese troops to “unilaterally change” the status quo during de-escalation in Eastern Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-closely-monitoring-india-china-border-issue-supports-peaceful-resolution/story-3xS0DV5P0hQUyrivAPB4rJ.html
17-06-2020||India||‘Firmly committed to protect India’s sovereignty’: Army’s statement on Galwan valley face-off||A commanding officer of an infantry battalion and 19 other Indian soldiers were killed on Monday evening when a clash erupted between Indian and Chinese troops in Galwan valley of Eastern Ladakh.The Indian Army had initially said that an officer and two soldiers were killed in action. In an update on Tuesday evening, the army said 17 Indian troops who were critically injured in the line of duty at the stand off location and exposed to sub-zero temperatures in the high-altitude terrain had succumbed to injuries.Read the full statement: Indian and Chinese troops have disengaged at the Galwan area where they had earlier clashed on the night of 15/16 June 2020. 17 Indian troops who were critically injured in the line of duty at the stand off location and exposed to sub-zero temperatures in the high altitude terrain have succumbed to their injuries, taking the total that were killed in action to 20. Indian Army is firmly committed to protect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-s-releases-full-statement-on-ladakh-faceoff-between-india-china-troops/story-vF4d5995ObHFy9KRQKW2RO.html
17-06-2020||India||What is China trying to achieve: 5 experts weigh in||Vipin Narang, associate professor of political science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology:With the Indian Army now sustaining fatalities in the tense border confrontation with China, the key question is what China’s objective is. Regardless of the tactical details and the legal and linguistic gymnastics over whether China has entered Indian “territory”, there is no question that the scope, scale and swath of Chinese pressure is unprecedented and strategic. There are many hypotheses but few definitive answers: Is this about Indian infrastructure development along the DSDBO [Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldie] road? Article 370? To settle the border unilaterally on their terms through fait accompli? General assertiveness East and West? Something else? Without any definitive statements from the Chinese, we are left with much speculation. And it is when the Chinese say nothing that one should worry. The objective may become clear in due time, but one thing is clear now: The PLA came to play and they came to stay, and they are intent on making India pay.Rajiv Bhatia, former ambassador , distinguished fellow for foreign policy studies at Gateway House:China’s recent intrusions aim to serve three purposes: First, to stop or slow down India’s border infrastructure development, second, to restrict New Delhi to South Asia, thus reducing its ambitions for a global role, and three, to weaken the traction the Quad partnership has been gaining of late. Kathmandu and Islamabad are happy to lend a helping hand to Beijing on the second objective mentioned above. Our response has to be firm and resolute.Nitin Pai, director of The Takshashila Institution, an independent think tank:For Beijing, border transgressions are a cheap instrument to apply pressure on India’s political leadership. The Chinese side doesn’t tell you “why”, “why now”, and indeed what their claim actually is. By keeping New Delhi guessing as to its intentions, Beijing puts the Indian government on the back foot on lots of issues. For instance, we are now asking whether it is to pressure India to stay neutral in the WHO investigation on the origins of Covid-19, whether it is to retaliate against FDI restrictions, to coerce India on the 5G issue, to counter the Modi government’s move to change the status of Jammu and Kashmir, or indeed in response to purely military developments.Christopher Clary, assistant professor of political science at the University at Albany, State University of New York:China has a set of fuzzy claims all along its boundary with India, and the American scholar M Taylor Fravel has found that China historically has escalated militarily when it perceives steps taken by others erode the likelihood of China ever securing its territorial claims. In this case, Indian road- and bridge-building in the area, especially combined with Ladakh’s change to union territory status, may have led China to conclude a sharp signal might be necessary to arrest developments weakening its hold on disputed areas in eastern Ladakh.Harsh V Pant, head of the strategic studies programme at Observer Research Foundation:China’s actions along the LAC, which have gradually escalated in tone and tempo over the last few weeks, are a reflection of its growing military capabilities and its attempts to dictate the terms of engagement to India. First, this puts into perspective New Delhi’s inability to put its own house in order by highlighting the power differential between the two Asian powers. Simply put, China is doing this because it can today and might not tomorrow. Second, this is an attempt by China to show India its place at a time when India’s cachet has been rising globally and China’s declining on account of the backlash because of its mishandling of Covid-19. Finally, this is a pre-emptive move by China to make it difficult for India to consolidate New Delhi’s hold over strategically important Ladakh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-china-trying-to-achieve-5-experts-weigh-in/story-Jai6IGvvk7l3HrOSeVeN6O.html
17-06-2020||India||Political row erupts as Opposition takes on Centre||The Congress on Tuesday said the deaths of an army officer and two soldiers in a violent face-off with Chinese troops were “deeply shocking, horrifying and unacceptable” and alleged that the Modi government has been a mute spectator to China’s transgressions in Ladakh area since April-May this year. The party’s statements came after the initial army statement. The army, late on Tuesday night, said, “During the de-escalation process underway in the Galwan Valley, a violent face-off took place on Monday night with casualties. The loss of lives on the Indian side includes an officer and two soldiers.”The standoff between the troops of India and China in Ladakh will be discussed at a meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision-making body, on June 23.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said India has the political will and its army is fully equipped to take on any adversary and added that the borders of India will remain intact under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“During the de-escalation process that was underway in the Galwan Valley in Ladakh, a violent face-off took place with Chinese army. Indian army gave a befitting reply, but unfortunately, we have lost our three army men. I pay homage to them for their sacrifice and I can assure you that under the leadership of PM Modi, India’s territorial integrity will not be compromised,” BJP chief JP Nadda said, addressing a virtual rally for the party’s Kerala workers.In a statement, Congress party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala questioned the “silence” of the Prime Minister and defence minister Rajnath Singh on the death of the Indian soldiers.India and China are currently engaged in a military dialogue for an “early resolution” of the stand-off between their border troops that flared up in early May. Last week, the Indian army announced that the two sides started a “limited military disengagement” at three hotspots along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) – Galwan Valley, Patrolling Point 15 and Hot Springs – in eastern Ladakh, which has been the focus of the tensions. However, Indian officials confirmed the build-up of Chinese forces has extended as far as Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh. The talks continued, and were even held on Monday; that evening, the two sides scrapped violently. “To the distress and dismay of the entire nation, the Prime Minister and the defence minister remain absolutely mum. They must come forward and answer if the Chinese have killed an Indian army officer and soldiers in the Galwan valley? If true, it is indeed, deeply shocking, horrifying and unacceptable,” Surjewala said.He alleged that the Modi government remained a “mute spectator” as reports of brazen Chinese transgressions at three points into the Indian territory in Ladakh since April and May this year have caused grave concerns.“In last five decades, not a single casualty or martyrdom of our soldiers has occurred or happened on the Indo-China border i.e. LAC,” he said. “There can be no compromise with India’s security and territorial Integrity. Reports of Chinese army moving thousands of troops in Galwan valley and Pangong Tso Lake area (Ladakh) shocked the entire nation as an audacious attempt on our territorial integrity,” the Congress leader added.Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “Words cannot describe the pain I feel for the officers and men who sacrificed their lives for our country. My condolences to all their loved ones. We stand with you in this difficult time.”BJP’s national general secretary (organisaton) BL Santhosh tweeted, “…As a country it’s time to stand with our forces & Govt. Rest everything can wait.”“Indian efforts at building infrastructure in a never before scale increased Chinese worries. Our forces were resolute in forcing Chinese troops to retreat. In the process yesterday we have lost 3 brave Deshbhakt soldiers . Veer Sadgati to the departed souls . The picture on the Chinese side is yet to emerge . It is still more huge,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-row-erupts-as-opposition-takes-on-centre/story-XjPk4HljmPFEcYBGlJByUI.html
17-06-2020||India||Beijing’s Tibet plan, Delhi’s infra push possible triggers for China’s troop build-up||Analysts say there could be a host of reasons behind China’s massive troop build-up along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) that flared up into the first conflict between the sides in almost 45 years: from Beijing’s desire to tighten its grip on Tibet to anger over New Delhi’s rapid development of infrastructure in border areas.Tensions between the two sides first flared up in early May following clashes between Indian and Chinese troops in the Sikkim and Ladakh sectors of the LAC. The deployment of reinforcements by both sides led up to the “violent face-off” in Galwan Valley on Monday night that left at least 20 Indian soldiers, including a colonel, dead.“The obvious priority for the Chinese side in Galwan Valley appears to be to move the perception of the LAC to their advantage,” said one of several people familiar with developments who spoke to HT on condition of anonymity.This sentiment in New Delhi appears to have been vindicated as a statement in Mandarin issued by the western command of China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on Tuesday said: “The sovereignty of the Galwan River Valley has always been ours.”This is what China does, the people cited above pointed out: forcibly establish a military presence in a disputed region and then stake claim to it.The people said China was also irked by India’s speedy development of infrastructure, especially in recent years, in strategic sections of the LAC, including in Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh. This includes bridges and other structures along the key Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldie (DSDBO) road.But there could have been other irritants as well. “Then there’s Tibet and the Dalai Lama factor. Chinese officials have been saying for some time that India shouldn’t come in the way of their efforts to choose the next Dalai Lama. The current Dalai Lama is based in India along with the Tibetan administration in-exile and that’s always been a problem for China,” said a second person.Or it could be plain old-fashioned distraction. The people said China’s actions along the LAC could also have been aimed at countering growing criticism within the country and abroad of Beijing’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic, and the calls from several countries, including India, for an examination of the response from global bodies such as the World Health Organization (WHO) as well as a probe to identify the “zoonotic source” of the virus and the route that led to human infections.“Linking the border stand-off to the pandemic may sound far-fetched to some but President Xi Jinping has been strongly criticised within the country for his handling of the Covid-19 crisis. This stand-off could help burnish his image and also help distract attention from the blame from around the world,” said the second person.“China has also watched the role India has sought to play in shaping the post-Covid world order and they could be thinking this is the perfect way to cut India down to size,” the second person added.The people attributed the timing of the troop build-up and intrusions into the Indian side of the LAC to the preparations apparently done by the Chinese side over the winter months.“This was a coldly calculated move and there doesn’t seem to be anything spontaneous about their actions. They prepared through the winter and acted as summer set in,” said a third person.Amitabh Mathur, a former special secretary in the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW), said the time has come for the Indian government to take the opposition parties into confidence so that the political leadership could present a united stand on the border stand-off. He too said the Tibet factor could have influenced China’s actions along the LAC.“The government has to take the opposition into confidence and brief them and plan a coordinated response before things spiral further out of control.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/beijing-s-tibet-plan-delhi-s-infra-push-possible-triggers/story-tAcUN2CpZgMzewjJ3kMMXI.html
17-06-2020||India||India’s death toll soars past 10K, backlog deaths raise count by 437 in Delhi, 1,409 in Maharashtra||The death toll in India due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) soared past the 10,000-mark on Tuesday after Delhi and Maharashtra took into account hundreds of fatalities that were pending review, increasing their total count by 437 and 1,409 respectively. In all, the country added 2,004 deaths -- including the 1,672 backlogged fatalities -- and 10,951 infections in its Covid tally on Tuesday. The national capital also recorded the highest number of deaths – 93 -- in a 24-hour period. The city has now has recorded 44,688 infections in all with 1,837 of them succumbing to the disease. Tuesday’s reconciling of numbers takes case fatality rate (CFR) in the city from 3.3% to 4.1% in a single day.A senior official from Delhi’s health department said the jump in numbers was due to the death committee’s efforts over the last four days to go through all previous mails and add the deaths. “Some of the deaths were missed as a result of clerical and technological errors,” said this person, asking not to be named. Most of the backlog deaths were from June, with a few pending from before, this person said.In Maharashtra, the state recorded 81 cases through the day to takes its total death count to 5,537. The state has had 113,445 cases, and the new death numbers take its CFR to 4.9% from 3.7 a day earlier.Overall, India’s CFR rose from 2.9% to 3.4% as the country now has had 11,919 fatalities from 353,853 infections.While the first 5,000 deaths took 80 days, the latest 5,000 fatalities came in just 17 days, with more than 2,500 being reported in just the last week.The first death due to Covid-19 in India was reported on March 12, with a 76-year-old man who returned to Kalburgi in Karnataka from Saudi Arabia testing positive and succumbing to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-death-toll-soars-past-10k-backlog-deaths-raise-count-by-437-in-delhi-1-409-in-maharashtra/story-9GNbe7iMBKLsiHtByjRKCJ.html
17-06-2020||India||Covid deaths low, green shoots in economy: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday that the Indian economy was witnessing a recovery, “cooperative federalism” helped India deal with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, deaths were contained to a minimum and that, with adequate precautions, India could emerge from the battle against the disease with “minimal damage”.Speaking at the beginning of a two-day meeting with chief ministers — the sixth such meeting on the pandemic between the Centre, and states and Union Territories — the PM reiterated that the national priority must be to protect both lives and livelihoods.“We must focus on both life and livelihood, boost health infrastructure, testing and tracing as well as increase economic activity,” he said.The chief ministers provided feedback about existing health infrastructure in their states and efforts to augment the medical facilities.Tuesday’s interaction included CMs from Punjab, Assam, Kerala, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Tripura and Himachal Pradesh among other states, according to a statement.Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh spoke about micro-containment zones — an idea that found support from the Prime Minister. Singh said that in his state, the authorities were not sealing the entire street or an area if cases were found in a house; they were sealing only a few houses. Modi appreciated the idea and said other states could consider this model for replication.On the health care front, the PM said that timely decisions taken to tackle the pandemic contained the spread of the disease in India. “When India’s fight against Covid-19 will be analysed in the future, this time will be remembered for how we worked together and served as an example of cooperative federalism. We have tried to save each and every life.” In particular, he highlighted India’s lower case fatality rate compared to the rest of the world, and the recovery rate. “Despite our large population, we minimised the deaths and our recovery rate is 50%. That has become a point of discussion across the world.” He added that there is a return to normalcy with Unlock 1.0, and if all precautions are followed, the disease would cause minimal damage. He emphasised the need to maintain social distancing, wear masks and remain disciplined in the outbreak.The PM’s comments come at a time when India reported a total of 353,853 cases, with 11,919 deaths. At the same meeting, briefing the states, Rajesh Bhushan, an officer on special duty at the health ministry, said the movement of people since the opening up of travel led to the spread of the disease to 31 new districts. The number of cases, he said, increased two-and-a-half times in just the last two weeks and 59 districts in eight states had seen a surge of cases. On the economic front, at a time when international agencies and economists expect a contraction of growth, PM Modi said efforts of the past few weeks led to a revival in the economy. “We are seeing green shoots in the economy. Power consumption, for instance has increased, the sale of two-wheelers is now at 70% of pre-lockdown numbers.” The increase in the sale of fertilisers in May and increase in kharif sowing and digital payments were the other “green shoots” that could be witnessed, he said. PM Modi also highlighted the role recent reforms in agriculture sector could play in benefitting the farming community.Suyash Rai, who is a fellow at Carnegie India, said: “If you shut down the economy for three months, there is bound to be demand when you open up. We have to wait and see, however, if it is pent up demand due to the fact that you couldn’t buy anything, or it is actual recovery. So, we will have to wait for August to see if the demand stays consistent or tapers out.”A statement from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said: “They (the CMs) provided feedback about existing health infrastructure in their states and efforts for augmentation to tackle the impact of the virus. They mentioned about the awareness campaigns being run by them, help being provided to workers who have returned home, usage of Aarogya Setu app, and kickstarting of economic activities in the states.”Before the PM’s address, home minister Amit Shah welcomed all chief ministers, praising them for their efforts so far but also asking them to be cautious as they started opening up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-deaths-low-green-shoots-in-economy-modi/story-rRRyx04172UZmsU1HVK82I.html
17-06-2020||India||A timeline: India-China’s deadliest border clash since 1975 explained||India and China, on Monday evening engaged in their first deadly conflict in at least 45 years, resulting in 20 deaths on the Indian side, including that of a commanding officer, and possibly 43 casualties including injuries on the Chinese side, pushing the bilateral relationship between the two nuclear powers to an all-time low.Timeline of the weeks-long stand-off and the ensuing clash between India and China:May 5-6: Violent clash between Indian and Chinese patrols on the northern bank of Ladakh’s Pangong Tso lake. Soldiers exchange blows, throw stones at each other and Chinese troops attack Indian soldiers with nail-studded clubs. Scores of soldiers (from both sides) injured in the skirmish involving 250 men.May 9: Tensions spread to eastern sector. Heated confrontation between Indian and Chinese soldiers in north Sikkim’s Naku La area. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers injured during the face-off involving 150 soldiers.May 10: Army issues statement confirming Naku La face-off, says aggressive behaviour by soldiers led to injuries on both sides. Army officers also confirm the Pangong Tso clash.May 12: Reports of tensions building up in Galwan Valley emerge. In a statement, army reiterates “face-offs and aggressive behaviour occur” along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China as the boundary is not resolved.May 19: As tensions simmer in Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley and Hot Springs, China’s foreign ministry accuses Indian troops of trespassing across LAC, saying Beijing had to take “necessary countermeasures” after the Indian side allegedly obstructed normal patrols by Chinese troops.May 21: India strongly refutes China’s contention that tensions in the Ladakh and Sikkim sectors were triggered by Indian troops. External affairs ministry says Indian activities entirely on the Indian side of LAC and China hindering India’s normal patrols.May 22: Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane makes a low-key visit to Leh-based 14 Corps headquarters for a security review of the sensitive sector. Troop build-up and military reinforcement from both sides. May 25: China marshals close to 5,000 soldiers on its side of the disputed border in the Ladakh sector where India has also sent military reinforcements.May 27: The army’s top brass discusses security issues including the ongoing border row with China in eastern Ladakh where Indian and Chinese soldiers are locked in a standoff at multiple points.May 30: Defence minister Rajnath Singh says India and China talking to each other at military and diplomatic levels to resolve the standoff, assures the country that government will not allow India’s dignity to be hurt.June 2: In the first official acknowledgement of a troop build-up along the border with China, Singh says a significant number of Chinese troops are present along LAC and that the Indian Army is matching the neighbour’s military moves.June 6: In a rare meeting between top military officers, Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the People’s Liberation Army in South Xinjiang region, discuss de-escalation plan.June 9: Army officers say China has begun withdrawing its soldiers from three hotspots along LAC, with India reciprocating by pulling back its forces deployed in those pockets. They say “limited military disengagement” has started in the Galwan valley, Patrolling Point 15 and Hot Springs.June 10: Indian and Chinese delegations, led by Major General-rank officers, meet at Patrolling Point 14 at the Galwan Valley area as part continuing efforts to resolve the confrontation that has eased slightly with limited disengagement of forces at some LAC hotspots. This is the fourth round of talks between the two-star generals to break the stalemate.June 12: Major General-rank officers meet for the fifth time to discuss de-escalation plan and ease border tensions. Chinese deployment in their ‘depth areas’ across LAC includes more than 8,000 troops, tanks, artillery guns, fighter bombers, rocket forces and air defence radars. June 13: Army chief says disengagement of Indian and Chinese forces taking place in a “phased manner” along LAC with China where the situation is “under control”.June 15: Army delegations from India and China hold discussions again. Talks take place at two locations along the LAC --- brigadier-ranked officers meet in the Galwan Valley and Colonel-ranked officers in Hot Springs.The engagement between the two sides happens the same evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-timeline-india-china-s-deadliest-border-clash-since-1975-explained/story-9Ct6lHQKkRuXM5w2K5xmwO.html
17-06-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||On June 15, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention released a study based on studying 1.3 million cases of the coronavirus disease reported to CDC between January 22 and May 31. Of these, around 290,000 people had significant underlying conditions (the study is clear that while more may have had such conditions, CDC did not have information on these). None of these numbers is insignificant. 1.3 million is a large enough sample. So is 290,000.The study is a treasure trove of information on the people affected by Covid-19. While each population is different, there is a high likelihood that this information will also be applicable to people infected with the virus here.So, what do we know?ONE: The chances of the virus infecting men and women are roughly the same. Put otherwise, there’s an equal chance of the virus infecting men and women.But women do seem more resilient to the virus as indicated by previous research from Italy.Only one in eight women infected required hospitalisation as compared to one in six men; and one in 16 men died, as compared to one in 20 women.TWO: People over the age of 80 are the most likely to get the disease. How likely? Well, there is a 0.9% chance of someone over the age of 80 contracting the infection. The probability for the overall population is 0.4%. Interestingly, there is a 0.54% chance and a 0.55% chance of people between the ages of 40 and 49, and 50 and 59 respectively contracting the disease, higher than the chances of anyone between the ages of 60 and 79 contracting it. Children under the age of 9 have the least probability of being infected, 0.05%.The important thing is to understand these probabilities. They are not very high but also not very low — the probability of being killed in a road accident in the US is around .012%.As an aside, CDC’s study shows that the median age across these 1.3 million cases, was 48. That’s not too high. The median or the “middle” is a good statistical measure of the typical age of those infected by the disease. While 48 isn’t young, it definitely isn’t old either.THREE: Only 14% of those infected were hospitalised (this is not to be read as “needed hospitalisation” because that number will likely be higher), and around 16% or one in every six people admitted in hospitals needed ICU treatment.It’s important to note that unlike in India, where, at least in the initial stages of the pandemic’s run, even people with mild symptoms or no symptoms were admitted in hospitals, in the US, it is usually people in distress from the disease who were (and are) admitted. That could explain why 39% of the people hospitalised in the US died. But overall, only around 5% of those infected died.FOUR: Almost half (45.4%) of the people with underlying conditions — what we call co-morbidities; usually heart problems, diabetes, or lung disease, although, in India, kidney disease seems to be a co-morbidity that has a high correlation with Covid-19 fatalities — were hospitalised. In contrast, according to CDC, only 7.6% without an underlying condition were hospitalised.More worryingly, almost one in five (19.5%) of infected people who had an underlying condition died. Only 1.6% of infected people without an underlying condition died.This clearly means that reasonably healthy people, with no major co-morbidities, have a good chance of outlasting the coronavirus disease, although actuaries would still describe a 1.6% fatality rate as too high (at the level of the population, it is).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-9i3xiVrMDY0NyxvVCHFF4O.html
17-06-2020||India||UN chief expresses concern about reports of violence, deaths at LAC between India, China||UN chief Antonio Guterres has expressed concern over reports of violence and deaths at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) between India and China and urged both sides to exercise “maximum restraint,” his spokesperson said on Tuesday.A total of 20 Indian Army personnel were killed during a violent clash with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on Monday night, escalating the already volatile border standoff between the two sides, an Army statement said on Tuesday.Eri Kaneko, Associate Spokesperson for the UN Secretary-General, made the comments at the daily press briefing.“We are concerned about reports of violence and deaths at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) between India and China and urge both sides to exercise maximum restraint. We take positive note of reports that the two countries have engaged to deescalate the situation,” Kaneko said.Kaneko was responding to a question on the death of Indian Army personnel in a violent face-off in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley amid escalating tensions at the LAC.Initially, the Indian Army said one officer and two soldiers were killed. Later in the night, an Army statement said 17 more soldiers who “were critically injured in the line of duty at the stand off location and exposed to sub-zero temperatures in the high altitude terrain have succumbed to their injuries, taking the total that were killed in action to 20.” “Indian and Chinese troops have disengaged at the Galwan area where they had earlier clashed on the night of 15/16 June 2020,” it said, adding that the “Indian Army is firmly committed to protect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the nation.China has not released any information on the casualties suffered by the People’s Liberation Army soldiers during the violent face-off in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/un-chief-expresses-concern-about-reports-of-violence-deaths-at-lac-between-india-china/story-Xr7ux6j379lYNNe7j0IOOP.html
17-06-2020||India||China suffered 43 casualties in violent face-off in Galwan Valley, reveal Indian intercepts||Indian intercepts reveal that Chinese side suffered 43 casualties including dead and seriously injured in the violent face-off in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley, sources confirmed to ANI.The violent face-off happened on late evening and night of June 15 in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley as a result of an attempt by the Chinese troops to “unilaterally change” the status quo during de-escalation in Eastern Ladakh and the situation could have been avoided if the agreement at the higher level been scrupulously followed by the Chinese side, India said on Tuesday. At least 20 Indian soldiers were killed in the violent face-off, government sources said and added that the casualty numbers could rise.External Affairs Ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said earlier in the day that both sides suffered casualties in the violent face-off and the Chinese side departed from the consensus to respect the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Galwan Valley.Defence Minister Rajnath Singh held two review meetings over developments in Eastern Ladakh during the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-suffered-43-casualties-in-violent-face-off-in-galwan-valley-reveal-indian-intercepts/story-7JhOt8tC6cfC9bx3CUzrTI.html
17-06-2020||India||20 Indian soldiers killed in LAC stand-off with Chinese troops||Days after they appeared to have settled the six-weeks-long eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation between their troops along the undefined Line of Actual Control (LAC), India and China, on Monday evening engaged in their first deadly conflict in at least 45 years, resulting in 20 deaths on the Indian side, including that of a commanding officer, and possibly 43 casualties including injuries on the Chinese side, pushing the bilateral relationship between the two nuclear powers to an all-time low. The immediate spark for the conflict at Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh isn’t known, although it could have been about Chinese soldiers dragging their feet about removing some of the installations they erected in May in an area India claims as its own. The troops have since disengaged, the Indian Army said in a statement confirming the number of dead at 20. Indian Army officials claimed 43 Chinese were killed or seriously injured, citing radio intercepts and other intelligence. HT couldn’t independently verify this. Also read: Have disengaged, says Indian Army day after 20 soldiers killed in clash with PLAThe ministry of external affairs’ spokesperson Anurag Srivastava blamed Chinese troops for the incident, and referred to the meeting between army commanders of the two sides on June 6 that agreed “on a process of de-escalation” after the two sides deployed heavily on their respective sides of the LAC, which has never been defined. “While it was our expectation that this would unfold smoothly, the Chinese side departed from the consensus to respect LAC in the Galwan Valley,” he said. Colonel Zhang Shuili, a spokesperson for the PLA’s Western Theater Command, in turn, blamed India for the clashes, on similar lines that the Chinese foreign ministry did earlier.“In the evening of June 15, in the area of the Galwan Valley on the Sino-Indian border, the Indian Army, contrary to its commitments, once again crossed the LAC and carried out illegal activities, deliberately launching provocative attacks,” Zhang said in a statement issued in Mandarin.Earlier, a spokesperson for that country’s foreign ministry said that on “June 15, the Indian side severely violated our consensus and twice crossed the border line and attacked the Chinese forces”. Also read: Proud that our son gave his life for country, say parents of Col Santosh BabuExperts said the motives for China’s aggression in eastern Ladakh could be varied. “Is this about Indian infrastructure development along the DSDBO [Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldie] road? Article 370? To settle the border unilaterally on their terms through fait accompli? General assertiveness East and West? Something else?” asked Vipin Narang, associate professor of political science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. These are the first Indian casualties in a border skirmish with the People’s Liberation Army since October 1975 when Chinese troops ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector and shot four soldiers dead.However, no shots were fired this time. Hindustan Times has learnt rival soldiers exchanged blows, threw stones at each other and Chinese troops even attacked Indian soldiers with rods and nail-studded clubs during the brawl that went on for over six hours. Under an informal understanding between the two sides, evolved over years of discussions over a contentious LAC, forward troops either do not carry guns, or, if they do, keep them slung on their backs with the magazines in pouches and not clipped on. Some soldiers on both sides fell into the water. This wasn’t the first time the two armies engaged in fisticuffs or used stones and rods to attack each other in the area.In New Delhi, defence minister Rajnath Singh briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the developments along the LAC and also held two meetings with chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat and the three service chiefs to assess the ground situation and review options, defence ministry officials said. External affairs minister S Jaishankar was also present in one of the meetings.Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane cancelled a scheduled visit to Pathankot on Tuesday in the wake of the border confrontation.The Chinese army also suffered casualties in the face-off but there was no immediate confirmation of the numbers.Indian Army officials who asked not to be named said 43 may have died or been injured. They added that enhanced air activity was witnessed on the Chinese side, possibly indicating the bodies of the PLA soldiers were being lifted. The flashpoint came when the Indian soldiers removed an observation post set up by the Chinese troops on the Indian side of the LAC, officials said. The deceased included Col B Santosh Babu, commanding officer of 16 Bihar, Havildar K Palani of 81 Field Regiment and Havildar Sunil Kumar Jha, also of 16 Bihar.The army statement added that “17 Indian troops who were critically injured in the line of duty at the stand-off location and exposed to sub-zero temperatures in the high altitude terrain have succumbed to their injuries, taking the total killed in action to 20.” The army said the incident took place at a time the de-escalation process was “underway in the Galwan Valley”. It said senior military officials of the two sides met to defuse the situation.Major General Abhijit Bapat, commander of the Karu-based HQs 3 Infantry Division and his Chinese counterpart held talks at the site of the clash. The outcome of the talks was not immediately known.The ongoing border scrap began with a confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5-6. It now seems to have gone from bad to worse even as army delegations from India and China have held a series of discussions along the LAC to break the stalemate.Former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd) flagged concerns about the “serious escalation” along the LAC, saying that it reflected the heightened tensions on the ground. “This will require diplomatic intervention,” he said.The deadly clash came on a day army delegations from India and China held talks at two locations along the LAC --- brigadier-ranked officers met in the Galwan Valley and Colonel-ranked officers in Hot Springs --- as part of continuing efforts to resolve the standoff.Army chief General Naravane last week said disengagement of Indian and Chinese forces was taking place in a “phased manner” along the LAC where the situation was “under control”.Officials said limited disengagement of forces at Galwan Valley, Patrolling Point 15 and Hot Springs began after a meeting between Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the People’s Liberation Army in the South Xinjiang region, on June 6.The situation remains tense at Pangong, which has been at the centre of the ongoing border scrap and where troops are still locked in a face-off.Last month’s violent confrontations between Indian and Chinese soldiers in eastern Ladakh and north Sikkim triggered a military buildup on both sides of the LAC that stretched from Ladakh to Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh, as reported by Hindustan Times last week.The Chinese buildup began immediately after clashes between border troops in Ladakh and Sikkim on May 5-6 and May 9, and predated the June 6 meeting between Lieutenant General Singh and his Chinese counterpart.HT was the first to report on May 10 about border tensions between India and China flaring up when 150 soldiers were involved in a tense standoff in north Sikkim a day earlier. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured at Naku La during the confrontation.Scores of soldiers from the two countries were also injured near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5-6, with the scuffle involving around 250 men.“We remain firmly convinced of the need for the maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the border areas and the resolution of differences through dialogue. At the same time, we are also strongly committed to ensuring India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity,” the external affairs ministry’s Srivastava said. (With inputs from Sutirtho Patranobis in Beijing and Rezaul H Laskar in New Delhi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-indian-soldiers-killed-in-lacstand-off-with-chinese-troops/story-1qTQWKJjba6xXAKwyMh2aM.html
17-06-2020||India||Advisory urges domestic help in urban slums to stay home for now||India’s National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), which functions under the health ministry, has issued an advisory for urban slums in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, asking house helps in these areas to take a short break from work in order to ensure that neither they nor their employers catch the infection.“Any family member working as domestic help in neighbourhood should request exemption from service for a short period of two weeks so as to ensure that neither the employer nor employee acquires and spreads COVID-19. If they are required to go to work, they should practice proper hand washing with soap and water at and after work,” the advisory said.Urban areas in India, particularly slums, have been found to be most vulnerable in various surveys.The NCDC advisory said neighbourhoods should identify volunteers in order to ensure people follow home quarantine for the time specified.Health authorities will share the list of those advised to go in home quarantine with local representatives/ward members, who should be informed by the volunteers if there is any breach, according to the advisory.It said all residents should have access to soap and water for frequent hand-washing for at least 20 seconds, and local leaders need to check the spread of rumours and misinformation related to the disease. If an infection is detected in a locality, the Centre’s containment plan will be put in place, according to the document, which asked residents to cooperate with health authorities.“For communities, inadequate shelter and overcrowding are risk factors in the transmission of diseases with epidemic potential such as Covid-19. Unauthorized colonies and Jhuggi-Jhopri clusters pose a serious human problem as a huge population is living in these colonies,” the government document said.In a recent serological survey by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), about 1.89% of the population in urban slums surveyed — as opposed to the 1.09% in urban areas surveyed and 0.73% in overall population surveyed in over 20 states — showed past exposure to the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes the infection. A sero survey is conducted by testing blood samples to determine the presence of antibodies against Sars-Cov-2.According to the 2011 Census, there were 2,613 towns/cities with such settlements having a total population of 65.4 million in 13.9 million households. The government’s focus is now on containing the disease’s spread in urban areas, and to ensure the virus did not affect rural areas or green zones, which are largely unaffected at the moment.“Urban areas are densely populated that puts the population at a higher risk of contracting infection. However, we must realise that no two urban settlements are the same; so there is a need to draft a micro plan for prevention and containment keeping in mind the local conditions of the area. In Delhi, if you see, there are several types of residential colonies and each would require a specific containment plan, especially those that are more populated,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, community medicine faculty, Safdarjung Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/advisory-urges-domestic-help-in-urban-slums-to-stay-home-for-now/story-xcnTBIu1W4mn7kqKinHtsO.html
17-06-2020||India||Heartland sees decline in cases as migrants’ return slows down||Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, and Jharkhand have over the last week reported a decline in Covid-19 cases for the first time since May 1 when migrant workers left jobless by the Covid-19 pandemic started returning to their homes in larger numbers with the start of special trains for them. A bulk of the workers employed in better-off places like Maharashtra are from these four states. The return of the workers coincided with a spike in the number of infections in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, and JharkhandAs many as 356 cases daily were reported in the second week of June in Uttar Pradesh, compared to 412 in the first week of the month. “Over 500 cases were reported on Saturday and Sunday because of the results of the pending test reports. Otherwise, the rate of increase has gone down,” said principal secretary (health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad. Officials said the return of three million workers to Uttar Pradesh since mid-April caused a spike in Covid-19 cases in the state. Prasad said till June 14, there were 1.6 million migrant workers under home quarantine and only 1,455 of them had coronavirus symptoms. “Samples of those who showed symptoms have been taken,” he said.Bihar health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said the number of cases has increased but the rate of growth has slowed down. There was a 10.81% increase in the cases in the second week of June compared to about 12% in the first. “The peak of returning migrant workers is over,” said Singh, explaining the decrease. The number of cases in Bihar increased to 6,581 on June 15 from 3,923 on June 1.The railway ministry also reduced the number of special trains from June 15 because of a decrease in their demand.According to Bihar public relations department, around 2.1 million workers have returned to Bihar since May 1. Only 2,50,000 of them came in the first two weeks of June. “Most of the migrant workers, who arrived by Shramik special trains to Bihar between May 3 and June 11, have completed their mandatory [14-day] quarantine period,” said Anupam Kumar, Bihar’s public relations secretary. Anupam Kumar said only 6,082 workers were in quarantine centres as on Monday. He added they expect the cases to go down as very few workers are expected to return.Jharkhand has on average reported 50 cases daily after June 8 when it recorded the highest ever single-day spike with 187 infections. From 610 cases on May 31, the state’s tally on June 15 increased to 1,151. “The inflow of migrants was very high in May leading to a huge backlog of untested samples. As we cleared the backlog, there was a spike in cases,” said state health department’s principal secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni. “The inflow of migrants has substantially reduced... we have seen a downward trend of the Covid growth...”The number of cases recorded in Madhya Pradesh fell from 1,424 in the last week of May to 1,401 in the second week of June. Officials said it is because only 54,282 workers have returned to the state in June compared to over 300,000 in May. “...49,280 are under home quarantined and remaining under institutional quarantined,” said an official. (With inputs from Ranjan in Bhopal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heartland-sees-decline-in-cases-as-migrants-return-slows-down/story-NdRhZ9yg1y23so7mJRsAsI.html
17-06-2020||India||Travelling in trains without tickets may not attract jail term||The Railways is planning to remove provisions for imprisonment from several minor offences, making acts such as travelling without a ticket or riding on the footboard punishable only with penalties. The move, a part of Centre’s plans to decriminalise a bunch of Indian laws and provisions in order to ease the burden on courts, also involves removing offences such as begging as an illegal activity from the Railways Act of 1989. The ministry has now begun a comprehensive review of all provisions of the law and is likely to make is easier to prosecute minor violations through “compounding with the objective of preventing harassment of citizens, de-clogging the criminal justice system and promoting ease of doing business,” according to an official aware of the development. Compounding refers to the practice of using on-spot fines.“The cabinet secretary had asked all ministries to review such minor offences. We are under the process of reviewing existing laws for the ministry,” said Arun Kumar, the director general of the Railway Protection Force, the law enforcement agency with jurisdiction over the Indian railways network. It passes on suspects to the Government Railway Police (GRP) that investigates and prosecutes an offence.The security of passengers and their belongings in trains and on railway premises is the shared responsibility of the RPF and the GRP. The responsibility for arrest and prosecution for minor offences falls with the RPF. Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba had asked for the review in a letter to all ministries and departments on June 1.At present, carrying out an offence while in a train, a railway station or on railway property is punishable either by a fine, jail term or both. Among the offences that will no longer include a jail term are pulling the alarm chain for no reason, travelling without authorisation, trespassing and riding in reserved coaches. According to the official quoted in the first instance, 16 sections under the act have been identified to be diluted.Some of these are: Sections 137 (travelling without proper pass/authority), 141 (alarm chain pulling), 144 (hawking), 145 (committing nuisance), 147 (trespass and failure to desist from trespass), 157(altering/defacing pass/ticket), 159(disobedience of lawful instructions by drivers in railway area), 162 (unauthorized travel in ladies coaches), 166 (penalties for littering) and 167 (smoking in passenger area).The penalty for travelling without a ticket at present, for instance, could be a fine of up to ₹1,000 or a prison term that extends to six months.“The ministry has sought comments from railway officers for the proposal,” the official said. There are nearly 37 penal offences under Railway Act at present.According to the Railway Protection Force (RPF) the number of chain pulling incidents reported in 2019 was 55,373, while 45,784 were arrested and 43,951 prosecuted. According to National Crime Records Bureau’s crime data for 2018 the RPF registered 10,94,684 cases and crimes in railways registered by GRP stood at 1,01,638 cases registered.Law enforcement veterans said decriminalising petty crimes may not be a good idea but making them compoundable is a good move. “As a police officer I will not be in favour of decriminalising petty offences but making the offences on the spot fines and compounding the offence then and there is a good move. I support this,” said former Delhi police commissioner Neeraj Kumar. “Decriminalisation of minor offences, including those of the Railways Act is a step in the right direction. However, there are a couple of concerns - Firstly, the decision to decriminalise should be based on robust evidence-based research of the implementation of each legislation rather than blanket decriminalisation of minor offences across multiple legislations. Secondly, there are more than 350 central statutes that stipulate imprisonment. If the objective is also to unclog the criminal justice system and prisons and reduce the unnecessary incarceration of people, then the government has to look beyond these legislations focused primarily at economic offences,” said Raja Bagga, senior researcher, Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-plans-to-do-away-with-jail-terms-for-petty-offences/story-XlO3wqD4IFahwBlHPlOQuO.html
17-06-2020||India||Steroid reduces Covid-19 deaths up to a third, shows UK trial||A cheap and easily available steroid has proven to reduce deaths by up to one third in severely ill patients with the Covid-19, according to a trial in the United Kingdom that now offers one of the strongest hopes of tackling a disease that has claimed more than 430,000 lives this year. The results – described as a major breakthrough by the researchers -- were released on Tuesday by the University of Oxford. The study involved 2,104 patients who were randomly given dexamethasone and their recovery was compared with 4,321 patients getting only usual care. “Dexamethasone is the first drug to be shown to improve survival in Covid-19. This is an extremely welcome result. The survival benefit is clear and large in those patients who are sick enough to require oxygen treatment, so dexamethasone should now become standard of care in these patients,” said Peter Horby, professor of Emerging Infectious Diseases in the Nuffield Department of Medicine, University of Oxford, and one of the chief investigators for the trial. “Dexamethasone is inexpensive, on the shelf, and can be used immediately to save lives worldwide,” he added.The results were described by experts such as the UK government’s chief scientific adviser Patrick Vallance as “ground-breaking” and came on a day the Imperial College London announced it will begin its human trial for a vaccine from this week.Oxford said that it began the RECOVERY (Randomised Evaluation of COVid-19 thERapY) trial in March to test a range of potential treatments for Covid-19, including low-dose dexamethasone. Over 11,500 patients have been enrolled from over 175 hospitals in the UK. The trial also recently found that hydroxychloroquine did not lead to any significant benefits.A total of 2,104 patients randomly received 6 mg of the drug once a day (either by mouth or by intravenous injection) for ten days and were compared with 4,321 patients randomised to usual care alone. Among the patients who received usual care alone, 28-day mortality was highest in those who required ventilation (41%), intermediate in those patients who required oxygen only (25%), and lowest among those who did not require any respiratory intervention (13%).Dexamethasone reduced deaths by one-third in ventilated patients, and by one fifth in other patients receiving oxygen only, the researchers said in their statement. More details about the results were to be published soon, they added.“Based on these results, 1 death would be prevented by treatment of around 8 ventilated patients or around 25 patients requiring oxygen alone,” the university added.Experts in India agreed the finding represented a significant breakthrough. “Along with remdesivir, this is the most significant therapy for Covid-19. The Oxford study is a large study, as over 2,000 patients were randomised to receive dexamethasone, which reduced deaths by one-third in pressurised ventilated patients and by a fifth in patients receiving oxygen only. It did not benefit patients with mild disease without respiratory support,” said Dr Nirmal K Ganguly, former director general, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).The development is particularly significant because it is cheap and widely available in India. “It costs a few rupees, and is the standard of care to treat septicaemia for decades,” he said, adding that it was being used in India to treat septic shock in Covid-19 patients, an advanced stage condition when patients register a sudden blood pressure drop and fluid blood vessels develop leaks, which leads to death. “In this trial, it was given to ventilated patients and patients on oxygen before they went into septic shock, which prevented death,” he added.“But I want to caution people not to have it without medical supervision as it belongs to the cortisone family, which are steroids used to lower inflammation,” the former ICMR head said.American surgeon and public health researcher Atul Gawande said the findings were welcomed but urged that people wait for the trial results to be published in full. “It will be great news if dexamethasone, a cheap steroid, really does cut deaths by 1/3 in ventilated patients with COVID19, but after all the retractions and walk backs, it is unacceptable to tout study results by press release without releasing the paper,” he said in a post on Twitter on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/steroid-reduces-deaths-up-to-a-third-shows-uk-trial/story-ojJkKjP6txF7NGTPtyeg8I.html
17-06-2020||India||Maharashtra adds 1,328 old fatalities to its Covid death toll||Maharashtra added 1,328 old fatalities to its Covid-19 death toll on Tuesday as part of a data cleaning and reconciliation exercise that pushed the state’s tally of virus casualties past 5,000 and prompted allegations that the government was fudging disease figures.India’s worst-hit state reported 81 fatalities in the last 24 hours. The 1,328 deaths are from March and April, said a senior official from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on condition of anonymity.The state’s death toll now stands at 5,537, a little less than half of all coronavirus-related deaths in the country.The addition led to a spike in the state’s case fatality rate – defined as the ratio of deaths to total number of cases – and it now stands at 4.9, against a national rate of 3.4.The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party demanded a high-level inquiry and termed the development a conspiracy. Maharashtra also logged 2,701 more infections in the last 24 hours, taking the case tally to 113,445.“The figures of the deaths have risen suddenly owing to the reconciliation of the figures. It is true that there was negligence to a certain extent at some level and it led to the mismatch in the figures,” said Bhushan Gagarani, principal secretary.He blamed lack of information in private hospitals and poor record keeping in government facilities.“Some private hospitals did not provide us the information in time while in some government hospitals, the records about the deaths were not kept properly. In some cases the death certificates had the mention of Covid infection as cause of the fatality, but in hospital records, the entry was missing. When we realised the lapses we, last week, asked all the municipal corporations and district collectors to reconcile the data on an urgent basis,” he added.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s office said he mandated exhaustive data reconciliation last week.“On June 13, the state asked all municipal commissioners and collectors to check with all local labs and hospital on the same. The state is fighting Covid with absolute honesty and it holds transparency sacred. Data reconciliation and tally will be done every few weeks so as to ensure complete transparency.”Gagarani admitted that the data was not being fed as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines, leading to the mismatch.The Opposition alleged that the government was “covering up” death figures.Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis demanded to know what action would be taken by the state government.“ICMR and World Health Organisation have clear guidelines on recording the Covid-19 deaths, despite which the state government appointed a committee for the audit of the deaths. Was this committee to reduce the fatalities or to hid them? It is my sincere request to the state government that please don’t ignore this entire episode of criminal negligence in the name of reconciliation of numbers,” he tweeted.On Monday, he had written to Thackeray claiming that the BMC had allegedly not registered 950 Covid-19 deaths.Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said the government’s efforts to correct data should be lauded. “Today’s declaration was part of the ongoing process which will happen every month,” he added. The senior BMC official quoted earlier said the authorities were cleaning data for the past 15 days as several hospitals didn’t report deaths according to norms. “We want to be completely transparent as nothing can be achieved by hiding figures,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-adds-1-328-old-fatalities-to-its-covid-death-toll/story-JuAOfrNzo480DPl1JXvXmM.html
17-06-2020||India||People with co-morbidities 12 times more likely to die of Covid: US study||People with underlying health conditions like heart disease and diabetes are 12 times more likely to die and six times more likely to be hospitalised with severe coronavirus disease (Covid-19) than healthy patients, according to what is the largest yet analysis of patient records to understand how to save lives from the virus that has infected 823,289 and claimed 431, 541 globally (WHO report as on June 15).One in five (19.5%) people with underlying diseases died compared to 1.6% of those who were healthy, found an analysis of 1.3 million cases and 103,700 deaths in the United States from January 22 through May 30 done by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the country’s federal agency. Hospitalisations were also significantly higher in those with chronic diseases, with 45.4% of such people needing to be hospitalised compared to 7.6% with no pre-existing disease.  Of the 1.3 million cases, 14% needed hospitalisation, 2% needed intensive care, and 5% died, but the real death rate is likely to be lower because people with mild or no symptoms often remain undiagnosed, said the CDC. The chances of severe illness and death increase with age, particularly in men and people with underlying health conditions, according to the analysis.The CDC report is consistent with reports from around the world, including India, where people with other diseases had a higher risk of hospitalisation and death.  In the US, cardiovascular disease (32%), diabetes (30%) and lung disease (18%) are the most common chronic diseases among Covid-19 patients. Even among young adults below 39 years, the hospitalisation rate in the US is at least four times higher for those with underlying illnesses. Deaths are highest among people 80 years or older, irrespective of whether they had chronic illnesses, but about 50% of all deaths were in that age group with a chronic health illness.The prevalence of underlying diseases is similar between the sexes, but men with Covid-19 were twice as likely to need hospitalisation, the CDC study found. In a separate but linked study published in the journal Lancet on Tuesday, an estimated 1.7 billion people -- more than 20% of the world’s population – have at least one underlying health problem such as obesity or heart disease that put them in greater danger of Covid-19 infection.In India, close to four in five people (78%) diagnosed with Covid-19 have underlying conditions, according to an analysis of data from first 33,050 cases in India reported till April 30. Men accounted for two-thirds of cases, and half (51.2%) of all patients were over 60 years old, said the Union ministry of health analysis.The risk factors for severe Covid-19 include old age, cardiovascular disease, chronic kidney disease, diabetes, chronic respiratory disease and obesity. “Our clinical experience in India is that those at the highest risk of severe disease and death are Covid-19 patients with any two or more underlying conditions, such as hypertension and kidney disease, or diabetes and chronic lung diseases,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. In India, an estimated 54.6 million people have heart disease and 70 million people have diabetes , according to estimates based on the Global Burden of Disease Study 2017.“With testing remaining low and many sick people avoiding hospitals, there is a danger of the death certificates not recording the correct cause of death and Covid-19 being missed, which is why we must study all-cause mortality to see if overall deaths have increased during the pandemic. Also, the advantage of a young demographic is negated if chronic diseases are high in young people and the health systems are weak,” said Dr Dileep Mavalankar, director, Public Health Foundation of India, Gandhinagar.“In the West, it is easy to track of deaths from to cardiac arrests at home through 911 emergency calls, but it is very difficult to get community-level data from India, where the cause of death often goes unrecorded or it not clinically accurate. There is anecdotal evidence of more people dying at home than the total Covid-19 deaths because many, especially the elderly, are scared to go to hospitals due to corona fears, which leads to delays in treatment and avoidable death,” said Dr Ashok Seth, chief cardiologist and chairman, Fortis Escorts Heart Institute, New Delhi.In the Lancet study cited above, the authors estimate that 349 million people -- or 4% of the world’s population -- are at high risk of severe disease needing hospitalisation. The modeling used data from the Global Burden of Disease Study 2017, UN population estimates for 2020 and the list of underlying health conditions relevant to Covid-19, as defined by current guidelines. This risk varied from less than 1% in people under 20 to nearly 20% of those 70 or older, rising to 25% in men over 70 years. The Lancet study also found that twice the number of men as women needed hospitalisation. Globally, less than 5% people under the 20 have underlying health condition, which is over 66% for those aged 70 and above. Among the more mobile working age population (15 to 64 years), 23% people worldwide are estimated to have at least one underlying condition. “Our estimates suggest that age-based thresholds for shielding could play a role in reducing deaths and reducing the number of people who require hospital treatment, but the choice of threshold needs to be balanced against the proportion of people of working age affected, as well as the health and economic consequences associated with long periods of isolation,” says Dr Rosalind Eggo from the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, UK, in a statement.Along with health and other frontline workers, vaccination in the future must be prioritised for vulnerable populations, including the elderly and people with underlying conditions to save lives. “Not only should the elderly and people with chronic disease follow social distancing and protection norms, such as masks, but so must young people around them to prevent transmission of infection,” said Dr Mavalankar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-with-co-morbidities-12-times-more-likely-to-die-of-covid-us-study/story-MjafvURM5fxc4nFxmmsmlK.html
17-06-2020||India||Proud that our son gave his life for country, say parents of Col Santosh Babu||Colonel Bikkumalla Santosh Babu (37), who was killed in a clash with Chinese troops in Ladakh’s Galwan valley on Monday night, would have been spending his time with his old parents in Telangana’s Suryapet town by now, had he not been held up due to the Covid-19 pandemic.“He had been trying for a transfer to Hyderabad for a long time and it was approved in February after he was promoted from Lt Colonel to Colonel in February. But even before the formalities of his transfer were completed, the Centre announced lockdown in the country and he was asked to continue in the Indo-China border at Ladakh till further orders,” his uncle Ganesh Babu said.The news about Santosh’s death reached his parents – B Upender (63) and Manjula (58) at around 2 pm on Tuesday, leaving them in deep shock.Also read: Indian officer, two others killed in clash with PLA; casualties on both sides“We have been watching the news about clashes between Indian and Chinese troops at the border on television. But since no names were mentioned in the news, we never thought our son would be among the dead. But when I received a call from my daughter-in-law in Delhi, we realised that my son was martyred,” Upender, a retired employee of State Bank of India, told Hindustan Times.The Colonel’s family – wife Santoshi, daughter Abhigna (9) and son Anirudh (4) reside in Delhi. “He spoke to me only two days ago and told me he might get relieved in September once the Covid-19 pandemic subsides. But he has left us forever,” Upender said.Santosh’s sister Sruthi, is a homemaker. He had nurtured an ambition since childhood to join the armed forces. “In fact, I wanted to join the Army in my student days, but somehow, the family circumstances did not permit me. I realised my dreams through my son,” he said.Also read: Have disengaged, says Indian Army day after 20 soldiers killed in clash with PLAAfter the primary schooling in Suryapet, Santosh took admission in Sainik School, Korkukonda, under Union Ministry of Defence in Vizianagaram district in Andhra Pradesh, where he studied up to Class 12. Later, he joined the graduation course in National Defence Academy in Pune and then the Indian Military Academy in Dehradun. In 2004, he was commissioned into the 16 Bihar regiment and his first posting was in Jammu. Since then, he had been working on the borders in various locations.“He was a brilliant guy both in studies and duties. I never expected that he would desert us like this. But I am proud he gave up his life for the country,” Upender said.His mother Manjula was shocked but more composed than her husband. “I am shocked. But I am also feeling proud for my son who laid down his life in service of the country.”The mortal remains of Santosh are expected to be brought to Hyderabad by 9.30 am on Wednesday and would be straightaway taken to Suryapet by afternoon for cremation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/proud-that-our-son-gave-his-life-for-country-say-parents-of-col-santosh-babu/story-ZcF1A8xkxSopRA8DfCW17O.html
17-06-2020||India||7 fresh charge sheets filed in Delhi riots case||The Delhi Police in the last two days have filed seven charge sheets in seven different cases related to the north-east Delhi communal riots that claimed 53 lives and left over 400 others injured in February. While five charge sheets were filed in a Delhi court on Tuesday, the other two were submitted on Monday and Sunday, senior police officers privy to the cases said. A total of 39 persons had been arrested and charge sheeted in the seven cases, six of which were related to rioting and murders at Shiv Vihar near Karawal Nagar while the seventh rioting and murder incident took place at Khajoori Chowk. All the seven deaths were reported on February 25, the officers said.The trial of all cases related to north-east Delhi riots will be held in a special court regarding which the Delhi high court had passed an order on Monday.On February 25, a police officer associated with the cases said, a clash broke out between two communities at Shiv Vihar and violent mobs from both the sides indulged in rioting, stone pelting, firing of bullets, arson and looting and damaging of private and public property. The violence began in the morning and continued throughout the day, the officer said, requesting anonymityThree men, identified by their first names Anwar, Aftab and Salman, were killed in the clash during the morning hours. Between 5 and 10 pm, three men from the other community were also killed in the rioting. They were identified as Veer Bhan, Alok Tiwari, and Dinesh.A total of 11 people have been charged for rioting, murder, criminal conspiracy and other offences in connection with the separate murder cases of Anwar, Aftab and Salman. Twelve persons have been charged for similar offences in the murder cases of Bhan, Tiwari and Dinesh, the officer cited above said.In the Khajoori Chowk rioting incident in which a man, identified by his first name Babbu, was killed, the police have charged 16 people, for rioting, murder, promoting enmity between different groups, and criminal conspiracy, the police are learnt to have said in the charge sheet.As many as 100 charge sheets have been filed in as many cases by the Delhi Police, which registered more than 750 cases pertaining to the north-east Delhi riots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-fresh-charge-sheets-filed-in-delhi-riots-case/story-LUDA373OpTcmW0V3LwwOUM.html
17-06-2020||India||State ECs hold mock elections, gear up for Rajya Sabha polls||From mock election training sessions to isolation rooms and separate voting booths, states are gearing up for the upcoming Rajya Sabha elections in the backdrop of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The elections, to be held on June 19, will be the first major voting exercise since the pandemic. Nearly 1,000 legislators will vote across eight states — Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Rajasthan.While it is the health department of each state that is overseeing preparations, Election Commission officials, too, are extra vigilant. The commission has appointed a nodal officer in each state to ensure Covid-19 guidelines are strictly followed.In Madhya Pradesh, where one MLA has tested positive for Covid-19, a health team will be present in the secretariat in case of medical emergencies.“The MLA will be brought in last to vote,” an Election Commission official told HT on the condition of anonymity. “A separate polling booth is planned for the MLA, and all the elections officials present (when the MLA comes to the booth) will be wearing PPE (personal protective equipment) suits. The MLA, too, will be in PPE and will travel by ambulance, which will be sanitised properly.”In Gujarat, where three MLAs have tested positive, discussions are still on to “finalise the arrangements”, additional chief electoral officer Ashok Manek said.Amit Chavda, the Congress’s Gujarat president and a legislator, said the party has requested the poll watchdog to make separate arrangements for MLAs who have tested positive.Officials in other states, too, are on alert.In Andhra Pradesh, a special health team will be present to tackle exigencies, if any. “The polling staff will wear PPE suits and a separate isolation room has been created for emergencies,” said chief electoral officer (CEO) K Vijayanand. “Although there are no cases as yet, we are making sure we are prepared.”MLAs will be provided with a mask and sanitizer upon arrival. In case an MLA is quarantined before the election, a sanitised vehicle will be provided for her/his travel and s/he will voted in a separate room, Vijayanand added.In Meghalaya, along with sanitizer and mask, MLAs will also be provided a booklet on Covid-19 guidelines containing the dos and don’ts. “Holding room, medical room in case of medical eventualities have been arranged, and a contingency plan for alternative location has also been drawn up,” CEO F Kharkongor said.Manipur CEO Prashant Kumar Singh, too, said the state will release a detailed booklet on preventive measures. “The officials will wear face shields,” Singh added.In Rajasthan, a larger polling booth has been made and a dispensary set up. “A medical team will be present, and in case anyone shows signs of Covid-19, they will be taken directly to the dispensary,” Rajasthan CEO Arun Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-ecs-hold-mock-elections-gear-up-for-rajya-sabha-polls/story-nfPtpk09qxVXIlTUOsy00N.html
17-06-2020||India||Monsoon may reach Delhi earlier this year, says IMD||The monsoon has advanced well and reached parts of northwest India on Tuesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said, and added it is expected to arrive in Delhi earlier than the normal date of June 27. It has covered areas of eastern Uttar Pradesh, western and eastern Madhya Pradesh, IMD said.IMD scientists said they will confirm the arrival of monsoon in Delhi depending on how favourable the conditions are for its advancement over the next four to five days. “It will be humid and hot with maximum temperature ranging from 40 to 43 degree C in most parts of northwest India including Delhi. But there will be no heat wave condition. We are expecting the monsoon to pick up again from June 19 due to the formation of a low-pressure system and advance towards western Uttar Pradesh,” said Regional Weather Forecasting Centre head Kuldeep Shrivastava. He said the monsoon could even reach the Delhi suburb of Noida around June 19 or 20. Shrivastava, however, underlined that the department cannot say if the monsoon arrival in Delhi can be announced immediately.The monsoon arrives in Kerala in June before it covers other parts of the country and starts to retreat by September. It delivers about 70% of India’s annual rainfall. The monsoon is crucial to the cultivation of rice, wheat, sugarcane and soybeans in the country where farming accounts for about 15% of the economy but employs over half of its people. The monsoon is also important for restocking reservoirs and replenishing groundwater.Monsoon rains lasted longer last year and triggered floods even as it started with the driest June in five years and below-average precipitation in July. IMD said the monsoon was passing through Kandla and Ahmedabad (Gujarat), Indore, Raisen, and Khajuraho (Madhya Pradesh) and Fatehpur and Bahraich in Uttar Pradesh, where it has reached at least five days in advance. It added the monsoon, was, however, on a normal track. National Weather Forecasting Centre head K Sathi Devi said the monsoon had advanced very well so far with help from a low-pressure area, which developed over the Bay of Bengal last week. “The low-pressure system moved inland from the Odisha coast and helped the monsoon advance, bringing a lot of rain. Another low-pressure system is likely to develop over the north Bay of Bengal on June 19. These low-pressure systems move west northwestwards. If they do develop, they will strengthen the monsoon and help it advance further.”IMD said the low-pressure system, which helped the monsoon flow advance, has weakened now. So, there is unlikely to be any rain in northwest India over the next three days, it added.It said heavy to very heavy rain is likely in Konkan, Goa and over central Maharashtra during the next two days. IMD said the rainfall intensity over eastern India is likely to increase and heavy to very rainfall is likely over the region, including sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim in the next two days. There will be widespread rain in Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura and Mizoram during the next five days, IMD’s Tuesday bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-may-reach-delhi-earlier-this-year-says-imd/story-gjBdF5zuA6tLBp327eoC2H.html
17-06-2020||India||China dumping key medicine in India||The government has found sufficient evidence that China is dumping a key medicine -- ciprofloxacin hydrochloride -- below cost in the Indian market and hurting the domestic pharmaceutical industry, two officials aware of the development said.The medicine is used to treat bacterial infections, including skin, bone, respiratory and urinary tract infections, and certain types of diarrhoea.After a thorough investigation, the government has found that the volume of ciprofloxacin hydrochloride imported from China has increased significantly and at a pace that is undercutting prices in the domestic industry, the officials cited above said, requesting anonymity. China alone accounts for about 98% of the total Indian imports of the medicine. “Domestic medicine had a price disadvantage of up to $3.3 per kg over Chinese products,” an official of a pharmaceutical association said on condition of anonymity. Even as domestic manufacturing capacity of the medicine has increased, actual production and sales of local industry have declined and the market share of Chinese ciprofloxacin hydrochloride in India has increased, causing losses to the Indian pharma industry, the officials said.“DGTR (Directorate General of Trade Remedies) on June 15 provisionally concluded that the domestic industry has suffered material injury and its preliminary findings favoured the imposition of an anti-dumping duty on Chinese import,” one of the officials said. DGTR may take a final view on the matter after hearing all interested parties again next month, he added.DGTR, previously known as the Directorate General of Anti-dumping and Allied Duties, is an arm of the ministry of commerce and industry and acts as a single-window agency providing a level playing field to domestic industry against unfair trade practices.The finance ministry will consider imposing an anti-dumping duty on the Chinese medicine if DGTR recommends such a step, the second official cited above said. DGTR had initiated the investigation against the dumping of ciprofloxacin hydrochloride from Chine in January after domestic manufacturers accused the neighbouring country of engaging in an unfair trade practice.Dumping is an unfair trade practice that entails the export of a product at a price lower than its value and is countered by a punitive duty, which is an acceptable measure under multilateral trade agreements, the second official said.Complaints have been received by domestic industry that China was dumping several products . All such complaints are being investigated, he said.HT reported on May 11 that India could extend anti-dumping duties and safeguards on more than two dozen Chinese goods ranging from calculators and USB drives to steel, solar cells and Vitamin E amid concern that a flood of imports would kill domestic manufacturers who will lose duty protection soon against such products. Anti-dumping duties on these products were imposed five years ago and are expiring this year.India has taken a tough position against unfair Chinese trade practices as it is committed to protecting domestic industry under the government’s Make in India campaign, the officials said. India-China bilateral trade is heavily tilted in favour of China. According to trade figures released by the General Administration of Customs of China (GACC) in mid-January 2020, India’s trade deficit with China was $56.77 billion in 2019; bilateral trade amounted to about $92.68 billion last year, a 1.6% annual increase.“Dumping of goods below their actual cost harms the domestic industry, and anti-dumping duty is one of the means to protect local manufacturing from such unfair trade practices,” Indian Drug Manufacturers’ Association (IDMA) executive director Ashok Madan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-dumping-key-medicine-in-india/story-cJvksOZZ1RZPLvVInllnaO.html
17-06-2020||India||India, China troops have disengaged at Galwan, says army on clash that killed 20||Twenty Indian soldiers including the commanding officer of an infantry battalion were killed on Monday evening in a clash with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan valley where soldiers of the two countries have been locked in a tense stand-off for 40 days, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times.In its initial statement early on Tuesday, the army had announced that an officer and two soldiers had been killed in action. By evening, an update by the army said 17 Indian troops who were critically injured in the line of duty at the stand off location and exposed to sub-zero temperatures in the high-altitude terrain had succumbed to injuries.The army statement issued on Tuesday evening also said the Indian and Chinese troops at the Galwan area where they had earlier clashed “ have disengaged”.The Chinese army also suffered casualties in the face-off but there was no immediate confirmation of the numbers. The army statement came hours after the external affairs ministry rebutted the China that pointed fingers at Indian soldiers for provoking the clash. External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said Monday evening’s violent face-off took place in Galwan valley where the Chinese side “departed from the consensus to respect the LAC (Line of Actual Control)” and attempted to “unilaterally change the status quo”.Also Read: India blames China for violent face-off in eastern Ladakh, says PLA tried to change status quoThe external ministry ministry did not elaborate how the Chinese troops had tried to alter the status quo. Officials later said it could be a reference to an observation post set up by the Chinese troops on the Indian side of the LAC that was removed by Indian soldiers. These are the first Indian casualties in a border skirmish with the People’s Liberation Army since October 1975 when Chinese troops ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector and shot four soldiers dead.However, no shots were fired this time.Hindustan Times has learnt rival soldiers exchanged blows, threw stones at each other and Chinese troops even attacked Indian soldiers with rods and nail-studded clubs during the brawl that went on for over six hours. However, this wasn’t the first time the two armies engaged in fisticuffs or used stones and rods to attack each other in the area.The ongoing border scrap began with a confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5-6. The border row appears to have turned from bad to worse even as army delegations from India and China have held a series of discussions along the LAC to break the stalemate.The deadly clash came on a day army delegations from India and China held talks at two locations along the LAC - brigadier-ranked officers met in the Galwan Valley and Colonel-ranked officers in Hot Springs - as part of continuing efforts to resolve the standoff.As news of the border clash reached New Delhi last evening, Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane cancelled a scheduled visit to Pathankot and spent most of Tuesday at strategy meetings in New Delhi. Defence minister Rajnath Singh briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the developments along the LAC and also held two meetings with chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat and the three service chiefs to assess the ground situation and review options. External affairs minister S Jaishankar was also present in one of the meetings.The external affairs ministry, which firmly pinned the blame for the clash on the Chinese side, linked the face-off to “an attempt by the Chinese side to unilaterally change the status quo there”.“Both sides suffered casualties that could have been avoided had the agreement at the higher level been scrupulously followed by the Chinese side,” Srivastava said.The limited disengagement of forces at Galwan Valley, Patrolling Point 15 and Hot Springs had started after a meeting between Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the People’s Liberation Army in the South Xinjiang region, on June 6.Referring to the June 6 meeting where the two sides had agreed on a process for de-escalation, Srivastava said India had expected this would unfold smoothly but “the Chinese side departed from the consensus to respect the LAC”.The situation remains tense at Pangong, which has been at the centre of the ongoing border scrap and where troops are still locked in a face-off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-indian-soldiers-killed-in-ladakh-border-clash-with-china-s-pla-official/story-WibnYn8pOvhNomLVoUIizM.html
17-06-2020||India||‘Borders are intact under PM Modi’s leadership’: JP Nadda on LAC clash with China||BJP President JP Nadda on Tuesday asserted that India’s borders are and will remain intact under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and stated that the Indian Army had given a “befitting” reply to Chinese soldiers who had clashed with Indian soldiers in the Galwan Valley in Ladakh last night resulting in deaths of three personnel including one officer and two soldiers.“Borders of India will remain intact and are intact under the leadership of the PM. During the de-escalation process that was underway in Galwan Valley in Ladakh, a violent face-off took place with Chinese Army. Indian Army gave a befitting reply. Unfortunately, we lost our 3 army men,” Nadda was quoted as saying by BJP’s official twitter handle.Nadda’s comments came close on the heels of the external affairs ministry accusing China of attempting to unilaterally change the status quo of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Galwan Valley in a departure from the consensus achieved in ongoing talks between the two sides to respect the LAC.Official spokesperson of the ministry Anurag Srivastava said on Tuesday afternoon that both sides suffered casualties that could have been avoided had the agreement at the higher level been scrupulously followed by the Chinese side.A Commanding Officer (CO) of the Colonel rank was killed along with two soldiers in the violent encounter.The statement from the foreign ministry further said that India holds a responsible approach to border management and is convinced of the need for the maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the border areas and the resolution of differences through dialogue.“At the same time, we are also strongly committed to ensuring India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity,” it added.Nadda, while paying homage to the sacrifice of the army personnel, said that India’s territorial integrity will not be compromised.I pay homage to them for their sacrifice and I can assure you that under the leadership of PM Modi, India’s territorial integrity will not be compromised. We now have the political will and our army is fully equipped to take on any adversary,” Nadda said.The Chinese foreign ministry and the PLA had earlier issued statements claiming Indian soldiers had crossed the LAC and launched “provocative attacks” which led to a “fierce physical confrontation” between the two sidesNadda’s comments come amid demands by opposition parties, particularly the Congress, to disclose the circumstances of the clashes that led to the deaths of Indian personnel during the de-escalation process.The de-escalation process had begun after the two armies were locked in a 40-day standoff at four locations in Ladakh since early May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/borders-are-intact-under-pm-modi-s-leadership-jp-nadda-on-lac-clash-with-china/story-kxbpI2hnr0FxuQrJhuBaAJ.html
17-06-2020||India||India blames China for violent face-off in eastern Ladakh, says PLA tried to change status quo||A colonel-ranked army officer and two soldiers were killed in a violent face-off with People’s Liberation Army soldiers in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan valley late on Monday evening. The deadly border clash, which led to casualties on both sides, took place at one of the four locations in Ladakh where the two armies have been locked in a 40-day standoff.In a statement earlier in the day, the Chinese foreign ministry and the PLA’s western command had blamed Indian soldiers for triggering the border clash. It had claimed that Indian soldiers had crossed the border, provoked PLA soldiers and attacked them. India’s sharp rebuttal came soon after.In its first comment on the clash, the external affairs ministry said the violent face-off happened “as a result of an attempt by the Chinese side to unilaterally change the status quo there”. “Both sides suffered casualties that could have been avoided had the agreement at the higher level been scrupulously followed by the Chinese side,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said in response to queries on the border situation.Srivastava also underscored that activities of the Indian army were within the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control. “We expect the same of the Chinese side,” he said.“We remain firmly convinced of the need for the maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the border areas and the resolution of differences through dialogue. At the same time, we are also strongly committed to ensuring India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity,” Srivastava said.The Indian army had early on Tuesday issued a brief, terse statement on the Galwan valley clash that led to at least three casualties on the Indian side. India said there were casualties on the Chinese side too but did not get into the details. The Chinese side initially didn’t acknowledge any casualties.But first the Chinese foreign ministry, and later the PLA Western Command’s Colonel Zhang Shuili in separate statements accused India of crossing the LAC and launching, what they described as, “provocative attacks”. This resulted in a fierce physical confrontation between the two sides “that led to casualties”. The People’s Liberation Army statement also appeared to lay claim to the Galwan valley, a move that is being seen as an effort to expand its territory.Along the LAC, military commanders of the two armies, Major General Abhijit Bapat, commander of the Karu-based HQs 3 Infantry Division and his Chinese counterpart, held talks at the site of the clash to defuse tensions. It is not clear if any progress was made.The deaths, the first in a clash with the People’s Liberation Army along the Line of Actual Control in 45 years, were mostly attributed to stones thrown by both sides. Some soldiers also used rods to hit the other side.The last time Indian soldiers died in a clash with the PLA was in October 1975 when a small group of soldiers patrolling the border in Arunachal Pradesh were ambushed. Four soldiers were killed in this attack.The two countries have been in talks for weeks via military and diplomatic channels to end the standoff that started last month after a violent clash between Indian and Chinese natrols on the northern bank of Ladakh’s Pangong Tso lake. Soldiers had then exchanged blows, thrown stones at each other. Scores of soldiers from both sides had been injured in the skirmish involving 250 men.But the two sides appeared headed to an agreement after senior commanders of the two armies met on 6 June and agreed on a process for such de-escalation. Ground commanders had been holding meetings since then.The external ministry said New Delhi had expected that this process of de-escalation would unfold smoothly. But the Chinese side departed from the consensus to respect the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Galwan Valley.In Delhi, there were a string of meetings to review the continuing developments in the eastern Ladakh sector. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-blames-china-for-violent-face-off-in-eastern-ladakh-says-pla-tried-to-change-status-quo/story-AzXWO2odokbI31lhEACFbN.html
17-06-2020||India||Casualties on our side too, says Chinese media on LAC clash with India||Chinese foreign ministry on Tuesday blamed the Indian army for provoking the serious physical conflict along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh. Zhao Lijian, spokesperson of the Chinese foreign ministry, said Indian troops twice crossed the border line for what he described as “illegal activities”, and attacked the Chinese personnel “which led to serious physical conflict between the two sides”.The Indian army has confirmed that three including an army officer had died in the clash that took place in Ladakh’s Galwan valley late on Monday evening. The army has also confirmed that there were casualties on both sides in the violent face-off.The Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, however, insisted that he was not aware of any fatalities.Some time later, the first confirmation of casualties on the Chinese side came from Hu Xijin, editor-in-chief of Global Times.Also Read: Face-off between India and China in Galwan valley: What we know so far“Based on what I know, Chinese side also suffered casualties in the Galwan Valley physical clash,” Hu Xijin tweeted on Tuesday afternoon. He went on to ask India not to misread China’s restraint to be a sign of weakness. “China doesn’t want to have a clash with India, but we don’t fear it,” the editor tweeted.The Global Times newspaper, a tabloid published by China’s ruling Communist Party’s official newspaper, however, has not reported the casualties so far. The only news report on the border clash was based on the foreign ministry briefing.According to the Indian army, the border clash at Galwan valley took place when the de-escalation process was underway. Officials later said military commanders, Major General Abhijit Bapat, commander of the Karu-based HQs 3 Infantry Division and his Chinese counterpart are holding talks at the site of the clash to defuse tensions.A Colonel-rank officer, the commanding officer of the unit posted at the standoff point, was among the three to have died in Monday’s clash. The deaths, the first in a clash with the People’s Liberation Army along the Line of Actual Control in 45 years, were mostly attributed to stones thrown by both sides. Some soldiers also used rods to hit the other side. In 1975, an Indian patrol was ambushed by Chinese troops in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La. Four Assam Rifles soldiers were killed in the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/casualties-on-our-side-too-says-editor-of-china-s-mouthpiece-on-lac-clash-with-india/story-X5eiAisgp7OL5QkEyvuCyI.html
17-06-2020||India||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh reviews Ladakh situation after face-off between India and China||Defence minister Rajnath Singh reviewed current operational situation in the Eastern Ladakh region after an incident of violent face-off between Indian and Chinese soldiers.Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, three service chiefs - General MM Naravane, Admiral Karambir Singh and Air Marshal RKS Bhadauria - discussed the situation with Singh. Foreign minister S Jaishankar was also present in the meeting.The Indian Army said that there were casualties on both sides in the incident which took place in the Galwan valley on Monday night. HT has learned that the commanding officer of the unit involved in the scrap, and a JCO are among those killed.These are the first Indian casualties in a clash with the PLA since 1975 when an Indian patrol was ambushed by Chinese troops in Arunachal Pradesh.The army said the incident took place at a time the “de-escalation process was underway”.It also said that senior military officials of the two sides are currently meeting to defuse the situation.All the deaths are from thrown stones and rods that were used by the soldiers, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. The army did not comment on this.Zhao Lijian, spokesperson of the Chinese foreign ministry, spoke about the close communication through military and diplomatic channels before going on to blame Indian soldiers for Monday evening’s violent exchange.“Our border troops had a high-level meeting and reached important consensus on easing the border situation. But astonishingly on June 15, the Indian troops seriously violated our consensus and twice crossed the border line for illegal activities and provoked and attacked Chinese personnel which led to serious physical conflict between the two sides,” Zhao said.India and China are engaged in an eyeball-to-eyeball situation along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh for the last five weeks. It began with a confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5-6.In their first serious efforts to end the row, Lt General Harinder Singh, the general officer commanding of Leh-based 14 Corps, and Commander of the Tibet Military District Maj Gen Liu Lin held a nearly seven-hour meeting on June 6.The meeting was followed by more rounds of military talks. The Indian side has been pitching for restoration of status quo ante and immediate withdrawal of thousands of Chinese troops from the areas which India considers on its side of the LAC.Army chief General Naravane last week said disengagement of Indian and Chinese forces was taking place in a “phased manner” along the LAC where the situation was “under control”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-reviews-ladakh-situation-after-face-off-between-india-and-china/story-dtbMN58AtR8HVDULIDnilM.html
17-06-2020||India||China accuses India of starting ‘serious physical conflict’, quiet on details||China on Tuesday accused the Indian army of provoking and attacking Chinese soldiers after a border meeting to de-escalate the ongoing tension, leading to a “physical conflict” between the two sides on Monday.”These are the first Indian casualties in a clash with the PLA s ince 1975 when an Indian patrol was ambushed by Chinese troops in Arunachal Pradesh.HT learns that the officer is the commanding officer of the unit involved in the scrap, and that one of the other casualties is that of a JCO.The Indian army said the incident took place at a time the “de-escalation process” was “underway in the Galwan valley”. Senior “military officials of the two sides are currently meeting to defuse the situation”, the army said, signalling that the efforts to stabilise the situation is still work in progress.The Chinese foreign ministry said it was not aware of Indian soldiers being killed in the exchanges. Neither did it say anything about casualties on its side.Also Watch l India-China border faceoff: What led to escalation of tensions? A violent face-off between Indian and Chinese soldiers near the line of actual control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, where rival soldiers were caught in a standoff that began with a confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5-6, has led to multiple casualties on the Indian side, New Delhi said in a statement on Tuesday.Responding to a query on the development, Zhao Lijian, spokesperson of the Chinese foreign ministry, said he wasn’t aware about the fatalities.“I am not aware of the information you provided. Recently to ease the situation on the India, China border, the two countries have been in close communication through military and diplomatic channels on June 6,” Zhao said at the regular ministry briefing on Tuesday.Zhao then put the blame squarely on Indian soldiers for triggering the violent exchange.“Our border troops had a high-level meeting and reached important consensus on easing the border situation. But astonishingly on June 15, the Indian troops seriously violated our consensus and twice crossed the border line for illegal activities and provoked and attacked Chinese personnel which led to serious physical conflict between the two sides,’’ Zhao said.China has lodged strong protest and representation with the Indian side, Zhao added.Last week, when asked about the reports of the troops on both sides disengaging and moving back to their previous positions, spokesperson Hua Chunying said that both sides were taking steps to ease the situation along the borders. “Recently the diplomatic and military channels of China and India held effective communication on the situation along the border and reached positive consensus,” she said. “The two sides are following this consensus to take actions to ease the situation along the borders,” Hua added. The Chinese foreign ministry had earlier said the situation along the border was “stable and controllable”. HT was the first to report on May 10 about border tensions between India and China flaring up when 150 soldiers were involved in a tense standoff in north Sikkim a day earlier. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured at Naku La during the confrontation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-accuses-india-of-starting-serious-physical-conflict-quiet-on-details/story-gByCdMPZG3xksZkPLZJqzI.html
17-06-2020||India||Face-off between India and China in Galwan valley: Here’s what we know||Twenty Indian soldiers were killed on Monday evening in a clash with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan valley where troops from the two countries have been locked in a face-off for 40 days, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times.The encounter happened along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh where rival soldiers were caught in stand-off that began with a confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5-6.Here is what we know so far: • The Indian casualties include a commanding officer of an infantry battalion.• The Indian Army, in its initial statement early on Tuesday, had announced that an officer and two soldiers had been killed in action. However, by evening, an update said 17 Indian troops who were critically injured in the line of duty at the stand -off location and exposed to sub-zero temperatures in the high-altitude terrain had succumbed to injuries.•The army statement issued on Tuesday evening also said the Indian and Chinese troops at the Galwan area where they had earlier clashed “have disengaged”.•The Chinese army also suffered casualties in the face-off but there was no immediate confirmation of the numbers.•India said Monday’s violent clash happened when the Chinese side “departed from the consensus to respect the LAC (Line of Actual Control) and attempted to “unilaterally change the status quo”.•Hindustan Times has learnt rival soldiers exchanged blows, threw stones at each other and Chinese troops even attacked Indian soldiers with rods and nail-studded clubs during the brawl that went on for over six hours.• Defence minister Rajnath Singh briefed Prime Minister Modi on the developments at the LAC after holding two meetings with Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and the three service chiefs. The external affairs minister S Jaishankar was also present in one of these meetings. • Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane cancelled a scheduled visit to Pathankot on Tuesday.• This is the first casualties for India in a clash with the PLA since 1975 when an Indian patrol was ambushed by Chinese troops in Arunachal Pradesh.• The Chinese foreign ministry has called on India to not take unilateral actions or stir up trouble, news agency Reuters reported.• India and China have been locked in a stand-off in the Ladakh region for weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/face-off-between-india-and-china-in-galwan-valley-what-we-know-so-far/story-NNjwanbGiNiyAhQhnmj25I.html
17-06-2020||India||Congress’ highest decision-making body to meet on June 23, discuss face-off with China, Nepal||The Congress Working Committee (CWC) will meet on June 23 to discuss the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the country, the hike in petrol and diesel prices and the border tension with China.The highest decision making body of the party will also discuss the current stand-off with Nepal.Congress president Sonia Gandhi will chair the meeting. India and China are currently engaged in diplomatic and military contacts for an “early resolution” of the stand-off between their border troops that emerged in the public in early May. Earlier last week, the two sides began what Indian officials described as a “limited military disengagement” at three hotspots along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) - Galwan Valley, Patrolling Point 15 and Hot Springs - in eastern Ladakh, which has been the focus of the tensions.However, Indian officials have confirmed the build-up of Chinese forces has extended as far as Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh. A “violent face off” was reported on Monday night in which both the sides suffered casualties.Nepal’s Parliament last week cleared a constitutional amendment bill to revise the country’s map, a move that is seen to virtually make the boundary row a permanent irritant in its relations with India.In its previous meeting on April 23, the CWC had alleged that the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is seeking to inflame communal divisions even as the entire nation battles” the Covid-19 pandemic.Gandhi, on her part, had also accused the BJP of spreading the virus of communal prejudice and hatred in the country. The remarks were in apparent reference to the communal colour given to the lynching incident in Palghar district of Maharashtra. “The virus does not discriminate on the basis of caste, creed, religion or gender. As a nation we must be wary of forces that seek to polarise in times of crisis such as these. The onus lies on us to ensure that we stand together as one nation in the face of all odds,” the resolution added.The CWC also discussed the issues of migrant workers, farmers, revival of Micro, Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (MSMEs), empowering of states to devise solutions tailored to their unique situations and challenges and adequate financial package for them to fight Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-highest-decision-making-body-to-meet-on-june-23-discuss-face-off-with-china-nepal/story-drMhbLLOLQ0YSR1bPediHO.html
17-06-2020||India||Indian officer, two others killed in clash with PLA; casualties on both sides||The Indian army suffered multiple casualties, including that of an officer, in a “violent face off” with China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on Monday night in eastern Ladakh, the army said in a statement. It added that there were casualties on both sides.These are the first Indian casualties in a clash with the PLA since 1975 when an Indian patrol was ambushed by Chinese troops in Arunachal Pradesh. HT learns that the officer is the commanding officer of the unit involved in the scrap, and that one of the other casualties is that of a JCO.The army said the incident took place at a time the de-escalation process was “underway in the Galwan valley”.“Senior military officials of the two sides are currently meeting to defuse the situation”, the army said, signalling that the efforts to stablise the situation is still work in progress.Military commanders of the two armies, Major General Abhijit Bapat, commander of the Karu-based HQs 3 Infantry Division and his Chinese counterpart are holding talks at the site of the clash to defuse tensions.All the deaths are from thrown stones and rods that were used by the soldiers, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. The army did not comment on this. However, this won’t be the first time the two armies have engaged in fisticuffs or used stones as missiles to attack each other in the area. Also Watch: India-China border faceoff: What led to escalation of tensions?   In Delhi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh reviewed the current operational situation after the clash on the LAC, along with the Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and the three service chiefs. Foreign Minister S Jaishankar was also present. Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane had cancelled his scheduled visit to Pathankot on Tuesday.The encounter happened along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh where rival soldiers were caught in a standoff that began with a confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5-6. The Indian Army is said to have suffered three casualties, including a colonel, in the sector on Monday, said one person familiar with the matter. Both sides suffered fatal casualties on Monday, claimed another person familiar with the matter. Both asked not to be named. The number of Chinese casualties wasn’t immediately known.The China’s foreign ministry said it wasn’t aware of fatalities on either side.At his media briefing spokesperson of the Chinese foreign ministry Zhao Lijian spoke about the close communication through military and diplomatic channels before going on to blame Indian soldiers for Monday evening’s violent exchange.“Our border troops had a high-level meeting and reached important consensus on easing the border situation. But astonishingly on June 15, the Indian troops seriously violated our consensus and twice crossed the border line for illegal activities and provoked and attacked Chinese personnel which led to serious physical conflict between the two sides,’’ Zhao said.Hu Xijin, the editor-in-chief of Global Times, a tabloid run by the ruling Communist Party of China, however, tweeted that his information indicated casualties on the Chinese side and asked India not to misconstrue the PLA’s restraint for weakness.Also Read: Face-off between India and China in Galwan valley: What we know so farThe worrying development comes at a time when India and China are continuing diplomatic and military engagements for an early resolution of the standoff between border troops.The border row seems to have turned from bad to worse even as army delegations from India and China held discussions along the to break the stalemate. Former Northern Army commander Lt Gen DS Hooda (retd) flagged concerns about the “serious escalation” along the LAC saying that it reflected the heightened tensions on the ground. “This will require diplomatic intervention,” he said.The talks took place at two locations along the LAC --- brigadier-ranked officers met in the Galwan area and Colonel-ranked officers in Hot Springs --- as part of continuing efforts to resolve the standoff.Army chief General Naravane last week said disengagement of Indian and Chinese forces was taking place in a “phased manner” along the LAC where the situation was “under control”.Also Read: Psy Ops: In Ladakh standoff with India, China’s PLA replays Doklam tacticsLimited disengagement of forces at Galwan Valley, Patrolling Point 15 and Hot Springs began after a meeting between Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the People’s Liberation Army in the South Xinjiang region, on June 6.India is now focused on resolving the situation on the northern bank of Pangong Tso, which has been at the centre of the ongoing border scrap and where troops are still locked in a faceoff.Last month’s violent confrontations between Indian and Chinese soldiers in eastern Ladakh and north Sikkim triggered a military buildup on both sides of the LAC that stretched from Ladakh to Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh, as reported by Hindustan Times on Friday.The Chinese buildup began immediately after clashes between border troops in Ladakh and Sikkim on May 5-6 and May 9, and predated the June 6 meeting between Lieutenant General Singh and his Chinese counterpart.HT was the first to report on May 10 about border tensions between India and China flaring up when 150 soldiers were involved in a tense standoff in north Sikkim a day earlier. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured at Naku La during the confrontation.Scores of soldiers from the two countries were also injured near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5-6, with the scuffle involving around 250 men.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-officer-two-others-killed-in-clash-with-pla-at-pangong-tso/story-Y9KgO45d76fU0Tm1QtuVpM.html
17-06-2020||India||India, Chinese troops face-off at Galwan valley; army officer, 2 soldiers die||A n army officer and two soldiers died in a violent face-off between Indian and Chinese soldiers at Galwan Valley, one of the four standoff points in the eastern Ladakh sector, an army statement on Tuesday said. The face-off took place during the de-escalation process that has been underway between the two sides.“Senior military officials of the two sides are currently meeting at the venue to defuse the situation,” the statement said.Also Read: Indian officer, two others killed in clash with PLA at Pangong TsoGovernment sources said there were casualties and injuries on both sides. The clash took place at a time efforts were on to resolve the standoff. A limited disengagement of forces had also taken place at Galwan Valley, Patrolling Point 15 and Hot Springs after a meeting between Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the People’s Liberation Army in South Xinjiang region, on June 6.Army delegations, led by major general-ranked officers of both armies, also have been holding discussions in eastern Ladakh to resolve the standoff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-chinese-troops-face-off-at-galwan-valley-army-officer-2-soldiers-die/story-YfVpqhgBgHKAC8RyFTReEJ.html
17-06-2020||India||Indian, Chinese army officials discuss Pangong Tso standoff||Army delegations from India and China on Monday held discussions along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh to break the stalemate that began with a confrontation between rival patrol parties near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5-6, two senior officers said on the condition of anonymity.The talks took place at two locations along the LAC -- brigadier-ranked officers met in the Galwan area and Colonel-ranked officers in Hot Springs -- as part of continuing efforts to resolve the standoff, said the first officer cited above.“The talks were positive and frank. As long as talks are happening, we are moving towards a solution,” said the second officer cited above.Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane last week said disengagement of Indian and Chinese forces was taking place in a “phased manner” along the LAC where the situation was “under control”.India and China are continuing diplomatic and military engagements for an early resolution of the standoff between border troops, the external affairs ministry said last week. Naravane said on Saturday he was hopeful that perceived differences between India and China would be put to rest through the continued dialogue.Army delegations, led by major general-ranked officers, met for the fifth time last week in eastern Ladakh to resolve the standoff.Limited disengagement of forces at Galwan Valley, Patrolling Point 15 and Hot Springs began after a meeting between Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the People’s Liberation Army in South Xinjiang region, on June 6.India is now focused on resolving the situation on the northern bank of Pangong Tso, which has been at the centre of the ongoing border scrap and where troops are still locked in a face-off.Last month’s violent confrontations between Indian and Chinese soldiers in eastern Ladakh and north Sikkim triggered a military buildup on both sides of the LAC that stretched from Ladakh to Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh, as reported by Hindustan Times on Friday.The Chinese buildup began immediately after clashes between border troops in Ladakh and Sikkim on May 5-6 and May 9, respectively, and predated the June 6 meeting between Lieutenant General Singh and his Chinese counterpart.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-chinese-army-officials-discuss-pangong-tso-standoff/story-RL391WQJ6MSoRANgkt0AOI.html
17-06-2020||India||India, China delegations meet at 2 places along LAC to resolve border row||Army delegations from India and China on Monday held discussions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh to break the stalemate that began with a confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong Tso lake on the night of May 5-6, two senior officers said on the condition of anonymity.The talks took place at two locations along the LAC - brigadier-ranked officers met in the Galwan area and Colonel-ranked officers in Hot Springs - as part of continuing efforts to resolve the standoff, said the first officer cited above.“The talks were positive and frank. As long as talks are happening, we are moving towards a solution,” said the second officer cited above.Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane last week said disengagement of Indian and Chinese forces was taking place in a “phased manner” along the LAC where the situation was “under control”.India and China are continuing diplomatic and military engagements for an early resolution of the standoff between border troops, the external affairs ministry said last week. Naravane said on Saturday he was hopeful that perceived differences between India and China would be put to rest through the continued dialogue.Army delegations, led by major general-ranked officers, met for the fifth time last week in eastern Ladakh to resolve the standoff.Limited disengagement of forces at Galwan Valley, Patrolling Point 15 and Hot Springs began after a meeting between Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the People’s Liberation Army in the South Xinjiang region, on June 6.India is now focused on resolving the situation on the northern bank of Pangong Tso, which has been at the centre of the ongoing border scrap and where troops are still locked in a faceoff.Last month’s violent confrontations between Indian and Chinese soldiers in eastern Ladakh and north Sikkim triggered a military build up on both sides of the LAC that stretched from Ladakh to Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh, as reported by Hindustan Times on Friday.The Chinese build up began immediately after clashes between border troops in Ladakh and Sikkim on May 5-6 and May 9, respectively, and took place before the June 6 meeting between Lieutenant General Singh and his Chinese counterpart.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-delegations-meet-at-2-places-along-lac-to-resolve-border-row/story-miPPW7qulAZ5sBYiCpEIgI.html
17-06-2020||India||Border situation with China under control, says Gen Naravane||Disengagement of Indian and Chinese forces is taking place in a “phased manner” along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), where the situation is “under control,” Indian Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said on Saturday.His first comments on the disengagement that began after top Indian and Chinese military commanders met last week came during an interaction with reporters on the sidelines of the passing out parade at the Indian Military Academy, Dehradun.“I would like to assure everyone that the situation along our border with China is under control,” said Naravane even as India and China continue diplomatic and military engagements for an early resolution of the stand-off between border troops.The army chief said: “Both sides are disengaging in a phased manner. We have started from the north, from the area of the Galwan river, where a lot of disengagement has taken place”. Naravane’s comments are significant as the government has largely been tight-lipped on the ongoing border scrap with China. “It’s good that diplomatic and military engagement is working and things are showing signs of improving,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd).The Udhampur-based Northern Command is responsible for guarding the LAC in the northern sector.Army delegations from India and China, led by major general-rank officers, on Friday held discussions in eastern Ladakh to resolve the stand-off between the border troops. This was the fifth meeting between the two major generals to break the stalemate that began with a violent confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5.Naravane said: “We have had a series of talks which started on June 6 followed up by a number of meetings at the local level between commanders of equivalent ranks. As a result, a lot of disengagement has taken place in the region and we are hopeful that through the continued dialogue, the perceived differences between us would be put to rest.”The disengagement began after a meeting between Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the People’s Liberation Army in South Xinjiang region, on June 6.Last week, the two sides began what Indian officials described as a “limited military disengagement” at three hot spots along the LAC – Galwan Valley, Patrolling Point 15 and Hot Springs.The focus is now on resolving the situation on the northern bank of Pangong Tso, which has been at the centre of the ongoing border scrap and where troops are still locked in a face-off. The army chief, however, didn’t comment on the tense stand-off at Pangong Tso.Last month’s violent confrontations between Indian and Chinese soldiers in eastern Ladakh and north Sikkim triggered a military build-up on both sides of the LAC that stretched from Ladakh to Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh, as reported by Hindustan Times on Friday.The Chinese build-up began immediately after clashes between border troops in Ladakh and Sikkim on May 5-6 and May 9, and predated the June 6 meeting between Lieutenant General Singh and his Chinese counterpart at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC.While the specifics of the Chinese buildup in other sectors remain unclear, their deployment in areas across the LAC in Ladakh includes more than 8,000 troops, tanks, artillery guns, fighter bombers, rocket forces and air defence radars.Defence minister Rajnath Singh was on Friday briefed on the ongoing border scrap and the status of the military-level dialogue to resolve it at a meeting with chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat and the service chiefs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/border-situation-with-china-under-control-says-gen-naravane/story-Tw61cjHmGWu4pLZ38Gu60K.html
17-06-2020||India||India and China disengaging in a phased manner along LAC, says Army chief||Disengagement of Indian and Chinese forces is taking place in a “phased manner” along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), where the situation is “under control,” Indian Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said on Saturday.Army chief’s first comments on the disengagement that began after top Indian and Chinese military commanders met last week came during an interaction with reporters on the sidelines of the passing out parade at the Indian Military Academy, Dehradun.“I would like to assure everyone that the situation along our border with China is under control,” said Naravane even as India and China continue diplomatic and military engagements for an early resolution of the stand-off between border troops.The army chief said: “Both sides are disengaging in a phased manner. We have started from the north, from the area of the Galwan river, where a lot of disengagement has taken place”. Naravane’s comments are significant as the government has largely been tight-lipped on the ongoing border scrap with China. “It’s good that diplomatic and military engagement is working and things are showing signs of improving,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd).The Udhampur-based Northern Command is responsible for guarding the LAC in the northern sector.Army delegations from India and China, led by major general-rank officers, on Friday held discussions in eastern Ladakh to resolve the stand-off between the border troops. This was the fifth meeting between the two major generals to break the stalemate that began with a violent confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5.Naravane said: “We have had a series of talks which started on June 6 followed up by a number of meetings at the local level between commanders of equivalent ranks. As a result, a lot of disengagement has taken place in the region and we are hopeful that through the continued dialogue, the perceived differences between us would be put to rest.”The disengagement began after a meeting between Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the People’s Liberation Army in South Xinjiang region, on June 6.Last week, the two sides began what Indian officials described as a “limited military disengagement” at three hot spots along the LAC – Galwan Valley, Patrolling Point 15 and Hot Springs.The focus is now on resolving the situation on the northern bank of Pangong Tso, which has been at the centre of the ongoing border scrap and where troops are still locked in a face-off. The army chief, however, didn’t comment on the tense stand-off at Pangong Tso.Last month’s violent confrontations between Indian and Chinese soldiers in eastern Ladakh and north Sikkim triggered a military build-up on both sides of the LAC that stretched from Ladakh to Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh, as reported by Hindustan Times on Friday.The Chinese build-up began immediately after clashes between border troops in Ladakh and Sikkim on May 5-6 and May 9, and predated the June 6 meeting between Lieutenant General Singh and his Chinese counterpart at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC.While the specifics of the Chinese buildup in other sectors remain unclear, their deployment in areas across the LAC in Ladakh includes more than 8,000 troops, tanks, artillery guns, fighter bombers, rocket forces and air defence radars.Defence minister Rajnath Singh was on Friday briefed on the ongoing border scrap and the status of the military-level dialogue to resolve it at a meeting with chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat and the service chiefs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-and-china-disengaging-in-a-phased-manner-along-lac-says-army-chief/story-FmrubIGvZOJETWUdWIp3uL.html
17-06-2020||India||‘Situation along our borders with China is under control’: Army chief Naravane||The situation along India’s borders with China is under control, Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said on Saturday in Dehradun. Naravane said that the ongoing series of high delegation-level talks with the Chinese side has been followed up with meetings at the local level between the commanders of equivalent ranks.Chief Naravane said that through the continued dialogue, it is hoped that all perceived differences between India and China will be set to rest.“We are hopeful that through the continued dialogue we’re having, all perceived differences that we (India and China) have will be set to rest. Everything is under control,” he said. Talking about the situation in Jammu and Kashmir, chief Naravane said that in last 10-15 days alone, more than 15 terrorists have been killed. “All of this has been because of very close cooperation and coordination between all security forces operating in J&K,” he said.“Most of the operations have been based on information provided by the locals themselves which goes to show that they are also absolutely fed up with militancy and terrorism and they want that the situation should return to normal,” the army chief added.General Naravane’s comments came while he speaking to the media on the sidelines of the Passing Out Parade (POP) of Indian Military Academy (IMA) Dehradun. Also read: Chinese diplomat tweets a twist to Ladakh standoff, sees link to Article 370As a result, a lot of disengagement has taken place and we are hopeful that through the continued dialogue we're having, all perceived differences that we (India and China) have will be set to rest. Everything is under control: Army Chief General MM Naravane https://t.co/dZsaRNT4ONThis comes a day after Indian and Chinese army delegations, led by major general-ranked officers, on Friday held discussions in eastern Ladakh again to resolve the standoff between border troops. This was the fifth round of meeting between the two major generals to break the stalemate that began with a violent confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5-6.Friday’s meeting between major general Abhijit Bapat, commander of the Karu-based HQs 3 Infantry Division, and his Chinese counterpart went on for nearly five hours, said an officer.Most of the operations have been based on information provided by the locals themselves which goes to show that they are also absolutely fed up with militancy & terrorism and they want that the situation should return to normal: Army Chief General MM Naravane https://t.co/mrv7HsowsTBesides this, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday reviewed India’s military preparedness in eastern Ladakh and several other sensitive areas along the Line of Actual Control in Sikkim, Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh. Singh was briefed by Army chief Naravane at a high-level meeting which also saw Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh and Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria in attendance. Naravane gave a detailed account of the overall situation in eastern Ladakh. Indian and Chinese military officials are engaged in high delegation-level talks in a bid to resolve the month-long row over the Line of Actual Control. The armies from the two sides are locked in an over five-week standoff in Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/situation-along-our-borders-with-china-is-under-control-army-chief-naravane/story-a3qRcQ1tgRSIwG5rWcqPTO.html
17-06-2020||India||India-China Major Generals meet for 5th time to ease border tensions||Army delegations from India and China, led by major general-ranked officers, on Friday held discussions in eastern Ladakh again to resolve the standoff between border troops as defence minister Rajnath Singh met the military brass here and reviewed the situation along the disputed Line of Actual Control (LAC), two officers said on condition of anonymity.This was the fifth meeting between the two major generals to break the stalemate that began with a violent confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5-6.The two officers last met at Patrolling Point 14 near the Galwan area on Wednesday as part of continuing efforts to resolve the confrontation that eased slightly with limited disengagement of forces at some LAC hotspots earlier this week.Friday’s meeting between major general Abhijit Bapat, commander of the Karu-based HQs 3 Infantry Division, and his Chinese counterpart went on for nearly five hours, said one of the officers cited above.In Delhi, the defence minister was briefed on the ongoing border scrap and the status of the military-level dialogue to resolve it at a meeting with chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat and the service chiefs, said the second officer cited above.Earlier this week, the two sides began what Indian officials described as a “limited military disengagement” at three hotspots along the LAC – Galwan Valley, Patrolling Point 15 and Hot Springs.Also read | In India’s China policy, a mix of three approaches | OpinionThe limited disengagement happened after a meeting between Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the People’s Liberation Army, in the South Xinjiang region last Saturday.The focus is now on resolving the situation on the northern bank of Pangong Tso, which has been at the centre of the ongoing border scrap and where troops are still locked in a face-off.Last month’s violent confrontations between Indian and Chinese soldiers in eastern Ladakh and north Sikkim triggered a military build-up on both sides of the LAC that stretched from Ladakh to Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh, as reported by Hindustan Times on Friday.Also read | China has fearful leadership, lacks openness like India or US: Nicholas BurnsThe Chinese build-up began immediately after clashes between border troops in Ladakh and Sikkim on May 5-6 and May 9, and predated the June 6 meeting between Lieutenant General Singh and his Chinese counterpart at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC.India and China are continuing diplomatic and military engagements for an “early resolution” of the stand-off between border troops, the external affairs ministry said on Thursday. More military talks are planned in the coming days to ease border tensions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-major-generals-meet-for-5th-time-to-ease-border-tensions/story-7HykdwFj6dVxkj2KyreGiL.html
17-06-2020||India||Defence minister Rajnath Singh reviews Ladakh situation with CDS Bipin Rawat, service chiefs||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday held a meeting with Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and the services chiefs for reviewing situation in Ladakh.The meeting comes on the heels of repeated dialogue between India and China who have attempted to resolve the border row with continuing diplomatic and military engagements for an “early resolution” of the stand-off between border troops, according to officials from external affairs ministry. A day earlier, people familiar with developments confirmed the build-up of Chinese forces extended to Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh.Earlier this week, the two sides began what Indian officials described as a “limited military disengagement” at three hotspots along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) – Galwan Valley, Patrolling Point 15 and Hot Springs – in eastern Ladakh, which has been the focus of the tensions.However, last month’s violent confrontations between Indian and Chinese soldiers in eastern Ladakh and north Sikkim triggered a military build-up on both sides of the LAC that stretched from Ladakh to Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh, two senior officers said on condition of anonymity on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-reviews-ladakh-situation-with-cds-bipin-rawat-service-chiefs/story-revXac28x5Ai0wuAOHuJBJ.html
17-06-2020||India||India, China working on ‘early resolution’ of stand-off, says MEA||India and China are continuing diplomatic and military engagements for an “early resolution” of the stand-off between border troops, the external affairs ministry said on Thursday as people familiar with developments confirmed the build-up of Chinese forces extended to Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh.Earlier this week, the two sides began what Indian officials described as a “limited military disengagement” at three hotspots along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) – Galwan Valley, Patrolling Point 15 and Hot Springs – in eastern Ladakh, which has been the focus of the tensions.However, last month’s violent confrontations between Indian and Chinese soldiers in eastern Ladakh and north Sikkim triggered a military build-up on both sides of the LAC that stretched from Ladakh to Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh, two senior officers said on condition of anonymity on Thursday.Asked about the stand-off at a weekly news briefing, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said both sides continue to be in touch through diplomatic and military channels to work for an “early resolution” of the matter in line with the guidance from the top leadership of India and China.“As you are aware, a meeting was held by the corps commanders of India and China on June 6 in Chushul-Moldo region. This meeting was in continuation of diplomatic and military engagements which both sides have maintained to address the situation in areas along the India-China border,” Srivastava said, referring to the meeting between Lt Gen Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, and Maj Gen Liu Lin, commander of the People’s Liberation Army in South Xinjiang region.The two sides had “agreed that an early resolution of the situation would be in keeping with the guidance of the leaders”, he said. Srivastava added, “The two sides are, therefore, maintaining their military and diplomatic engagements to peacefully resolve the situation at the earliest as also to ensure peace and tranquillity in the border areas. This is essential for the further development of India-China bilateral relations.”He didn’t go into the details of further engagements through diplomatic and military channels and whether the two sides had discussed issues such as the reduction of troops and the Chinese side pulling back from the Indian side of the LAC.One of the two senior officers cited above said the Chinese build-up began immediately after clashes between border troops in Ladakh and Sikkim on May 5-6 and May 9, and predated the June 6 meeting between Lt Gen Singh and his Chinese counterpart Maj Gen Liu at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC.“We have noticed a Chinese military build-up across the length of the border, from the northern to the eastern sector. This is in their so-called ‘depth areas’ or pockets within the Chinese side of the LAC,” he said.Indian forces matched China’s military moves by sending reinforcements to forward areas, said the second officer cited above.Former Northern Army commander, Lt Gen (retired) BS Jaswal, said: “This season is usually utilised by them for military exercises. China may have also kept forces in reserve to cater for any conflict contingency due to their early aggressive posturing in Ladakh and Sikkim. It’s also for keeping troops acclimatised.”Jaswal said India would have deployed enough solders in forward areas to repel any offensive design by China, which would also encounter “terrain friction” (terrain difficulties) in case of any adventurism.While the specifics of the Chinese build-up in other sectors remain unclear, their deployment in “depth areas” across the LAC in Ladakh includes more than 8,000 troops, tanks, artillery guns, fighter bombers, rocket forces and air defence radars.In the latest military contact between the two sides, army delegations held talks in eastern Ladakh on Wednesday to ease tensions along the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-working-on-early-resolution-of-stand-off-says-mea/story-dqxvHN3OQ64nNPPlmcNaXN.html
17-06-2020||India||Indian, Chinese generals discuss de-escalation plan||In the latest round of military contact between India and China, army delegations from both sides on Wednesday held talks in eastern Ladakh to ease tensions along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) where rival soldiers have been locked in a stand-off for more than five weeks, two senior officers familiar with the development said.The Indian and Chinese delegations, led by major general-ranked officers, met at Patrolling Point 14 near the Galwan area as part continuing efforts to resolve the confrontation that has eased slightly with limited disengagement of forces at some LAC hotspots, said one of the two officers, both of whom requested anonymity.The discussions between the military commanders of the two armies, Major General Abhijit Bapat, commander of the Karu-based HQs 3 Infantry Division and his Chinese counterpart were “positive and frank”, said the second officer cited above. It was, however, unclear what progress the border talks made.This was the fourth round of talks between the two-star generals to break the stalemate that began with a violent confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5-6.China has begun withdrawing its soldiers from three hot spots along the LAC, with India reciprocating by pulling back its forces deployed in those pockets, as reported by Hindustan Times on Wednesday. The focus is now on resolving the situation on the northern bank of Pangong Tso, which has been at the centre of the ongoing border scrap and where troops are still locked in a face-off.More military talks are planned in the coming days to ease border tensions. “Limited military disengagement” has taken place at the Galwan valley, Patrolling Point 15 and the Hot Springs area where Chinese soldiers have pulled back two to three km along with their infantry combat vehicles.HT first reported on Monday that activity at the three sites declined after a seven-hour meeting between the military commanders of the two armies, Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the PLA in the South Xinjiang region, at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC.While the disengagement of forces along the LAC is a positive move, the army remains concerned about the Chinese military build-up in so-called “depth areas” or areas within the Chinese side of the LAC, the officers said, stressing that India had matched China’s military moves.The Chinese build-up involves the deployment of more than 8,000 troops, tanks, artillery guns, fighter bombers, rocket forces and air defence radars, and full de-escalation would require the soldiers and the weapons systems being pulled back to their original locations, the officers said.Around 250 soldiers of the two armies clashed near Pangong Tso last month with the scuffle leaving scores of troops injured. While an immediate flare-up was avoided as both armies stuck to protocols to resolve the situation, tensions swiftly spread to other pockets along the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-chinese-generals-discuss-de-escalation-plan/story-SeIHR7Nmdu28mYs0YVikGO.html
17-06-2020||India||Two-star generals meet in eastern Ladakh to ease India, China border tensions||In the latest round of military contact between India and China, army delegations from both sides on Wednesday held talks in eastern Ladakh to ease tensions along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) where rival soldiers have been locked in a standoff for more than five weeks, two senior officers familiar with the development said.The Indian and Chinese delegations, led by major general-ranked officers, met at Patrolling Point 14 near the Galwan area as part of continuing efforts to resolve the confrontation that has eased slightly with limited disengagement of forces at some LAC hotspots, said one of the two officers, both of whom requested anonymity.The discussions between the military commanders of the two armies, Major General Abhijit Bapat, commander of the Karu-based HQs 3 Infantry Division and his Chinese counterpart were “positive and frank”, said the second officer cited above. It was, however, unclear what progress the border talks made.This was the fourth round of talks between the two-star generals to break the stalemate that began with a violent confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5-6.China has begun withdrawing its soldiers from three hotspots along the LAC, with India reciprocating by pulling back its forces deployed in those pockets, as reported by Hindustan Times on Wednesday. The focus is now on resolving the situation on the northern bank of Pangong Tso, which has been at the centre of the ongoing border scrap and where troops are still locked in a face-off.More military talks are planned in the coming days to ease border tensions. “Limited military disengagement” has taken place at the Galwan valley, Patrolling Point 15 and the Hot Springs area where Chinese soldiers have pulled back two to three km along with their infantry combat vehicles.HT first reported on Monday that activity at the three sites declined after a seven-hour long meeting between the military commanders of the two armies, Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the PLA in the South Xinjiang region, at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC.While the disengagement of forces along the LAC is a positive move, the army remains concerned about the Chinese military build-up in so-called “depth areas” or areas within the Chinese side of the LAC, the officers said, stressing that India had matched China’s military moves.The Chinese build-up involves the deployment of more than 8,000 troops, tanks, artillery guns, fighter bombers, rocket forces and air defence radars, and full de-escalation would require the soldiers and the weapons systems being pulled back to their original locations, the officers said.Around 250 soldiers of the two armies clashed near Pangong Tso last month with the scuffle leaving scores of troops injured. While an immediate flare-up was avoided as both armies stuck to protocols to resolve the situation, tensions swiftly spread to other pockets along the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-star-generals-meet-in-eastern-ladakh-to-ease-india-china-border-tensions/story-hc0QyzqZHSvuUeWzRnMJwM.html
17-06-2020||India||Jasleen Bhalla, voice behind Covid-19 caller tune, says it’s important to drill the message in people’s minds||By now you would have heard her voice umpteen number of times, as she cautions you about the measures to be adopted in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic in our day-to-day lives. Since March, telecom companies in India replaced ringtones with default caller tunes that spread awareness about the virus. And the voice that delivers you the message in Hindi, is of Delhiite Jasleen Bhalla.“This is just crazy, every Indian is hearing it,” she chuckles, as we ask her how she feels on being heard by millions of people every day. While recording the message, she had no idea it was going to be used this way. “A lot of recordings that we were doing for some time were in some or the other way related to Covid-19. When I got this, I thought it will be like one of those radio spots or something which will be used for a week or so, I didn’t know it will be used to this extent, pan-India,” she says.Bhalla, who graduated from Delhi University’s Khalsa College, first realised the wide reach of her gig when she received messages from her friends. “Initially, within a few days, friends started forwarding memes, telling me ‘We know this is your voice…but ab bus bhi karo yaar’. Funny part is when you are calling someone… you also get to hear that thing. It’s a little out-of-body experience,” says the voice-over artiste.So how does her family, especially her husband react when they hear her voice with every call they make? Bhalla reveals, “Well my husband was pleasantly surprised in the beginning but now he’s used to it, I suppose. I guess I have trained his ears well, being an excessive talker anyway.”While many complain they’re bored hearing the same caller tune all the time, the 40-year-old feels it’s important given that people are still not taking as many precautions as necessary. “It was just an essential step to sort of drill into everyone’s minds that you have to wear a mask, wash your hands etc, use a sanitiser. So at times a bitter pill also does its work,” she adds.Opening up about her first brush with the voice-over world and what made her choose this as a profession, she says, “Shortly after my graduation I started working. I’ve been a sports journalist and producer with different channels. In 2010, I started reaching studios with my voice sample. Then it hit me that this audio world was way bigger than I realised. I started going for auditions and working on my skills because doing voice-over professionally is a different ball game altogether. It is pretty much like acting, as it is voice acting.”Like most of us, Bhalla has spent most of the lockdown doing household chores, learning to cook while completing her professional assignments from home. “I always respected my house help but my respect for her and the whole astonishment about her stamina, given the amount of work she does, has gone notches up. I can’t just even imagine how much physical labour they put in their work,” she says.She also feels thankful for being able to earn her daily bread when a lot of people are not that fortunate. “It’s been a very humbling experience and it’s very difficult for all of us to accept this new normal, it doesn’t feel normal at all,” she shares, adding, “Whatever we have done with Mother Earth, we are just paying for our deeds. I hope we all come out of it by making some changes in our lives.”While her voice has got the nation’s attention at the moment, what’s that one voice she loves the most? “Morgan Freeman’s narration in Shawshank Redemption (1994)…was really something else. I also admire Richard Hammond (presenter of the Science of Stupid), he is very articulate and expressive,” adds Bhalla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/important-to-drill-the-message-in-people-s-minds-says-voice-behind-covid-19-caller-tune/story-GxJlp7hJQ16H3po0zKsCFI.html
17-06-2020||India||India, China disengage in three sectors at LAC||China has begun withdrawing its soldiers from three hotspots along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, with India reciprocating by pulling back its forces deployed in those pockets as both sides step up efforts to resolve a month-long tense border confrontation, two senior officers familiar with the development said on Tuesday.“Limited military disengagement” has taken place at the Galwan valley, Patrolling Point 15 and the Hot Springs area where Chinese soldiers have pulled back two to three km along with their infantry combat vehicles, said one of the two officers, both of whom requested anonymity.“It’s a step towards returning to status quo ante (as of early April). Indian soldiers have also withdrawn from the forward positions held by them in these areas,” said the second officer.Hindustan Times first reported on Monday that activity at the three sites declined after a seven-hour long meeting between the military commanders of the two armies, Lt Gen Harinder Singh, commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps and Maj Gen Liu Lin, commander of the PLA in the South Xinjiang region, at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC.Pangong Tso , where it all began has also started to see “de-escalation” but “it will take time to complete the process here,” said a third army officer who asked not to be namedMore military talks are planned in the coming days to ease tensions along the LAC, including one between major general-ranked officers at Patrolling Point 14 near the Galwan area on Wednesday, said the second officer.This will be the fourth round of talks between major generals to break the stalemate that began with a violent confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong Tso on the night of May 5-6.“Colonels and brigadiers will also hold a series of meetings with their Chinese counterparts at locations along the LAC to resolve the border situation. Hotlines at the tactical level are also functional,” the officer said.Experts said that the beginning of disengagement at the three hotspots along the border was a positive development.“It’s a good sign if tensions are easing at the three locations where the alignment of the LAC wasn’t disputed. We can now focus on resolving the situation on the northern bank of Pangong Tso,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd).Around 250 soldiers of the two armies clashed near Pangong Tso last month with the scuffle leaving scores of troops injured. While an immediate flare-up was avoided as both armies stuck to protocols to resolve the situation, tensions swiftly spread to other pockets along the LAC.Specifically, the stand-off was in three locations, marked as the Indian army’s patrolling points 14, 15, and 17. At point 14, the Chinese objected to India building a 60-metre long bridge on a rivulet to give its troops easy access to Daulat Beg Oldi, the last Indian military post south of the Karakoram pass. The Chinese have retreated from point 14, a government official who asked not to be named said. At point 15, Chinese soldiers have been camping in tents for the past month, staring down at Indian soldiers doing the same. ‘Both sides have started reducing their presence here,” the government official added. At point 17, both sides had amassed troops and armour. The armoured vehicles have been moved back, the official said, and the troops will follow. Even in Pangong Tso, the Chinese have moved back the 15 interceptor boats and the 124 vehicles they moved in, the official added. China marshalled close to 5,000 soldiers and deployed tanks and artillery guns on its side of the disputed border in the Ladakh sector where India also sent military reinforcements.India and China will continue military and diplomatic contacts to resolve the standoff, the external affairs ministry said in a statement on Sunday. The ministry said that “the two sides will continue military and diplomatic engagements to resolve the situation and to ensure peace and tranquility in the border areas.”India has dismissed China’s contention that its soldiers were hindering the activities of Chinese troops along the LAC, and accused Chinese forces of hampering patrols on the Indian side. The Indian government has made it clear it won’t allow any change in the status quo along the LAC, and that it will tackle the prevailing situation with “strength and restraint.”India has also told China that it will not halt construction within the Indian boundary, including the strategic Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldi (DS-DBO) road that provides connectivity to the country’s northern-most outpost, Daulat Beg Oldi.India is also working on another road from Sasoma to Saser La that could eventually provide an alternative route to DBO near the Karakoram pass, as reported by Hindustan Times on June 9.India was initially surprised by the PLA’s movement, the government official said but reacted quickly to match deployment and started negotiations. External affairs minister S Jaishankar and diplomats in Delhi and Beijing were involved in the process as were army chief Manoj Mukund Naravane , NSA Ajit Doval, and the chiefs of security agencies. HT was the first to report on May 10 about tensions flaring up between India and China in north Sikkim where 150 soldiers were involved in a tense standoff a day earlier. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured at Naku La during the confrontation.Jayadeva Ranade, president of the Centre for China Analysis and Strategy, said the issue had not ended with Tuesday’s developments.“This is a welcome first step towards defusing the situation. They have talked about the easiest places [related to the stand-off] but there are more places along the LAC,” he said.“Even if the situation is defused and the Chinese troops pull back, the question remains – why did they come in such large numbers at so many places? Were they testing our response? Is the plan to pull back and come in again? They know what they are going to do, and the larger agenda is yet to happen,” Ranade added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-disengage-in-three-sectors-at-lac/story-EmSacJaICw7Qv4YjNX3v6L.html
17-06-2020||India||Sizeable number of Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh, India has done what it needs to: Rajnath Singh||A “sizeable number” of Chinese troops have moved into eastern Ladakh and India too has taken all necessary steps to deal with the situation, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Tuesday, referring to the nearly month-long high-altitude standoff between the two armies.Singh said a meeting between senior Indian and Chinese military leaders has been scheduled for June 6 even as he asserted that India is not going to back off from its position.Asked about the current situation in sensitive areas in eastern Ladakh, he said Chinese have come up to what they claim is their territory while Indians believed it is theirs. “There has been a disagreement over it. A sizeable number of Chinese people have come there. India has done what it needs to do. (Usko lekar ek matbhed hua hain. Aur acchi khasi sankhya mein Cheen ke log bhi aa gaye hain. Lekin Bharat ko bhi apni taraf se jo kuch bhi karna chahiye, Bharat ne bhi kiya hain),” Singh told CNN-News 18. Singh’s comments were seen as first official confirmation of presence of significant number of Chinese troops in the disputed areas which India maintains are on its side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the de-facto border between the two countries.According to reports, significant numbers of Chinese troops have been camping in the Indian side of the LAC in Galwan Valley and Pangong Tso.The defence minister said China should think about the issue seriously so that it can be resolved soon.Indian and Chinese troops were engaged in a bitter standoff in several areas along the Line of Actual Control in mountainous eastern Ladakh for close to a month. Both the countries are holding talks at military and diplomatic levels to resolve the dispute.“The Doklam dispute was resolved through diplomatic and military talks. We have found solutions to similar situations in the past as well. Talks at the military and diplomatic levels were on to resolve the current issue,” Singh said.“India does not hurt pride of any country and at the same time, it does not tolerate any attempt to hurt its own pride,” he said, taking about India’s long-held policy.The trigger for the face-off was China’s stiff opposition to India laying a key road in the Finger area around the Pangong Tso Lake besides construction of another road connecting the Darbuk-Shayok-Daulat Beg Oldie road in Galwan Valley.China was also laying a road in the Finger area which is not acceptable to India.Government sources said military reinforcements including troops, vehicles and artillery guns were sent to eastern Ladakh by the Indian Army to shore up its presence in the areas where Chinese soldiers were resorting to aggressive posturing. The situation in eastern Ladakh deteriorated after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers were engaged in a violent face-off on the evening of May 5 which spilled over to the next day before the two sides agreed to “disengage”.However, the standoff continued.The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in north Sikkim on May 9.The troops of India and China were engaged in a 73-day stand-off in Doklam tri-junction in 2017 which even triggered fears of a war between the two nuclear-armed neighbours.The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long LAC. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet while India contests it.Both sides have been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it is necessary to maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sizeable-number-of-chinese-troops-in-eastern-ladakh-india-has-done-what-it-needs-to-rajnath-singh/story-VBUsMYAvJvWWRaYDrE6g6M.html
17-06-2020||India||Take parties, country into confidence over situation on China border, Cong tells govt||The Congress on Monday asked the government to take political parties, country into confidence over restoration of the status quo ante on the border with China in Ladakh.At a press conference, Congress spokesperson Randep Surjewala also asked the government to come clean on the actual position in Ladakh on reports of Chinese intrusion across the Line of Actual Control (LAC).“While Government has briefly commented upon resolving the crisis diplomatically, Modi Government must take all political parties and the country into confidence on restoring the status quo ante and protecting India’s territorial integrity,” Surjewala said.Surjewala said there can be no compromise on India’s security and territorial integrity and posed a set of questions to the government on the situation at the border in Ladakh.He questioned the “silence” of the government on the “brazen Chinese transgression” into Indian territory.“Why did the Modi government not share the details of the situation with the country and the people on the situation of Line of Actual Control? ,“Surjewala asked.For the past three weeks, Indian and Chinese troops have been engaged in a stand-off in Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie in eastern Ladakh. It has turned out to be the biggest confrontation between the two countries after the Doklam episode in 2017.On Sunday, the Indian Army dismissed a video purportedly showing a clash between Indian and Chinese soldiers in eastern Ladakh describing it as “malafide.”The two-and-a-half minute long video ostensibly shows a brawl between Indian and Chinese troops on the banks of Pangong Tso (lake). The Congress leader also expressed concern over issues raised by Nepal and hoped the government would find a lasting solution to it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/take-parties-country-into-confidence-over-situation-on-china-border-cong-tells-govt/story-mX4QZggEandZRlUKU407MP.html
17-06-2020||India||In 1st comment on Ladakh standoff, Rajnath Singh’s pointed reference to Doklam||India and China are talking to each other at military and diplomatic levels to resolve the Ladakh standoff, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Saturday. Singh’s statement is the first from a senior central minister on the standoff with China at four points along the Line of Actual Control.Rajnath Singh told news channel Aaj Tak that both countries had made it clear that they wanted to resolve the problem. In course of the interview, Rajnath Singh also underlined that there was no need for the United States to meditate since the two countries already had a mechanism to resolve problems and it had been set in motion.US President Donald Trump this week told reporters that he was “ready, willing and able to mediate” between India and China to help resolve tension at the border.The offer has been rejected by foreign ministries of the two countries.The offer also figured in a conversation between Rajnath Singh and US secretary of state Mark Esper when they spoke last evening.“I told him that India and China already had a mechanism that if there is any problem between the two countries, it is resolved by military and diplomatic dialogue. That mechanism is in place and the dialogue is on,” Rajnath Singh told the news channel. He also pointed to statements from Beijing on similar lines.Also Read: No end to tense Ladakh standoff in sight as India, China hold ground“India’s policy has been very clear that we should have good relations with all neighbours. This has been a long standing effort. But sometimes, circumstances arise with China that things like this happen,” he said.The defence minister also referred to the 2017 Doklam faceoff. “It appeared at that time that the situation was very tense. But we did not step back… Ultimately, we were able to resolve the situation,” he said.China had earlier this month moved a large number of its troops to four points in Ladakh sector’s Galwan Valley and Pangong Tso area in an apparent effort to browbeat the Indian side to stop border construction projects including a 60-metre concrete bridge being built near Daulat Beg Oldie, the last military post south of the Karakoram Pass.Also Read: PM Modi’s ‘Doklam team’ back in action to stand up to China in LadakhIn response, India’s military also moved in reinforcements to match the Chinese troops and made it clear that New Delhi would not allow any unilateral attempt by China to alter the status quo along the LAC.“The country should be assured that we will not allow India’s dignity to be hurt under any circumstances,” Rajnath Singh said. To a question on China’s ability to arm twist New Delhi, the minister said there was no question of this happening since the country had a strong leadership and the people knew this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dialogue-with-china-is-on-says-defence-minister-rajnath-singh-on-ladakh-standoff/story-jIfRLjjGXvJMqVVOxuiCGK.html
17-06-2020||India||PM Modi had no conversation with Trump over border standoff with China: Officials||There has been no recent contact between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Donald Trump, people familiar with the developments said.The last time the two leaders spoke was on April 4, when the subject of the conversation was hydroxychloroquine, an official said, hours after US President Donald Trump appeared to suggest that he had spoken with PM Modi in recent days.They reiterated that India is directly in contact with China to address the border stand-off. Also Watch | China’s muscle flexing explained and how India can tame the dragon l In FocusBoth India and China are involved in a stand-off in the Ladakh region along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). China was first to adopt an aggressive posturing by sending 6,000 soldiers of its People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to the region. The troops have been moved to four locations in eastern Ladakh - three in the Galwan Valley and one near Pangong Lake. Sources said that China wants to stop the infrastructure works being done by India in the remote region.At the heart of the tension is a bridge being built by India near Daulat Beg Oldie, the last military outpost south of the Karakram Pass. Once built, it will cut short the delivery time of supplies and weapons thereby helping Indian Army soldiers.India too has moved its soldiers in the region, matching China in terms of troops, capacity and resources. Many security experts and top government sources said that India should not back down from the stand it has taken, and should not bring back its troops.The decision to mobilise the troops was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval, Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and foreign minister S Jaishankar was part of that meeting.This is the same team that drafted India’s response during the 73-day Doklam stand-off in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-had-no-conversation-with-donald-trump-over-ladakh-officials/story-dxxH54uTUH7eriJvlm2MnL.html
17-06-2020||India||Ladakh stand-off: India, China continue to stand ground||: India on Thursday said it is engaged with China at the diplomatic and military levels to end a border standoff involving thousands of troops even as it tacitly ruled out any possibility of US mediation to end the face-off.The ground situation remained unchanged and neither side had lowered its guard at the four standoff points n the Ladakh sector’s Galwan Valley and Pangong Tso areas, HT has learnt.Both sides are holding firms and it is not possible to indicate at this time when the status quo ante will be restored, people familiar with the developments said.Since tensions flared along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) after violent clashes involving hundreds of soldiers in Sikkim and Ladakh sectors early this month, both sides have deployed additional soldiers, especially in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh. India has said it will oppose any unilateral attempts to alter the status quo along the LAC.Faced with a flurry of questions on the standoff and whether India agreed with China’s characterisation of the situation as “stable and controllable”, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a virtual news briefing that both sides are engaged at different levels to address tensions, but New Delhi will make no compromises on sovereignty and national security.Asked specifically about US President Donald Trump’s offer on Wednesday to mediate between India and China and whether New Delhi had sought such arbitration, Srivastava appeared to rule out any role for a third party by saying: “As I’ve told you, we are engaged with the Chinese side to peacefully resolve this issue.”India and China, he said, have established mechanisms at military and diplomatic levels to peacefully resolve situations that may arise in border areas through dialogue, and “continue to remain engaged through these channels”.Srivastava reiterated India’s contention that its troops had not violated the LAC, a charge levelled by China soon after the standoff became public.“India is committed to the objective of maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the border areas with China and our armed forces scrupulously follow the consensus reached by our leaders and the guidance provided. At the same time, we remain firm in our resolve to ensuring India’s sovereignty and national security,” he said.The Indian troops, he added, have a “very responsible approach towards border management and strictly follow the procedures laid out in various bilateral agreements and protocols with China to resolve any issue that may arise in the border areas”.These include five agreements signed by India and China in the past two decades – the 1993 Agreement on Maintenance of Peace and Tranquillity along the LAC in the India-China border areas, the 1996 Agreement on Confidence Building Measures in the Military Field along the LAC, the 2005 Protocol on Modalities for the implementation of the Confidence Building Measures in the Military Field, the 2012 Agreement on establishment of a working mechanism for consultation and coordination on India-China Border Affairs, and the 2013 Border Defence Cooperation Agreement.Srivastava did not give a direct response to questions on Chinese troops establishing a presence on the Indian side of the LAC and the level at which diplomatic engagements were underway, and only said: “Our engagement at the diplomatic level also continues between both sides, both in Delhi as well as in Beijing.”People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity the envoys of both countries were playing a key role in these engagements.China’s ambassador to India, Sun Weidong, had on Wednesday called for putting ties back on an even keel. Without referring to the standoff, he told a webinar the two sides “pose no threat to each other” and should “never let the differences shadow the overall…bilateral cooperation”. He also said they should seek “understanding through communication”.The seemingly conciliatory approach articulated by the Chinese side has not yet been reflected in the ground situation. Three of the standoff points are located around the Galwan Valley and the fourth, near Pangong lake. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army had moved soldiers to close to these four standoff points that are seen to be an effort to stop India from upgrading its border infrastructure, particularly a 60-metre-long bridge across the Galwan rivulet and an observation post near the Pangong lake.The Indian army has deployed reinforcements at the four standoff points without halting work on the border infrastructure work including the concrete Galwan bridge being built as part of a 255-km road to access Daulat Beg Oldie, the last military post south of the Karakoram Pass.“Nobody can question India’s right to build roads, bridges or airfields in its own territory. The infrastructure upgrade is continuing and will not be paused in eastern Ladakh,” an Indian official said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had reviewed the situation along the LAC at a high-level meeting this week. National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, foreign minister S Jaishankar and Chief of Defence Services General Bipin Rawat are overseeing the Indian efforts at multiple levels. On their radar is also the activity on the western border with Islamabad after reports that the Pakistan army had moved troops in the neighbouring Gilgit Baltistan region that it illegally occupies.The army, which has matched the Chinese PLA, in terms of manpower and resources at the standoff points, is prepared for a long haul and has inducted more troops in the theatre. Another set of soldiers are undergoing an acclimatization process to give the soldiers posted at the standoff sites a break before returning.Officials said China on the other hand, has also beefed up its defences in the Aksai Chin area, to handle both ground and aerial adversaries.It has upgraded its dual-use military and civil airfield at Ngari Günsa airport about 60 km from the LAC as part of this exercise where the PLA’s air force has been flying J 11 jets, widely considered to be China’s version of the Russian Sukhoi 27 fighters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ladakh-stand-off-india-china-continue-to-stand-ground/story-q4m6VdZhB2cauDJy3NmFoN.html
17-06-2020||India||India snubs Trump’s offer on China border row, says no compromise on national security||India on Thursday said it is engaged with China at the diplomatic and military levels to end a border standoff involving thousands of troops even as it tacitly ruled out any possibility of US mediation to end the face-off.Since tensions flared along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) after violent clashes involving hundreds of soldiers in Sikkim and Ladakh sectors early this month, both sides have deployed additional soldiers, especially in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh. India has said it will oppose any unilateral attempts to alter the status quo along the LAC.Faced with a flurry of questions on the standoff and whether India agreed with China’s characterisation of the situation as “stable and controllable”, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a virtual news briefing that both sides are engaged at different levels to address tensions, but New Delhi will make no compromises on sovereignty and national security.ALSO WATCH: India-China tension | Donald Trump’s offer, more troops at LACAlso read | Engaged with China to resolve border row peacefully: India on Trump’s offer to mediateAsked specifically about US President Donald Trump’s offer on Wednesday to mediate between the India and China and whether New Delhi had sought such arbitration, Srivastava appeared to rule out any role for a third party by saying: “As I’ve told you, we are engaged with the Chinese side to peacefully resolve this issue.”India and China, he said, have established mechanisms at military and diplomatic levels to peacefully resolve situations that may arise in border areas through dialogue, and “continue to remain engaged through these channels”.Srivastava reiterated India’s contention that its troops had not violated the LAC, a charge levelled by China soon after the standoff became public.“India is committed to the objective of maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the border areas with China and our armed forces scrupulously follow the consensus reached by our leaders and the guidance provided. At the same time, we remain firm in our resolve to ensuring India’s sovereignty and national security,” he said.The Indian troops, he added, have a “very responsible approach towards border management and strictly follow the procedures laid out in various bilateral agreements and protocols with China to resolve any issue that may arise in the border areas”.These include five agreements signed by India and China in the past two decades – the 1993 Agreement on Maintenance of Peace and Tranquillity along the LAC in the India-China border areas, the 1996 Agreement on Confidence Building Measures in the Military Field along the LAC, the 2005 Protocol on Modalities for the implementation of the Confidence Building Measures in the Military Field, the 2012 Agreement on establishment of a working mechanism for consultation and coordination on India-China Border Affairs, and the 2013 Border Defence Cooperation Agreement.Srivastava did not give a direct response to questions on Chinese troops establishing a presence on the Indian side of the LAC and the level at which diplomatic engagements were underway, and only said: “Our engagement at the diplomatic level also continues between both sides, both in Delhi as well as in Beijing.”People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity the envoys of both countries were playing a key role in these engagements.China’s ambassador to India, Sun Weidong, had on Wednesday called for putting ties back on an even keel. Without referring to the standoff, he told a webinar the two sides “pose no threat to each other” and should “never let the differences shadow the overall…bilateral cooperation”. He also said they should seek “understanding through communication”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-delhi-will-make-no-compromises-on-national-security-mea-on-china-border-row/story-zZnQIblG6zQbAqha1iRnZJ.html
17-06-2020||India||No end to tense Ladakh standoff in sight as India, China hold ground||There has been no change in the ground situation or lowering of guard by either sides at the four standoff points between Indian and Chinese troops in Ladakh sector’s Galwan valley and Pangong Tso areas.Both sides are holding firm and it is not possible to indicate at this time when the status quo ante will be restored, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times on Thursday.Yesterday, the Chinese foreign ministry had played down the tense standoff along the Line of Actual Control, insisting that the situation was stable and controllable and the two sides were in touch with each other at different levels.The seemingly conciliatory approach articulated by the Chinese side has not reflected in the ground situation.Three of the standoff points are located around Galwan valley and the fourth, near Pangong lake. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army had moved soldiers to close to these four standoff points that are seen to be an effort to stop India from upgrading its border infrastructure, particularly 60-metre long bridge across the Galwan rivulet or nallah and an observation post near the Pangong lake.The Indian army has deployed reinforcements at the four standoff points without halting work on the border infrastructure work including the concrete Galwan bridge being built as part of a 255-km road to access Daulat Beg Oldie, the last military post south of the Karakoram Pass. Also Watch | China’s muscle flexing explained and how India can tame the dragon l In Focus“Nobody can question India’s right to build roads, bridges or airfields in its own territory. The infrastructure upgrade is continuing and will not be paused in eastern Ladakh,” an Indian official said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had reviewed the situation along the LAC at a high-level meeting this week.National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, Foreign Minister S Jaishankar and Chief of Defence Services General Bipin Rawat are overseeing the Indian efforts at multiple levels. On their radar is also the activity on the western border with Islamabad after reports that the Pakistan army had moved troops in the neighbouring Gilgit Baltistan region that it illegally occupies.The Indian army, which has matched the Chinese PLA in terms of manpower and resources at the standoff points, has prepped for a long haul and inducted more troops in the theatre. Another set of soldiers are undergoing the acclimatization process to give the soldiers posted at the standoff sites a break before returning.Officials said China on the other hand, has also beefed up its defences in Aksai Chin area, both to handle ground and aerial adversaries.It has upgraded its dual-use military and civil airfield at Ngari Günsa airport about 60 km from the LAC as part of this exercise where the PLA’s air force has been flying J 11 jets, widely considered to be China’s version of the Russian Sukhoi 27 fighters.The other airfields in the vicinity of LAC are Yarkand 320 km from the LAC, Hotan is 240 km, Kashgar is 450 km while Korla is 600 km from the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-end-to-tense-ladakh-standoff-in-sight-as-india-china-hold-ground/story-hyEqc429I68jesxVQ3d0BL.html
17-06-2020||India||‘Parties involved to decide’: UN on Trump’s offer to mediate to ease LAC tension||The United Nations has urged restraint from both India and China amid the tension along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Reacting to US President Donald Trump’s offer, the UN Secretary General’s spokesperson also said that it is for the parties involved to decide who they want to mediate.“It would be for parties involved to decide who they would want to mediate, not for us to opine. We’re looking at the situation and we urge parties to avoid any action that would make the situation even more tense,” the spokesperson said on Thursday.US President Donald Trump on Wednesday waded into the tense border stand-off between India and China, saying he was “ready, willing and able to mediate” between the two Asian neighbours, a statement that could irk Beijing more than New Delhi.Shortly before Trump made his offer through a tweet, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said at a press conference in Beijing that the situation on the China-India border was “generally stable and controllable.” The sides were communicating through both their front-line military units and their respective embassies to “properly resolve relevant issues through dialogue and consultation,” Zhao said.Both India and China have increased presence along the LAC in Ladakh region. China was the first to adopt the aggressive posture as it moved 6,000 troops of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to the border area.The troops have been moved to four locations in eastern Ladakh - three in the Galwan Valley and one near Pangong Lake. Sources in the government said that China wants to stop the infrastucture projects launched by India in the Ladakh sector. At the centre of the stand-off is a bridge, which once complete, would give soldiers easy access to Daulat Beg Oldie, the last military post south of the Karakoram Pass.People aware of the development said that roads and other infrastructure projects will give Indian Army soldiers posted in the border area an advantage, and cut short the time needed to for the supplies and weaponry to reach them.Many security experts and top government sources said that India should not back down from the stand it has taken, and should not bring back its troops. India has matched the China army’s deployment in terms of troops, capacity and resources.The move was approved after a high-level security meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently. The meeting was attended by National Securoty Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval, Choef of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and foreign minister S Jaishankar.This is the same team that had led India’s response during the 73-day Doklam stand-off in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parties-involved-to-decide-un-on-trump-s-offer-to-mediate-to-ease-lac-tension/story-BJuInQ2px74aFLonCZnJhK.html
17-06-2020||India||India China standoff explained: Bridge over troubled waters||India has matched the China army’s deployment in terms of troops, capacity and resources in eastern Ladakh that is witnessing four simultaneous standoffs between the two armies. Here is everything you need to know about the Ladakh standoff.What is the Ladakh standoff about?China has moved two brigade strength of People’s Liberation Army, over 6000 soldiers and support elements, at four locations in eastern Ladakh, three in the Galwan Valley and one near Pangong Lake. In response, India had also moved an equal number of high-altitude warfare troops to these areas closer to the Line of Actual Control. Have the Chinese soldiers intruded into Indian territory?No. Initial information suggests that the Chinese troops have not expanded the disputed areas of the border either Galwan or Pangong Tso but their presence in large numbers is seen to be adopting an aggressive posture. The troop buildup is China’s response to border projects on the Indian side that would make these areas easily accessible to Indian soldiers and heavy weaponry.ALSO WATCH | India-China tension | Donald Trump’s offer, more troops at LAC: All updatesDo the Chinese attempt to stall projects on our side?India is playing catch up with China that has built an extensive border infrastructure and laid metalled roads to connect all military outposts to their base camps. But there have been ongoing efforts by the Chinese army, now and then, to stall projects at Pangong Tso, Galwan and Depsang Plains.FactsAccording to the western sector maps shared by India and China in 2002 on their respective claim line, there are 12 areas of differences in perception of the Line of Actual Control. The maps were never exchanged due to Chinese objections.These are:Samar Lungpa 176 sq kmTrig heights and Depsang bulge 972 sq kmKonh Ka La (3 pockets) 56 sq kmPangong Tso (Both banks) 83 sq kmSpanggur Gap 24 sq kmMount Sajum 129 sq kmDumchele 40 sq km Demchok 150 sq kmChumar 80 sq kmIndian military records indicate that China is in adverse possession of 33,000 sq km in the western sector through public information is around 38,000 sq km. Apart from this, Pakistan illegally ceded 5,180 sq km in Shaksgam Valley to China in 1963.Source: The Himalayan Face-off: Chinese Assertion Indian RiposteWhat is the latest dispute over?The first standoff between the two sides is happening around the Pangong lake.Overlooking the lake is the Sirijap range, which has several cliffs jutting out. These are numbered 1 to 8 by the military. India’s LAC claim line extends to Finger 8. Chinese PLA’s patrol teams normally come from behind Finger 8 cliff and are intercepted by Indian patrol around Finger 6.Since the Chinese forces are able to spend a considerable amount of time on the Indian side of the claim line before they are detected, the army decided to build a new observation point at Finger 8 that would give Indian soldiers a birds eye view of the area and spot Chinese patrols as soon as they entered the area.This time, a large number of Chinese PLA soldiers reached the area near Finger 6 where they are usually intercepted to put pressure on the Indian side to halt work at the observation post.A scuffle broke out between the Indian and Chinese soldiers near the lake on the night of May 5-6 but a flare-up was avoided as both armies stuck to protocols to resolve the stand-off.And the other?The second dispute started over a 60-metre long bridge being built by India in the Depsang Plains across the Galwan rivulet. This point is close to the confluence of the rivulet to the Shyok River. This bridge, once complete, would give soldiers easy access to Daulat Beg Oldie, the last military post south of the Karakoram Pass. In the absence of the road, this outpost is supplied via mule trains from Murgo. The PLA beefed up its presence on its side of the LAC at Patrolling Points 14, 15 and 17. These locations are about six kilometres to the east to the confluence. The Chinese soldiers have not crossed into Indian territory but their posturing is considered aggressive. Is this similar to the 2013 faceoff between the two sides?Strictly speaking, this time the thousands of soldiers that have been moved by both sides aren’t really face to face as was the case in 2013. But at that time also, the faceoff that took place at Ladakh’s Depsang Plains was aimed at browbeating the Indian side into stopping building roads and an observation post in Himachal Pradesh’s Chumar, a day’s mountainous drive from Depsang.Why do the two sides keep on having border standoffs?One reason is the Chinese attempt to stop construction activities on the Indian side. The second reason is linked to the differing perceptions of the Line of Actual Control, which in eastern Ladakh, generally corresponds to the position reached as a result of the 1962 conflict.Are the two countries making efforts to end the standoff?India responded to the belligerence displayed by the Chinese side by moving reinforcements to the border hotspots but underlined the importance of ensuring peace and tranquillity in the border regions.President Xi Jinping, who is also head of China’s military commission, appeared to amp up the rhetoric this week when he told the military to be prepared for war at the National People’s Congress. But there has been a marked climbdown by Beijing. The people’s congress, an annual meeting of China’s ceremonial parliament, ends tomorrow. On Wednesday, China’s foreign ministry stressed that the China-India border area situation is overall “stable and controllable” and stressed on bilateral negotiations at diplomatic and military levels to de-escalate tension at the border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-standoff-explained-bridge-over-troubled-waters/story-mcljIoRC0TUp3UqRjOtbmI.html
17-06-2020||India||‘Do not let differences overshadow relations’: China’s India envoy on ties||The two nations pose no threat to each other, stressed Chinese envoy in India Sun Weidong on Wednesday amid face-off between New Delhi and Beijing over the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Ladakh sector recently. The envoy further stressed that any “differences” can be solved through communication. “We should never let differences overshadow our relations. We should resolve differences through communication,” envoy Sun Weidong was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The Chinese envoy underlined how the two nations are fighting the scourge of Covid-19 together and urged the youth to view each other favourably.ALSO WATCH | ‘China hindering patrolling’: India slams Beijing after Ladakh, Sikkim fistfights“China and India are fighting together against Covid-19 and we have an important task to consolidate relations. Our youth should realise the relation between China and India, the two countries are opportunities for each other and pose no threat,” Weidong was quoted again by ANI.The external affairs ministry said last week the Indian side remained firmly committed to the common objective of maintaining peace and tranquillity in border areas, as this is an essential prerequisite to further development of India-China relations.On Tuesday, India, officials familiar with developments said, won’t allow any alteration of the status quo on the LAC and the build-up of Chinese troops will be faced with “strength and restraint”.In many ways, India’s position is a reiteration of the stance it adopted during the 73-day standoff at Doklam in 2017, when Indian troops dug in and stood their ground in the face of a rapid mobilisation by the Chinese side.PM Modi also met National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat last evening to assess the situation along the LAC amid a tense standoff between thousands of Indian and Chinese troops, especially Galwan Valley and Pangong Lake in eastern Ladakh.HT was the first to report on May 10 about tensions flaring between India and China in north Sikkim, where 150 soldiers were involved in a tense clash a day earlier. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured at Naku La during the confrontation.Around 250 soldiers from the two sides also clashed near Pangong Lake on the night of May 5-6, with the scuffle leaving scores injured. While an immediate flare-up was avoided as both armies stuck to protocols to resolve the situation, tensions spread to other pockets along the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/do-not-let-differences-overshadow-relations-china-s-india-envoy-on-ties/story-cz7TkpbXC3FgsguXsJDJyI.html
17-06-2020||India||Top Army commanders begin deliberations on security challenges facing India||Top commanders of the Indian Army on Wednesday began deliberations on key security challenges facing India, including the tense standoff between Indian and Chinese troops in several areas of eastern Ladakh.The three-day conference is being presided over by Chief of Army Staff Gen M M Naravane.The commanders are also expected to delve into the overall situation in Jammu and Kashmir.However, the main focus will be on the situation in eastern Ladakh where Indian and Chinese troops are locked in an eyeball-to-eyeball face-off in sensitive areas like Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie, government sources said.“All aspects of India’s security challenges, including along borders with Pakistan and China, will be discussed at length by the commanders,” said a senior military official on condition of anonymity.Both India and China have significantly increased their presence in all sensitive areas in the region, in an indication that neither side is ready to back off.The situation in eastern Ladakh deteriorated after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers were engaged in a violent face-off on the evening of May 5 which spilled over to the next day before the two sides agreed to “disengage” following a meeting at the level of local commanders.Over 100 Indian and Chinese soldiers were injured in the violence.The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in north Sikkim on May 9.The commanders’ conference was originally scheduled to be held from April 13-18, but it was postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic.The second phase of the conference will take place in the last week of June.On the face-off in eastern Ladakh, India last week said that it has always taken a very responsible approach towards border management but the Chinese military was hindering normal patrolling by its troops.It is learnt that both India and China are looking at a solution to the issue through talks.On May 5, the Indian and the Chinese army personnel clashed with iron rods, sticks, and even resorted to stone-pelting in the Pangong Tso lake area in which soldiers on both sides sustained injuries.In a separate incident, nearly 150 Indian and Chinese military personnel were engaged in a face-off near Naku La Pass in the Sikkim sector on May 9. At least 10 soldiers from both sides sustained injuries.The troops of India and China were engaged in a 73-day stand-off in Doklam tri-junction in 2017 which even triggered fears of a war between the two nuclear-armed neighbours.The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long LAC. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet while India contests it.Both sides have been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it is necessary to maintain peace and tranquility in the border areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-army-commanders-begin-deliberations-on-security-challenges-facing-india/story-jmDm6Bbx0KzbBIkxIHhZSO.html
17-06-2020||India||India matches up to China’s military in standoff near Karakoram Pass||India has decided to not back down from a standoff with China -- along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh -- that centres around a strategic bridge being built near Daulat Beg Oldi, the last military post south of the Karakoram Pass, and has moved troops to counter Chinese forces stationed in the region, according to people familiar with the matter who asked not to be named.The idea is to not allow any alteration of Indian territory and to face the Chinese challenge with “strength and restraint”, the people cited above said on Tuesday against the backdrop of a high-level security meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The PM met National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen Bipin Rawat to assess the situation along the LAC amid a tense stand-off between thousands of Indian and Chinese troops, especially in Galwan Valley and Pangong Lake in eastern Ladakh. The CDS briefed PM Modi on the military inputs and suggestions to handle the situation in Ladakh.“The bottom line is that we will not allow any change in the status quo on the LAC. That we will not permit,” said one of the people cited above, who spoke on condition of anonymity. “We have faced similar situations in the past, and we will face this situation with strength and restraint,” the person added.In many ways, India’s position is a reiteration of the stance it adopted during the 73-day standoff at Doklam in 2017, when Indian troops dug in and stood their ground in the face of a rapid mobilisation by the Chinese side.Indian security officials said that the focus of the Chinese action in the area was to “dominate the region” and “deter India” from completing the Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldi road, which, once fully metalled, will give India a major advantage in terms of access and military mobilisation. A key part of this is the construction of a bridge at Daulat Beg Oldi that China wants to stop.“India has decided to stand up to China -- in terms of troops, capacity and resources,” one of the officials said on condition of anonymity, adding that this included the induction of specialised forces in the area. China is believed to have marshalled close to 5,000 soldiers on its side of Ladakh sector. The situation in the Sikkim sector, meanwhile, has eased off, the official added. The people cited in the first instance also reiterated the external affairs ministry’s comment of May 22 that all activities by Indian troops were on the Indian side of the LAC in the Ladakh and Sikkim sectors. They repeated the ministry’s accusation that it was Chinese troops that were hindering normal patrolling by Indian forces on the Indian side of the LAC.“The Indian troops are fully familiar with the alignment of the LAC. The Chinese have raised similar objections and made similar attempts [to hinder the activity of Indian troops] in the past too. Their motives and intentions in the current circumstances are not clear,” one of the persons said.“But we are very firm and very clear – there have no violations by us,” the person added.A second person, who too spoke on condition of anonymity, said India’s construction activities in forward areas will not stop because of the standoff. The issue is being dealt with on the Indian side by the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS), chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and CDS General Bipin Rawat, a senior official aware of the matter said.Indian and Chinese soldiers are eyeball-to-eyeball at four locations along the LAC and several rounds of talks between local military commanders have failed to end the standoff that began with a violent confrontation between rival patrols three weeks ago near Pangong Lake.The standoff is also expected to figure prominently on the agenda of the three-day army commanders’ conference that begins on Wednesday, officials said. Army chief Gen Manoj Mukund Naravane will chair the meeting.“The apex level leadership of the Indian Army will brainstorm on current emerging security and administrative challenges and chart the future course for the army,” an army spokesperson said.Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday reviewed the situation in the Ladakh sector of the LAC during a meeting with the chief of defence staff and the three service chiefs.The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) plans to complete all 61 strategic roads assigned to it along the border with China by December 2022, officials said. These roads are spread across Arunachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Sikkim, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh, and will allow swifter mobilisation of troops and stores to forward areas.HT was the first to report on May 10 about tensions flaring between India and China in north Sikkim, where 150 soldiers were involved in a tense clash a day earlier. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured at Naku La during the confrontation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-won-t-back-down-from-stand-off-with-china-at-lac/story-gUeGveAsBgYkyFwMGdDr2J.html
17-06-2020||India||India won’t allow change of status quo on Line of Actual Control: Officials||India won’t allow any alteration of the status quo on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and the build-up of Chinese troops will be faced with “strength and restraint”, people familiar with developments said on Tuesday against the backdrop of a high-level security meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Modi met National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat to assess the situation along the LAC amid a tense standoff between thousands of Indian and Chinese troops, especially Galwan Valley and Pangong Lake in eastern Ladakh.“The bottomline is that we will not allow any change in the status quo on the LAC. That we will not permit,” said one of the people cited above, who spoke on condition of anonymity.“We have faced similar situations in the past, and we will face this situation with strength and restraint,” the person added.In many ways, India’s position is a reiteration of the stance it adopted during the 73-day standoff at Doklam in 2017, when Indian troops dug in and stood their ground in the face of a rapid mobilisation by the Chinese side.The people reiterated the external affairs ministry’s contention of May 22 that all activities by Indian troops were on the Indian side of the LAC in the Ladakh and Sikkim sectors. They also repeated the ministry’s accusation that it was Chinese troops that were hindering normal patrolling by Indian forces on the Indian side of the LAC.“The Indian troops are fully familiar with the alignment of the LAC. The Chinese have raised similar objections and made similar attempts [to hinder the activity of Indian troops] in the past too. Their motives and intentions in the current circumstances are not clear,” the person said.“But we are very firm and very clear – there have been no violations by us,” the person added.A second person, who too spoke on condition of anonymity, said India’s construction activities in forward areas will not stop because of the standoff.The people said the Indian side is facing the current stand-off with firmness and has deployed appropriate resources, even as it works on peaceful resolutions.Responding to speculation about the efficacy of strategic guidance issued after the informal summits at Wuhan in 2018 and Mammallapuram in 2019 for maintaining peace and tranquillity on the border, the people said established mechanisms for dealing with such issues continued to be in place and both sides were in touch at diplomatic and other levels to address the situation.“Normal diplomatic contacts, at various levels, are underway,” the first person said, declining to go into details.The standoff on the LAC is expected to figure prominently on the agenda of the three-day army commanders’ conference that begins on Wednesday, officials said. Army chief Gen Manoj Mukund Naravane will chair the meeting.“The apex level leadership of the Indian Army will brainstorm on current emerging security and administrative challenges and chart the future course for the army,” an army spokesperson said.Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday reviewed the situation in the Ladakh sector of the LAC during a meeting with the chief of defence staff and the three service chiefs.The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) plans to complete all 61 strategic roads assigned to it along the border with China by December 2022, officials said. These roads are spread across Arunachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Sikkim, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh, and will allow swifter mobilisation of troops and stores to forward areas.China is believed to have marshalled close to 5,000 soldiers on its side of the disputed border in Ladakh sector, where India has also sent military reinforcements to strengthen defences amid the growing tensions on the LAC.Indian and Chinese soldiers are eyeball-to-eyeball at four locations along the LAC and several rounds of talks between local military commanders have failed to end the standoff that began with a violent confrontation between rival patrols three weeks ago near Pangong Lake.Sending the military reinforcements, including troops, vehicles and heavy equipment, did not require much effort as China diverted resources from an ongoing military exercise in the region, officials said.Naravane made a low-key visit to Ladakh last week for a security review as tensions grew near Pangong Lake and three pockets in Galwan Valley, where Chinese troops have pitched close to 100 tents and erected temporary structures to establish a presence.HT was the first to report on May 10 about tensions flaring between India and China in north Sikkim, where 150 soldiers were involved in a tense clash a day earlier. Four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers were injured at Naku La during the confrontation.Around 250 soldiers from the two sides also clashed near Pangong Lake on the night of May 5-6, with the scuffle leaving scores injured. While an immediate flare-up was avoided as both armies stuck to protocols to resolve the situation, tensions spread to other pockets along the LAC.The latest standoff is not confined to a small area, and has triggered an increase in troops at multiple locations on both sides and seems to suggest a greater design rather than adventurism by local commanders, as reported by HT on Sunday.The external affairs ministry said last week the Indian side remained firmly committed to the common objective of maintaining peace and tranquillity in border areas, as this is an essential prerequisite to further development of India-China relations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-won-t-allow-change-of-status-quo-on-line-of-actual-control-officials/story-omhYvrJnnEn3reFhbfeepL.html
17-06-2020||India||Rajnath Singh reviews security with top military brass in the backdrop of India-China boundary tensions||Defence minister Rajnath Singh held a security review meeting with the Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and the three services chiefs on Tuesday in the backdrop of heightened tensions with China over the boundary issue that has manifested in a stand-off between the two sides at four places along the border and the line of actual control (LAC), reported ANI.The meeting follows reports that China may have scaled up the presence of its soldiers to up to 5,000 on its side of the disputed border in the Ladakh sector following incidents of clashes between the two sides. HT reported on May 10 about a flare-up at Naku La in north Sikkim between the two neighbours a day earlier. According to officials, 150 soldiers were reported to be involved in the standoff leading to injuries to four Indian and seven Chinese soldiers.The above incident took place after around 250 soldiers from the two sides clashed near Pangong Tso--a lake in the Himalayas situated at a height of about 4,350 metres that extends from India to the Tibetan autonomous region-- a few days ago on the night of May 5-6, also leading to injuries to scores of troops.India has accused China of blocking patrol by its troops while China has accused India of transgression into its territory. The incident was also taken note of by the US which criticized the ‘Chinese aggression’. The current situation is believed to be the worst since the 2017 Doklam standoff that lasted 73 days and dealt a blow to relations between the two sides.India has also sent military reinforcements to strengthen its defences as Indian and Chinese soldiers remain locked in an eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation at four locations along the LAC.Several rounds of talks between local military commanders, the latest in the series taking place on Monday, have failed to end the deadlock that began with a violent clash between rival patrols three weeks ago near Pangong Tso.One of the officials told HT that India was tracking all aspects of the Chinese deployments and was maintaining parity in troop numbers.Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane had visited Ladakh last week for a review of the situation near Pangong Tso and three pockets in the Galwan Valley region where Chinese troops have pitched close to 100 tents and erected temporary structures.Also Watch: Rahul Gandhi demands transparency on faceoff with China & ties with NepalThe latest standoff is not confined to a small area like Doklam and has triggered an increase in troop numbers on both sides at multiple locations. Experts suggest the likely presence of a greater design behind it. They have also opined that the stalemate would now require political direction and diplomatic intervention to be resolved.For Coronavirus Live Updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-reviews-security-with-top-military-brass-in-the-backdrop-of-india-china-boundary-tensions/story-WOsYKZp6DpiPnCYL3sv0vI.html
17-06-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Railways extends suspension of passenger services till May 3||Indian Railways said on Tuesday its passenger services will remain suspended till May 3, soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the country will continue to remain under strict restrictions to fight the coronavirus pandemic.“In continuation of the measures taken in the wake of COVID-19 Lockdown, it has been decided that all passenger train services on Indian Railways including Premium trains, Mail/Express trains, Passenger trains, Suburban Trains, Kolkata Metro Rail, Konkan Railway etc shall continue to remain cancel till the 2400hrs of 3rd May 2020,” the railways said in a release.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Movement of goods and parcel trains will continue to ensure the essential supplies in various parts of the country, it said.The railways said all passenger ticket bookings will also be cancelled.  Also read: ‘Cry, my beloved country’: Chidambaram takes on PM Modi’s lockdown extension“All counters for booking of rail journey tickets for reserved/unreserved travel at railway stations and outside railway station premises shall remain closed upto 2400 hrs of 3rd May 2020,” it said.HT had reported on Friday that the government is considering dividing the country into a red zone in which no transport will immediately be allowed, a yellow zone where restricted services will resume and a green zone where transport will be allowed free movement.Also read: Railways converts 5,000 coaches into isolation wards, awaits govt direction on deploymentOnce restrictions are lifted, the national carrier is planning to ensure strict social distancing norms in trains, which includes mandatory thermal screening and no allotment of middle berth in the sleeper category.All passenger transport had been suspended for the three-week-long lockdown period that began on March 25.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-railways-extends-suspension-of-passenger-services-till-may-3/story-a5iP2nmQ2m7IDsxmclflKK.html
