18-06-2020||India||One more elephant found dead in Chhattisgarh, sixth in 10 days||Another wild elephant was found dead in Raigarh district on Thursday taking the toll of jumbo deaths to six in the last ten days in Chhattisgarh, forest officials said.Forest officials on Thursday morning found the carcass of a tusker was in Behramar village under Chhal forest range of Dharamjaigarh division.“The elephant did not die due to natural causes but the exact cause of death will be known after the postmortem report and the investigation is going on,” said Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (Wildlife) Arun Kumar Pandey.On Tuesday, an elephant died after coming in contact with a live electric wire at a farm in Raigarh district after which five people, including three employees of the state power company, were booked.On the same day, an elephant calf died after it got stuck in marshland in Dhamtari district.Last week, carcasses of two elephants were found in the Pratappur forest range while another jumbo was found dead in neighboring Balrampur district. The postmortem report suggested that the elephants died due to toxicity, infection and cardiac arrest.Later, three state forest officials and a guard were suspended, while a show cause notice was issued to a divisional forest officer in Balrampur for alleged dereliction of duty.On Wednesday, the state government decided to step up measures for the conservation and protection of wildlife in the state and develop two hospitals with all facilities for the treatment of wild animals.Officials present in the meeting informed chief minister Bhupesh Baghel that in the last 10 years, the state has recorded an increase in the population of wildlife, including elephants whose number rose from 225 to 290 during the period.The CM issued necessary guidelines for the monitoring of wild animals in the state forests and improving measures for their conservation, the official saidNorth Chhattisgarh is home to around 240 wild elephants, which roam in plains of the state. Several reports of human-elephant conflicts surfaced in the last few years in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-more-elephant-found-dead-in-chhattisgarh-sixth-in-10-days/story-HdDDyRc3AIhPws6JgkDCAO.html
18-06-2020||India||India confirms participation in virtual meeting of RIC foreign ministers||India on Thursday confirmed external affairs minister S Jaishankar will join a virtual meeting of the Russia-India-China (RIC) grouping on June 23, a day ahead of Indian and Chinese military contingents participating in the Victory Day parade in Moscow. Russia had on Wednesday formally announced the virtual meeting of the RIC foreign ministers, quashing doubts about India’s participation in the aftermath of the violent clash with Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) that left 20 Indian soldiers dead.“External affairs minister will be participating in this meeting. The three ministers are expected to discuss the current situation of the global pandemic and the challenges of global security, financial stability and RIC cooperation in that context,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly media briefing.Srivastava noted this would “be a trilateral meeting” – an indication that bilateral matters such as the India-China border stand-off would not be up for discussion.The violent face-off between Indian and Chinese troops on June 15 had cast a shadow on the RIC meeting, originally scheduled to be held in March but postponed because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Russia recently took the initiative to organise the virtual meeting this month, as first reported by HT on June 13.The virtual meeting was originally scheduled for June 22 but was postponed by a day due to a request from the Chinese side, people familiar with developments said.A day after the RIC meeting, military contingents from India and China will participate in the Victory Day parade in Moscow. Russia marks the Soviet Union’s victory over Nazi Germany on May 9 each year with a massive military display involving thousands of troops and tanks parading through the Red Square. This year’s event has been delayed by the pandemic.A 75-member Indian tri-service contingent is set to leave for Russia on Friday. China sent a 105-member contingent of the People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) honour guard on June 15.The RIC meeting is expected to discuss the situation in Afghanistan and regional connectivity projects such as the International North South Transport Corridor involving India, Russia and Iran.“The existence of the #RIC is an undisputable reality, firmly fixed on the world map. As for the current stage of the trilateral cooperation, there are no indications that it might be frozen,” Russia’s ambassador to India, Nikolay Kudashev, tweeted on Wednesday.“We welcome all steps aimed at de-escalation at the #LAC, including the conversation between the two FMs, and remain optimistic,” Kudashev said in another tweet, referring to Wednesday’s phone conversation between Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi.Russia, the chair of RIC for this year, has made concerted efforts to organise the meeting of the foreign ministers. Moscow’s relations with New Delhi and Beijing are currently very good, and Kudashev and deputy chief of mission Roman Babushkin have, in remarks to the Indian media, spoken of the need for easing tensions for regional stability.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-confirms-participation-in-virtual-meeting-of-ric-foreign-ministers/story-9649WVCYmSZeDwbmEA3d1O.html
18-06-2020||India||MP govt offers Rs 1 crore, house and job to kin of Deepak Singh, slain in Galwan Valley clash||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday announced an ex gratia relief of Rs 1 crore and a house or a plot along with a government job to the next of kin of Naik Deepak Singh who was among the 20 soldiers, killed during a clash with the Chinese Army in the Galwan Valley on Monday. Chouhan made the announcement while paying tribute to the soldier from Rewa district of Madhya Pradesh.30-year-old Deepak Singh Gaharwar, a resident of Faraida village in Rewa district about 536 kilometres north east of Bhopal, is survived by wife Rekha, a teacher in a Navoday school. His marriage took place a few months ago in November last year. His last rites is expected to be held on Friday.His grandmother had yesterday said that in his last phone call home, Deepak had promised to visit her after the lockdown restrictions were eased further.Deepak was the younger son of Gajraj Singh Gaharwar, a farmer by profession. He was raised by his father and his grandmother after the passing of his mother when he was still a child. Deepak’s elder brother Prakash Singh is also in the army and is posted on the Indo-Pak border in Rajasthan, as per family members.Deepak’s grandmother Phoolmati said, “He talked to me about a fortnight back. He told me ‘Dadi tum pareshaan mat hona. Main lockdown khatm hote hi aaunga (Don’t worry. I will come home after lockdown restrictions are lifted)’. I didn’t know he would never come.”Deepak’s cousin Sachin Singh described him as the most adorable person in the village who respected everyone in the village and was loved by all. Among the 20 soldiers killed on Monday, five are from Bihar, four from Punjab, two each from Odisha, Jharkhand and West Bengal, and one each from Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Telangana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-govt-offers-rs-1-crore-house-and-job-to-kin-of-deepak-singh-slain-in-galwan-valley-clash/story-J85tSEv7ENoMhixIEzptSM.html
18-06-2020||India||Can’t refuse admission to Covid-19 patients: Bengal govt to pvt hospitals||Private hospitals can neither refuse admission and treatment to Covid-19 patients nor can they prescribe tests for asymptomatic people, the Trinamool Congress government told representatives of 33 private institutions at a meeting on Thursday.Cost of tests have to be rational and uniform as well, said chief secretary Rajiva Sinha, pointing out that some laboratories were charging Rs 2,800 while others were taking Rs 4,500.“Around 10,000 beds in private and government hospitals across the state are earmarked for Covid-19 patients and 80 per cent of these are lying vacant. Yet, we receive complaints that patients are running from one hospital to another. This cannot be allowed,” Sinha said after meeting officials of the private institutions.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.This was the second time the state told private hospitals that admission cannot be refused to patients. On May 1, the government issued a 30-page order, asking private hospitals and clinics to admit all patients without seeking certificates showing that they have not contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease, or face strict penal action.“According to the West Bengal Clinical Establishments Act 2017, no patient can be refused admission. We also met representatives of doctors’ organizations on Wednesday and heard that many hospitals have reduced their salaries. Please pay full salary to doctors,” Sinha said on Thursday afternoon.The chief secretary also said it was unfair for private hospitals to charge patients for PPE kits for a large number of staffers.“In some private hospitals, patients are being charged for PPE kits used by as many as seven staff members. Hospitals should bear most of this cost and charge patients only a part of it because the economic slowdown has affected all,” said Sinha.He also cautioned hospitals against delaying treatment till arrival of Covid-19 test reports.“We have also heard that private hospitals are not starting treatment till arrival of Covid-19 test reports. In some critical cases this may be necessary but the pretext cannot be used left, right and centre,” the chief secretary said. “Also, private doctors cannot prescribe tests for asymptomatic patients,” he added. “It was a fruitful and frank discussion and the points raised by the government are very reasonable. We are extremely happy. As far as charging patients for PPE kits is concerned, hospitals have to be reasonable,” Dr Alok Roy, chairman of Medical group of hospitals, told HT.“We have already increased the number of beds to more than 100,” said a spokesperson of AMRI Hospitals. Bengal’s first Covid-19 death was reported at the group’s Salt Lake unit. “We are ahead of Covid-19 in this war and there should not be any distinction between private and government hospitals. We had to hold the meeting as we were receiving various complaints,” said Sinha.Salary cuts for doctors that have become an issue amid the pandemic was also a topic of discussion at the meeting.“We have been raising the issue of salary cuts since June 1. We welcome the government’s decision although it may pose a problem for small clinical establishments with limited resources and staff,” said an office bearer of the West Bengal Doctors Forum who did not wish to be quoted.“Occupancy in hospitals will go down once patients start living in ‘safe homes’ and corporate houses set up satellite health facilities as prescribed by the state government. We will upload on the health department’s website the status of vacant beds in state hospitals. The figures for private hospitals will be uploaded from Friday,” Sinha said.Incidentally, at several private hospitals, doctors and paramedical staff have been affected while treating Covid-19 patients. One such private hospital in Kolkata’s Salt Lake area was shut down in April. Another 400-bed hospital in south Kolkata had to be shut down for two weeks in May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-t-refuse-admission-for-covid-19-patients-bengal-govt-to-pvt-hospitals/story-pIiU6hgY4NMUra3YpxkKAO.html
18-06-2020||India||China, India to deal with ‘serious matter’ caused by Galwan conflict in a ‘just manner’: Beijing||China and India have agreed to deal with the “serious matter” caused by the conflict at the Galwan Valley in a “just manner” and both sides are in communication and coordination through diplomatic and military channels to de-escalate the tensions as soon as possible, a top Chinese official said on Thursday.At least 20 Indian Army personnel were killed in the clashes with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on Monday night. China’s official media has acknowledged casualties on the Chinese side without mentioning numbers.Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said on Thursday that after this incident both sides are in communication and coordination on the matter through diplomatic and military channels.“Both sides agreed to deal with the serious matter caused by the conflict at the Valley in a just manner, jointly observe the commander level talks consensus and deescalate the tensions as soon as possible and safeguard the peace and tranquillity,” he said. “Currently, the overall situation is stable and controllable. We believe under the guidance of the important consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries the sides can deal with the relevant matter jointly safeguard peace and stability at the border areas and work for sound development of bilateral relations,” Zhao said. On Wednesday, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi spoke to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and the two sides agreed to “cool down” tensions on the ground “as soon as possible” and maintain peace and tranquillity in the border area under the agreement reached between the two countries.During the briefing, the spokesman read out the whole press statement issued by the Chinese Foreign Ministry on Wednesday on the telephonic conversation between Wang and Jaishankar.During the conversation, Jaishankar conveyed to Wang India’s protest in the strongest terms on the violent face-off and said the unprecedented development will have “serious impact” on the bilateral ties.He asked the Chinese side to reassess its actions and take corrective steps, the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement in New Delhi.“The Chinese side took premeditated and planned action that was directly responsible for the resulting violence and casualties. It reflected an intent to change the facts on ground in violation of all our agreements to not change the status quo,” Jaishankar told Wang.The Chinese Foreign Ministry said in a statement here that the two sides agreed to deal “fairly” with the serious events caused by the conflict in the Galwan Valley, jointly abide by the consensus reached at the military-level meetings between the two sides, “cool down the situation on the ground as soon as possible”, and maintain peace and tranquillity in the border area in accordance with the agreement reached so far between the two countries. A large number of Indian and Chinese troops have been engaged in an eyeball-to-eyeball situation in Galwan Valley and certain other areas of eastern Ladakh for the last five weeks, including in Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie in eastern Ladakh. Monday’s face-off was the biggest confrontation between the two militaries after their 1967 clashes in Nathu La when India lost around 80 soldiers while over 300 Chinese army personnel were killed in the face-off. The Indian Army has been fiercely objecting to the transgressions, and demanded their immediate withdrawal for restoration of peace and tranquillity in the area. Both sides held a series of talks in the last few days to resolve the row.The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC). China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet, while India contests it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-india-to-deal-with-serious-matter-caused-by-galwan-conflict-in-a-just-manner-beijing/story-HDwMmeZXZPMhYCI0YfXLvN.html
18-06-2020||India||Centre, Assam working on relief for those affected by gas well fire: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said the Centre and Assam government were working to ensure proper relief and rehabilitation for those affected by a gas well fare in the state that has been raging since June 9.“Reviewed the situation in the wake of the Baghjan fire tragedy in Assam. Centre and state government are working to ensure proper relief and rehabilitation to those affected,” Modi tweeted.The gas well at Baghjan area of Assam’s Tinsukia district had suffered a blowout on May 27 which continued for two weeks before it ignited on June 9. A massive fire has been raging since then.Oil India Limited which owns the gas well had said it could take up to four weeks to cap the blaze. Last Sunday, petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan who visited the site of the fire said the people affected by the blowout and resultant fire would be adequately compensated.The area around the gas well also experienced a series of tremors prompting the Assam government to ask a group of scientists to conduct a study on the tremors.Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal met scientists of Indian Institute of Technology-Guwahati (IIT-G) and CSIR-North East Institute of Science and Technology (CSIR-NEIST) on Monday and asked them to conduct the study on emergency basis and submit a report so that the government can take appropriate steps.Residents of Baghjan and Natun Rongagora villages which are close to the site of the fire, had complained of repeated tremors. Some houses have also developed cracks due to the tremors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-assam-working-on-relief-for-those-affected-by-gas-well-fire-pm-modi/story-vJXjALpg9IxMIC0HPLIdeP.html
18-06-2020||India||Puri Ratha Yatra halted after 285 years, temple priests and opposition blame Patnaik govt||The Supreme Court’s decision, to not allow the annual Rath Yatra next week due to the coronavirus pandemic, has drawn flak from priests of the temple as well as opposition leaders, who slammed the State government over its alleged half-hearted approach in the apex court.Following a petition filed by an NGO called Odisha Vikash Parishad, a three-judge SC bench headed by Chief Justice SA Bobde said it would not be appropriate to hold the Rath Yatra this year. “It is not disputed that the number of people that are likely to gather for the annual Rath Yatra scheduled to be held on June 23 is going to be about 10 to 12 lakhs. Having regard to the danger presented by such a large gathering of people for the Rath Yatra, we consider it appropriate in the interests of public health and safety of citizens, who are devotees, to restrain the government from holding the Rath Yatra this year,” the three-judge bench said.This is the first time after 285 years that the Rath Yatra would not be held. The last time the car festival could not be held was between 1733 and 1735 when Mohammed Taqi Khan, deputy governor of Odisha, attacked the Jagannath temple, forcing the shifting of the idols to Ganjam district.Senior lawyer Harish Salve, appearing for Odisha, submitted that the conduct of the festival might lead to a huge public gathering and a law and order situation, but he never mentioned any alternative way to pull the chariots. The Orissa High Court last week advised the state government to consider holding the Rath Yatra with elephants or machines, instead of humans, pulling the chariots. But this suggestion did not figure during the deliberations in the apex court.Also Read: Covid-19: Supreme Court stays Rath Yatra in Puri ‘in the interest of public safetyThe state cabinet headed by CM Naveen Patnaik this evening decided that it will abide by the order given by the Supreme Court on the Rath Yatra.The SC order and the state Cabinet decision, left not just millions of devotees fuming, but the priests shocked.Senior servitor Binayak Das Mohapatra alleged that a conspiracy was being hatched against the Rath Yatra. “All preparations for the centuries-old annual festival have been wasted. It was an elaborate drama by the state government to hoodwink the devotees. What had not happened in the last 5 centuries became a reality today. The PIL was a state-sponsored act to not let the festival happen,” he alleged.Similarly, chief priest of the temple and head of Chhatisa Nijoga, Janardhan Pattajoshi Mohapatra said that the car festival and Lord Jagannath were inseparable.“The Rath Yatra is an integral and intrinsic part of the life of Shri Jagannath since thousands of years ago. The Rath Yatra and Sri Jagannath are inseparable and one must not mistake the annual 9-day festival as a mere festive procession that can be cancelled or postponed,” said Mohapatra.He added that the Yatra could have re-instilled the faith of billions of people praying to Sri Jagannath for wellbeing during the time of pandemic had it been allowed to be held on a limited basis like other commercial activities.“Total curfew can be imposed in the entire Puri city two days before the yatra and only policemen be utilised for pulling the chariots,” he insisted.Puri king Gajapati Dibyasingha Deb, chairman of Jagannath Temple Managing Committee, too, expressed his disappointment and said that the temple managing committee meeting will be held soon to discuss the Supreme Court’s order.“We will seek the opinion of Sankaracharya Swami Nischalananda Saraswati on this matter. Whether Rath Yatra can be held inside the temple in a symbolic manner or not, will be examined,” he said.Leader of opposition (LoP) in Odisha assembly, Pradipta Naik blamed the Odisha government for not taking a timely decision on the matter after centre left the decision on the issue to the state.“The matter should never have landed in court. It is an emotional issue for 4.5 crore people of Odisha and the state government should have found a way out to hold the festival,” he said.Also Read: Woman migrant worker found dead near Covid-19 quarantine centre in OdishaIncidentally, all preparations for the Rath Yatra next week were on track with the last minute work on the three chariots almost getting over. The servitors associated with the event had been tested for Covid-19 and had been put on isolation for over a month to ensure there was no risk of the virus spreading.Early this month, the temple administration had successfully conducted the Snana Purnima, the ritualistic bathing of the three deities before Rath Yatra without the presence of any devotees.In the last 425 years of the car festival, the event has been scrapped 32 times, mostly during invasion.“It was scrapped for the first time in 1568 when Kala Pahad alias Kala Chand Roy, a general of Bengal king Suleiman Kirrani attacked the temple and pillaged the deities. For the next 9 years, Rath Yatra could not be held,” said Jagannath temple historian Bhaskar Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puri-ratha-yatra-halted-after-285-years-temple-priests-and-opposition-blame-patnaik-govt/story-1kmbuzzSL5pn6wMkQWD8pM.html
18-06-2020||India||2 Odisha villages grieve as bodies of 2 soldiers killed in Ladakh arrive||As a special flight of the Indian Air Force carrying the bodies of two soldiers from Odisha who were killed in Galwan valley of Ladakh landed in Bhubaneswar on Thursday evening, a pall of gloom descended on the villages of the two jawans.The coffins of the two fallen soldiers - Sepoy Chandrakant Pradhan of Kandhamal district and Naib Subedar Nanduram Soren of Mayurbhanj district were wrapped in the tricolor. Odisha Governor Ganeshi Lal, chief minister Naveen Patnaik, armed forces personnel, senior officials of the Odisha government and police officials paid their tributes to the two soldiers. A guard of honour was given to the two jawans.The bodies were then taken to Kandhamal and Mayurbhanj by road where the last rites will be performed on Friday. Both Pradhan and Soren were from 16 Bihar Regiment. They were among 20 soldiers killed during a violent face-off with Chinese troops on Monday night.Also read: In death, soldiers provide roads, street lights to their impoverished villagesIn Biarpanga village in Kandhamal district, people thronged to Sepoy Chandrakant Pradhan’s mud house to console his grieving parents Karunakar Pradhan and Bilasini Pradhan. Pradhan, who had joined the Army in 2014, had plans to construct a pucca house in place of the present mud and asbestos house for his seven-member family including three brothers and a sister.“We were planning for his marriage this year. So before that we had started constructing a pucca house behind our existing home. We had managed to construct the four walls of the house, but due to lack of money we had postponed it,” the soldier’s father said.Pradhan’s younger sister Sandhyarani is still unable to believe that her elder brother is gone. “He was more like a friend to me. He had told me that he would come in August after lockdown. We were planning to see some girls to find a match for him. I can’t believe he is no longer there,” she said.In Bada Champauda village under Bijatala block of Mayurbhanj district, Naib Subedar Nanduram Soren’s three brothers too are yet to come to terms with the death of their youngest brother. “We hardly make anything out of farming as there are no irrigation facilities. Nandu Ram used to help us financially. We are now devastated,” said Daman Soren, the eldest brother.Soren’s wife Laxmimani and three daughters live in a rented house in Rairangpur town, about 5 km from the village. “I had last spoken to him on Monday morning when he enquired about children’s education. I never thought that it would be the last time I would be speaking to him,” said Laxmimani.His eldest daughter Gyaneswari too is inconsolable, but wants the Indian Army to avenge her father’s death by teaching the Chinese Army a lesson. Sarpanch of the grampanchayat, Anjali Behera demanded that Odisha government should pay an ex-gratia of Rs 50 lakh instead of Rs 25 lakh. “I would request the state government to give his wife a suitable government job as it would be difficult for her to raise three daughters without financial support,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-odisha-villages-grieve-as-bodies-of-2-soldiers-killed-in-ladakh-arrive/story-VctWuA1x6E5cfeuvYcFYYL.html
18-06-2020||India||Stay home this Yoga Day, says PM Modi in video message on bridging distances||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday rooted for using yoga as a multi-dimensional solution to many health challenges posed by Covid-19 pandemic and asked the people to celebrate the international Yoga Day on June 21 in their homes to bridge the distance between the mind and the body.The Prime Minister’s message around the Yoga Day was put out today in a video clip. He said that people should know that yoga brings things together; therefore, the physical distancing imposed due to the outbreak of the deadly virus should not dampen our spirits or affect our enthusiasm while we observe the day.“These are times of distancing. But do you know that yoga is what ends distance. Yoga joins or brings things together,” he said, before adding that yoga ends the distance between the mind and the body and expectations and reality.“It also ends the distance between the life we have and the life we want to have,” Modi said in the video clip, while explaining the ancient practice’s role in mitigating stress generated in the day to day life.Also Read: PM Modi launches auction of coal mines. Full speech hereMentioning the special role yoga has in preventive healthcare, the prime minister said that after the coronavirus pandemic subsides, the focus would be on preventive healthcare, which will result in even greater relevance and popularity for yoga.“In the post Covid19 era, the focus on preventive healthcare will get stronger and that is why I am confident that yoga will become even more popular,” Modi said.Also Read: Retweet of PM Modi’s old tweets in Tharoor’s reminder on China’s Ladakh aggressionThe prime minister also noted that the theme for this year’s Yoga Day was ‘Yoga at home’ and ‘Yoga with family’ which took into account the present need to follow social distancing. He advised people to assemble only in small gatherings if need be.“We are marking the sixth yoga day in extraordinary times. Usually, yoga day is about public events, mass participation. This year, yoga day goes indoors,” the prime minister said.The sixth international Yoga Day will be observed on June 21, when a message from Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be broadcast on electronic and digital platforms on the occasion, according to the health ministry. Unlike previous occasions, there will be no mass gatherings this year due to the threat of infections posed by contagious coronavirus disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bridge-distances-through-yoga-this-year-pm-modi-snuanced-message-for-yoga-day/story-JAvf8TvSfibePY1Eso8wUK.html
18-06-2020||India||Kerala ready to give kits to test expatriates before boarding flights: CM||As uncertainty over Covid-free certificates for expatriates returning to Kerala continues, the state on Thursday told the Union Government that it is ready to provide TrueNat testing kits to check expats before they board the flights. TrueNat test is usually used to detect tuberculosis and the Indian Council of Medical Research had recently recommended this also for widening the range of options for testing Covid-19 patients. Though TrueNat kit is expensive, it can test samples and provide results within 60 to 120 minutes and sample collection is safe when comparing to two other tests - RT-PCR and rapid anti-body tests, experts say.Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the state will provide these kits to Indian missions where testing facilities are not available. He said the state chief secretary has written to the foreign secretary about this.“These tests can be done only through embassies and the Union government will have to help us on this. We have already made it clear tests are necessary for all air passengers coming to the state. As we stick to it we suggested this option to the centre,” the CM said.He also said the state was in favour of tests from the very beginning. When asked what will be done with those testing positive, he said the Centre will have to make arrangements for them.His earlier suggestion that the civil aviation ministry may operate separate flights for Covid-19 positive flights was severely criticized by opposition parties and expatriates. “Even primary school students know that no airport will entertain positive patients at this juncture. The CM has no idea about what he is talking about. He wants to delay flights of poor diaspora communities,” state BJP president K Surendran.Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala is holding a one-day fast before the state secretariat on Friday urging the state not to delay flights of expatriates. “According to the latest report 228 Keralites died abroad. Many of these lives could have been saved if the Centre and state took a proactive stand in the early days of pandemic,” said Chennithala. The tiff between state and centre over Covid-free certificates affected 149 Vande Bharat and 171 chartered flights being planned in one-month time. Last week the state had issued an order making a certificate mandatory for all foreign travellers coming to the state.Meanwhile, Kerala reported one death and 97 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday. Out of 2,793 virus cases 1,400 are active cases, said the CM. The death of a 28-year-old man, who had no co-morbid complaints, in north Kerala’s Kannur district has shocked harried health officials in the state. A driver with the state excise department he tested positive four days ago and his condition deteriorated and died on Thursday morning.“The deceased had no previous illness history. We have no idea from where he contracted it. We are in a race to collect his contact history. His family members and friends have already been quarantined,” said Kannur district medical officer (DMO) Dr Narayana Naik. “The young man’s death has shocked health officials.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-ready-to-give-kits-to-test-expatriates-before-boarding-flights-cm/story-rrxxf2iqRrjnGF9XiLMkLK.html
18-06-2020||India||Retweet of PM Modi’s old tweets in Tharoor’s reminder on China’s Ladakh aggression||Congress MP Shashi Tharoor on Thursday retweeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s tweets from the year 2013 and 2014-- when Modi was Gujarat chief minister-- questioning the then UPA government’s China policy while advocating the need for a “strong” government at the centre. Tharoor put out a series of three tweets posted by Modi on May 13, 2013, February 8, 2014 and August 15, 2013 respectively, however, the Congress leader didn’t post any comments along with his re-tweets. “China withdraws its forces but I wonder why Indian forces are withdrawing from Indian territory? Why did we retreat?,” Modi, then Gujarat chief minister, had asked in a tweet dated May 13, 2013.On 15 April 2013, a platoon of Chinese troops established an encampment of four tents southeast of Daulat Beg Oldi, 19km inside the Indian territory, triggering a 21-day standoff. Two months later, the same year, Chinese soldiers again intruded into the Chumar sector in Ladakh on June 17.“Today security of the nation is under threat. What did China do? They enter our borders and we silently watch,” Modi had tweeted on Independence Day in 2013. Tharoor re-tweeted it seven years later on Thursday.Tharoor’s re-tweets come close on the heels of an offensive by Congress leadership asking the government to explain the circumstances of the June 15 clash between Chinese and Indian Army soldiers that led to 20 Indian soldiers losing their lives. According to an estimate by the United States, 33 Chinese soldiers also lost their lives in the violent face off. Indian Army officials claim 43 Chinese soldiers were killed or seriously injured, citing radio intercepts and other intelligence. This is first such deadly clash between the two sides since 1975, when the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of China ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector in the month of October and shot dead four soldiers.Earlier today, Rahul Gandhi asked the government to explain why Indian soldiers were unarmed during the clash on the LAC at Galwan Valley.“China has committed a crime by killing India’s unarmed soldiers. I want to know who sent these unarmed soldiers in the harm’s way and why. Who is responsible,” Rahul Gandhi asked in a video posted on his Twitter account.In his earlier reactions, Rahul had accused the prime minister and the defence minister of keeping silent on the issue of Chinese aggression and demanded to know ‘how much of Indian territory had been occupied by the Chinese’ in recent transgressions.Tharoor’s final re-tweet of PM Narendra Modi’s previous tweets from the year 2013 and 2014, cited Modi’s advocacy for a “strong” government at the centre to “change” the routine incidents of getting “troubled” by neighbours.“A noble nation like ours is being troubled by our neighbours, while the Centre stands helplessly. We need a strong government to change this,” Modi had tweeted on February 8, 2014.Three and half months later that year, Modi became the prime minister of India after the BJP stormed into power – largely riding on his popularity—by winning 282 seats in the Lok Sabha elections.Yesterday, PM Narendra Modi reacted to the recent bloodbath at the LAC and said that India will “firmly” protect every inch of the country’s land and its self-respect. He added that while India had a policy of peaceful co-existence with neighbours, valour was equally part of India’s tradition.PM has called an all party meeting on Friday to discuss the current face off at the LAC which has led to India loding a strong protest with China||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/retweet-of-pm-modi-s-old-tweets-in-tharoor-s-reminder-on-china-s-ladakh-aggression/story-HHhMpWvdrw6AA5tg3ogJeL.html
18-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Railways to terminate contract with Beijing firm, World Bank’s nod sought and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Railways to terminate contract with Beijing firm, World Bank’s nod soughtThe ministry of railways on Thursday said its PSU, Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited (DFCCIL), has decided to terminate its contract with Chinese firm, Beijing National Railway Research & Design Institute of Signal & Communication, for work pertaining to signalling, citing delays. Read moreCongress to move no-confidence motion against BJP-led govt in ManipurThe Congress on Thursday decided to move a no-confidence motion against the Biren Singh-led government in Manipur, a day after nine MLAs, including three from the BJP, withdrew support from the government. Read more‘Let us get the facts straight’: S Jaishankar’s comeback to Rahul Gandhi barbIndian soldiers involved in the bloody clash with Chinese soldiers at Galwan valley were not unarmed but soldiers at the border do not use firearms in faceoffs, Foreign Minister S Jaishankar said in a tweet on Thursday. Jaishankar’s tweet was a comeback to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi ‘s attack that asked the government to spell out who had ordered unarmed soldiers to go to the standoff point. Read moreMedics to the World: Latvia unveils 20 feet high sculpture honouring medical workersSculptor Aigars Bikse has paid tribute to the health care workers around the globe, for their relentless efforts in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic, by installing a six-metre-tall (20 feet high) statue of a medical worker with her arms outstretched in Riga, Latvia. Read moreElephants brothers Jasiri and Faraja’s friendly fight in the mud is a treat to watchHow many times have you tried those WWE moves on your sibling and landed in trouble for accidentally hurting them or yourself? Well, this video of two elephant brothers may just refresh your memory about those pretend-fights with your sibling. This video shows two young elephants having some fun in the mud and makes for a lovely watch. Read moreRobert Pattinson says he looked to Chris Evans, Chris Hemsworth, Robert Downey Jr. as inspiration for The BatmanActor Robert Pattinson is foraying into the superhero genre with the upcoming film, The Batman. Directed by Matt Reeves, it will see him play the caped crusader alongside a long list of other talented stars. Read moreApple to manufacture new iPhone SE in India: ReportApple seems all set to manufacture the new iPhone SE in India, as reported by The Information (via Apple Insider). This move by the iPhone maker will likely result in it avoiding the heavy tax that is added on smartphones imported into the country. However, it is not necessary that this move will result in Apple reducing the cost of iPhones in India. Read more‘Hadn’t seen anything like it before,’ Rohit recalls scenes after India’s win over AustraliaIndia batsman Rohit Sharma has spoken about the importance of fans during a cricket match, highlighting the how the buzz generated by people allow the players to feel the electricity and thus, get further involved in the game. Read moreChina blames India; Jaishankar Vs Rahul; no jawan missing: Latest updatesChina has once again blamed India for the violent faceoff in Ladakh that resulted in the killing of 20 Indian soldiers. Meanwhile, a massive political war has broken out with Rahul Gandhi questioning who sent unarmed Indian soldiers to martyrdom. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar hit back saying that it is a long standing practice to not use firearms during a faceoff. Meanwhile, the Indian Army has clarified that no Indian soldier is missing after the Monday night faceoff. Watch the full video for all the updates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-railways-to-terminate-contract-with-beijing-firm-world-bank-s-nod-sought-and-all-the-latest-news/story-WJKPyI4ywyTU5grRr4Mg3L.html
18-06-2020||India||Yediyurappa gets his way in picking Karnataka legislative council nominees||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa - days after the Central leadership said no to his nominees for the Rajya Sabha seat - seems to have had his way if the ticket allocation for the legislative council seats is any indication.On Thursday the Bharatiya Janata Party gave tickets to MTB Nagaraj, R Shankar, Sunil Vallyapure and Pratap Simha Nayak, all of whom immediately filed their nominations.Seven seats in the 75-member legislative council will be vacant as members retire after a six-year term. The BJP can win four seats, the Congress two and the regional Janata Dal (Secular) one.The Congress on Tuesday itself had announced that B K Hari Prasad, who recently retired from the Rajya Sabha, would be sent to the Karnataka Legislative Council and Naseer Ahmed, another party leader, would be given a second term.The BJP’s choice of candidates was closely watched as both MTB Nagaraj and R Shankar had helped topple the Congress-JDS coalition government. In the bypolls, MTB Nagaraj lost out to a BJP rebel candidate Sharat Bachegowda while Shankar decided to ‘sacrifice’ his Ranibennur seat in favour of a BJP candidate.Similarly, Sunil Vallyapure, BJP state secretary of SC Morcha, had given up his claim on the Chincholi assembly seat so that Avinash Jadhav, son of Gulbarga MP Umesh Jadhav, could be accommodated.Umesh Jadhav was wooed from the Congress to defeat Mallikarjuna Kharge with the assembly seat promised to his son as part of the bargain. Vallyapure, who had represented the seat in 2008, was waiting to be ‘rewarded’ by the party. All the three are being seen as Yediyurappa’s candidates. Only AH Vishwanath, former JDS Karnataka unit president who played an important role in toppling the coalition government, did not get a ticket after losing from Hunasuru.Vishwanath expressed his disappointment to HT, saying, “Yes, I was also an aspirant for a council seat and disappointed that I did not get (a ticket to council). However, I still believe that Yediyurappa will keep his promise to me. I have full faith in him.”The fourth BJP candidate Pratap Simha Nayak, who hails from Belthangady in the coastal Karnataka stronghold of the party, is seen as a close associate of party president Nalin Kumar Kateel. Party leaders, however, claimed that there were no factions and that the party high command had chosen the candidates on merits. Kateel, speaking to the media, said, “Nayak is a veteran leader of the party, Vallyapure a former minister and both MTB Nagaraj and Shankar made sacrifices to ensure BJP came back to power under Yediyurappa’s leadership.”The JDS, on the other hand, has decided to give the ticket to a Kolar origin businessman Inchara Govindraj, who filed his papers accompanied by former CM HD Kumaraswamy and other senior party leaders.Political analyst L Manjunath said: “After the loss of face to Yediyurappa in the Rajya Sabha ticket race, any setback here would have undermined his leadership. By ensuring that three of the four seats went to his followers, he has signalled that he cannot be sidelined easily at least for the present. Vishwanath may still be accommodated under the nominated category in the council. Yediyurappa has redeemed his sense of honour after the RS ticket debacle.”In the 75-member legislative council, Congress has 38 members, JDS 15 and BJP 20 with two independents. Voting, if required, would be held on June 29 but most likely all the seven candidates from the three main political parties will probably be elected unopposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yediyurappa-gets-his-way-in-picking-karnataka-legislative-council-nominees/story-J8AAN3A2MeKaeHqYTLJonN.html
18-06-2020||India||Thousands pay last respects to Indian soldiers killed in Ladakh face-off | Photos||Thousands paid last respects to the soldiers who were killed in a clash with Chinese Army in Galwan Valley in Ladakh as their mortal remains were taken to their native places. For many of the bereaved families, the wait started on Tuesday evening when they were informed by senior Indian Army officials about the sacrifice of the 20 soldiers in the clashes with the Chinese Army along the Line of Actual Control a day earlier.Among those killed, five soldiers were from Bihar, two each from Odisha, four from Punjab, Jharkhand and West Bengal and one each from Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Telangana.Indian Army soldiers carry the coffin of Colonel B.Santosh Babu, who was killed in a border clash with Chinese troops in Ladakh region, on a truck during his funeral ceremony at his hometown in Suryapet, India. (Reuters)Telangana bid tearful goodbye to its son Colonel B. Santosh Babu, who died in the violent clash with Chinese troops in Ladakh on Monday. Here are more pictures from across the country of the crowd taking to streets to bid adieu and show respect to the soldiers who lost their lives in the line of duty.Indian Army soldiers carry the coffin of Colonel B.Santosh Babu. (Reuters)Army personnel during a gun salute to Havildar Sunil Kumar before his last rites are performed, in Maner, Bihar on Thursday. (Photo: Santosh Kumar/ Hindustan Time) Family members and relatives salute to pay respect to Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh during his last rites, in village Seel, Patiala district, Punjab. (Photo: Bharat Bhushan/Hindustan Times)Army personnel pay their tributes to Naib Subedar Satnam Singh before his cremation, at his native village Vhoj Raj in Gurdaspur district, Thursday, June 18, 2020. (PTI photo)Army personnel pay tribute to the mortal remains of Bihar regimental jawans, who were killed during the face-off between Indian and Chinese troops in Ladakh's Galwan Valley, at Jaiprakash Narayan Airport in Patna. (PTI photo)The funeral cortege of Havildar Sunil Kumar is surrounded by a large crowd before his last rites are performed, in Maner, Bihar, India on Thursday, June 18, 2020. (Photo: Santosh Kumar/ Hindustan Times)Army personnel during a gun salute to Havildar Sunil Kumar before his last rites are performed, in Maner, Bihar, India on Thursday, June 18, 2020. (Photo: Santosh Kumar/ Hindustan Times)Army personnel carry the mortal remains of Bihar regimental jawans Kundan Kumar and Jai Kishore, who were killed during the face-off between Indian and Chinese troops in Ladakh's Galwan Valley, after a wreath-laying ceremony at Jaiprakash Narayan Airport in Patna. (PTI photo)Relatives and villagers carry the mortal remains of Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh, who was among 20 Indian Army soldiers martyred during a clash with Chinese troops in Ladakh on Monday night, during his funeral ceremony near Ghanour in Patiala district. (PTI photo)People shower flower petals on the mortal remains of Colonel Santosh Babu during his funeral procession, in Suryapet. (PTI photo)People participating in Candlelight march to pay condolences to Colonel B Santosh Babu, the Commanding Officer of the Army's 16 Bihar unit who was killed during a violent clash between Indian and Chinese troops at Galwan Valley in Eastern Ladakh in front of Charminar in old city of Hyderabad on Wednesday. (ANI photo)Army personnel carry the mortal remains of Havaldar Sunil Kumar who was killed in the face-off between Indian and Chinese troops in Ladakh's Galwan Valley, during his funeral procession, at Tarapur in Patna. (PTI photo)Congress activists light candles in solidarity with twenty Indian army personnel martyred during a clash with Chinese troops in Ladakh's Galwan valley. (PTI photo)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thousands-pay-last-respects-to-indian-soldiers-killed-in-face-off-with-chinese-troops-in-ladakh-s-galwan-valley-photos/story-1cbf1Mr3k6WeT6EF1eeP6H.html
18-06-2020||India||Earthquake rocks Mizoram, no report of damage||An earthquake of magnitude 5.0 on the Richter scale hit 98 km south-east of Champhai in Mizoram at around 7:29 pm Thursday, the National Center for Seismology said.There has been no immediate report of any damage.The Northeast falls in a high seismic zone and earthquakes are frequent in the region. Over the past few weeks several earthquakes have been recorded in Delhi and Gujarat. There have been no damages in any of the quakes so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthquake-rocks-mizoram-no-report-of-damage/story-1qQOJWK4V8VwHTTJY4ZpZK.html
18-06-2020||India||Govt lifts export ban on anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine||The government on Thursday lifted the export ban on anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine with immediate effect.The government on March 25 had banned the export of the drug in the wake of the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic.“The export policy of Hydroxychloroquine API (active pharmaceutical ingredients) and its formulations from prohibited to free with immediate effect,” the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DFFT) said in a notification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-lifts-export-ban-on-anti-malarial-drug-hydroxychloroquine/story-ZyFxWpW22mFF1itGoCdn3O.html
18-06-2020||India||BSP, SP MLAs to vote for BJP in RS poll in Madhya Pradesh||Two opposition MLAs in Madhya Pradesh, one from Bahujan Samaj party (BSP) and the other from Samajwadi party (SP) and an independent lawmaker said Thursday they would vote for BJP candidates in the Rajya Sabha polls for three seats in the state on Friday. However, the central leaderships of both BSP and SP parties are yet to take a decision on who to support, according to the MLAs.The MLAs include Sanjeev Kushwah of the BSP and Rajesh Shukla of the SP. They were supporting the former Congress government of Kamal Nath from outside before it fell in March following rebellion by 22 lawmakers. and Rambai Singh is another BSP MLA in the assembly.The BJP candidates for the election include former union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia and Sumer Singh Solanki while Congress candidates include former chief minister Digvijaya Singh and Phool Singh Baraiya.Sanjeev Kushwah said, “I am with the government and this is for development of my assembly constituency.”SP MLA Rajesh Shukla spoke along the same lines and said he would vote for the BJP candidates.However, both the MLAs said there was no party leadership’s decision so far in this regard and added that if the party leadership took a different decision then they will look into that.Independent MLA Surendra Singh Shera said, “Everybody saw yesterday that I stood with the government. There is no confusion on my part.”State BJP leader Dr Hitesh Bajpai said, “We are going to have support of all the non-Congress MLAs and our candidates will win the election comfortably. This is why Congress is worried.”Both the Congress and BJP legislature parties had meetings on Wednesday and Thursday. Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar and BJP state affairs in charge Vinay Sahasrabuddhe arrived at Bhopal on Wednesday evening. State Congress affairs in charge Mukul Wasnik also came from Delhi.State Congress president Kamal Nath who addressed the CLP meeting said the Rajya Sabha election result should be a message for those who betrayed the party.“The MLAs are to undergo a training once again so that there is no mistake during voting on Friday. The Rajya Sabha election result should be a message for those who betrayed the party and toppled a democratically elected government of Congress.”The BJP looks in a comfortable position to win two of the three Rajya Sabha seats. The state assembly has presently 206 MLAs with 24 vacant seats. In the house, BJP has 107 MLAs and Congress 92 while there are four independent, two BSP and one SP MLAs. As per state assembly officials, as many as 52 first preference votes are needed for victory of a candidate but to avoid any chance of setback at the last minute both the parties were busy in permutations and combinations on the eve of the poll to ensure there is no mistake during the voting and no cross voting either.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsp-sp-mlas-to-vote-for-bjp-in-rs-poll-in-madhya-pradesh/story-gIRe9TZ4odHEiphIe8eGJM.html
18-06-2020||India||Karnataka police hunt for man who urged China to destroy India in FB post||The Karnataka police on Thursday registered an FIR against a 27-year-old man from Gadag who in a Facebook post urged China to destroy India.The social media post in Kannada came amid a countrywide outrage and anger at the killing of 20 Indian soldiers in a clash with Chinese troops in Ladakh’s Galwan valley on Monday. G Basvraj is a native of Munavalli village in Belgaum district has been working in a mobile phone repair shop in Rona taluk of Gadag district for more than four years, and also praised China in the post. Basvraj who has a social media account under the name ‘Basvraj Yash’ wrote a post asking for more Indian soldiers to be killed by China and for the destruction of the country. His social media account which is now locked indicates that it was opened in April 2013. The FB post calling for India’s destruction has enraged many people and the police have suo motu registered a complaint. Speaking to HT, Rona police station Sub Inspector Vinod Pujari said “An FIR has been registered under IPC sections 153 and section 505. He has been absconding ever since a backlash against his post. The owners of the mobile shop where he works say that they have no idea why he may have done this. We are on the lookout to detain him and will thoroughly investigate the matter.”Section 153 of the IPC deals with incidents of wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot and carries a jail term of up to a year.Section 505 deals with intent to cause, or which is likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public, or to any section of the public whereby any person may be induced to commit an offence against the State or against the public tranquility. The crime is punishable with imprisonment of up to three years.Efforts to reach Basvraj for his version of the events on the phone number displayed with his profile proved unsuccessful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-police-hunt-for-man-who-urged-china-to-destroy-india-in-fb-post/story-bZ8HcZaFLEoAjfpzHn4UIK.html
18-06-2020||India||Nitin Gadkari hopeful of India emerging as electrical vehicle manufacturing hub in 5 years||India will be a manufacturing hub for electric vehicles in five years, Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday said and urged players to grab opportunities amid changed circumstances in the wake of the Covid pandemic. The road transport minister stated that global businesses are looking at possibilities outside China. Addressing a webinar on ‘India’s Electric Vehicle Roadmap post-Covid-19’, Gadkari assured the electric vehicles sector of all the support in view of disruptions caused by the coronavirus crisis. According to a road ministry statement, Gadkari “expressed confidence that in the next five years, India will become a manufacturing hub for electric vehicles”, and said the government is trying to extend “best possible concessions” to this sector. The minister said the government has lowered the GST on electrical vehicles to 12 per cent. Gadkari said he was aware of the issues facing the EV sector, but was also sure that things would change as sales volume rises. On the present trend in the global market, he said, “The world is no more interested in doing business with China, which is a very good opportunity for Indian industry to pick up the shift in business.” Gadkari further said that with petroleum fuel being available in limited quantity, the world has to look for alternate and cheap sources of power, and added that electric and bio fuels stand a good chance for adoption. He also said that ensuing vehicle scrapping policy will give a fillip to the auto manufacturing sector.The minister cited the London model of public transport, where private and public investment is working well, the statement said. He said similar approach will be beneficial in India for both the poor commuters and the civic administration. He also talked about plans like working on a pilot project for developing an electric highway on the upcoming Delhi-Mumbai Green Corridor.Gadkari expressed full confidence in the capabilities of the auto sector, and said, with consistency and self confidence in this economic crisis, it can gather good market opportunities. He also called upon the industry to go in for indigenisation and support Prime Minister’s ‘AtmNirbhar Bharat Abhiyan.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitin-gadkari-hopeful-of-india-emerging-as-electrical-vehicle-manufacturing-hub-in-5-years/story-AGi5cpHLUn6G6vHVsLgwbJ.html
18-06-2020||India||NCR needs common anti Covid-19 strategy, says Amit Shah, drafts in UP, Haryana||Home minister Amit Shah on Thursday stressed on the need for a common strategy to tackle Covid-19 spread in the national capital region (NCR) and asked Uttar Pradesh and Haryana governments to provide details of total beds, oxygen cylinders, ICU facilities and ambulances available with them along with their plan to argument these facilities.A government statement said that Shah passed the instructions while chairing a meeting to review Delhi’s preparations for management of Covid-19 spread.“Shri Amit Shah said that keeping in view the close knit urban structure of the NCR region, it is necessary for all concerned authorities in Delhi and the NCR region to come together to tackle the virus,” the statement said.Both Haryana and UP have been asked to submit the details by 15th July. This is the latest move in a series of decisions taken after Amit Shah took charge of Delhi’s preparedness to meet with the challenges posed by a rapid rise in Covid-19 cases over the last few weeks.A committee, appointed by Shah and headed by NITI Aayog Member Dr V K Paul, had yesterday fixed Rs 2,400 as the rate of RT-PCR tests done by private hospitals to detect coronavirus. Capital’s testing capacity has also been hiked by almost 4 times since Sunday, in line with Shah’s assurance.In addition to the above, health officials in the city have been instructed to set up rapid antigen testing facilities near over 160 containment zones for tracking, tracing and testing of coronavirus patients—a strategy underlined by the centre as key to managing the disease. Also Read: Delhi commences Covid-19 rapid antigen testsOn Thursday, Shah is said to have asked both Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, who share borders with Delhi, to consider revising the rate of test charged in private hospitals in their jurisdiction if it is more than the panel-suggested capped rate of Rs 2,400. According to the statement, Shah also indicated that in addition to fixing the rate for tests, Delhi government could also consider fixing the rate of treatment of coronavirus patients in line with the findings of the expert committee. “Amit Shah also told the meeting that the committee also decided on rates for COVID-19 beds and treatment, and these rates could also be applied to hospitals in the NCR region after consultations,” it said.Also Read: Needed policy on movement between Delhi and bordering districts: UP CM Yogi Adityanath to PMThe statement adds that Shah told the meeting that “there is a need to work in a Mission Mode”.The meeting was attended by the Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, besides senior officials from the Union government, chief secretaries of Delhi, Haryana & Uttar Pradesh and other senior officers from Delhi-NCR, the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncr-needs-common-anti-covid-19-strategy-says-amit-shah-drafts-in-up-haryana/story-DjOnRtqvMGHABA9RtNWpfM.html
18-06-2020||India||Congress to move no-confidence motion against BJP-led govt in Manipur||The Congress on Thursday decided to move a no-confidence motion against the Biren Singh-led government in Manipur, a day after nine MLAs, including three from the BJP, withdrew support from the government. The party met Governor Najma Heptullah this afternoon, requesting a special session of the assembly to move the motion.“We have come here to submit an application to the Governor, requesting for a special session of the assembly to adopt a resolution on the no-confidence motion against the government led by N Biren Singh,” senior Congress Chaltonlien Amo told journalists before entering the Raj Bhawan.The Congress claimed it had the numbers to form the government under Okram Ibobi Singh.“We want the Governor to call the newly formed Secular Progressive Front (SPF) under Okram Ibobi Singh, leader of the single largest party. The Congress with the SPF will form the government. The present government no longer commands a majority” he added.Meanwhile, NPP president and Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma said that the developments in Manipur are because of problems with the leadership of N Biren Singh and it would have no impact on the government in Meghalaya, which has support of two BJP MLAs.“The immediate trigger for it was the resignation of the three BJP MLAs in Manipur. There were also issues with interference in the working of our party’s minister’s in that state. The events there will not affect the government in Meghalaya,” Sangma told DD News in Shillong.The move comes after three BJP MLAs, all four National People’s Party (NPP) MLAs, one Trinamool Congress (TMC) legislator and an Independent MLA withdrew support to the three-year-old coalition government on Wednesday.In his letter to the Governor, former chief minister Okram Ibobi Singh informed that a no-confidence motion against the BJP-led coalition has been moved before assembly Speaker Y Khemchand Singh requesting to hold a special session to “debate, consider and pass a resolution in the matter at the earliest”.“It is requested that Hon’ble Madam may exercise powers under Article 174 of the constitution to summon a special session of Manipur legislative assembly at the shortest possible time to vote on the motion of no confidence against the present minority council of ministers to protect democracy in the state,” the letter to the Governor read.Alternatively, the letter sought that “since the present ministry is in minority, it may be dismissed outright” and Okram Ibobi Singh, leader of SPF, who commands the majority invited to form the government.The letter to the Governor included letters of support from all members of SPF: 20 from Congress, four from NPP, one TMC MLA and one Independent MLA.The NPP, which is heading the government in Meghalaya with the support of BJP, has decided to join hands with Congress and form the next government.The three BJP MLAs, who resigned on Wednesday, have officially joined Congress, but their votes won’t get counted in the assembly as they would come under purview of anti-defection law.“We will go together in formation of the next government led by Congress. The government’s handling of the Covid-19 situation and interference in ministries handled by our party’s ministers are reasons why we decided to withdraw support to the government,” NPP leader and former deputy chief minister Y Joykumar Singh said. The immediate triggerIn April this year, chief minister N Biren Singh had divested Joykumar of all his portfolios after the latter termed the former’s assurances of food security during the Covid-19-induced lockdown as “hogwash”.The latest developments come after Manipur High Court on June 9 restrained seven Congress MLAs, who switched sides to the ruling BJP, from entering the assembly till Speaker Yumnam Khemchand Singh disposes of the pending anti-defection cases against them.The ruling had cast doubts on these MLAs from voting for the lone Rajya Sabha seat from the state, elections for which are scheduled on June 19.In March this year, the Supreme Court had ordered removal of TH Shyamkumar as a minister. Shyamkumar had won on a Congress ticket but switched sides immediately after results were announced and became a minister in the BJP-led government. Following the SC move, he resigned as an MLA.It started three years agoThe first BJP government in Manipur had come to power in March 2017. The party had won 21 of the 60 seats in the state while Congress had won 28 seats.But BJP formed a government with the support of 4 MLAs each from NPP and Naga People’s Front (NPF), one legislator each from TMC and Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) and an Independent MLA. Like Shyamkumar, later 7 other Congress MLAs had switched sides to the BJP.How the numbers add upWith three BJP MLAs resigning, the BJP is now reduced to 18 MLAs. It still has support of 4 NPF MLAs and the lone LJP legislator taking the coalition’s tally to a total of 23 members from the 39 MLAs it had earlier.On the other hand, Congress had 20 MLAs of its own (8 disqualified for switching sides) plus 4 from NPP and one TMC and one Independent taking their total to 26 MLAs.With seven turncoat Congress MLAs not allowed to enter the assembly and the three BJP MLAs not getting a chance to vote under purview of the anti-defection law, the effective strength of the assembly is now reduced to 49 members.All eyes are now on the Speaker’s Tribunal which will decide the fate of the seven Congress MLAs debarred from entering the assembly. In the event of the disqualification cases against the seven Congress MLAs are overruled, it will favour the BJP and the Congress, if it’s upheld.“Though three of our MLAs have left, there’s still no threat to the government. We have a strategy in place and are working on it,” said BJP MLA and government spokesperson S Rajen.“We are hopeful that the assembly Speaker gives a ruling allowing the seven MLAs to enter the House and vote. If that happens, we will win the Rajya Sabha election on Friday and will also sail through a floor test, if it takes place. We are also hopeful of some Congress MLAs crossing over to our side,” he added.Meanwhile, the NPF has decided to stick with the BJP and support it in the Rajya Sabha poll on Friday as well as in a floor test.“The NPF has had an alliance with the BJP for a long time. We supported the BJP in forming a government in Manipur when it didn’t have the numbers and we will continue doing that. We don’t abandon our friends or break our ties despite BJP dishonouring agreements in the past,” said K Leishiyo, NPF MLA from Manipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-move-no-confidence-motion-against-bjp-led-govt-in-manipur/story-PBjJDecX5M4f2Xn5Y4E5fJ.html
18-06-2020||India||In death, soldiers provide roads, street lights to their impoverished villages||Some of the soldiers who were killed in the medieval era type skirmish with Chinese troops at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh came from some of the country’s most impoverished villages without basic facilities such as piped drinking water and proper road connectivity.Families of some of these fallen soldiers still live in thatched mud huts.Hours before their bodies arrived on Thursday for the last rites, the local administration worked overtime to build make-shift mud roads, first for some of these villages and also installed street lights as ministers and important people came visiting. Six of the 20 soldiers, who were killed, were tribals from the country’s most backward parts, especially in West Bengal, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradeshand Chhattisgarh. “They (the local administration) overnight built a road to bring his body and installed street lights,” said Dinesh Handsa, elder brother of Ganesh Handsa, a sepoy in Bihar regiment, who was killed at the LAC. His body was brought to their village in Jharkhand’s West Singhbhum district on Thursday, which still does not have a proper drinking water source in the village. Paresh Munda, panchayat samiti member, said Bandhdih tollah (Handsa’s village) was one of the most backward areas of the tribal dominated district, where still women walk long distances to fetch water.The work on the road had started under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MG-NREGA), the scheme that employs Dinesh Handsa as a daily wage earner, about a year ago. But, the work was going on at a slow pace. On Wednesday, the Baheragora block administration, under whose jurisdiction the village comes, swung into action and building remaining part of the earthen road leading to Ganesh’s house, about two km from NH-33, and installed three street lights, as political leaders, district officials and media visited Hansda house. “My brother’s death has ensured that our village now has a road,” Dinesh said.But, his brother’s dream to build a pucca (cement) house for the family will remain unfulfilled. The family of six --- Handsa’s parents, his wife, a child and sister -- lives in a two-room thatched mud house in the outskirts of Kosaphaliya village. “When he came in February, he promised to send money to build two brick rooms for us. With him, the dream is also gone,” Handsa said.Almost 500 kilometers away in West Bengal’s Birbhum district, soldier Rajesh Orang’s home at Belghoria village in the Muhammadbazar area comprises a Spartan brick and concrete single-storey house as well an old structure with thatched roof. “The old house needs restoration and reinforcements. I don’t know whether the family without their only earning member will be able to repair their home now,” said Ritesh Orang, a relative of the 26-year-old soldier.He said that the only source of drinking water for close to 200 families in the village is a hand-pump and a narrow road where only two wheelers can pass connects the village to the main road about five kms away. “So, the body could be brought only to the main road, from where people carried it to the village,” Orang said. Trinamool Congress legislator and agriculture minister Asish Banerjee visited Orang’s home on Thursday morning and assured all the help to the family. In Bengal’s Alipurduar district’s Bindigram village, home of soldier Bipul Roy, is no better. The village has electricity but no concrete road. During monsoon, people have to take a kilometer-long muddy road to reach Roy’s home, said Taranikanta Das, Roy’s brother-in-law. He said Roy’s father is a farmer and the family lives in a house made of mud, brick and tin roof. “Bipul said he was saving money to build a proper brick house in five or six years,” he said. On Thursday, another fallen soldier, sepoy Deepak Kumar’s village Farenda in Madhya Pradesh’s Rewa district will finally have a road the construction of which was announced in 2017. “Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, has directed officials to complete the road fast,” said Ashish Singh, a village resident, who was among several villagers who participated in Kumar’s last journey. “We will name the road after Deepak,” he said. According to villagers, their major concern is lack of health facilities. “There is a health centre but no doctor. Villagers take medicines from a lone chemist in the village,” said Rakesh Singh, another villager. Deepak Kumar’s funeral will take place on Friday.Ganesh Ram Kunjam, a sepoy from Chhattigarh’s Maoist affected Kanker district, hailed from a nondescript village Kurretola, which got a road under Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY) only last year, said Surya Nevendra , Kunjam’s childhood friend. Kunjam was, however, able to build a concrete house from his savings last year, the only such house in this tribal village, said his uncle Tiharu Ram Kujam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-death-soldiers-provide-roads-street-lights-to-their-impoverished-villages/story-BubyYk81vaKK8jEgWFkX8J.html
18-06-2020||India||Chhattisgarh govt considering extending area of proposed Lemru Elephant Reserve||Chhattisgarh government is considering extending the area of the proposed Lemru Elephant Reserve (LER) following demands from the activists, who are advocating the inclusion of the total catchment area of the Hasdeo river within the pachyderms’ new habitat.State forest department officials said Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel would take the final call on it, while exuding optimism that LER’s total area, measuring 1995.48 square kilometres, is likely to be extended.The government might include in LER the total or a part of the catchment area of Hasdeo river, measuring around 250 sq km, the officials added.However, the state government is facing a major hurdle because of the presence of four operational mines in the Hasdeo river’s catchment area, which also includes another five allotted mines and 12 coal reserves.“The matter is under consideration. The CM will take the final decision,” said Rakesh Chaturvedi, principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF), Chhattisgarh.Senior government officials said some Chhattisgarh-based activities have written to Congress leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, citing the proposed LER would remain a non-starter without the inclusion of the catchment area of the Hasdeo river.Earlier, LER’s area was 450 sq km during the Raman Singh-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government’s rule in the state in 2007, which was extended to 1995.48 sq km by the Congress government last year.Four forest divisions --- Korba, Katghora, Surajpur, and Dharamjaigarh -- fall under LER.“There could be legal issues, if 250 sq km is included in LER because four operational mines fall in the area. The government may exclude these operational mines and include an additional 220 sq km in the proposed elephant reserve,” said a government official, privy of development.“The CM is believed to be waiting for the instructions of the Congress high command,” he added.Chhattisgarh-based activists have been demanding the extension of LER. “The Hasdeo Bango dam irrigates 2.55 lakh hectares in Janjgir-Champa and Raigarh districts in Chhattisgarh and has empowered the Scheduled Castes (SCs), Scheduled Tribes (STs), and Other Backward Class (OBC) people living in the area. The forest dwellers of Kendai, Premnagar and Udaipur forest ranges must be spared from mining activities. Else, the local tribal population will be displaced again after their 61 villages were submerged because of the construction of the Hasdeo Bango dam,” said Sudiep Shrivastava, a Chhattisgarh-based lawyer and activist, who has written to Gandhi over the issue.He also advocated for an extension of LER because it would act as an effective corridor for the region’s wild elephants.LER is being developed as per the recommendations of centrally-constituted Special High-Power Technical Committee (SHPTC), which suggested measures such as the abundance of water, food, and a natural corridor for the state’s elephant population to thrive.“The move will also lessen the man-elephant conflicts, destruction of human lives, crops, and properties,” said an official.Alok Shukla, the convener of Chhattisgarh Bachao Andolan, which was formed in 2009 and focuses on people’s issues in the state, said LER would be a futile exercise, if Kendai, Morga, and Madanpur forest ranges are excluded from its jurisdiction.“Perhaps, the government is under pressure from a select group of mining companies to leave these areas out of LER. However, the government must remember that it was voted to power because of its commitment to protecting the tribals from the threat of displacement, and the conservation of ecologically fragile areas in the mineral-rich state,” Shukla said.“LER is a promising habitat not only for elephants but for leopards, wild dogs, sloth bears, herbivores, etc. Lots of endemic birds are also found in that area. It has good connectivity, and if notified and managed properly, it has the potential to emerge as a major landmark for elephant conservation in the state,” said Meetu Gupta, a member of the State Wildlife Board.Chhattisgarh has two national parks, three tiger reserves, eight sanctuaries, and one biosphere reserve covering 11,310.977 sq km, which is 8.36% of the state’s total geographical area and 18.92 % of the state’s total forest area of 59,772 sq km.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-govt-considering-extending-area-of-proposed-lemru-elephant-reserve/story-TDYYe1FgSFfANsjHUu8MYN.html
18-06-2020||India||Carcass of an eight-year-old elephant found in Ramnagar forest division’s Dechauri range||A carcass of an eight-year-old elephant was found in Ramnagar forest division’s Dechauri range on Thursday, said forest officials.Chandrashekhar Joshi, divisional forest officer (DFO) of Ramnagar forest division, said “The elephant had injury marks on its legs and trunk. It’s likely to have died due to infighting with a tiger or tigress.”“A forest patrolling team spotted the carcass of the elephant on Thursday and informed the officials, who immediately rushed to the spot. A team of veterinary doctors conducted its post-mortem, following which the elephant was cremated,” he added.Dr. Dushyant Sharma, a senior veterinary doctor at the Corbett Tiger Reserve, said that viscera of the elephant would be sent to the animal testing laboratory in Uttar Pradesh’s Bareilly soon in a bid to ascertain the exact cause of its death.This is the second incident of an elephant’s death near the Corbett Tiger Reserve, which is separated from the adjoining Ramnagar forest division by the Kosi river, in the last five days.On June 14, a carcass of an eight-year-old female elephant was found in the Dhela range of the Corbett Tiger Reserve. Corbett and its surroundings are the natural habitat of 1,035 elephants, who often come into conflict with the local population, causing loss of lives, crops, and properties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/carcass-of-an-eight-year-old-elephant-found-in-ramnagar-forest-division-s-dechauri-range/story-dsozcXtOhnoP6HfpTfnbxM.html
18-06-2020||India||Covid 19 latest: Non payment of salaries to doctors, nurses made a criminal offence||The union government has declared the act of withholding salaries of doctors and nurses engaged in the battle against Covid-19 an offence under the disaster management act (DMA) through an order released on Thursday afternoon.The order issued by the health ministry follows a Supreme Court order on Wednesday directing the centre to criminalise the non-payment of dues on time to doctors and nurses and sought issuance of guidelines making it mandatory for states to make adequate quarantine and isolation facilities available for medical professionals. The centre had promised to issue the order within a day.“It is hereby directed that the States and Union Territory Administration should ensure that salaries of doctors and health workers doing Coved-19 related duty shall be released on time,” the order said.The Supreme Court had issued the order yesterday while hearing a doctor’s petition which alleged that medical professionals were not being paid in several regions and were also not provided with facilities to isolate themselves which was a big risk to their families if they were to get infected.Also Read: North body doctors defer mass resignations, to get two months’ salaries by June 24The petition had also approached the government last week and flagged the problems related to salaries and the safety of medical workers’ families apart from insufficient PPE kits, and long working hours.The home ministry order released today says state governments were responsible for the implementation of the order, violation of which will invite action against concerned hospitals and/or authorities.“The Chief Secretary of the States/UTs should ensure compliance of this order by all concerned, violation of which will be treated as an offence under the Disaster Management Act read with the Indian Penal Code, and action taken accordingly against defaulting hospitals/institutions/authorities.”Section 188 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) prescribes punishment for disobeying orders passed by a public servant.The Supreme Court had last week asked the centre to take care of corona warriors at the forefront of the country’s containment efforts and likened the present situation with a “war” and medical professionals as “soldiers”, who it said couldn’t be kept unhappy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-latest-non-payment-of-salaries-to-doctors-nurses-made-a-criminal-offence/story-1atvnAPUpHs8USJ5fUcwwO.html
18-06-2020||India||Polio vaccine for Covid-19 ‘testable’, may offer limited protection: Report||Indian scientists have responded cautiously to a suggestion by global researchers that the oral polio vaccine be tested for Covid-19 treatment, saying it is a “testable idea” based on a sound scientific concept but may offer only limited protection against the infection.With a vaccine for Covid-19 at least a year away, scientists say repurposing already safe and effective vaccines is the way to go for immediate relief against Covid-19. The repurposed vaccines could include the oral polio vaccine (OPV) and the Bacillus Calmette–Guerin (BCG) used against tuberculosis, both part of the immunisation given to Indian children.  It is worth conducting a clinical trial, said Ram Vishwakarma, director of the CSIR-Indian Institute of Integrative Medicine (CSIR-IIIM) in Jammu.  He was responding to a study last week by an international team of researchers in the journal Science. The researchers, including Shyamasundaran Kottili and Robert Gallo from the University of Maryland School of Medicine in the US, said the OPV should be tested to see if it might protect people from the SARS-CoV-2 virus. They noted that the vaccine used to prevent poliomyelitis infections has been around since the 1950s, and is found to provide some protection against other viral infections.  The stimulation of innate immunity by attenuated vaccines -- live but with substantially reduced virulence -- in general and OPV in particular could provide temporary protection against Covid-19, the scientists noted.  Innate immunity is one of the two main immunity strategies found in vertebrates, including humans.  According to Vishwakarma, the idea proposed by Gallo, an internationally renowned virologist who co-discovered that HIV causes AIDS, is based on the fact that people who have undergone polio vaccination boost their innate immunity.  “It is a sound scientific concept but we do not know what will eventually happen because this has multiple phases. It may help patients in the early phase, with mild and moderate symptoms but may not help serious patients,” Vishwakarma told PTI.   “It is a testable idea based on a scientific hypothesis that is in turn based on the concept of what we call trained immunity, a non-specific way to boost innate immunity for our immune system to fight out the virus,”  Vishwakarma explained.  India has been implementing a pulse polio programme since 1995 with an aim to eradicate polio, added virologist Upasana Ray. This is in accordance with a resolution passed by the World Health Assembly in 1988 for polio eradication globally.  “Every year, children between 0-5 years age are immunised with polio vaccine. It is a very widespread and well established programme,” Ray, senior scientist at CSIR-IICB, Kolkata, told PTI.  Immunologist Satyajit Rath added that it is best to keep in mind that Gallo and his team are not talking about the function of the OPV as a ‘vaccine’ which generates a specific immune response.  “Instead, it is simply the idea of giving people a viral infection, any viral infection, so that there is activation of innate antiviral and inflammatory immunity, which might reduce the chances of another virus (SARS-CoV-2) infection which enters at the same time,” Rath, from the National Institute of Immunology (NII) in New Delhi, told PTI.  “Do I think this might work? It might, to some very modest extent, would be my guess, and not enough to make it particularly worthwhile,” he said.  Noting that repurposing vaccines is a good idea, Ray said there is a chance of cross protection to some extent if the proteins of two pathogens have similar sequences even at some epitopes.An epitope is a part of an antigen or a foreign substance that is recognised by the immune system cells, specifically by antibodies, B cells and T cells.  “For polio also, we first need to see if any of the polio proteins show overlapping T or B cell epitopes as compared to that of SARS-COV-2. If there are, it might provide some protection... To what extent? That needs validation,” said Ray.  Vishwakarma said the Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) is currently testing a repurposed vaccine against Covid-19 on the similar lines of a polio vaccine.  It is testing Cadila Pharmaceuticals’ Sepsivac against Covid-19 in a Phase 2 clinical trial.  This immunotherapy treatment, which boosts “innate immunity”, has been approved by the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for clinical trials, he said.  Rath noted that there are major potential limitations to using the polio vaccine for Covid-19.  First, it is likely that this ‘protection’ by ongoing innate immune activation is likely to be of short duration.  Second, the likelihood is that a lot of people in India, particularly children, are immune to polio, and therefore will not actually let the OPV  ‘work’ as an infection, he said.  “Instead, polio-immune individuals would be ‘protected’ against yet more vaccine, which would defeat the SARS-CoV-2-related purpose,” Rath noted.  “In fact, even amongst those who do not have current anti-polio antibodies, this ‘protection’ would likely be a transient one-time effect for a few days which is unlikely to be repeatable since this first exposure would make them polio-immune,” he said.Agreeing with Rath, Ray noted that most people in India are already vaccinated against polio in childhood.  “Aren’t those people getting infected? Say yes, still they are.......then the next question could be, are they getting sick similar to non-vaccinated ones?” she said.  “Next, is it possible that for polio it is providing life-long protection. Is it possible that in case some epitopes are matching that vaccination could help? All these are blind spots. Need time testing,” said Ray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/polio-vaccine-for-covid-19-testable-may-offer-limited-protection-report/story-hUAXwERvt4JQLY1y14DE3L.html
18-06-2020||India||India says priority at UNSC will be to enhance counter-terrorism cooperation||A day after India was elected to the UN Security Council as non-permanent member with an overwhelming majority for a two-year term starting January 1, 2021, the government said enhancing counter-terrorism cooperation will be one of its main priorities.“India will work to enhance counter-terrorism cooperation, which will be one of the priorities during its membership of UN Security Council during 2021-22”, said Vikas Swarup, Secretary (West) in the Ministry of External Affairs.“India will also work to improve and depoliticise the system of sanctioning terrorists,” he said.Swarup said India’s performance at the UNSC in the next two years would reaffirm its credentials to be a permanent member of the council.“Our presence on the Security Council and our performance there over the next 2 years will underscore the value that a country like India brings to the table and reaffirm our credentials to be a permanent member of UNSC,” the secretary said.It will be India’s eighth two-year term. India’s election as a non-permanent member of the UNSC, underlined the goodwill the country has in the world body, Swarup said.“It demonstrates the goodwill India enjoys at the UN and the confidence the international community has reposed in India’s capability to contribute to the work of the council.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-says-priority-at-unsc-will-be-to-enhance-counter-terrorism-cooperation/story-9Udrrn4vjtcAzv80FGYGDI.html
18-06-2020||India||India’s recovery rate touches 53% a day after PM Modi pushed for Unlock-2||India’s recovery rate from Covid 19 infection has risen further to 52.96 per cent with a total of 1,94,324 patients getting cured so far, as per the data released by the health ministry on Thursday. The rise in recovery rate comes in the backdrop of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s emphasis on maintaining a good recovery rate from the disease as India goes about the twin tasks of unlocking more economic activities and battling the coronavirus pandemic in the coming days.“During the last 24 hrs, 7,390 COVID-19 patients were cured. A total of 1,94,324patients, so far, have been cured of COVID-19. The recovery rate rises to 52.96%. Currently, 1,60,384 active cases are under medical supervision,” a statement from the health ministry said.The government of India has also laid emphasis on the three principles of tracing, tracking and treating Covid cases and has indicated that it seeks to continuously push up the number of daily tests to achieve that purpose. According to the health ministry data, a total of 62,49,668 samples have been tested in the country so far.The statement added that the number of government labs has been increased to 699 and the number of private labs testing Coved 19 samples has also increased to 254 therefore taking the total testing capacity to 953 labs—540 of these labs are capable of real time RT PCR tests, 340 are equipped with facilities to conduct TrueNat based testing and 73 are capable of conducting CBNAAT based testing.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19With the enhanced capacity, a total of 1,65,412 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, the statement said.India on Thursday recorded the highest single-day spike of 12,881 Covid-19 cases pushing the overall tally of infections in the country to 3,66,946 including 12,237 deaths, of which 334 are new fatalities recorded in the last 24 hours.In another measure to strengthen India’s health infrastructure to tackle the pandemic, the health ministry today launched the country’s first mobile I-Lab which is an infectious disease diagnostic lab meant for Covid-19 testing for last mile access in remote areas.“It will be deployed in remote, interior and inaccessible parts of the country and have capability to perform 25 COVID-19 RT-PCR tests/Day, 300 ELISA tests/day, additional tests for TB, HIV etc. as per CGHS rates. The Infectious Disease Diagnostic Lab (I-LAB) is supported by the Department of Biotechnology, Ministry of Science & Technology, under the Covid Command strategy,” said the official statement by the ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-recovery-rate-touches-53-a-day-after-pm-modi-pushed-for-unlock-2/story-loUTCEZxNA7IqBDQePMYbL.html
18-06-2020||India||‘Let us get the facts straight’: S Jaishankar’s comeback to Rahul Gandhi barb||Indian soldiers involved in the bloody clash with Chinese soldiers at Galwan valley were not unarmed but soldiers at the border do not use firearms in faceoffs, Foreign Minister S Jaishankar said in a tweet on Thursday. Jaishankar’s tweet was a comeback to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi ‘s attack that asked the government to spell out who had ordered unarmed soldiers to go to the standoff point.“Let us get the facts straight. All troops on border duty always carry arms, especially when leaving post. Those at Galwan on 15 June did so,” Jaishankar tweeted on the clash. Twenty Indian soldiers laid down their lives in the Galwan clash; China hasn’t revealed any information about their casualties.Jaishankar added that there was a long-standing practice established in view of two agreements of 1996 and 2005 not to use firearms during faceoffs”.Rahul Gandhi should have known about it, a senior union minister added later. The first agreement was signed by the Deve Gowda government that was supported by Congress and the second during the first edition of the Manmohan Singh government.In the tweet that set off the political row, Rahul Gandhi had tweeted: “How dare China kill our UNARMED soldiers? Why were our soldiers sent UNARMED to martyrdom?”Rahul Gandhi’s dart - one of the many that he has been flinging at the government through the standoff that started with a brawl last month - quoted an interview by Lt Gen (retired) HS Panag to Hindustan Times.In this, Lt Gen Panag had claimed that the troops would not have gone unarmed without a clear order. “That means the troops would have been given specific orders,” the retired army officer had said, claiming that this instruction would not have been issued without political clearance.The bloody clash at Galwan Valley was set off due to the Chinese People’s Liberation Army’s insistence of constructing an observation post at a Indian patrolling point. The post would have helped the Chinese to not only observe Indian troop movement towards Karakoram but also would have had the capacity to interdict army vehicles plying on the Darbuk-Shyok-Daulet Beg Oldi (DBO) road.Jaishankar, in his conversation with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi, had underscored that the People’s Liberation Army soldiers had a pre-meditated plan to change the agreed alignment of the Line of Actual Control and push out Indian Army from Patrolling Point 14.Point 14 is on a ridge that overlooks both the Galwan River Valley and the Galwan Nullah which joins the Shyok river on whose bank India is building the DSBO road. It was set up by the army in 1978.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/s-jaishankar-s-comeback-to-rahul-gandhi-barb-let-us-get-the-facts-straight/story-hGTeXX0sMaouBSYFkt8H5I.html
18-06-2020||India||Railways to terminate contract with Beijing firm, World Bank’s nod sought||The ministry of railways on Thursday said its PSU, Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited (DFCCIL), has decided to terminate its contract with Chinese firm, Beijing National Railway Research & Design Institute of Signal & Communication, for work pertaining to signalling, citing delays. To be clear, the decision to terminate the contract was taken in April due to “slow progress by the firm,” officials aware of the development said. The contract was for signalling and telecommunication work at the Kanpur-Deen Dayal Upadhyay 417 KM long stretch on the Eastern Dedicated Freight corridor. The World Bank funded project is worth Rs 471 crore. The national carrier has also approached the World Bank for the same, Hindustan Times has learnt. “The contract was awarded in August 2016 and was to be completed within 1,000 days however the progress has been very slow and hardly 20% work has been completed. We decided to terminate it and approached the world bank to grant us an NOC in April and are hopeful the process will be completed by June end. It is an important project and was being monitored by the PMO as well,” DFCCIL Managing Director Anurag Sachan told HT. For the contract to be terminated, a non-objection certificate (NOC) from the World Bank has to be granted as per its procurement regulations in investment project financing. For modification of signed contracts subject to prior review, the borrower shall seek the bank’s no objection before agreeing to terminate the contract, according to the regulations. “In April, DFCCIL brought to the Bank’s notice delays in implementation of this contract. The Bank had sought more details on the contract implementation issues. We received most of the information by June 9, 2020 and are currently reviewing the information provided,” a World Bank spokesperson said. The announcement by the railway ministry comes amid escalation of the border conflict with China triggered following Monday night’s face-off in Galwan Valley along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). DFCCIL has decided to terminate it due to “very poor performance of the company”, a railway ministry spokesperson said. Only 20% of the work had been completed “despite passage of four years” DFCCIL said in its termination notice. In view of poor progress it is decided by DFCCIL to terminate this contract, it said.The company was reluctant to furnish technical documents, the railways PSU said citing the reasons for the termination of the contract. “Non availability of the engineers/authorised personnel was a serious issue,” it said. Physical work on the project also could not progress as they have no tie up with the local agencies, DCCIL mentioned. “Material procurement, which is an independent activity, has not been done earnestly. There is no improvement in progress despite repeated meetings with them at every possible level.” DFCCIL has been tasked with developing Indian Railways’ quadrilateral linking the four metropolitan cities of Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Howrah, commonly known as the Golden Quadrilateral. The Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India (DFCCIL) aims to decongest up to 70 % freight load of the Indian Railways to decongest its network for running passenger trains as well. India has been mulling economic measures, including limiting China’s access to its market. On Wednesday, the ministry of housing and urban affairs said it has not finalised a contract with a Chinese firm for construction of an underground stretch of Delhi Meerut RRTS (Regional Rapid transit System) project after it emerged as the lowest bidder at Rs 1126 crore. “The tender is under process and yet to be finalised. The ADB/World Bank/Multi-lateral procurement guidelines do not allow discrimination among firms/ countries,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-terminates-contract-with-beijing-firm-cites-poor-performance/story-nHak8FjrYW0iaVroBZlTzI.html
18-06-2020||India||No soldiers missing after Galwan Valley clash, says Indian Army||The Indian Army on Thursday rubbished media reports that claimed several soldiers had gone missing after the June 15 violent clash with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed and China also purportedly suffered casualties.“It is clarified that no Indian troops are missing in action,” the army said in a brief statement. An army spokesperson said the statement was in reference to the article, “In China-India Clash, Two Nationalist Leaders with Little Room to Give”, published by the New York Times on Wednesday.Some sections of the Indian media had also reported that several Indian troops had gone missing or were unaccounted for. The statement came on a day Indian and Chinese delegations, led by major general-ranked officers, met in eastern Ladakh to defuse mounting tensions between the border troops. This was their seventh meeting after the current border stand-off began and the third after the brutal Galwan Valley clash.Major General Abhijit Bapat, commander of the Karu-based HQs 3 Infantry Division, and his Chinese counterpart held talks at the site of the clash near Patrol Point 14, where the Indian Army suffered its first casualties in a border skirmish with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in 45 years.Also read | ‘Let us get the facts straight’: S Jaishankar’s comeback to Rahul Gandhi barbIn October 1975, Chinese troops had ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector and shot four soldiers dead.The June 15 clash left 76 Indian soldiers injured, including 18 with serious injuries, officials said adding that all of them were stable now.The troops have since disengaged, the Indian Army said in a statement on Tuesday, confirming the number of dead at 20. Indian Army officials claimed 43 Chinese were killed or seriously injured, citing radio intercepts and other intelligence. The Chinese fatal casualties reportedly include a colonel-ranked officer, but HT couldn’t independently verify this.The June 15 brawl has virtually derailed the de-escalation plans worked out by senior Indian and Chinese military commanders in a rare meeting on June 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/there-are-no-indian-troops-missing-in-action-indian-army/story-L7pvc0HiCDqFBagiihcXTK.html
18-06-2020||India||Centre to pump Rs 50,000 cr into Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan to boost jobs||The Centre will frontload Rs 50,000 crore into 25 schemes that will be brought together under the Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan to provide employment to migrant workers across 116 districts in the country who returned home during the lockdown, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said Thursday.“We want to frontload money allotted for these 25 works. Workers will get their work. Assets will be created. Objective of rural development will be filled,” she said.“Everyone who needs an assignment in these 116 districts will be given work under GaribKalyanRojgarAbhiyaan, broad estimated expenditure for the scheme is Rs 50,000 crore, the money allotted for this will be front-loaded, Sitharaman said. She said the skill sets of the migrants who returned home have been mapped to a large extent. The 116 districts are spread across Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha and Rajasthan“The central and state governments have meticulously mapped the skill sets of the migrant workers who have returned in large numbers to the 116 districts in 6 states,” Sitharaman said.Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan which Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch on June 20, aims to provide meaningful employment to workers who returned home. “Within125 days, for 116 districts, nearly 25 schemes of the government will be brought together under Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyan, we will reach saturation levels for each of those schemes within 125 days. The objects will be achieved using workers who returned,” Sitharam said.Each of these districts has at least 25,000 workers who returned home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-pump-rs-50-000-cr-into-garib-kalyan-rojgar-abhiyaan-to-boost-jobs/story-5aPEsnMOAIK3k04qlzf9MO.html
18-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Coal block auctions to make India self-reliant in energy sector, says Amit Shah and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Coal block auctions to generate 2.8 lakh jobs and revenue windfall: Amit ShahUnion home minister Amit Shah on Thursday hailed the launch of the auction process for commercial mining of 41 coal mines as historic and said it will not only make India self-reliant in the energy sector but will also create lakhs of jobs and massive revenue for states by attracting huge capital investments. Read moreMumbai witnesses its first intense showers, 4 days after onset of monsoonThe Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) received intermittent spells of intense showers through Thursday morning -- four days after the onset of the south-west monsoon in the city and its suburbs. Read moreMumbai: 36-year-old tailor injured after a man with criminal history opens fireA tailor (36) was shot at twice by a man (35) with criminal antecedents at Amir Baug area in Mumbai’s Kurla (East) early on Thursday morning. The tailor, identified as Sadiq Khan, suffered two bullet injuries and is undergoing treatment at Sion Hospital. Read moreCovid-19 patients without disease symptoms may have weaker immune response: StudyCovid-19 patients who do not show any symptoms of the disease may have a weaker immune response to the virus, according to a new study which highlights the risks of using ‘immunity passports’ to certify that a person has recovered from Covid-19, and is fit for travel and work. Read more‘Complex challenge’: Mallorca CEO responds after pitch invader clicks selfie with Lionel MessiEven as the Spanish league, LaLiga, restarted after the forced break due to the coronavirus pandemic, a controversy broke out over a pitch invader interrupted the clash between FC Barcelona and RCD Mallorca. Read moreYour Honor review: Jimmy Sheirgill puts family before principles in this gripping crime dramaCrime thrillers are keeping us entertained in this season of uncertainty as we lap up the dark, and often deranged, on OTT platforms.Before we are done applauding the engrossing and layered Paatal Lok, we have been served Your Honor on Sony Liv. Read moreTSA dog hangs up his boots after 8 years. His last bag search was all kinds of awesomeA dog who spent eight years of service with the TSA got the sweetest surprise after his retirement. A video shared on Twitter shows how this special dog was celebrated for his service and it’s beyond adorable. Read moreWatch: Sushant Singh Rajput’s rumoured girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty records her statement||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-coal-block-auctions-to-make-india-self-reliant-in-energy-sector-says-amit-shah-and-all-the-latest-news/story-HxhpolIN5dcXaZbGWewYyI.html
18-06-2020||India||‘All border troops carry arms’: Jaishankar responds to Rahul Gandhi on Ladakh standoff||All troops on border duty always carry arms, underlined external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Thursday while countering Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s Twitter query as to why Indian soldiers were sent in unarmed during the violent face-off with China in the eastern Ladakh region.“Let us get the facts straight. All troops on border duty always carry arms, especially when leaving post. Those at Galwan on 15 June did so. Long-standing practice (as per 1996 & 2005 agreements) not to use firearms during faceoffs,” tweeted the minister just hours after Rahul Gandhi raised the question.The deadly clash between the two armies began on Monday at around 7 pm in the Galwan valley when an Indian Army squad of about 50 soldiers, led by Colonel Santosh Babu, reached a contested site near what is known as Patrol Point 14, people familiar with the developments said on Wednesday. Twenty Indian soldiers died in the line of duty in clash with the Chinese troops.The soldiers were locked in hand-to-hand combat that triggered a seven-hour violent face-off involving reinforcements from both sides.The soldiers exchanged blows, threw stones at each other, and the Chinese troops attacked Indian soldiers with iron rods and nail-studded clubs, as reported by HT on Wednesday. Some soldiers, from both sides, fell into the water and their bodies were later retrieved on Tuesday morning.The Chinese soldiers were supposed to have withdrawn from the location under a de-escalation plan discussed by senior commanders from both sides on June 6.On Wednesday, Jaishankar, in a phone call with Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi, conveyed India’s protest in “strongest terms” to Beijing over the violent face off and said that China had attempted to erect a structure on the Indian side of the LAC. New Delhi also said that the Chinese side took “premeditated and planned” action that was directly responsible for the resulting violence and casualties. A statement by the external affairs ministry following the conversation said that India had conveyed to China that the Galwan Valley development will have a “serious” impact on the bilateral relationship. It also added that the need of the hour was for the Chinese side to reassess its actions and take “corrective” steps.A strongly worded statement released by the Chinese foreign ministry – after the phone conversation - said New Delhi “should strictly control frontline troops”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/get-facts-straight-s-jaishankar-on-soldiers-without-arms-in-china-clash/story-73VYyqeWNdFMNMJrX6PWUI.html
18-06-2020||India||Close down restaurants selling Chinese food, says Ramdas Athawale||Union minister Ramdas Athawale has said all restaurants and hotels that sell Chinese food in India should be closed down and products made in China should be boycotted.His comments come after 20 Indian soldiers lost their lives in a violent clash with the Chinese army in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley.“China is a country that betrays. India should boycott all products that are made in China. Chinese food and all restaurants and hotels that sell Chinese food in India should be closed down,” Athawale, Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment, said in a tweet.Twenty Indian Army personnel including a colonel were killed in a fierce clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on Monday night, the biggest military confrontation in over five decades that has significantly escalated the already volatile border standoff in the region.He also paid tribute to the martyred soldiers.“20 soldiers of India have been killed in violent clashes in Galwan of Ladakh. Humble tribute to the soldiers! The martyrdom of the soldiers will not go in vain. The government of India and all Indians stand with the families of the martyred soldiers!,” Athawale tweeted in Hindi.Earlier in March, Athawale was in the news when his video along with Chinese Consul General in Mumbai Tang Guocai and Buddhist monks chanting ‘Go corona, go corona’ at a prayer meet had gone viral on social media.The video was reportedly shot at Gateway of India on February 20 during a prayer session to stop the spread of the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/close-down-restaurants-selling-chinese-food-says-ramdas-athawale/story-ZaH066diNyJRRRLQfG8nlL.html
18-06-2020||India||Harsh Vardhan launches India’s first mobile laboratory for Covid-19 testing||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday launched India’s first mobile laboratory for Covid-19 testing in rural and inaccessible areas of India.“To ensure testing facilities in far-flung areas, such innovations have been developed in the interior, inaccessible parts of the country,” said Union Health Minister.In the wave of Atma Nirbhar Bharat, Ministry of Science and Technology and Andhra Pradesh Med-tech Zone have collaborated to address the shortage of critical healthcare technologies in India and move progressively towards a stage of self-sufficiency. Explaining the scope of this lab, Vardhan said, “It has the capability to perform 25 RT-PCR tests per day, 300 ELISA tests per day and additional tests for TB, HIV as per CGHS rates.”“We had started the fight against Covid with one laboratory in February. Today, we have 953 laboratories across the country. Out of these 953, around 699 are government labs,” he added.India has witnessed the highest single-day increase of 12,881 Covid-19 cases reported in the last 24 hours and the cumulative count for the cases have surged to 3,66,946 on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harsh-vardhan-launches-india-s-first-mobile-laboratory-for-covid-19-testing/story-jFDvyJqlXh6MfjcV1RVNVO.html
18-06-2020||India||Migrants toil to revive ‘dead’ Gharar in village in UP’s Banda district||Unfazed by lack of work after returning to their native village Bhanwarpur in Uttar Pradesh’s Banda district, a group of migrants decided to bring a dead river, the Gharar, back to life.Toiling from dawn to dusk for the last three weeks, the group of men and women in Bhanwarpur, about 200 km south of Kanpur, have been cleaning the riverbed and digging new passages so that flood water can drain easily during the monsoon, the only season during which the Gharar looks like a river.They have already managed to clear nearly two kilometres along the course. Another three kilometres remain, the workers say.The small river originates in Panna in Madhya Pradesh. It passes through Bhanwarpur before merging in the Baage river in Banda. The mighty Ken river is nearby. Its flow during the monsoon temporarily fills the Gharar, which at other times resembles a nullah at some places, said Sajeevan, a migrant.Like him, about 200 others returned to the village, braving hardships after the Covid-19 lockdown. They claim they initially went to the village headman Ram Naresh Badri seeking work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee scheme (MGNREGS) but were told that there was no work for them in the village or nearby.Everyone was dejected, except seven men who hit upon a plan and got 60 workers involved in the project to revive the river.“It was better than sitting idle in our houses doing nothing. Everyone is contributing to revive this river. Our work will save us from flooding in monsoon and give us water to irrigate our fields. So, what if we are not getting money? We are certainly doing something worthwhile,” said Sajeevan, who has completed the 14-day mandatory quarantine after returning home.The project is important as the lack of proper drainage causes floods every monsoon, damaging houses and inundating fields in Bhanwarpur which has a population of 1,500. Recalling the village headman’s refusal to give, Rama Bai, a villager, said, “At this point, some men suggested why not volunteer to revive Gharar, which can be turned into the village’s lifeline. Some people did not agree but this group was persistent. After a meeting, the majority came on board. The rest joined later.” The work begins early in the morning and goes on till 5pm and beyond. The women and men sing bhajans in tandem, boosting one another’s morale. They take a two-hour lunch break between 1 pm and 3 pm. The women cook the food and all of them eat together.“We have cleaned about two kilometres and think it will take another three weeks to complete the remaining three kilometres,” said Asha Devi, another worker.Badri denied that the workers asked him for work. “They are doing this (river revival work) on their own,” he says.District magistrate Banda Amit Bansal said no one in the district has been denied employment under the MGNREGS. About nine projects are going on under MGNREGS around Bhanwarpur but the Gharar river is not included because it is filled with water at the moment. Apart from them the administration has undertaken work under MGNREGS on 54 water bodies in the district. “The migrants are being work under MGREGS in all the 459 village panchayat, no one has been denied work,” he said. As for Bhanwarpur and the allegation that the village headman denied work to the migrants, he said it will be looked into.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrants-toil-to-revive-dead-gharar-in-village-in-up-s-banda-district/story-zzt8OMf8ymgp8y1YjQpn6O.html
18-06-2020||India||Chinese firm’s Rs 470 cr contract to be cancelled, says railway amid Ladakh face-off||The Indian Railways’ Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited (DFCCIL) has decided to terminate contract with China. The signalling contract was given to Beijing National Railway Research & Design Institute of Signal & Communication in the year 2016.The Chinese company was meant to complete the signalling and telecommunication work the 417-km long Kanpur-Deen Dayal Upadhyay section. The project cost was Rs 471 crore.The decision was taken because the Chinese firm had only completed 20 per cent of the work in four years.Officials said the Chinese company was reluctant to furnish technical documents as per contract agreement. Also, the Chinese firm has not been able to provide engineers/authorised personnel at the site which was a serious constraint.“There have been meetings at every level, but no improvement in progress,” one official said.The announcement comes after a face-off between India and China in the Ladakh region in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed. India is mulling economic measures to counter Beijing, people familiar with developments said.A railway official, however, underlined that the decision was taken way back in April. For the contract to be cancelled, New Delhi will, however, need a non-objection certificate (NOC) from the World Bank.At least 100 Chinese products are staring at anti-dumping action and future investments from China, including participation of its firms in big and important projects such as the 5G market, could be barred, four government officials said, asking not to be identified.India will, however, not resort to any knee-jerk reaction. It will take well considered action at an appropriate time, necessary to protect integrity and sovereignty of the country and its national interest, the officials added.“Hopefully, good sense will prevail (upon China). We have several options and we will not hesitate to exercise them depending on the situation,” one government official said.Traders are also against China. The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), a powerful lobby of 70 million local traders, has decided to step up its nationwide movement against the boycott of Chinese goods, CAIT national secretary general Praveen Khandelwal said.Both ministries of finance and commerce are already taking action against the influx of Chinese goods that is injuring domestic industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railway-psu-cancels-contract-with-chinese-company-cites-poor-progress-in-work/story-6Rl55F0aSllgoufI0mfo9N.html
18-06-2020||India||Coal block auctions to generate 2.8 lakh jobs and revenue windfall: Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday hailed the launch of the auction process for commercial mining of 41 coal mines as historic and said it will not only make India self-reliant in the energy sector but will also create lakhs of jobs and massive revenue for states by attracting huge capital investments.Shah also thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and mines and coal minister Pralhad Joshi for the marquee decision and said it will bring transparency in the process of coal block allocations.“In line with the vision of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’, PM @NarendraModi ji today flagged off the process to auction 41 coal mines for commercial mining. This historic decision will make India self-reliant in the energy sector by introducing competition and boosting coal production,” Shah tweeted.Earlier today, Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the auction of 41 coal mines for commercial mining and said it marked an important step in India becoming self-reliant in energy production by reducing imports.Also Read: ‘Covid-19 an opportunity, taught India to become self-reliant’: PM ModiIndia has the world’s fourth-largest coal reserves and is its second-largest producer, yet the country is also among the largest importers of coal due to its own power generation needs. PM said his government was undoing a mistake made by previous governments of not unlocking this sector’s full potential.“India will turn this Covid-19 crisis into an opportunity. The country will reduce its dependence on imports. To make India self-reliant in the energy sector, a major step is being taken today,” Modi said at the launch.Auction of coal mines to pave the way for commercial mining is part of a series of reforms announced by the centre under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan package to chart a new path of economic resurgence from the setback dealt by the coronavirus outbreak.It is expected to boost private sector participation, leading to higher production and competition.Modi added that the auction of these coal mines also had the potential to turn the tribal belts—where most of these blocks are located—and the eastern and central parts of the countries housing them, into pillars of development.He said it was a win-win proposition for industry, states and people as the move opens up new resources, more revenue and employment opportunities.Shah stressed on the employment generation aspect of the project and said the auctions would eventually create 2.8 lakh new jobs.“This decision of the Modi government will create more than 2.8 lakh jobs, attract capital investment worth 33,000 crore and generate annual revenue of 20,000 crore for the state governments,” Shah said in one of his three tweets lauding the move.An official statement said that the coal blocks will be auctioned through a two-stage electronic auction process.It added that at the peak of its production capacity, these blocks will produce 225 million tons of coals-- about 15 per cent of the country’s projected total coal production in 2025-26.The government has allowed 100 per cent foreign direct investment (FDI) to attract latest technologies and mechanisation in mining operations.Shah also lauded the PM and the coal minister for “ensuring transparency” in the mine allocation process.“I thank PM Shri @NarendraModi and Shri @JoshiPralhad for this very important decision and for ensuring transparency in the mine allocation process. It reiterates Modi government’s commitment towards building a prosperous, corruption-free and self-reliant India.”The government believes that increased production will ensure sustained coal stocks for industries lending greater reliability and help move the sector towards a free-market structure with the implementation of a National Coal Index.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coal-block-auctions-to-generate-2-8-lakh-jobs-and-revenue-windfall-amit-shah/story-flGetdcfMRL2bGeyp6WgKJ.html
18-06-2020||India||India must reduce coal imports, become self-reliant in energy: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday launched the auction of 41 coal mines for commercial mining and reiterated his call for India to become self-reliant in energy by reducing imports.Despite having the world’s fourth-largest coal reserves and being the second-largest producer, the country is the second-largest importer.“India will turn this Covid-19 crisis into an opportunity. The country will reduce its dependence on imports. To make India self-reliant in the energy sector, a major step is being taken today,” Prime Minister Modi said while addressing at the launch of auctioning 41 coal mines for commercial mining.“We are not just launching the auction for commercial coal mining but bringing the coal sector out of decades of lockdown,” he said addressing the gathering by video conferencing.The roll-out of commercial coal mining is part of the series of announcements made by the Centre under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan. It is expected to boost private sector participation which will, in turn, lead to higher production and enhance competition.“Allowing private sector in commercial coal mining is unlocking resources of a nation with the world’s fourth-largest reserves,” the Prime Minister said. “It has been decided to open up the coal and mining sector for competition, capital, participation and technology,” he added. The Prime Minister said reforms related to coal sector will prove to be big in making tribal belts as well as eastern and central India into pillars of development. Commercial coal block auction is a win-win for industry users. New resources will open up, states will get more revenue and new employment opportunities will be generated, he said.A two-stage electronic auction process is being adopted for allocation of the coal mines, according to an official statement. Upon attainment of peak rated capacity of production of 225 million tonnes, these mines will contribute about 15 per cent of the country’s projected total coal production in 2025-26.The move will provide direct employment to about 70,000 people and indirect employment to 2.1 lakh people. It is expected to generate Rs 33,000 crore of capital investment in the country over the next five to seven years. These mines will contribute Rs 20,000 crore in revenue annually to the state governments.Allowing 100 per cent foreign direct investment (FDI) is likely to bring in international practices, the latest technologies and mechanisation in mining operations. Self-reliance with substitution of imports by independent thermal power plants and captive power plants will result in saving of foreign currency.The initiative will ensure sustained coal stocks for industries with greater reliability. It will move the sector towards a free-market structure with the implementation of a National Coal Index.Commercial mining of coal will promote the practice of efficient use of clean energy and reduce the scourge of environmental pollution with an incentive to coal gasification and liquefaction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-must-reduce-coal-imports-become-self-reliant-in-energy-pm-narendra-modi/story-rxXr4pgblDbV9yyL9vN8nM.html
18-06-2020||India||Centre targets 6 lakh rapid Covid-19 tests in Delhi; to add 500 ventilators, 650 ambulances||The Centre plans to conduct six lakh rapid antigen Covid-19 tests in Delhi at 169 new facilities being set up in the capital where 50,000 kits have already been supplied, Union Minister G Kishan Reddy said on Thursday.He also said the central government is going to provide 500 additional ventilators and 650 ambulances to hospitals in Delhi, which has seen a spike in number of coronavirus cases over the past few days, “From today onwards, 169 testing centres will be operational in Delhi where rapid antigen methodology will be used. We have targeted to conduct six lakh tests. People living in containment zones and relatives of the positive cases can go for test in any of these centres,” Reddy told reporters here.The Union Minister of State for Home said that as of now 50,000 rapid testing kits procured from South Korea have been sent to these 169 testing centres.He said Delhi currently has 431 ventilators and the central government will provide 500 more to hospitals in the city.Similarly, the central government will provide 650 ambulances to add to the 350 that the city already has, he said.“Because of the (coronavirus) situation, people of Delhi were gripped with tension. So, the Central government took the matter seriously,” he said.Reddy said that following a directive of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and under the leadership of Home Minister Amit Shah, the Centre and the Delhi government took certain decisions for the benefit of the people of the capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-targets-6-lakh-rapid-covid-19-tests-in-delhi-to-add-500-ventilators-650-ambulances/story-qLcyC8XIkFHzx7QpyZzmXJ.html
18-06-2020||India||Coal mine auction opens up vast stretches of forests in central India for mining, show documents||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday launched the auction of 41 coal mines for commercial mining, saying the market for the commodity is now open and the sales will help turn the Covid-19 crisis into an opportunity.But the list of 41 mines showed several are located in biodiversity-rich forest areas in central India, including a few in one of the largest contiguous stretches of dense forest called Hasdeo Arand that spans 170,000 hectares.Brief descriptions of the mines up for auction on the website of state-run MSTC Limited showed several do not have the required forest clearance and are located amid protected forests. Madanpur North in Chhattisgarh, for example, has a total area of 21 sq km, of which 19 sq km is forest area. The area is the drainage for several streams that join Hasdeo river. The mine is awaiting forest and environmental clearance.Morga II, also in Hasdeo Arand coal block, has an area of 26.64 sq km, of which 85% is forest land. The area falls within the drainage of Hasdeo river, a major tributary of Mahanadi river. Almost the entire Morga South coal block is also in forest land, according to the site’s description on MSTC’s website.There are several coal blocks in biodiversity-rich forest land in Jharkhand. For example, Chakla block has 55% forest cover and acts as drainage for major rivers such as Damodar and Bakri. Jharkhand’s Choritand Tilaya too has forests in 50% of the area, while Seregarha block comprises 40% forest.Madhya Pradesh’s Gotitoria East coal block is 80% forest and acts as drainage for Sitarewa river. There are several other blocks among the 41 where operations will involve massive forest loss, the documents show.Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren had written to the prime minister on June 10 to request him to place a moratorium on mineral auction processes to ensuring competitive auctions.“Coal and iron ore are the two most significant minerals that would come up for auction. However, both these minerals are found in districts that have significant forest cover and host a large population of scheduled tribe and backward community,” he wrote.Gram sabhas in Hasdeo Arand in Surguja region of Chhattisgarh also wrote to the prime minister on Tuesday, asking him to stop the auction of five coal blocks in the region.“Total 20 gram sabhas of the region have been regularly passing resolutions against mining and auction/allotment of coal blocks in the region since the last five years. Even when the first phase of auctions was happening in 2015, these gram sabhas had written to the PM,” the letter stated.“Nature has blessed eastern and central India with rich coal deposits. I want to assure people of these regions that labour welfare and development of coal bearing regions are foremost on our mind,” union coal minister Pralhad Joshi said on Thursday. Coal sector is committed to a massive capital expenditure and employment plan in coal bearing regions, Joshi added.To achieve complete Aatma Nirbhar Bharat in coal sector, we need to make large infrastructure investment in eastern and central India, he said.“I have already declared that welfare provisions for contractual labourers in event of mishap will be no less than that for regular employees....Coal sector is committed to a massive capital expenditure and employment plan in coal bearing regions,” he said.Coa l India will rise to energy challenge and increasingly get into clean coal technology, the minister said. “ CIL will invest thousands of crores of rupees on mechanizing coal movement to mine coal technologically and more efficiently, reducing pollution and improving efficiency.”Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher at the Centre for Policy Research, said: “This centralised coal mine auctions open the fragile and biodiverse forest areas in constitutionally protected Scheduled V areas. The messaging of the auction process signals that the government sees these places as mere coal bearing areas from where projects interested in commercial coal mining will extract for private profit.“With no end use and pricing restrictions, the government is also giving up its important responsibility of safeguarding public interest, protecting the environment and upholding the prevailing constitutional safeguards for the areas in question.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coal-mine-auction-opens-up-vast-stretches-of-forests-in-central-india-for-mining-show-documents/story-1SdToixA4Dcomld0op8lzH.html
18-06-2020||India||PM Modi launches auction of coal mines. Full speech here||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday launched the auction of 41 coal mines for commercial mining and said that this is a major step in making India self-reliant in energy sector. India will turn the coronavirus crisis into an opportunity, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said.Here’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s full address at virtual launch of auctioning of coal mines for commercial mining: Thank you Prahlad ji , hello to everyone.All the comrades taking part in this event at home and abroad are very welcome. So Challenging Time to be this kind of event , you must include all , you have a very big hope awakens in , comes to the big message of confidence.India will fight Corona and will also win , it will also move forward. India major disaster , disaster cry and understand - not the side of the seating area. India Disaster how great it may be , is determined to change her opportunity and we will have the opportunity to disaster by all together. This crisis of Corona has also taught India the lesson of being self-reliant India- Self Reliant .Independent India ie Bharat Import will reduce their dependence on. Independent India ie Bharat Import bring against foreign exchange lakhs of crores of rupees spent on and work for the welfare of the poor. Independent India ie India Import do not , for he will constantly strive towards developing tools and resources in their own country , will grow further. On mine I am confident to say that , today we Import do , at the largest of the Exporter will.Comrades , this goal it is very necessary to achieve that we each grabbed a sector , each holding a product , while one service care Holistic work methods. Make India self-sufficient in that region by choosing one region. Today’s Event Similar thinking an important towards realizing initiative is , is a strong move. Today , a huge step is being taken to make India self-reliant in the Energy Sector . These programs simply Coal Mining connected to , associated with a sector reforms is to take off on the ground , is not it, but it’s 130 million Aspirations to Realize the commitment to. This is the beginning of creating millions of employment opportunities for our young colleagues.Peers , Self Reliance to prove the resolution when it was last month declared independence India campaign , so many people think it is normal governmental process. But within a month , every announcement , every reforms , whether Agriculture Sector in , regardless of MSMEs in the sector or longer Coal and Mining of Sector in , are taking a variety of steps in every area with a , Decisions are being made , and everyone is trying to land the decisions faster.It shows that India Crisis to Opportunity is how serious change , so Committed is. Today we just Commercial Coal Mining to Auction the Launch are not , but Coal Sector are excluded from lockdown of decades. Coal sector is the impact of the lockdown ,You all know this better than me. Imagine , which country Coal Reserve is the fourth largest country in the world according to , which is the second largest of the Producer ‘s , they land Coal ‘s Export does not our country the world’s second largest Coal Importer are , the coal import .The big question is that when we are in the world Producers Largest like , a kind of Largest Producers which the main Group , we are one of them. If this is true then why can’t we be Largest Exporter ? And all of us have to ask ourselves. And the same question has always arisen in the mind of me , all of you and crores of Indians too.Friends , this situation was going on here for decades. The country’s Coal Sector was entangled in the web of Captive and Non-captive . It was kept out of the competition , a big problem of Transparency has come up again and again. Honestly Auction leave the , coal mines allotment has heard everyone talking about big scandals , has been at all times , has resulted in every corner. Due to this, investment in the coal sector of the country was also low and its efficiencyShe was always surrounded by questions. Coal came out of a state , hundreds of kilometers away from another state’s power plant . While the power plants of the state kept waiting for coal. So quite a few M Ismanage was , was disrupted.Friends , After 2014, several steps were taken to change this situation . The coal linkage that no one could think of , we showed it. Coal sector was also strengthened due to such steps . Today , the power to absorb big reforms is coming in him. Recently we did the reforms , which were being discussed for decades. You guys were also doing it. Who himself Export competitor admits , they were even. Now India Coal and Mining Sector of competition for , capital for , ParticipationAnd Technology for , has taken a very big decision to fully open. It has also taken care that the new Players, Private Players both in mining , they Finance no reason to be difficult , given her has been taken care of in order to encourage new ones. .Friends , Self Reliance is not possible without a strong Mining and Minerals sector . Because Minerals and Mining Our Economy is Important Pillars are. After these reforms, now coal production, the entire coal sector will also be self - sufficient in a way . Now the market has opened for coal , the sector will buy as much as it needs.Colleagues , who Reforms we made , it benefits not only the coal sector , will also be on other sectors. When we Coal Production increased if Power Generation grow as well as Steel, Aluminium, fertilizer , many other sectors such as Cement Production and Processing on Positive Impact is. Fortunately we have Coal, Iron, Bauxite, many such Minerals Reserves are very close to each other ,There are many nearby in a way, like God has kept a cluster for us. Such as , recently Minerals which took Reforms were , he Coal Mining Reforms these other sectors to join are also very strong.Colleagues , Commercial Coal Mining today for this Auction is the beginning of it all Stakeholders to win-win Situation is. The industries , you , your business , your investment now new Resources will , find new markets. With this , the state governments will get better revenue , a large population of the country will get employment. In a way, the work of serving the poor can also be done with coal , it will create confidence.That is, there will be a positive impact on every sector and due to what I am feeling , we are going to get the most blessings of poor people and poor people of our country.Colleagues , Coal Reforms While this thing has been taken care of the Environment to protect India’s commitment will not weaken from anywhere. Coal and Gas We want to use the now improved and modern technology to make and will come at a better Technology , coal gasification such steps Environment will be protected. Using gas made from coal Transport and Cooking will be , urea and Steel Manufacturing will promote the industries involved. We have set a target that by 2030 , that is, about 100 million tons in this decadeCoal to Gasify be. I’ve been told that it has identified four projects and nearly Rs 20 thousand crores on Invest will be.Colleagues , Coal Sector associated with these reforms Eastern and Central India and , in particular, our Tribal Belt of the , Development of the Pillar is a great way to build. There , where coal , where Minerals are , that part of the country, Progress and Prosperity has not reached that level in case. I thought it was part of the country , where a large number of Aspirational Districts also. The district where people , for developmentAspire are , are greedy , some are intended to pass , strength , power , everything , but this district was left far behind in the development race. You can imagine , 16 countries Aspirational Districts are , where coal has large reserves.But these gains are not more people there , as it should have. There the poor than to be good , he did not. Even from our partner in large numbers - away to leave their old parents , to leave his farm, barn Man-up friends Krek in large cities Employment for Migration do.In such a large population opportunities for better employment near his home to reduce the number of problems and eastern and central India , Commercial Mining towards which we are taking steps , they bring a desired result and when I desired result Let’s talk , I have to develop these areas. We have to do well for the poor. We first create a self-sustaining the countryside , create self-sufficient in every family there , is to change the poor life.Today the Coal Blocks The Auction is happening , they have millions in the region Jobs is expected to generate. Not only that , from extracting coal Transportation to improve to who would be willing modern infrastructure , it also will be opportunities , such as more facilities for those who live there. Recently, the government has decided to spend 50 thousand crore rupees on such infrastructure.Peers , are in Coal Sector Reform , occurring in this sector investments , people’s lives , especially playing a huge role in making our poor and tribal brothers and simplify the lives of sisters. Coal Production which states Extra Revenue will , use it there will be public welfare schemes , will be in the state of development. Along with this, the District Minerals Fund is also going to help the states a lot and this help will continue. The bulk of this fund is being invested in the development of essential facilities in the vicinity of Coal Mining . Lives of the people thereease of living, they do not struggle to live , they do not have to struggle with the government. They should live with self-respect , they should live self- reliant , that is , where there is wealth , there should also be prosperity among the people , we are moving forward with this goal. Today are taking these steps , the goal will be very helpful to achieve.Colleagues , this Auction are in a time , when India Business Activity is becoming increasingly normal. Consumption and Demand are moving rapidly towards the Pre-covid Level . In such a situation there cannot be a better time for this new beginning. Power Generation is , Consumption is , Petroleum Products in Demand is , these increased rapidly in the first week of the end of May and June. Similarly , E-way Bills, compared to April , has seen a big jump of around 200%. In June Toll Collection also , February Collection has reached 70 per cent of. Improvement of 26 percent has been registered in Railway Freight Traffic in the month of May as compared to April . If Total digital Retail Transactions, his talk , his Volume and Value, began to be increased in both. Friends , Rural Economy is also starting to catch its speed . This time the area of Kharif Crops is more than 13% over the previous year. Wheat Production and Procurement have both increased. Compared to last year, yet more than 11 per cent of wheat Procurement been mean that this time came more money in the pockets of farmers’s all the Indicators are , I show did not take too much time short , he Showing that the Indian Economy is ready to do a Bounce Back fast , has moved forward.Friends , India has come out of the biggest crisis , it will also come out of it . If we Indians are crores of consumers , then don’t forget that there are crores of producers too. India’s success, India’s growth is certain. We can become self-sufficient. You remember , till just a few weeks ago we used to buy N- 95 mask , Corona testing kit , Personal Protective Equipment- PPE, ventilator , most of our needs from outside. Now India is fulfilling its demand from Make In India itself. Rather , we are very importantExporter of medical products will also be made. You can keep your faith , your courage high , we can all meet these dreams. We can be self-reliant and this is the resolve of all of us , the resolution of 130 crore countrymen. We have to build a self-reliant India and we can build a self-reliant India.Self Reliant India which Journey L30 million Indians have started , you also her partner. Come forward to lead you. There are very few occasions in life when there is an opportunity to twist history by doing something. Today India’s industry , today India’s business , today has a chance to change history to heal the people of India’s service sector . The opportunity has come to change the direction of history. There is a chance to change the destiny of India. We do not have to let this chance go. We do not have to leave this opportunity. Here , turn up to India , make India self-reliant India.Friends , today I got a chance to be among you. Matter of coal , walk by dreaming of diamonds. Once again , my best wishes to all of you for this important beginning , this important step in the coal sector! I would especially like to congratulate my colleague Prahlad Joshi ji on the Council of Ministers and his team that they used this lockdown period so much. Studied all the nuances of the entire department. Can new to the country , what can new ways ; He has given a great leadership. I want to congratulate Prahlad ji , his secretary and his team today.You might think that you are doing a small program. I am not feeling Prahlada ji , I see that you are laying a strong foundation for self-reliant India today. And so you and your team deserve a lot of congratulations.Industry who present partner today , I have I want to draw a confidence again , I am with you. You should take two steps in every work of the country , I am with you for walking four steps. Let us together do not let this opportunity go.Once again, best wishes to all of you.Thanks a lot.ThankYou!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-launches-auction-of-coal-mines-full-speech-here/story-mPLcwsYtZ9B9TJtZwZ4KcP.html
18-06-2020||India||Col Santosh Babu, killed in Ladakh clash, cremated with military honours||The mortal remains of Colonel Bikkumalla Santosh Babu - who died in the line of duty, along with 19 other soldiers, in a clash with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh on Monday night, were consigned to flames with full military honours in his agriculture farm at Kesaram village of Telangana’s Suryapet district on Thursday.Amid chants of “Colonel Santosh Amar Rahe (long live Santosh Babu)” by thousands of people assembled there, his father Upender lit the pyre at around noon. The army jawans from 16 Bihar regiment gave a gun salute to the departed soldier.Several senior officials from the regiment conducted the proceedings as per the military procedures, including carrying the coffin up to the pyre.A large number of political leaders - Nalgonda MP Capt N Uttam Kumar Reddy, Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy, former MP Gutha Sukhender Reddy, state minister for power G Jagadish Reddy - senior officials and non-officials paid homage to the slain Colonel by placing wreaths on the body.Earlier, thousands took part in the funeral procession to give an emotional farewell to the son of the soil by showering petals on the coffin and raising slogans hailing his sacrifice for the nation.The six-km long procession, which began at this residence at Vidyanagar Colony, went through the streets of Suryapet town that observed complete shutdown as a mark of respect to the departed soul and reached the family’s agriculture farm at Kesaram village.The body of Col Santosh, which was flown in a special aircraft to the military airport at Hakimpet on the outskirts of Hyderabad at around 7 pm on Wednesday, was later driven to Suryapet. Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundarajan, Telangana IT minister K T Rama Rao, Hyderabad Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan and others paid floral tributes to the soldier at the airport.Thousands of people in Suryapet and nearby villages waited till late in the night to have a glimpse at the body of Col Santosh and pay their last respects to him. The steady flow of visitors continued till Thursday morning. At one stage, the queue was two kilometres long outside his residence. The police ensured that the mourners maintained physical distancing and wore face masks.Health department officials distributed masks and hand sanitisers to the people and conducted thermal screening before allowing them into the house. Disinfectants were also sprayed at the premises of the house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/col-santosh-babu-killed-in-ladakh-clash-laid-to-rest-with-military-honours/story-XRTiNKeKnzetS8EvxYH8lM.html
18-06-2020||India||Both houses of Nepal’s parliament approve new map including territory controlled by India||The upper house of Nepal’s parliament on Thursday passed a constitutional amendment to give legal backing to a new map that depicts Kalapani region as part of Nepalese territory, a move that could exacerbate a border row with India.The National Assembly or upper house unanimously voted to endorse the new political map issued last month that shows the disputed areas of Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as part of Nepal.The amendment had been passed by 258 votes in the House of Representatives or lower house on April 13. Its passage in the upper house was considered a formality as the ruling Nepal Communist Party has a majority, unlike in the lower house.However, even the lower house had passed the bill by a two-thirds after it was backed by key opposition parties such as the Nepali Congress and Rastriya Prajatantra Party. The bill will be sent to President Bidya Devi Bhandari for approval.Thursday’s developments came days after the Indian side said on Monday that the onus is on the KP Sharma Oli government in Nepal to create a “positive and conducive atmosphere” for talks to resolve the row over the Kalapani-Lipulekh region.The Indian side has repeatedly conveyed its readiness to discuss the issue, with the latest offer for talks between foreign secretaries of the two sides having been made around the time the Nepal government tabled the constitutional amendment in parliament on May 31, people familiar with developments had said.The boundary row with Nepal has flared up at an inopportune time for India, which is engaged in a tense weeks-old border stand-off with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). A violent face-off between Indian and Chinese troops on Monday night left at least 20 Indian soldiers dead.The border row erupted last month after India opened an 80-km road to Lipulekh on the border with the Tibet Autonomous Region to facilitate pilgrims going to Kailash Mansarovar.Nepal lodged s strong protest and Oli’s government issued a new map that showed Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as Nepalese territory. It then moved the constitutional amendment in parliament to give legal backing to the map.Almost 98% of the 1,750-km land and riverine border between India and Nepal has been delineated and differences remain only in the Kalapani sector in Uttarakhand and Susta sector in Bihar. The Indian side has said Nepal’s “shifting” claims are contrary to the Treaty of Sugauli signed in 1815 by Nepal and the British, a ruling by the British governor general in 1817, and Nepal’s boundary treaty with China of 1961 and protocols signed by these two countries in 1963 and 1979.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/both-houses-of-nepal-s-parliament-approve-new-map-including-territory-controlled-by-india/story-1arIgq3h7OKPozvITjufJK.html
18-06-2020||India||1,65,412 samples tested for Covid-19 in last 24 hours: ICMR||Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Thursday informed that 1,65,412 tests of coronavirus were conducted by various laboratories across the country in the last 24 hours.This is the highest number of tests conducted by the laboratories in a single day. So far, 62, 49,668 tests have been conducted.As of now, a total of 953 laboratories across India have been given the approval to conduct the test. This includes 699 government laboratories and 254 private laboratory’ chains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-65-412-samples-tested-for-covid-19-in-last-24-hours-icmr/story-5y38P85L9f4xPyI8IR0UXJ.html
18-06-2020||India||‘Don’t underestimate our firm will to safeguard territorial sovereignty’: China on Ladakh face-off||China has said that India must not underestimate its firm will to safeguard its territorial sovereignty. The comments were made by Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying on Twitter.“India must not misjudge the current situation or underestimate China’s firm will to safeguard its territorial sovereignty,” Hua said in her first tweet.“Indian front-line troops broke the consensus and crossed the Line of Actual Control, deliberately provoking and attacking Chinese officers and soldiers, thus triggering fierce physical conflicts and causing casualties,” she said in a follow up tweet. India must not misjudge the current situation or underestimate China's firm will to safeguard its territorial sovereignty.The remarks come a day after the external affairs ministry rubbished the Chinese military’s claim of sovereignty over the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh, at the heart of a border stand-off. India said such “untenable claims” go against an understanding between the senior military commanders reached on June 6 to de-escalate and disengage along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).Galwan Valley was the scene of what Indian officials have described as a “violent face-off” on Monday night that resulted in the death of 20 Indian soldiers, including a colonel. Dozens more were injured and there are reports of some Indian soldiers still being unaccounted for.After the clash, a statement in Mandarin issued by the western command of China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on Tuesday had said: “The sovereignty of the Galwan River Valley has always been ours.”In a statement issued at about 1 am on Thursday, external affairs minister spokesperson Anurag Srivastava rejected the Chinese side’s claim that the sovereignty of Galwan Valley “belongs to China”.“Making exaggerated and untenable claims is contrary to this understanding,” Srivatava said in his rebuttal.The Galwan Valley - the site of the bloody clash between soldiers from both sides - has been one of the few areas along the Line of Actual Control where the difference in perception of the boundary between the two sides was minimal.The two countries have been trading charges of what triggered Monday night’s face-off in Galwan Valley that left 20 Indian soldiers dead and 76 more wounded including 18 with serious injuries. Indian Army officials claimed 43 Chinese were killed or seriously injured, citing radio intercepts and other intelligence. Fatal casualties on the Chinese side reportedly include a colonel but HT couldn’t independently verify this.Foreign Minister S Jaishankar told his counterpart Wang Yi in a phone conversation that the Chinese side’s “pre-meditated and planned action” was behind the violence and casualties. Jaishankar also added that the “Chinese side sought to erect a structure in Galwan Valley on our side of the LAC” and set up the clash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-underestimate-our-firm-will-to-safeguard-territorial-sovereignty-china-on-ladakh-face-off/story-UUgjI8L4tjCxkeF9XwWmmJ.html
18-06-2020||India||Family tries to flee with body of Covid-19 patient to Moradabad from Delhi||The Delhi Police on Wednesday had to perform a peculiar task of tracing the body of a coronavirus patient after his family tried to flee with it to his hometown while it was being transported from the hospital to a burial ground here. The family was intercepted and the vehicle traced by the central district administration, officials said.The man, infected with Covid-19, was admitted to the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital on June 1. He died on Wednesday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageFollowing the death, Qabrastan Ahle Islam, the burial ground at ITO, was informed to make necessary arrangements as a grave has to be dug up with the help of a JCB and there is a separate entry gate for transporting coronavirus bodies, the officials said.The body left the hospital in an ambulance but did not reach the burial ground. Another ambulance with an Uttar Pradesh number plate was kept ready near the burial ground by the family to take the body to Moradabad, they said. The entral district administration was alerted when the relatives of the patient “snatched” the body.In a letter to the Assistant Commissioner of Police, Karol Bagh, the Central district asked the police to trace the body immediately. “…a Covid positive dead body being transported from Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Central district to burial ground near the ITO/ Feroz Shah Kotla for burial was snatched from the attendants of the hospital by around 30 people” the letter stated.The body was being transported in a “forcefully hired ambulance”, the directive said. The police said the family had travelled a few kilometres within the city, but then it was contacted by the district administration and asked to bring the body back to the burial ground. The victim’s relatives finally relented. The staff at the burial ground waited until 6 pm but the body did not arrive.“We thought the body will come tomorrow (Thursday) and shut the Qabarastan gate,” Shamim Mohammad, the caretaker of the burial ground, said. “It was only at around 10.30 pm that the police said the body has to be buried immediately. The body was finally buried post midnight,” Mohammad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/family-tries-to-flee-with-body-of-covid-19-patient-to-moradabad-from-delhi/story-v52Nc4veYpOmWY41Fk0j8M.html
18-06-2020||India||Nepal’s parliament approves map that includes Indian territory, president assent next||Nepal’s upper house on Thursday unanimously cleared a constitutional amendment bill to reflect its new map in the national emblem, a move that is seen to virtually make the boundary row a permanent irritant in relations between Kathmandu and New Delhi. The bill garnered 57 votes in its support and none against. Last week, Nepal’s lower house cleared the bill that was supported by all the 258 lawmakers present and voting.Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura are the territories Nepal now claims as its own.Reacting to the passage of the map in Nepal’s lower house, New Delhi had said: “This artificial enlargement of claims is not based on historical fact or evidence and is not tenable. It is also violative of our current understanding to hold talks on outstanding boundary issues.” Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli government, which had gone ahead to issue the new map last month, has repeatedly claimed that Nepal would “get back the land occupied by India” through dialogue. The move is expected to aggravate a diplomatic row between Nepal and India, which erupted after Kathmandu protested against the opening of an 80-km road to Lipulekh on the Chinese border by New Delhi last month. Nepal claims Lipulekh but the Indian side has said the road is completely within its territory.Nepal’s foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali told Parliament last week that the new road to Lipulekh had “undermined” the country’s sovereignty.Nepal’s border begins at Limpiyadhura, the origin of the river Kali, and the border with India is determined by the Treaty of Sugauli of 1816, he said. India, he added, had acknowledged in 1997 that the borders at Kalapani and Susta were “unresolved”.The move in Parliament followed after several efforts by Kathmandu to hold talks with New Delhi on the border row. People familiar with developments said Nepal last formally contacted India early in May for talks to resolve the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-s-national-assembly-unanimously-okays-new-map-that-includes-indian-territory-next-step-president-s-assent/story-7lCzeCJGWEbvZAJrFCiLUI.html
18-06-2020||India||‘Who sent unarmed soldiers and why?’: Rahul Gandhi on Ladakh face-off||Congress MP Rahul Gandhi, addressing people in a video message, condemned China’s actions in eastern Ladakh that resulted in the death of 20 Indian soldiers. The Congress leader, pointing out that Indian soldiers were unarmed, sought to know who is responsible for this situation.“China has committed a crime by killing India’s unarmed soldiers. I want to know who sent these unarmed soldiers in the harm’s way and why. Who is responsible,” said Gandhi in Hindi during an 18-second video clip posted by him on Twitter.The clash between the two armies in which both sides suffered casualties on Monday began at around 7 pm in the Galwan Valley when an Indian Army squad of about 50 soldiers, led by Colonel Santosh Babu, reached a contested site near what is known as Patrol Point 14, people familiar with the developments said on Wednesday. Also Watch | ‘Who sent unarmed Indian soldiers to martyrdom’?: Rahul Gandhi In a matter of minutes, the soldiers were locked in hand-to-hand combat that triggered a seven-hour violent face-off involving reinforcements from both sides.The soldiers exchanged blows, threw stones at each other, and the Chinese troops attacked Indian soldiers with iron rods and nail-studded clubs, as reported by HT on Wednesday. Some soldiers, from both sides, fell into the water and their bodies were later retrieved on Tuesday morning.The soldiers were unarmed, as part of a protocol between the two sides. Forward troops patrolling the disputed border either do not carry guns, or, if they do, keep them slung on their backs with the magazines in pouches and not clipped on.The Chinese soldiers were supposed to have withdrawn from the location under a de-escalation plan discussed by senior commanders from both sides on June 6.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who in his first comments said India is capable of giving a befitting reply if provoked, has called an all-party meeting on Friday to discuss the situation at the India-China border. Presidents of various political parties will participate in the meeting at 5 pm on Friday via video, the Prime Minister’s Office said.On Wednesday, Congress president Sonia Gandhi asked PM Modi to come clean about the situation in eastern Ladakh and tel the nation how the “Chinese occupied Indian territory, why 20 brave soldiers were martyred”.Since May, there have been tensions between the Indian and Chinese sides following clashes between the troops of the two countries in the Sikkim and Ladakh sectors of the Line of Actual Control (LAC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-sent-unarmed-soldiers-and-why-rahul-gandhi-on-ladakh-face-off/story-Pj8Xk8mtkpmqQC7QhPdbMN.html
18-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Amit Shah holds another important meet on Covid-19 situation in Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Amit Shah holds another crucial meeting on Delhi’s Covid-19 situationUnion home minister Amit Shah is meeting the officials from Delhi administration to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the national capital and its management. Shah has been regularly holding meetings in the wake of huge spike of the coronavirus disease cases in Delhi. Read moreTamil Nadu crosses 50,000-mark, Delhi records over 47,000 cases: Covid-19 state tallyAfter Maharashtra, which has reported over one lakh coronavirus cases till date, Tamil Nadu is the second worst-hit state in the country with its Covid-19 tally crossing the 50,000-mark on Thursday. Read moreIndia-China standoff in Ladakh: Mansa family loses a son 2 days after another’s marriageIt was on Monday when the elder brother of Gurtej Singh (23), who along with 19 soldiers lost his life in a face-off with the Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, got married. Read moreCovid-19 could erase more global wealth than financial crisis of 2008The rich are still getting richer, but the coronavirus crisis may slow the breakneck pace of wealth accumulation for years to come. Volatile markets and the economic fallout from the virus could wipe out as much as $16 trillion of global wealth this year and hinder growth for the next five years, according to a study by Boston Consulting Group. Read moreKerala ready to include Sreesanth in Ranji team after ban endsAfter a seven-year ban the Kerala Cricket Association (KCA) has decided to include controversial speedster S Sreesanth (37) in the state Ranji cricket team in September after his ban period ends. Read moreGoogle Play Store to soon let you pay for an app’s subscription even without downloading itLooks like Android app developers will have a new way to market their app’s subscription models in future. The search giant confirmed to TechCrunch that with a new model, which is under tests, consumers will be able to purchase subscriptions outside of the app. Read moreInternational Day of Yoga 2020: When was it first celebrated, why and the theme of International Yoga DaySince 21 June, 2015, the International Day of Yoga has been an annual, global celebration. The physical, mental and spiritual practice of yoga originated in India. Read moreMumbai cop helps 14-day-old baby who accidentally swallowed safety pin to reach hospital in timeMumbai Police Constable S.Kolekar is winning a tremendous outpouring of love on Twitter thanks to his quick actions which helped saving a baby’s life. Read moreWatch| HT Salutes: Debojit Thakur, a researcher who helped Covid & Amphan victims||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-amit-shah-holds-another-important-meet-on-covid-19-situation-in-delhi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-xu17RJFiXs2SReWURzt7RM.html
18-06-2020||India||Congress attempts to topple BJP-led govt Manipur; NPP to offer support||Opposition Congress is making a desperate bid to topple Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh and form a non-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led coalition government in the politically-volatile state after nine members of the legislative assembly (MLAs), including three from the BJP, withdrew support to the BJP-led coalition government on Wednesday evening.The three-year-old coalition government is tottering after three BJP MLAs, all four from the National People’s Party (NPP) MLAs, including three cabinet ministers, the lone Trinamool Congress (TMC) lawmaker and an independent MLA withdrew support over alleged resentment to the N Biren Singh-led government’s handling of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak and growing interference in the functioning of non-BJP ministers.“We’re going to have a new coalition government led by the Congress with support from like-minded parties. The true mandate had been given to the Congress and our dream is coming true,” Manipur Congress spokesperson Ningombam Bupenda Meitei tweeted.The NPP, which is heading the government in Meghalaya with the ally BJP’s support, has decided to join hands with the Congress and form the next government in Manipur, as political loyalties often get blurred in the north-eastern states because of regional compulsions.The TMC and independent MLAs have also decided to side with the Congress.The three BJP MLAs, who resigned on Wednesday, have officially joined the Congress, but they can’t take part in a no-confidence vote in the 60-member assembly, as they would now come under the purview of anti-defection law, or the Tenth Schedule to the Indian Constitution.“We’ll go with the formation of the Congress-led government. We’re most likely to meet Governor Najma Heptullah on Thursday to call for a no-confidence motion against the incumbent government and seek a floor-test in the assembly,” said Y Joykumar Singh, NPP leader, and former deputy CM. “The government’s handling of the Covid-19 outbreak and interference in ministries handled by our party’s ministers are some of the reasons that led us to withdraw support to the government,” he added.Earlier in April, CM Singh had divested Joykumar of all his portfolios after the later termed the former’s assurances of food security during the Covid-19-induced lockdown as “hogwash”.The political crisis deepened after Manipur high court (HC) on June 9 restrained seven Congress MLAs, who had switched sides to the ruling BJP, from entering the assembly until Speaker Yumnam Khemchand Singh disposed of the pending anti-defection cases against them.The HC ruling had cast doubts on these MLAs from voting for the lone Rajya Sabha (RS) seat from the state, which is slated to be held on Friday.In March, the Supreme Court had ordered the removal of TH Shyamkumar as a minister. Shyamkumar had won on a Congress ticket, but switched sides immediately after results were declared and became a minister in the BJP-led government.The first BJP government in Manipur had come to power in March 2017 after it cobbled together a majority. The party had won 21 of the 60 seats in the state, while the Congress had won 28 seats.But, the BJP formed the government with the support of four MLAs each from the NPP and the Naga People’s Front (NPF), one legislator each from the TMC, and the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), and an independent MLA.Like Shyamkumar, seven other MLAs had later switched sides to the BJP.Now, the BJP is reduced to 18 MLAs in the state assembly after three of its lawmakers resigned, the eight Congress MLAs, who had switched sides to the BJP but are not allowed to enter the assembly, and six others, including four from the NPP and one each from the TMC and the independent, withdrawing support.The N Biren Singh-led coalition had the support of 39 lawmakers. Now, it has been reduced to 23, including 18 from the BJP, four from NPF, and one from the LJP.While the Congress, which had got reduced to 20 MLAs after eight of its lawmakers switched sides, enjoys the support of 26 lawmakers, including four from NPP and one each from the TMC and the independent.The BJP, however, is putting up a brave front, despite the loss of three of its lawmakers on Wednesday.“Though three of our MLAs have left, there’s still no threat to the coalition government. We have a strategy in place and are working on it,” said S Rajen, BJP MLA and government spokesperson.“We’re hopeful that the assembly Speaker gives a ruling on Thursday on allowing the seven MLAs (the Congress lawmakers, who had switched sides and were barred to enter the assembly) to enter the House and vote. If that happens, we will win the Rajya Sabha election on Friday and will sail through a floor test, if it takes place. We’re also hopeful of some Congress MLAs crossing over to our side,” he added.Amid the political drama, the NPF has decided to stick with its old ally, the BJP, and support it for the lone RS seat on Friday as well as in a floor test.“The NPF has had an alliance with The BJP for long. We supported the BJP in forming government in Manipur, when it didn’t have the numbers and we’ll continue doing that. We don’t abandon our friends or break our ties, despite BJP not honouring agreements in the past,” said K Leishiyo, NPF MLA from Phungyar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-attempts-to-topple-bjp-led-govt-manipur-npp-to-offer-support/story-n3fjHvacLAL4TH8KPMzlqJ.html
18-06-2020||India||India pays homage to 20 soldiers killed in Ladakh face-off||Protest rallies were taken out and candles lit as India paid respects to the 20 Indian Army bravehearts killed in a face-off with China along the disputed border in Ladakh. Some of them had planned celebrations upon their return; some of them had joined the army just two years ago. Havaldar Sunil Kumar, 34, Patna, BiharSunil Kumar, a resident of Taranagar-Sikaria village in Patna, joined the army in 2002. “He called his wife on June 6 and said the situation was under control in Ladakh,” his brother said. He is survived by his wife Preeti Devi and three children.Sepoy Chandan Kumar, 24, Bhojpur, BiharSepoy Chandan Kumar joined the army in 2018 at general duty (GD) post. His three younger brothers are also in the defence services. Chandan’s father, Hridyanand Singh, a farmer, said Chandan was supposed to get married next year.Sepoy Kundan Kumar, 27, Saharsa, BiharKumar was a resident of Aran in Saharsa district of Bihar. He had joined the Army in 2012. His father, Niminder Yadav, said “I appeal to every Indian to join the Army to protect every inch of Indian Territory,” he said. He is survived by his wife Baby Devi.Sepoy Aman Kumar, 27, Samastipur, BiharAman was a resident of Sultanpur village of Samastipur district. His father, Sudhir Kumar Singh, said, “He had called a few days ago and inquired about our well-being. We are proud of his sacrifice,” he said. Aman is survived by his wife, Mintu.Sepoy Jai Kishore Singh, 22, Vaishali, BiharJai Kishore Singh of Chakfateh village in Vaishali joined the Army in 2018. Before leaving for the border in March, Jai told his family that he will not be able to contact them due to poor network connectivity, his relatives said.Naib Subedar Satnam Singh, 42, Gurdaspur, PunjabSatnam Singh is survived by his parents, wife Jaswinder Kaur (40) and two children. “I will take revenge for my brother’s martyrdom...,” said his brother, Subedar Sukhchain Singh (40), who is currently posted in Hyderabad.Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh, 49, Patiala, PunjabMandeep Singh joined duty about 20 days ago after a two-month leave. “We lost everything,” said his mother. Singh is survived by his 70-year-old mother Shakuntala Devi, wife Gurdeep Kaur (37), daughter Mehakpreet Kaur and son Jobanpreet.Sepoy Gurbinder Singh, 22, Sangrur, PunjabGurbinder Singh joined the army in 2018 after passing out from school. “We were planning his marriage on his next leave expected in the next two months,” said his elder brother Gurpreet Singh. He is survived by his parents and two siblings.Sepoy Gurtej Singh, 23, Mansa, PunjabGurtej Singh had planned a grand party upon his return to his village to celebrate his elder brother Gurpreet Singh’s wedding, which took place on Monday. As celebrations were on, Gurpreet got a call from officials informing about Gurtej’s death.Sepoy Ganesh Handsa, 22, West Singhbhum, J’khandHandsa was the sole bread-earner of his family of daily wagers, who worked in fields and took up MGNREGA work to ensure that Handsa received education. “We don’t know how this darkness will be cleared,” said his elder brother Dinesh Handsa.Sepoy Kundan Kumar Ojha, 32, Sahibganj, JharkhandOhja, a resident of Dihari village in Sahibganj, joined the army in 2011. He is survived by his wife, Namita, and a 17-day-old daughter. “He promised that once tension along India-China border eases, he would come to see Diksha,” Mukesh, Kundan’s brother, said.Sepoy Chandrakanta Pradhan, 28, Kandamal, OdishaPradhan got his posting in Ladakh in February. “He was crying over phone and asked for forgiveness if he had ever hurt me. He asked me to look after my family ..(he) said a war may start,” said Sandhayarani, his sister. They had last spoken on June 1.Naib Subedar Nuduram Soren, 43, Mayurbhanj, OdishaNuduram Soren, a Santhali tribal hailing from Champauda village, joined the army in 1997. His wife and three daughters have not been informed about his death, his younger brother, Daman, said. “I don’t think she (his wife) can bear the loss,” he said.Colonel B Santosh Babu, 37, Hyderabad, TelanganaMortal remains of Colonel Bikkumalla Santosh Babu were flown to Hyderabad on Wednesday. He is survived by his wife, Santoshi, two children, and his parents, B Upender and Manjula. “He told me he might get relieved in September once pandemic subsides,” Upender said.Havaldar K Palani, 40, Madurai, Tamil NaduThe last call that Palani made to his wife, Vanathi Devi, was on June 3. That was his 40th birthday. He was set to retire next year after 22 years. He dropped out of college at 18 and joined the army to support his family. He is survived by his two children, parents and two siblings.Havaldar Bipul Roy, 36, Meerut, Uttar PradeshRoy was a native of Bhatibare village of Jalpaiguri district in north Bengal but moved to Meerut city a few years ago. He was posted in Ladakh about a month ago. “He came home in December 2019 and that was when we last met. I am proud of him,” said Bipul’s cousin, Rajib Roy.Lance Naik Deepak Kumar Rewa, Madhya PradeshDeepak Kumar was a resident of Faranda village near Bhopal. He is survived by his wife, father, grandmother and brother. Deepak promised to return once the lockdown was lifted, his family said. “I didn’t know he would never come back,” said Deepak’s grandmother.Sepoy Rajesh Orang, 26, Birbhum, West BengalRajesh joined the army in 2015, and was the sole earner in his family. He is survived by his father, mother and two sisters. “I am proud of my son. My only request to the Indian Army is that they should give a befitting reply to China and avenge the killing of Indian soldiers,” said his father.Sepoy Ganesh Ram, 27, Kanker, ChhattisgarhGanesh joined the Army in 2011 and was expecting a new posting, said his uncle, Tiharu Ram Kunjam. He is survived by his parents and two sisters. “In January, his parents fixed his marriage …He was going to be married on his next visit,” said Surya Nevendra, Ganesh’s friend.Sepoy Ankush, 21, Hamirpur, Himachal PradeshAnkush, who was recruited in the Punjab regiment in 2018, was on his first posting to Ladakh. His uncle, Sunil Kumar, said he last visited home about 10 months ago. “He has attained martyrdom serving the nation…there is also a grief that he was too young to go,” his father said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-pics-india-pays-homage-to-20-soldiers-killed-in-ladakh-face-off/story-58iFsP68UUrvWsF5eFBjXP.html
18-06-2020||India||Amit Shah holds another crucial meeting on Delhi’s Covid-19 situation||Union home minister Amit Shah met the officials from Delhi administration on Wednesday to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the national capital and its management.The movement of people between Delhi and National Capital Region (NCR) districts also figured in the meeting, news agency PTI reported. The home minister reviewed the steps taken to check the spread of the virus, PTI quoted a government official as saying.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Delhi Police Commissioner SN Shrivastava, senior officials of NCR districts and ministries of home and health and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) attended the meeting.Authorities of Haryana, UP and Delhi have imposed restrictions in different times during the Covid-19 lockdown over movement of people between the states, leading to inconvenience to many.On June 4, the Supreme Court asked the Centre to convene a meeting of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana for easing inter-state movement at all borders in the NCR.Shah has been regularly holding meetings in the wake of huge spike of the coronavirus disease cases in Delhi. He had chaired an all-party meeting on Monday, where the home minister appealed to all political parties to set aside their political differences and unite to fight the Covid-19 outbreak.The home minister also asked the political leadership of all parties to urge their workers to ensure that the Delhi government’s Covid-19 guidelines are implemented on the ground.Top leaders of the BJP, the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), the Congress and the BSP attended the meeting.He had met Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, after which the Centre announced a slew of measures to fight the coronavirus crisis in the national capital.These measurs included carrying out a comprehensive door-to-door health survey in all containment zones, doubling of tests in next two days followed by a three-fold increase within a week’s time.At least 500 railway coaches with a capacity of 8,000 beds were also allocated for Delhi. Private hospitals, too, were told to earmark 60 per cent of beds for Covid-19 affected patients at lesser rates.Kejriwal called the meeting with home minister as “extremely productive”, and tweeted to say that the Centre and the Delhi government will fight Covid-19 together in the national capital.Delhi is currently, the state with the third-highest Covid-19 tally preceded only by Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. The capital’s tally of coronavirus infections climbed to 47,102 on Thursday and the number of deaths due to the infectious disease is heading towards 2,000.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also discussed the situation in Delhi and other states in meetings with the chief ministers for over two days. The prime minister reiterated the importance of testing to quickly trace, track and isolate Covid-19 positive cases and said that apart from maximising the existing testing capacity, there must be a constant effort to expand it. He also emphasised the “emotional aspect” of the challenge and asked states to help people “battling fear of being afflicted and the stigma” by highlighting the large number of recovered patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-holds-another-crucial-meeting-on-delhi-s-covid-19-situation/story-woXLZHgTXV0afIbb0JHZxJ.html
18-06-2020||India||‘Covid-19 an opportunity, taught India to become self-reliant’: PM Modi||India will turn the coronavirus crisis into an opportunity, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday. He was addressing the launch of auction of 41 coal mines for commercial mining, via video conference.PM Modi called the auction a major step in making India self-reliant in the energy sector.“India will turn this Covid-19 crisis into an opportunity. It has taught India to be self-reliant. India to reduce its dependence on imports,” the prime minister said.“For decades, the country’s coal sector was entangled in a web of captive and non-captive. It was excluded from competition, and there was a big problem of transparency,” said PM Modi.“After 2014, several steps were taken to change this situation. Coal sector got strengthened due to steps taken,” he said, adding that India should be the world’s largest coal exporters considering the size of reserves it has.The auction is expected to garner Rs 33,000 crore of capital investment in the country over next 5-7 years.The prime minister said that the government has set an aim of gasification of 100 million tonnes of coal by 2030 with an investment of Rs 20,000 crore.The prime minister had held meeting with the chief ministers for two days where he said that instead of a lockdown, India now needs to focus on the next phase of unlocking the country and speeding up economic activities.He also reiterated the fact that the economy was witnessing a revival.In his address to the nation last month, PM Modi had said that the Covid-19 crisis has given India an opportunity. “We did not manufacture personal protective equipment, made N-95 masks for namesake when the disease first broke out here. Today, we manufacture two lakh PPEs in a day and two lakh N-95 masks in a day. This is because we turned the challenge into an opportunity,” he had said.He also said that it is the responsibility to every person of the country to make 21st century India’s century. “There is only one way to do this - to become self reliant,” the prime minister had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-an-opportunity-taught-india-to-become-self-reliant-pm-modi/story-EQkEObjvNSvZpH46z6HIOP.html
18-06-2020||India||BJP puts off political rallies for two days||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said on Thursday it will put off all political programmes, including ongoing digital rallies, to mark the first year of the government’s second term as a mark of respect for the 20 soldiers killed in action in Ladakh. BJP president JP Nadda, who was scheduled to address a digital rally in Assam on Thursday, announced the two-day break in political programmes through a tweet.“The supreme sacrifice of our brave soldiers while guarding our motherland in Galwan valley will always be remembered. The nation is indebted to them. I pay homage to the martyrs. BJP has decided to postpone all its political programmes including virtual rallies for next 2 days,” he tweeted. The supreme sacrifice of our brave soldiers while guarding our motherland in Galwan valley will always be remembered. The nation is indebted to them. I pay homage to the martyrs. BJP has decided to postpone all its political programmes including virtual rallies for next 2 days.A violent face-off between Indian and Chinese soldiers in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on Monday night left 20 Indian soldiers, including a colonel, dead.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the sacrifice of the soldiers will not be in vain. He said India has always worked with its neighbours in a cooperative and friendly manner and hoped for their growth and development. However, he added that India is prepared to give a befitting reply if it is provoked.A meeting of all political parties will be chaired by Modi on Friday to discuss the situation. In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, which has halted large gatherings, the BJP opted for virtual engagement and digital rallies to connect with people. These rallies are being organised to showcase the Union government’s achievements and, going forward, will be used for electioneering as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-puts-off-political-rallies-for-two-days/story-tISx9Okut7ae2bOByLcV3K.html
18-06-2020||India||PM Modi to launch ‘Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan’ to boost livelihood opportunities in rural India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch ‘Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan’ on June 20 to boost livelihood opportunities in rural India.“Government of India has decided to launch a massive rural public works scheme ‘Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan’ to empower and provide livelihood opportunities to the returnee migrant workers and rural citizens,” the Prime Minister’s office said. The campaign of 125 days across 116 districts in 6 states aims to work in mission mode to help migrant workers.It will involve intensified and focused implementation of 25 different types of works to provide jobs and create infrastructure in the rural regions of the country with a resource envelope of Rs 50,000 crore, the PMO office said. Around 39 crore people have received financial assistance of Rs 34,800 crore amid the Covid-19 lockdown under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP) as on May 5, the government had said in a statement on May 6.These people received the assistance, which was announced by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on March 26 to protect them from the impact of the lockdown due to Covid-19, via digital payment infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-garib-kalyan-rojgar-abhiyaan-to-boost-livelihood-opportunities-in-rural-india/story-ybAXBMCS7KRWLh4Qq7jfpJ.html
18-06-2020||India||Galwan Valley face-off: BJP defers all political events, rallies in tribute to Army bravehearts||The Bharatiya Janata Party has decided to defer its political events, including virtual rallies, for the next two days to pay homage to the Indian Army bravehearts who lost their lives in the face-off with China in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on Monday.“The supreme sacrifice of our brave soldiers while guarding our motherland in Galwan valley will always be remembered. The nation is indebted to them. I pay homage to the martyrs,” BJP national president JP Nadda said in a tweeted on Thursday. “The BJP has decided to postpone all its political programmes including virtual rallies for next 2 days,” his tweet read. This comes a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi reacted to the recent violent face-off between India and China in Ladakh which led to the killing of 20 Indian Army soldiers. PM Modi in a brief address said the “sacrifice of the soldiers will not go in vain”.  Also read: Outnumbered, Indian soldiers stood ground in violent seven-hour face-offThe supreme sacrifice of our brave soldiers while guarding our motherland in Galwan valley will always be remembered. The nation is indebted to them. I pay homage to the martyrs. BJP has decided to postpone all its political programmes including virtual rallies for next 2 days.The PM, along with Union Home Minister Amit Shah and chief ministers, observed a two-minute silence as a tribute to the soldiers who got killed in the recent military stand-off with China.“India wants peace but it is capable to give a befitting reply if instigated, the prime minister added. Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in a face-off with Chinese troops along the undefined Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh on Monday. According to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), PM Modi will also hold an all-party meeting on Friday to discuss the situation on the country’s border with China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/galwan-valley-face-off-bjp-defers-all-political-events-rallies-in-tribute-to-army-bravehearts/story-NWR5FasAbkVbF3G1IdL8NJ.html
18-06-2020||India||Tamil Nadu crosses 50,000-mark, Delhi records over 47,000 cases: Covid-19 state tally||After Maharashtra, which has reported over one lakh coronavirus cases till date, Tamil Nadu is the second worst-hit state in the country with its Covid-19 tally crossing the 50,000-mark on Thursday. Delhi stands at the third spot with over 47,102 cases followed by Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. India’s Covid-19 tally on Thursday jumped to 366,946 with the death toll mounting to 12,237.Here’s a look at the statewise numbersWorst-hit statesMaharashtraCovid-19 tally here jumped to 116,752 on Thursday. As many as 5,651 people have died of coronavirus in Maharashtra while 59,166 have recovered. Tamil NaduCovid-19 cases have jumped to 50,193 in the southern state. Five hundred and seventy-six people have died of Covid-19 in the state, over 27,624 people have recovered. DelhiIn the national capital, the Covid-19 tally rose to 47,102 on Thursday, 17,457 patients have recovered here while 1,904 have died due to Covid-19. Gujarat PM Modi’s home state saw the Covid-19 rise to 25,093 on Thursday. The state has seen 17,430 people recover from coronavirus while 1,560 people have died.Uttar PradeshThe state has reported 14,598 cases of coronavirus so far. As many as 8,904 people have recovered in the state while the death toll stands at 435Rising numbersMadhya Pradesh saw its Covid-19 tally jump to 11,244 on Thursday while in Rajasthan Covid-19 cases have increased to 13,542. In West Bengal, Covid-19 cases have zoomed to 12,300. Covid-19 cases in Bihar stand at 6,942 while Andhra Pradesh has reported 7,071 Covid-19 cases till date. Karnataka has reported 7,734 coronavirus cases till date. Telangana has 5,675 coronavirus cases while in Jammu and Kashmir the tally has crossed the 5,400-mark. Haryana has seen more than 8,832 Covid-19 cases. In Odisha, cases stand at 4,338 while Assam has reported 4,605 cases till date. Punjab’s Covid-19 tally has crossed the 3,400-mark. States with less than 3,000 casesStates and Union territories where coronavirus cases are less than 3,000, but more than 500, include Uttarakhand, Ladakh, Kerala, Jharkhand, Tripura, Manipur, Goa and Himachal Pradesh. Chandigarh, Nagaland, Puducherry, Mizoram have reported under 500 Covid-19 cases or less. Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Dadra Nagar Haveli have less than 100 Covid-19 cases. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-crosses-50-000-mark-delhi-records-over-47-000-cases-covid-19-state-tally/story-9wkEWIRCXfdQdc4qMghr8N.html
18-06-2020||India||Galwan Valley face-off: Indian, Chinese military officials meet to defuse tension||Indian and Chinese military officials met on Thursday morning to resolve the issues related to the violent face-off in Galwan Valley area in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed.The Major General-level officers met at Patrol Point 14, which witnessed the seven-hour-long clash on Monday night. A meeting was held on Wednesday too.This is part of the efforts by both the countries to defuse the tense situation at the border.Thursday’s meeting is seventh one between the military officials since the stand-off at the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) last month and second since the Galwan Valley clash.The clash began at around 7 pm on June 15 when an Indian Army squad of about 50 soldiers, led by Colonel Santosh Babu, reached a contested site near what is known as Patrol Point 14.The soldiers were unarmed, as part of a protocol between the two sides.Also read | Behind Galwan’s bloody face-off, China’s plan to interdict gateway to KarakoramThe Chinese soldiers were supposed to have withdrawn from the location under a de-escalation plan discussed by senior commanders from both sides on June 6. “But the Indian squad found the Chinese troops, in violation of that understanding, did not pull back and their tents and an observation post was still around,” said a person aware of the developments.It was when Colonel Babu and his team confronted the Chinese soldiers about their continued presence at the site that the clash broke out, this official said, adding that the situation swiftly escalated as the Chinese soldiers refused to vacate their positions and the Indian soldiers removed the tents and the observation post that were on the Indian side of the LAC.In a matter of minutes, the soldiers were locked in hand-to-hand fighting that triggered a seven-hour violent face-off involving reinforcements from both sides. The clashes spread out from the Patrol point 14 area to a nearby narrow ridge overlooking the river. It was here that both sides suffered casualties, second of the three officials Hindustan Times spoke to, said.Indian and Chinese officials have been meeting regularly as part of a phased de-escalation strategy to ease tensions that have persisted since May 5. The plan was discussed between Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in the South Xinjiang region in a meeting on June 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/galwan-valley-face-off-indian-chinese-military-officials-meet-to-defuse-tension/story-WPBzxRcYshSE51gGPPzTeM.html
18-06-2020||India||‘LAC holds no sanctity for Chinese army’, says General Ved Prakash Malik||The savage killing of 20 Indian soldiers by the Chinese military in the deadliest border clash in last four and a half decades has dramatically spiked tensions between the two nuclear-equipped neighbours.As New Delhi weighs its response, a defining marker of the Ladakh face-off, according to General Ved Prakash Malik, former chief of the Indian army, is that the military-level engagement on the long-contested Line of Actual Control, premised on a series of bilateral agreements and protocols, has ceased to be a dispute resolution mechanism. In an interview on Wednesday with Executive Editor Ramesh Vinayak, Gen Malik, who led India’s decisive victory against Pakistani intrusion in the 1999 Kargil war, analysed India’s options, the geo-strategic portents in the escalation on the eastern frontiers and the road ahead in fraught Sino-India ties. Excerpts:Q. What is your reading of the deadly clash between Indian and Chinese soldiers in Ladakh? What makes it an extraordinary escalation?Two facts stand out from the present face-off: (a) the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) encroachment across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Galwan Valley and in the disputed area of Fingers, North of Pangong Tso has been a well-planned military activity (b) military-level dialogue and understanding on the LAC has no sanctity for the People Liberation Army of China. This military action has eroded whatever ‘confidence’ that was created with China at the military level, and trust at diplomatic and political levels.Q. From the defence standpoint, what are the most crucial consequences of the “violent face-off” in the Galwan Valley?Despite several agreements and protocols, special representative- level talks and political summits to maintain peace and tranquillity along the LAC, the number of PLA attempts to encroach upon undisputed/disputed territories have increased. The level of violence from scuffles to stone pelting and use of nails-embedded wooden clubs to kill opponent soldiers have increased. I foresee larger deployment of troops on both sides along the LAC to ensure security of our territory and assets. This will also require urgent improvement of military infrastructure to sustain troops deployed.Q. What do you see as the tactical and strategic objectives of China’s multiple and in-depth transgressions and holding the ground in what India has so far seen as its side of Line of Actual Control?China under President Xi Jinping is committed to retake all territories which it perceives to have belonged to China in the past. Its attempts to execute salami slicing or creeping encroachments avoiding major escalation (‘lull the political adversary to comfort level before striking at military level’) will continue. We can expect more such military level activities, particularly in Ladakh, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh.Reports suggest that intelligence agencies had red flagged the PLA troops’ unusual build-up at multiple points along LAC by April before their ingress and occupation of roughly sixty square km of what was so far an Indian-patrolled areas in Galwan Valley and Pangong Tso. Did our side lower the guard? Or, were we taken by surprise?I have no knowledge of such an intelligence report from any source.Q. Do you think our military response on the ground was adequate and effective enough to countervail the Chinese intrusion?As per past practices in Demchok, Depsang, Chumar areas in Ladakh and in Dokalam, the effort at military and diplomatic levels was to defuse and disengage. This has been the government’s policy and the usual response to maintain peace and tranquillity and avoid violent escalation. The army has gone as per those policy guidelines. These guidelines may change hereafter.Q. Now that China has aggressively attempted to redefine the LAC at strategic stretches and staked claim on the Galwan Valley that was so far seen to be on the Indian side, what options India has for restoration of status quo ante (before April) and counter China’s playbook of redrawing the LAC on ground while keeping its aggression below the threshold of actual conflict?While the armed forces have to be prepared for any military escalation, it is for the cabinet committee of security to consider wider geo-political and strategic aspects and then give further directions. I think the government will now explore diplomatic and political level possibilities to get the encroachments vacated before going in for escalation.Q. Is a localised military response still one of options?I believe any military-level dialogue at this stage is unlikely to produce desired results. It has to be tackled at diplomatic and political level now. However, with prevailing tension and anger among troops who are in eye ball to eye ball situation, a violent escalation cannot be ruled out. The armed forces have to remain extra alert for any military action.Q. In view of Indian army sustaining unprecedented fatalities on the Chinese front, what in your assessment are the chances of things flaring up militarily along LAC?I do not expect the situation will develop into a full-fledged war or even major skirmishes along the length of our border. It is likely to remain localised. That, however, does not mean that we should become complacent militarily or politically. Q. Given that Monday’s clashes happened during “disengagement” agreed upon by senior military commanders of both sides, do the bilateral dispute resolution protocols/agreements still hold good for defusing the local stand-offs? Have these mechanisms failed? Is it time to relook at them?Yes! My answer to Q 1 makes it clear. More importantly, we must not allow our troops to get into ‘unarmed’ or ‘scuffle’ situations. A new SOP will be required for patrolling on the ground and for any flag meetings.Q. Amid a heightened antagonism and mistrust between India and China, what will be the most important geo-strategic consequences of a tense LAC for India vis-à-vis Pakistan? Pakistan may attempt to intensify (a) its sponsored terrorist activities in J&K, and (b) ceasefire violations along the LoC and AGPL. India has the capability to handle any such escalationsWhy it is crucial to resolve or freeze the border dispute with China? The border dispute must be resolved peacefully or frozen till both nations can find a peaceful solution. That way both nations will be able to contribute towards peace, tranquillity and prosperity of Asia and also improve the quality of life of their people.Q. Is a two-front scenario now more real than ever before?Unless the border dispute is resolved peacefully, such a possibility in the North West part of India cannot be ruled out in the middle distant horizon.Q. Do you see any parallel between Pakistan’s intrusion of Kargil in 1999 and China’s intrusion in Ladakh?No. Pakistani military and political objectives in Kargil were much larger. It became a limited war situation. Present Chinese intrusion in Ladakh, unless it escalates further, cannot be compared to Kargil conflict. Given the complexity and high-level bilateral and multilateral interaction (including security) between India and China, the stakes in any India-China conflict, whether large scale or limited, will be much higher.Q. What does the Ladakh 2020 tell us about the strategic lessons that India learnt or hasn’t learnt fully from the Kargil 1999?As I said, there are no comparisons. The Chinese political and military strategies are of different style. We have to study them carefully. At the military tactical and operational level, the only thing common is high-altitude mountain warfare. In that respect, our troops are better skilled and have greater adaptation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lac-holds-no-sanctity-for-chinese-army/story-tcTmHOhLHqUwMab7QnbQbJ.html
18-06-2020||India||Woman migrant worker found dead near Covid-19 quarantine centre in Odisha||Odisha migrants’ tragic tryst with quarantine centres continued with a woman migrant worker from Nuapada district found dead near a quarantine centre on Wednesday.The police said Subarna Majhi (30), who had arrived in Odisha from Telangana on June 4, was found dead near the quarantine centre in Khariar block of the district. Majhi (30), wife of Kanhu Majhi of Dabri village, had checked into the quarantine centre at Malapada village along with family members for institutional quarantine on June 4. The police sent the body for post-mortem and started an investigation into the incident. Sarpanch Radhe Rana said the district administration has been informed about the woman’s death near.Also read: Covid-19 - 12,881 new cases, 334 deaths in last 24 hours; India’s tally crosses 3.6 lakhThis is the 19th such death across various quarantine centres in Odisha since May when migrant workers started arriving in the state amid Covid-19 pandemic. In comparison, there have been just 11 deaths in Odisha due to Covid-19 so far. In May, Odisha set up 16,813 quarantine centres in 6,798 gram-panchayats with provision of over 7.6 lakh beds to house incoming migrant workers. The state has made it mandatory for migrant workers in rural areas to stay in quarantine centres for 14 days. In some districts, the local authorities have extended the quarantine period from 14 days to 21 days as Covid-19 symptoms may take longer than 14 days to manifest in some cases.While Ganjam district, the epicentre of Covid-19, has reported 11 deaths since May, Nuapada and Bhadrak districts have reported two deaths each. Of the 19 deaths, three were cases of suicide.On May 15, a 40-year-old man of Mayurbhanj district who had returned from Vijaywada in Andhra Pradesh killed himself outside a quarantine centre after a tiff with his wife who stayed at the same centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-migrant-worker-found-dead-near-covid-19-quarantine-centre-in-odisha/story-Dr8KqAv5Wg0IOA9yx4nI3K.html
18-06-2020||India||India rubbishes China’s claim of sovereignty over Galwan Valley||India on Thursday rubbished the Chinese military’s claim of sovereignty over the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh, at the heart of a border stand-off, saying such “untenable claims” go against an understanding between the senior military commanders reached on June 6 to de-escalate and disengage along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).Galwan Valley was the scene of what Indian officials have described as a “violent face-off” on Monday night that resulted in the death of 20 Indian soldiers, including a colonel. Dozens more were injured and there are reports of some Indian soldiers still being unaccounted for.After the clash, a statement in Mandarin issued by the western command of China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on Tuesday had said: “The sovereignty of the Galwan River Valley has always been ours.”Also read: 35 fatalities on China side in Ladakh clash, suggests US reportIn a statement issued at about 1 am on Thursday, external affairs minister spokesperson Anurag Srivastava rejected the Chinese side’s claim that the sovereignty of Galwan Valley “belongs to China”.Srivastava pointed to the agreement reached at a meeting of senior military commanders on June 6 for de-escalation and disengagement along the LAC and said: “Making exaggerated and untenable claims is contrary to this understanding.”According to the Indian readout of a telephonic conversation between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on Wednesday, the Indian side has insisted on the implementation of the agreement between the military commanders.“At the conclusion of the discussion, it was agreed that the overall situation would be handled in a responsible manner, and both sides would implement the disengagement understanding of June 6 sincerely,” the readout had said.Jaishankar also told Wang that “premeditated and planned action” by Chinese troops while the agreement of June 6 was being implemented on the ground was “directly responsible” for the violence and casualties on Monday night. Jaishankar also blamed Chinese troops for intruding into the Indian side of the LAC.“Ground commanders were meeting regularly to implement this consensus throughout the last week. While there was some progress, the Chinese side sought to erect a structure in Galwan Valley on our side of the LAC…It reflected an intent to change the facts on the ground in violation of all our agreements to not change the status quo,” Jaishankar was quoted as saying in the readout.Srivastava referred to the telephonic conversation between Jaishankar and Wang and said: “Both sides have agreed that the overall situation should be handled in a responsible manner and that the understandings reached between Senior Commanders on June 6 should be implemented sincerely.”Former Indian Army officials, have in recent interactions with the media, insisted that Galwan Valley had not been the scene of tensions between Indian and Chinese troops in recent decades, and even when tensions had flared in other sections along the LAC in Ladakh region.The army officials and experts have said Chinese troops were trying to alter the status quo by entering into the Indian side of the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rubbishes-china-s-claim-of-sovereignty-over-galwan-valley/story-tU8BwAKJxB6itlM49iZfPL.html
18-06-2020||India||After India’s election to UNSC, PM Modi thanks global community for ‘overwhelming support’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday thanked the global community for supporting India’s mmbership to the United National Security Council.“Deeply grateful for the overwhelming support shown by the global community for India’s membership of the @UN Security Council. India will work with all member countries to promote global peace, security, resilience and equity,” he said on Twitter. Deeply grateful for the overwhelming support shown by the global community for India's membership of the @UN Security Council. India will work with all member countries to promote global peace, security, resilience and equity.India was on Wednesday elected to the UN Security Council as non-permanent member with 184 of the 192 votes for a two-year term starting January 1, 2021.“India will become a member of the United Nations Security Council at a critical juncture and we are confident than in the Covid- and the post-Covid world India will continue to provide leadership and a new orientation for a reformed multilateral system,” he added.India will begin its eighth two-year term on January 1, hoping to use it to further bolster its claim to a promotion to the permanent seat in a reformed UN Security Council.India was the endorsed candidate of the Asia-Pacific Group of UN member countries and faced no competition. It reiterated that forging “a new orientation for reformed multilateral system” will be its “overarching” mission for the eighth term.In a statement issued hours after the election results, the ministry of external affairs described the commitment to a reformed multilateral system, which reflects India’s long-running ambition and demand for a permanent seat on the council, which has been described by India and countries with shared objectives, as a body completely out of sync with changes global realities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deeply-grateful-for-overwhelming-support-says-pm-modi-as-india-is-elected-unopposed-to-unsc-s-non-permanent-member-seat-for-8th-term/story-FQaQkRKr6CbpBG98lZ8zhN.html
18-06-2020||India||Covid-19: 12,881 new cases, 334 deaths in last 24 hours; India’s tally crosses 3.6 lakh||The number of coronavirus disease cases reached India recorded 3,66,946 on Thursday after the country recorded 12,881 fresh cases in the last 24 hours.THe Union health ministry update at 8 am showed 334 deaths in the said period and the overall fatalities to be 12,237. There are 1,60,384 active cases and 1,94,324 cured or discharged.The death toll surged after Delhi and Maharashtra took into account hundreds of fatalities that were pending review, officials have said. The country had recorded its first fatality in March when the Covid-19 infection tally was a little over 70.The first 5,000 fatalities took 80 days, the latest 5,000 deaths came in just 17 days, with more than 2,500 being reported in the last week.India’s case fatality rate (CFR) or the proportion of death to the total number of cases has gone up to 3.4% from 2.9% with the jump in the death toll.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday held the second round of meeting eith the chief ministers on the Covid-19 situation where he made it clear there will be not be any further lockdown in the country.According to the chief ministers who attended the meeting, PM Modi said that they need to think about ‘Unlock 2.0’ and also ways to minimise infection.The prime minister noted that the spread of Covid-19 is more in a few big states and cities and urged the chief ministers to make full use of their state’s existing testing capacity and also work to augment health infrastructure.An officer on special duty in the Union Health Ministry told the participants that there has been a continuous decline in growth rate of cases during the phases of lockdown and subsequently also in Unlock 1.0.The OSD also informed that the number of cases and deaths per lakh of population in India are amongst the lowest in the world.Home Minister Amit Shah, who also took part in the virtual meeting, said the country has so far been quite successful in the fight against the virus. He, however, cautioned that the “battle is far from over”.Chief ministers of Maharashtra, Delhi, Karnataka, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar were among those who attended the meeting on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-12-881-new-cases-334-deaths-in-last-24-hours-india-s-tally-crosses-3-6-lakh/story-CtxZDk0F3JTAa4mIQCPQzI.html
18-06-2020||India||Veteran Bengal CPI (M) leader and former Siliguri mayor tests positive for Covid-19||Senior Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Asok Bhattacharya (62), a legislator from Siliguri constituency in north Bengal and chairman of the board of administrators at Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC), tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Wednesday.He is admitted to a private nursing home. He has fever, pneumonia, among other ailments.Bhattacharya had been unwell for quite some time but tested negative for Covid-19 on June 13. He is also a diabetic and has a heart problem.Bhattacharya was the minister of urban development in the erstwhile Left Front government and till recently served as the mayor of Siliguri. He served as a minister four times.S Poonambalam, district magistrate of Darjeeling said, “Bhattacharya is stable. He had heart surgery last year.”The Siliguri civic corporation sounded an alert immediately after Bhattacharya tested positive. “The SMC head office will remain closed for three days from Thursday,” said a notice. Many Siliguri-based journalists who met Bhattacharya over the last one week will also be tested for Covid-19, said a health official. Earlier, TMC leader and state fire services minister Sujit Bose also tested positive for Covid-19 and spent two weeks at a hospital in Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/veteran-bengal-cpi-m-leader-and-former-siliguri-mayor-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-v5qRXfjZo8o4KJfxC6wz0K.html
18-06-2020||India||Satellite images show build-up at Galwan Valley where clashes killed 20 Indian soldiers||The Galwan Valley, where 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a face-off with Chinese soldiers, has seen a build-up of troops in the past few days.The clashes happened near Patrol Point 14 at around 7 pm on Monday (June 15).Satellite images taken from the spot nearly 24 hours after the clash show presence of the soldiers from both the countries.The Chinese soldiers were supposed to have withdrawn from the location under a de-escalation plan discussed by senior commanders from both sides on June 6. “But the Indian squad found the Chinese troops, in violation of that understanding, did not pull back and their tents and an observation post was still around,” a person familiar with the developments said on Wednesday. According to the plan discussed, the Chinese side was supposed to have fallen back around 5 kilometre to the east of the location, said the third official. They retreated a bit last week but came back to retake the positions they had temporarily vacated, this person said.The Chinese deployment had numerical superiority over the Indian side - more than 250 of them were present in the area. An Indian Army squad of about 50 soldiers, led by Colonel Santosh Babu, that reached a contested site near Patrol Point 14, confronted the Chinese soldiers about their continued presence at the site. It was then that the clashes broke out.Chris Biggers, a former US government satellite imagery analyst, said forces amassed at Galwan dwarf what was seen at Doklam.“I’ve never seen anything, outside of a military exercise, of this kind of mobilization of force, particularly between India and China,” Biggers told news agency Associated Press.The seven-hour-long violent face-off involved reinforcements from both sides. The clashes spread out from the Patrol point 14 area to a nearby narrow ridge overlooking the river. It was here that both sides suffered casualties, another official Hindustan Times spoke to, said.The face-off involved more than 500 soldiers from both sides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/satellite-images-show-build-up-at-galwan-valley-where-clashes-killed-20-indian-soldiers/story-sAE3VIpMIEC6xMxO863LjM.html
18-06-2020||India||Sisodia takes charge of Delhi health ministry after Satyendar Jain tests positive for Covid-19||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia has temporarily taken charge of the health ministry and other departments which were under Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain as the latter tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday.Jain’s first covid-19 test, conducted on Tuesday, had shown a negative result, senior government officials said. Officials in the hospital said that he is still on oxygen support.Besides Jain, AAP MLA Atishi and two other leaders of the party -- Akshay Marathe, an advisor to CM Arvind Kejriwal and Anindita Mathur, an advisor to deputy CM Manish Sisodia -- also tested positive for the viral disease on Wednesday. Party functionaries said swab samples of all three of them were collected on Tuesday after they developed mild symptoms.All three have been recommended home isolation by doctors and contact tracing have been initiated, said a health department official, adding that their offices have been sanitised too. Delhi government officials said that the health department is yet to initiate tracing contacts of Jain.On Sunday morning, Jain had attended the meeting chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah along with Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia. “Social distancing was strictly adhered to in the meeting but whether others present in the meeting should get tested would depend on what the health officials recommend after the contact tracing exercise,” said a senior government official.On Tuesday, soon after being admitted to the hospital, Jain had said that he developed the symptoms the previous night. Till Monday, Jain also chaired several meetings and frequented healthcare centres to take stock of covid healthcare management, a senior functionary said.This comes a week after Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tested negative for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manish-sisodia-takes-charge-of-delhi-health-ministry-other-depts-after-satyendar-jain-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-HLdlvmFz7iX5kByoqBpJLN.html
18-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: After winning UNSC seat, India reiterates commitment to ‘reformed multilateralism’ and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India reaffirms commitment to ‘reformed multilateralism’ after winning UNSC seatIndia reiterated Wednesday that forging “a new orientation for reformed multilateral system” will be its “overarching” mission for its eighth term as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council to which it was elected easily with 184 of the 192 votes polled. It begins the new two-year term on January 1. Read moreChina opens another front, steps up cyberattacks that target India: IntelChina has opened another front against India with sustained DDOS (distributed denial of service) attacks on Indian information websites and the country’s financial payments system. Read moreHappy Father’s Day 2020: From King Lear to Atticus Finch, the 7 most celebrated fathers in literatureFathers have a profound impact on our lives, there can be no doubt about that. Whether it is through the example that they set or their protective, nurturing behaviour. Read moreIndia-China clash: What is the way forward? Lt Gen HS Panag (retd) answersWith the violent clash in Ladakh claiming the lives of at least 20 Indian soldiers, and an unspecified number of Chinese personnel, Lt Gen HS Panag (retd) comments on what India’s next steps can be. Read moreHow India must tame ‘arrogant’ China, Ex-diplomat G Parthasarathy explainsIndia lost 20 of its brave soldiers in a violent faceoff with the Chinese Army in Ladakh on Monday night. There is outrage in the country with PM Modi warning China not to provoke a peace loving India. Read moreDo what you want: How Virat Kohli was convinced with Ashwin’s plan to dismiss Warner while playing PlayStationThat India off-spinner Ravichandran is a street-smart cricketer is a secret to none. His tactical abilities are as strong as his off-spinners or carom balls. Read moreTwitter launches audio tweets feature for iOS usersTwitter will soon allow users to post audio snippets with their tweets. The feature will be initially available on iOS. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-after-winning-unsc-seat-india-reiterates-commitment-to-reformed-multilateralism-and-all-the-latest-news/story-12vPK6EOusIbZzA0J8L28H.html
18-06-2020||India||India reaffirms commitment to ‘reformed multilateralism’ after winning UNSC seat||India reiterated Wednesday that forging “a new orientation for reformed multilateral system” will be its “overarching” mission for its eighth term as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council to which it was elected easily with 184 of the 192 votes polled. It begins the new two-year term on January 1.India has sought reforms in multilateral systems ranging from the UN Security Council to the International Monetary Fund and the World Health Organization and others arguing for more inclusive leadership to make them represent better changed global realities from the time of their founding.“We have received overwhelming support and we deeply humbled by the tremendous confidence that the member states of the United Nations have reposed in India,” T S Tirumurti, the Indian permanent representative to the UN, said in a video-recorded message shortly after the election results were clear.“India will become a member of the United Nations Security Council at a critical juncture and we are confident that in the Covid- and the post-Covid world India will continue to provide leadership and a new orientation for a reformed multilateral system,” he added.In a separate statement issued in New Delhi hours after, the ministry of external affairs described the commitment to a reformed multilateral system, which reflects India’s long-running ambition and demand for a permanent seat on the council, which has been described by India and countries with shared objectives, as a body completely out of sync with changes global realities“India will be guided by the five priorities under the overarching theme of NORMS: New Orientation for a Reformed Multilateral System.,” the ministry said in the statement, adding they would include “new opportunities for progress, effective response to international terrorism, reforming multilateral systems, comprehensive approach to international peace and security, and technology with a human touch”.It described Covid-19-related circumstances in which the election took place as the most “pressing crises this generation has faced”, and said it “made us rethink how we can use multilateralism and international cooperation to make this a better world a better place”.“The current crisis offers India a window of opportunity to make critical contribution to the Security Council’s work, guided by Prime Minister Modi’s vision for reformed multilateralism,” it added.India was the endorsed candidate of the Asia-Pacific Group of UN member countries and faced no competition. The others who went through were Mexico, which was also a endorsed candidate from its Latin American and Caribbean Group and Ireland and Norway from the Western European and Other Group. Neither Kenya nor Djibouti garnered enough votes to win the African Group seat, which is expected to be settled by another round of voting Thursday.Asked which were the eight countries that did not vote for India, a diplomat closely associated with India’s campaign for the seat said dismissively, “It doesn’t matter”.The voting took place in a phased manner for the first time in the world body’s 75-year history. Member countries were allowed on to the floor of the general assembly, where the voting takes place, in smaller groups or 20 or so because of the social distancing norms in place because of Covid-19. New York city, where the UN is headquartered, was, and remains, the epicenter of the US coronavirus epidemic and has only recently started lifting restrictions on businesses and public life.UN diplomats were not certain how many of the member countries who can vote — some like Venezuela are barred for non-payment of membership dues — will actually show up to cast their ballots, which must be done physically and not virtually or remotely through an electronic button. They needn’t have worried — 192 countries showed up..Candidate countries such as India had needed two-thirds of the votes cast to win; no-shows will not count as yes, no or abstention, said officials familiar with the rules. India won 187 votes in 2010, and started its seventh term on January 1, 2011. Its previous terms were 1950-1951, 1967-1968, 1972-1973, 1977-1978, 1984-1985 and 1991-1992.The Security Council has 15 members. Five of them are permanent members — the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Russia and China — and 10 are non-permanent. Half the non-permanent members are elected every year, each for a two-year term, starting January 1.India expects to use its eighth term to further build its case for a permanent seat in a reformed Security Council, something that it has been pushing for years now along with other claimants such as Japan, Germany and Brazil — the G-4 — calling the current council outdated and out of sync with the changed global realities.“Reformed Multilateralism to reflect contemporary realities” will be one of India’s priorities, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said June 5, as he released a brief document laying out India’s priorities and approaches as it sought another term on the Security Council. Responsible and inclusive solutions and “concrete and result-oriented action at the Security Council for an effective response to international terrorism”, a “comprehensive approach” to peace and security, the key responsibilities of the body and technology with a human touch, were the other four.India will pursue these priorities through a Five-S approach, according to the “priorities paper”: Samman (respect), Samvad (dialogue), Sahyog (cooperation) and Shanti (peace); to create Samriddhi (Prosperity).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reaffirms-commitment-to-reformed-multilateralism-after-winning-unsc-seat/story-lCRTMxCbVJclosdbPZY95M.html
18-06-2020||India||Another elephant found dead in Odisha forest, bullet marks on its body||A bullet-ridden carcass of a three-year-old male elephant was found in the forests of Odisha on Wednesday. Forest officials say the elephant was killed by poachers.The death of the elephant came to light after some women from Dakapadar village near Mundeswara forest under Madhapur forest range of Boudh district saw the carcass lying in the forest while they were out to collect mushrooms.However, its tusks were intact. Forest officials who seized the carcass said that its death may have happened 2-3 days ago.This is the third case of poaching in a span of days in which four elephants have died. Earlier, three elephants - a male, a female and a calf - died in Odisha after coming in contact with livewire set up by poachers to trap wild boars. On June 14, forest officials in Keonjhar district found carcasses of a male and female elephant - with the tusks of the male elephant removed - in a reserve forest area the district. The tusks of the about 22-year-old male elephant were missing. A probe by the officials revealed that poachers had left livewire connected to 11 kv transmission lines for wild boars that left the two elephants dead.Following an investigation by forest officials, Keonjhar forest department suspended two a forester and a forest guard over their alleged negligence. On June 12, an elephant calf too died under similar circumstances in Sundargarh district as it came in contact with livewire set up for wild boars.Wildlife conservationists alleged that since April 2019, more than 50 per cent of the elephant deaths in Odisha have been due to unnatural causes. “The number of deaths of adult breeding elephants has gone up. The state is rapidly losing adult males, about 20 every year. This has threatened the sustainability and health of our elephant population,” said Biswajit Mohanty, noted wildlife conservationist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-elephant-found-dead-in-odisha-forest-bullet-marks-on-its-body/story-sOvlvsieANt7FSPYSESIOP.html
18-06-2020||India||30 local Covid-19 cases in a day trigger concerns in Odisha, experts claim community transmission has begun||For the second time in last 16 days, Odisha reported 30 local Covid-19 cases (people outside quarantine centre), the highest so far, giving rise to fears of community transmission. In May, there were very few local cases.Of the 175 infections detected in the state on Wednesday, 30 were local cases taking the total number to 242. This is 11 per cent of the 2,234 cases between June 1 and June 16. On June 2, the state had reported 31 local cases.While 150-180 cases on an average are being detected everyday in the state, the rising nuymber of local cases has led epidemiologists to believe that community transmission may have started.“There is little doubt that community transmission has started in Odisha. the government is not ready to admit it as it would create panic. We are reaching a stage when contact tracing has little relevance. We should now test more and focus on social distancing and use of masks,” said an epidemiologist of a government hospital, refusing to be quoted.The epidemiologist said that the number of Covid-19 cases would go up only if the state tested more from the current numbers of less than 3,000 samples a day. “We had set a target of 15,000 samples this month. But the machines in some of our labs are still waiting to be repaired. So there is little way of knowing about community transmission,” he added.However, the state health officials had last week denied community transmission.Meanwhile, the state government today announced setting up of Covid-19 care home facilities in every panchayat where 10 to 20 people with symptoms like cold, cough and fever can be accommodated. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik said that those with these symptoms will be taken to these care homes first and shifted to dedicated Covid-19 hospitals if found positive.The sarpanches will be in charge of the management of these care homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/30-local-covid-19-cases-in-a-day-trigger-concerns-in-odisha-experts-claim-community-transmission-has-begun/story-IULzIh98jzxKFPBHhIR03K.html
18-06-2020||India||Army augments forces at LAC, navy alert in Indian Ocean after Ladakh face-off: Officials||India has warned China that the face-off in which 20 of its soldiers were killed, will have serious impact on the bilateral ties.Foreign minister S Jaishankar told his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in a phone conversation on Wednesday that the Chinese side’s “pre-meditated and planned action” was behind the violence and casualties. This was the first time Jaishankar spoke to Wang since the stand-off began in early May.The Indian Army has strengthened its posture across the length of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) where reinforcements have been sent, the Indian Air Force is keeping its contingency plans ready and the navy is also on alert in the Indian Ocean region where scores of warships are ready for any task, three military officers said on Wednesday on the condition of anonymity.India will, however, not resort to any knee-jerk reaction. It will take well considered action at an appropriate time, necessary to protect integrity and sovereignty of the country and its national interest, the officials added.“Hopefully, good sense will prevail (upon China). We have several options and we will not hesitate to exercise them depending on the situation,” one of the government officials said.The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), meanwhile, is holding crucial meetings on the infrastructure development along the China border. A road being built by India in the Galwan Valley is the reason for latest confrontation between the two countries. The crucial road will help India easily transport supplies to its soldiers in the remote Ladakh region.The MHA held a meeting with Indo-Tibet Border Police (ITBP) and other agencies like Border Road Organisations, Central Public Works Department on Wednesday, news agency ANI reported. At the meeting, the MHA took initiatives to speed up the process of road construction, ANI further reported.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said on Wednesday that India wanted peace but wouldn’t hesitate to respond to any provocation. Addressing a virtual meeting with chief ministers on the Covid-19 crisis, PM Modi said, “India’s integrity and sovereignty is supreme for us, and no one can stop us from defending it. Nobody should have any iota of doubt about this. India wants peace. But on provocation, India will give a befitting reply.”The meeting observed two minutes silence to pay tribute to the 20 soldiers killed in the face-off on Monday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-augments-forces-at-lac-navy-alert-in-indian-ocean-after-ladakh-face-off-officials/story-s0Q2GXjfCTQLaGGnttFekJ.html
18-06-2020||India||Indian forces on highest alert after Ladakh face-off, Jaishankar speaks to Chinese counterpart: Latest developments||India and China held talks over the border stand-off in the Ladakh region in which 20 soldiers were killed. Both the countries spoke of the need to avoid actions that could escalate matters along their disputed border.External affairs minister S Jaishankar told his counterpart in China Wang Yi in a phone conversation the Chinese side’s “pre-meditated and planned action” was behind the violence and casualties.Here are the latest developments in the border face-off:• The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) is holding crucial meetings to discuss infrastructure development near India-China border. On Wednesday, a meeting was held with Indo-Tibet Border Police (ITBP) and other agencies like Border Road Organisations and Central Public Works Department involved in infrastructure development in Ladakh and areas close to the Indo-China border, news agency ANI reported.• China’s state broadcaster CCTV, meanwhile, showed footage of People’s Liberation Army (PLA) tanks and soldiers holding live fire drills in Tibet.• India on Wednesday responded sharply to the Chinese foreign ministry claiming Galwan Valley, asserting that this was an “exaggerated and untenable” claim. New Delhi also reminded Beijing about the phone conversation between the foreign ministers of the two countries who had agreed that the overall situation “should be handled in a responsible manner” and the understanding reached between military commanders of the two countries on 6 June “should be implemented sincerely”.• In the phone call, both sides agreed to handle the situation in a “responsible manner” and sincerely implement the disengagement understanding of June 6 between army commanders.China’s foreign ministry said the two sides had agreed to “cool down the situation on the ground as soon as possible”, observe the consensus reached at the commander-level meeting, maintain peace and tranquillity in line with existing agreements, and to “fairly address the serious situation caused by the conflict in the Galwan Valley”.• Addressing a virtual meeting with chief ministers on the Covid-19 crisis on Wednesday, Prime Minister Modi said India wanted peace but wouldn’t hesitate to respond to any provocation.• On Wednesday, Indian and Chinese delegations led by major generals met in eastern Ladakh to defuse tensions, two officials said on condition of anonymity. This was their sixth meeting after the stand-off began. Officials said the talks failed to achieve any breakthrough. While Indian and Chinese troops disengaged from the face-off site, both sides continue to maintain military presence in the disputed area.• Indian Army officials claimed 43 Chinese were killed or seriously injured, citing radio intercepts and other intelligence.• Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday carried out a security review of the situation in a meeting with the chief of defence staff, Gen Bipin Rawat, and the three service chiefs. He also met PM Modi in the evening and briefed him on the situation.• The Indian armed forces are on the highest state of alert to deal with any threat to national security following the significant escalation of the situation, officials said.• The army has strengthened its posture across the length of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) where reinforcements have been sent, the Indian Air Force is keeping its contingency plans ready and the navy is also on alert in the Indian Ocean region where scores of warships are ready for any task, three military officers said on Wednesday on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-forces-on-highest-alert-after-ladakh-face-off-jaishankar-speaks-to-chinese-counterpart-latest-developments/story-QWeXHeVibsfBl5g4PLAfHI.html
18-06-2020||India||Encounter breaks out between security forces and terrorists in J-K’s Pulwama||An encounter broke out between security forces and militants in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday, police said.A cordon-and-search operation was launched in the morning by the forces at Meej in the Pampori area of south Kashmir’s Pulwama after receiving specific information about the presence of terrorists, a police official said.He said the operation turned into an encounter after the militants fired upon a search party of the forces.A gunfight is underway and further details are awaited, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-breaks-out-between-security-forces-and-terrorists-in-j-k-s-pulwama/story-9MsxgV5Y4J8utGMEdrijKK.html
18-06-2020||India||Manipur govt on edge as 3 MLAs resign, ally walks off||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led coalition government in Manipur was dealt a blow on Wednesday after three of its legislators resigned and a key alliance partner withdrew its support.The development came two days ahead of the June 19 Rajya Sabha election for the lone seat from the state. Three BJP legislators -- Samuel Jendai, TT Haokip and S Subhaschandra – resigned and joined the Congress.Six other MLAs-- all four from the National People’s Party (NPP), one from the Trinamool Congress and one independent -- withdrew support to the government led by BJP’s N Biren Singh.The four NPP MLAs are deputy chief minister Y JoyKumar Singh, tribal and hills area development minister N Kayishii, youth affairs and sports minister Letpao Haokip and health and family welfare minister L Jayanta Kumar Singh.The resignation of the three BJP leaders is yet to be accepted by speaker Yumnam Khemchand Singh. They may also be disqualified under the anti-defection law, which bars any group with less than one-third of the party’s strength from breaking away.Before the crisis, the BJP -led government had 39 MLAs in the 60-member House. The Opposition had 21. To win the Rajya Sabha seat, a candidate requires 26 votes. The central BJP in Delhi ruled out any threat to its government in Manipur. “At the time of 2017 assembly elections, we had 21 legislators. Then, 11 Congress members joined us. Together with NPP, NPF, TMC, LJP and one independent, our strength was 43,” a party functionary said.A senior Congress leader said the party will meet governor Najma Heptulla Thursday and request her to convene an emergency session. A second Congress leader said the party will also give notice for a no-confidence motion against the BJP-led government.The BJP’s woes started with the Manipur high court on June 9 restraining seven former Congress MLAs, who had joined the BJP, from entering the assembly till the speaker disposed of anti-defection cases against them. In March this year, the Supreme Court ordered the removal of TH Shyamkumar as a minister. He had won on a Congress ticket but switched sides after results were announced.After the one disqualification and the seven members disallowed, the effective strength of the House came down to 52.In the 2017 election, the BJP won 21 seats while the Congress bagged 28. But the BJP formed the government with support of four legislators each from NPP and Naga People’s Front, one each from the TMC and the Lok Janshakti Party besides an independent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-govt-on-edge-as-3-mlas-resign-ally-walks-off/story-p2TRIAIIg7ZQFMJAc1Wq5L.html
18-06-2020||India||Military canteens turn to Indian spirits, stop foreign liquor orders||Pernod Ricard and Diageo, two of the world’s biggest spirit makers, have stopped receiving orders for imported brands from India’s defence canteen stores where they were sold at concessional prices, industry sources told Reuters.The move is seen as part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “vocal for local” campaign in which he has called for promotion of indigenous products to make India self-reliant during the coronavirus pandemic, a government measure that critics have called protectionist and against foreign businesses.India’s defence canteens provide access to both local and imported products such as liquor and electronics at less-than-market rates to soldiers, ex-servicemen and their families.But Pernod Ricard India, whose brands include Chivas and Glenlivet scotch whisky, received no order in May for imported spirits, compared with monthly orders of 4,500-5,000 cases by defence stores, a source said. One case typically holds six, nine or 12 bottles of liquor.Diageo India too has not received any orders since May for its imported brands such as the popular Johnnie Walker Black Label whisky and Talisker single malt, a second source said.Pernod Ricard declined to comment and Diageo did not respond to queries. The defence ministry did not respond. While no written order has been issued, a senior government official said a formal decision in the matter was imminent.“We want to encourage indigenous products ... with the PM’s campaign, it gets more priority,” said the official.A bottle of Johnnie Walker Black Label costs ₹3,600 in Maharashtra’s defence canteens, a third lower than ₹5,500 retail customers pay there. “Drinking scotch has become a habit, this move is going to hurt our pockets,” said a retired Indian army official who said he purchases five scotch bottles each month.While imported liquor sales at defence stores generate only about $17 million in annual sales, the channel generates regular demand for top foreign brands. The canteens sell about $450 million worth of liquor each year, mostly Indian-made beer, whisky, rum and other spirits, sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/military-canteens-stop-foreign-liquor-orders/story-tELUnDbs9MXKSUNW2Fpw2H.html
18-06-2020||India||‘Exaggerated’: India’s late night rebuttal to China’s new claim over Galwan Valley||India on Wednesday responded sharply to the Chinese foreign ministry claiming Galwan Valley, asserting that this was an “exaggerated and untenable” claim. New Delhi also reminded Beijing about the phone conversation between the foreign ministers of the two countries who had agreed that the overall situation “should be handled in a responsible manner” and the understanding reached between military commanders of the two countries on 6 June “should be implemented sincerely”.“Making exaggerated and untenable claims is contrary to this understanding,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivatava said in his rebuttal released around midnight.The Galwan Valley - the site of the bloody clash between soldiers from both sides - has been one of the few areas along the Line of Actual Control where the difference in perception of the boundary between the two sides was minimal. In New Delhi, the Chinese statement is seen as an effort to create fresh areas of differences even as older differences turn into disputes.Also read: India warns China of serious impact on ties, Modi talks of ‘befitting’ replyColonel Zhang Shuili, a spokesperson for the People’s Liberation Army’s Western Theater Command, was the first to claim Galwan Valley within hours of the Indian army confirming that soldiers of the two armies had clashed in Galwan Valley. Like the foreign ministry’s first response, the army officer had accused Indian soldiers of crossing the line but he significantly, also insisted that “China always owns sovereignty over the Galwan Valley region”.At its daily briefing, the Chinese foreign ministry had read out the PLA officer’s statement that claimed the Galwan Valley region belongs to China.The Chinese foreign ministry readout of the conversation between India’s S Jaishankar and his counterpart Wang Yi, however, did not make this point.It is understood that New Delhi’s late night statement was designed to set the record straight since the foreign ministry had vetted the PLA’s version.Also read: China sees India as an economic, political and military competitor: Lt Gen (retired) HS PanagThe two countries have been trading charges of what triggered Monday night’s face-off in Galwan Valley that left 20 Indian soldiers dead and 76 more wounded including 18 with serious injuries. Indian Army officials claimed 43 Chinese were killed or seriously injured, citing radio intercepts and other intelligence. Fatal casualties on the Chinese side reportedly include a colonel but HT couldn’t independently verify this.Foreign Minister S Jaishankar told his counterpart in a phone conversation that the Chinese side’s “pre-meditated and planned action” was behind the violence and casualties. Jaishankar also added that the “Chinese side sought to erect a structure in Galwan Valley on our side of the LAC” and set up the clash.Also read| ‘A dark hour’: Experts predict shake-up in tiesWang, according to the Chinese foreign ministry, said the “Indian side must not misjudge the current situation and must not underestimate China’s firm determination to safeguard our territorial sovereignty”. Wang reiterated China’s accusations that Indian troops had triggered the clash on June 15 by crossing the LAC, and said India must investigate its troops for the action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-rebuttal-at-midnight-india-calls-china-claim-over-galwan-untenable/story-vHFNgMujti6TNezyjFNSkN.html
18-06-2020||India||India elected unopposed to UNSC’s non-permanent member seat||India was elected Wednesday to the UN Security Council as non-permanent member with 184 of the 192 votes for a two-year term starting January 1, 2021.“We have received overwhelming support and we we deeply humbled by the tremendous confidence that the member states of the United Nations have reposed in India,” T S Tirumurti, the Indian permanent representative to the UN said in a video-recorded message.“India will become a member of the United Nations Security Council at a critical juncture and we are confident than in the Covid- and the post-Covid world India will continue to provide leadership and a new orientation for a reformed multilateral system,” he added.India will begin its eighth two-year term on January 1, hoping to use it to further bolster its claim to a promotion to the permanent seat in a reformed UN Security Council.India was the endorsed candidate of the Asia-Pacific Group of UN member countries and faced no competition. Its election to one of the five open seats on the 15-member council was a given, though some UN diplomats intimately involved with the election had said they were “keeping our fingers crossed”.It was a suspense of a badly made triller. Everyone knew the end. Voting by paper ballot got underway at 9:30 am (7:00 pm India time) and is expected to go on till 1:30 pm (11:pm, India), stretching a process that should hav been wrapped up, with the results, possibly by noon, as it happened in 2010, the last time India was elected to the UNSC. .The 193 UN members countries were vote to elect five non-permanent members in a phased manner, for the first time in the world body’s 75-year history. They were allowed on to the floor of the general assembly, where the voting takes place, in smaller groups or 20 or so because of the social distancing norms in place because of Covid-19. New York city, where the UN is headquartered, was, and remains, the epicenter of the US coronavirus epidemic and has only recently started lifting restrictions on businesses and public life.UN diplomats were not certain how many of the member countries who can vote — some like Venezuela are barred for non-payment of membership dues — will actually show up to cast their ballots, which must be done physically and not virtually or remotely through an electronic button. They needn’t have worried — 184 of the 192 showed up.Candidate countries such as India needed two-thirds of the votes cast to win; no-shows will not count as yes, no or abstention, said officials familiar with the rules. India won 187 votes in 2010, and started its seventh term on January 1, 2011. Its previous terms were 1950-1951, 1967-1968, 1972-1973, 1977-1978, 1984-1985 and 1991-1992.Mexico was the other endorsed candidate that is likely to go through unopposed from the Latin American and the Caribbean Group seat. Canada, Ireland and Norway were contesting for the the two seats for the Western European and Other Group and Kenya and Djibouti were running for the African Group seat.The Security Council has 15 members. Five of them are permanent members — the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Russia and China — and 10 are non-permanent. Half the non-permanent members are elected every year, each for a two-year term, starting January 1.India expects to use its eighth term to further build its case for a permanent seat in a reformed Security Council, something that it has been pushing for years now along with other claimants such as Japan, Germany and Brazil — the G-4 — calling the current council outdated and out of sync with the changed global realities.“Reformed Multilateralism to reflect contemporary realities” will be one of India’s priorities, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said June 5, as he released a brief document laying out India’s priorities and approaches as it sought another term on the Security Council. Responsible and inclusive solutions and “concrete and result-oriented action at the Security Council for an effective response to international terrorism”, a “comprehensive approach” to peace and security, the key responsibilities of the body and technology with a human touch, were the other four.India will pursue these priorities through a Five-S approach, according to the “priorities paper”: Samman (respect), Samvad (dialogue), Sahyog (cooperation) and Shanti (peace); to create Samriddhi (Prosperity).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-wins-unopposed-unsc-s-non-permanent-member-seat/story-heCU25mJRYCVC9OYDvBCJP.html
18-06-2020||India||India could restrict market access to China-made goods to counter Beijing||With external affairs minister S Jaishankar speaking with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on Wednesday for the first time since the troop build-up along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) began several weeks ago, people familiar with developments said the focus is expected to remain on bilateral efforts to defuse the crisis.India, however, is mulling economic measures, including limiting China’s access to its vast market, even as its armed forces went into a state of high alert to deal with any threat to national security following the significant escalation of the border conflict with China after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a brutal clash with Chinese soldiers on June 15.The army has strengthened its posture across the length of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) where reinforcements have been sent, the Indian Air Force is keeping its contingency plans ready and the navy is also on an operational alert in the Indian Ocean region where scores of warships are ready for any task, three military officers said on Wednesday on the condition of anonymity.  Also Watch | The General who first saw through China’s intentions in LadakhOn the economic front, at least 100 Chinese products are staring at anti-dumping action and future investments from China, including participation of its firms in big and important projects such as the 5G market, could be barred, four government officials said, asking not to be identified.India will, however, not resort to any knee-jerk reaction. It will take well considered action at an appropriate time, necessary to protect integrity and sovereignty of the country and its national interest, the officials added. “ Hopefully, good sense will prevail (upon China). We have several options and we will not hesitate to exercise them depending on the situation,” one of the government officials said.But New Delhi is hoping that the two countries will be able to work out a solution at the diplomatic level that doesn’t compromise India’s interests or position, the people cited in the first instance added. They described the call between the two foreign ministers as an effort to clear the air after Monday night’s violent face-off . THE DIPLOMATIC TOUCHThough there have been behind-the-scenes contacts involving the two foreign ministries and the Chinese mission in New Delhi and the Indian embassy in Beijing, the first public diplomatic contact between the two sides on the border stand-off was the video conference between joint secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava and his Chinese counterpart Wu Jianghao on June 5.This contact was under the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on India-China border affairs. The people cited above said WMCC and the Special Representatives mechanism are among several bilateral mechanisms that can now be used to carry forward efforts to address the border issue.“If needed, there can also be bilateral contacts at a higher level,” said one of the people.India has traditionally kept away from multilateral forums to address bilateral issues, particularly border disputes. This was the reason why US President Donald Trump’s recent offers to mediate between India and China were immediately rebuffed by New Delhi. However, the possibility of quiet back channel contacts with other countries to get China around to a negotiated settlement is something experts haven’t ruled out.On Wednesday, the UK expressed concern at the border stand-off. A British high commission spokesperson said: “We encourage China and India to engage in dialogue on issues relating to the border – violence is in no-one’s interest.”China is interested in a solution because of the economic stakes it has in India. Over the past two decades it is the country’s economic prowess, not military might that has made China a global superpower, and the country recognises that. Those stakes could be it. THE ECONOMIC HITAlready, with this latest Chinese offensive, the chances of Chine telecom equipment maker Huawei’s participation in the multi-billion dollar 5G project in India are bleak, a second official with direct knowledge of the matter said. “Besides economic interests, this project also involves serious security concerns,” this person added.A third official said the Beijing’s aggression is ill timed for China. “It came at a time when New Delhi is aggressively pursuing an economic policy of self-reliance, anti-China sentiments have gripped major global economies such as the United States, and it is the prime suspect for spreading the Covid-19 virus,” he said.Swadeshi Jagran Manch (SJM), an offshoot of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), has launched a campaign against China, its national co-convenor Ashwani Mahajan said.Traders are also against China. The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), a powerful lobby of 70 million local traders, has decided to step up its nationwide movement against the boycott of Chinese goods, CAIT national secretary general Praveen Khandelwal said. CAIT has released a list of over 450 commodities that can be sourced locally: fast moving consumer goods, toys, textiles, builder hardware, footwear, apparel, kitchenware, luggage, hand bags, cosmetics, gift items, electrical and electronics.Both ministries of finance and commerce are already taking action against the influx of Chinese goods that is injuring domestic industry. “Imports of more than 100 goods are under various stages of anti-dumping action,” a fourth official said. India could extend anti-dumping duties and safeguards on more than two dozen Chinese goods this year that range from calculators and USB drives to steel, solar cells and Vitamin E amid concern that a flood of imports would kill domestic manufacturers who will lose duty protection soon against such products. Anti-dumping duties on these products were imposed five years ago and are expiring this year. Email queries sent to ministries of finance and commerce did not elicit any response.But Mohit Singla, chairman at the Trade Promotion Council of India (TPCI), said economic decisions must be driven by pragmatism and practical consideration and it was a wrong call to boycott Chinese products as many industries are dependent on imports from that country. Singla added that India should not ignore any investment from China. “Any equity investment is about adding value to the Indian companies, which is much more important and needed,” he said.Anupam Manur, assistant professor at Takshashila Institution, said, “As much as the popular sentiment and political will dictates, India is not in a position to hurt China economically, and therefore we should carefully consider our economic position. The key question to ask would be the cost imposed on our own society in an attempt to hurt another country.”He said by attempting to boycott Chinese goods, India will hurt its own citizens more than the Chinese government. “Every essential item that we import from China will become more expensive and the reality is that we cannot find credible domestic alternatives overnight.” On curbing Chinese investments, he said, “Chinese investment is a lot trickier than import of goods, as in many cases, it is impossible to distinguish between a private player and the Chinese government.”“Nonetheless, at a time when India’s investment rate is low and falling, it would be unwise to turn away investments. Therefore, instead of a blanket ban on Chinese investments, the Indian government can use a lot more discretion based on the sector and the level of investment. Sensitive sectors such as banking, telecommunications and defence should attract greater scrutiny, while investment in ‘dumb’ infrastructure such as roads can get an easier pass,” he said.India-China bilateral trade is heavily tilted in favour of China. According to trade figures released by the General Administration of Customs of China (GACC) in mid-January 2020, India’s trade deficit with China was $56.77 billion in 2019; bilateral trade amounted to about $92.68 billion last year, a 1.6% annual increase.But even as it discusses an economic route to hurting China, New Delhi is ensuring its armed forces are prepared. THE MILITARY RESPONSEThe government has given financial powers to the armed forces to make critical purchases to plug capability gaps and emergency procurements are likely to be fast-tracked, said one of the military officers cited.He added that the armed forces were prioritising key purchases to stay prepared for any eventuality. Chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat is responsible for integrating and prioritising the acquisition requirements of the three services.The officer said that the possibility of China asserting its so-called claims in other sectors of the LAC cannot be ruled out, given the current belligerent stand of the neighbour and its unwillingness to de-escalate in the Ladakh sector. “We have improved our posture in all sectors, from Ladakh to Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh. We are ready for any task,” he said.He said rules of engagement and standard operating procedures for forward deployed troops were also being revisited to allow soldiers to deal with situations that may unfold along the disputed border. The IAF is also leaving nothing to chance and it is ready to swing its assets into service at short notice, said the second military officer .The navy already has warships positioned along critical sea lanes of communications and choke points in the Indian Ocean Region under its mission-based deployment and the vessels could be diverted for any mission, said the third military officer. The navy has its warships deployed from as far as the Persian Gulf to the Strait of Malacca and northern Bay of Bengal to the southeast coast of Africa, he added.While Indian military planners said it was unlikely that Pakistan could resort to any adventurism, all border aspects and developments are being closely monitored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/restricted-access-to-market-in-plan-to-counter-beijing/story-XHp0CnKfRICQl6YUR73LZI.html
18-06-2020||India||India warns China of serious impact on ties, Modi talks of ‘befitting’ reply||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said India would give a befitting reply to any provocation even as New Delhi and Beijing on Wednesday spoke of the need to avoid actions that could escalate matters along their disputed border, two days after a violent face-off left 20 Indian soldiers dead. Both sides again traded charges on what triggered Monday night’s face-off in Galwan Valley along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the focus of the current tensions, with external affairs minister S Jaishankar telling his counterpart Wang Yi in a phone conversation the Chinese side’s “pre-meditated and planned action” was behind the violence and casualties.This was the first time Jaishankar spoke to Wang since the stand-off began in early May and marked the highest political contact to address the tensions after talks between military commanders failed to break the impasse.The Indian readout of the conversation said, “Neither side would take any action to escalate matters and instead, ensure peace and tranquillity as per bilateral agreements and protocols.” Both sides agreed to handle the situation in a “responsible manner” and sincerely implement the disengagement understanding of June 6 between army commanders.China’s foreign ministry said the two sides had agreed to “cool down the situation on the ground as soon as possible”, observe the consensus reached at the commander-level meeting, maintain peace and tranquillity in line with existing agreements, and to “fairly address the serious situation caused by the conflict in the Galwan Valley”.However, addressing a virtual meeting with chief ministers on the Covid-19 crisis, Prime Minister Modi said India wanted peace but wouldn’t hesitate to respond to any provocation.The PM has called an all-party meeting on Friday to discuss the situation.“India’s integrity and sovereignty is supreme for us, and no one can stop us from defending it. Nobody should have any iota of doubt about this. India wants peace. But on provocation, India will give a befitting reply,” he said, speaking in Hindi.The meeting observed two minutes silence to pay tribute to the 20 soldiers killed in the face-off, and Modi said, “I want to assure the nation that the sacrifice made by our soldiers will not go in vain. The country will be proud of the fact that our soldiers have been martyred while they were fighting.”“Whatever may be the situation and circumstances, India will firmly protect every inch of the country’s land and its self-respect. India is culturally a peace-loving country…We have always worked closely with our neighbours in a cooperative and friendly manner. We have always wished for their development and welfare,” he added.India has tried to ensure that differences with neighbours never turned into a dispute, he said, adding: “We never provoke anyone, but we also do not compromise with the integrity and sovereignty of our country. Whenever it was needed, we have demonstrated our strength, proving our capabilities in protecting and defending the integrity and sovereignty of the country.Two days after the brawl in Galwan Valley in which the 20 Indian soldiers were killed and China suffered scores of casualties, Indian and Chinese delegations led by major generals met in eastern Ladakh to defuse tensions, two officials said on condition of anonymity.This was their sixth meeting after the stand-off began. Maj Gen Abhijit Bapat, commander of Karu-based headquarters 3 Infantry Division, and his Chinese counterpart held talks at the site of the clash near Patrol Point 14, where the Indian Army suffered its first casualties in a border skirmish with the People’s Liberation Army in 45 years.Officials said the talks between delegations led by the two-star generals failed to achieve any breakthrough. While Indian and Chinese troops disengaged from the face-off site in Galwan Valley on Tuesday, both sides continue to maintain military presence in the disputed area.In October 1975, Chinese troops had ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector and shot dead four soldiers.The June 15 brawl also left 76 Indian soldiers wounded, including 18 with serious injuries, though all of them are stable now, the officials said. It also virtually derailed de-escalation plans worked out by Indian and Chinese military commanders in a rare meeting on June 6.The troops have since disengaged, the Indian Army said in a statement on Tuesday, confirming the number of dead at 20. Indian Army officials claimed 43 Chinese were killed or seriously injured, citing radio intercepts and other intelligence. Fatal casualties on the Chinese side reportedly include a colonel but HT couldn’t independently verify this.Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday carried out a security review of the situation in a meeting with the chief of defence staff, Gen Bipin Rawat, and the three service chiefs. He also met PM Modi in the evening and briefed him on the border situation.The Indian armed forces are on the highest state of alert to deal with any threat to national security following the significant escalation of the situation, officials said.Army chief General MM Naravane and all ranks saluted the “supreme sacrifice of our valiant soldiers at Galwan” even as they “stand strong in our resolve towards protecting the sovereignty and integrity” of the country, the Indian Army tweeted.During his phone conversation with China’s foreign minister, external affairs minister Jaishankar conveyed India’s strong protest on the violent face-off in Galwan Valley and noted an agreement on de-escalation and disengagement was reached at the meeting of military commanders on June 6.Even as ground commanders made some progress in implementing this consensus last week, the “Chinese side sought to erect a structure in Galwan Valley on our side of the LAC”, Jaishankar said, according to the Indian readout.“While this became a source of dispute, the Chinese side took pre-meditated and planned action that was directly responsible for the resulting violence and casualties. It reflected an intent to change the facts on ground in violation of all our agreements to not change the status quo,” he added.Jaishankar said this “unprecedented development will have a serious impact on the bilateral relationship” and the Chinese side should “reassess its actions and take corrective steps”. The two sides should implement the understanding reached on June 6 and abide by bilateral agreements and protocols while strictly respecting the LAC and not taking “any unilateral action to alter it”, he said.The Chinese foreign ministry’s statement showed Beijing intends to continue with its aggressive posture, quoting Wang as saying that the “Indian side must not misjudge the current situation and must not underestimate China’s firm determination to safeguard our territorial sovereignty”.Wang reiterated China’s accusations – already rejected by India – that Indian troops had triggered the clash on June 15 by crossing the LAC, making “deliberate provocations” and “even violently attacked the Chinese soldiers who went for negotiations”.“China once again lodges its strong protest to the Indian side. We urge the Indian side to conduct a thorough investigation, hold the violators accountable, strictly discipline the frontline troops and immediately stop all provocative acts to ensure such incidents will not occur again,” the statement said.Wang said both countries are emerging powers and should speed up their development. “Therefore, mutual respect and support is a sure way and meets the long-term interests of both countries; suspicion and friction is a wrong path and goes against the fundamental aspiration of the two peoples,” he added.He also reiterated China’s call for acting on the consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries and strengthening communication and coordination to address the border situation through existing channels, including the Special Representatives mechanism and border personnel meeting mechanism.Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies, said, “The PM has set out in unambiguous terms what the government’s stand is. The situation demands that great thought be given to the path ahead without emotions clouding decision-making. The future would demand some serious and tough decisions to be taken, for which unstinted national support would be a must.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-warns-china-of-serious-impact-on-ties-modi-talks-of-befitting-reply/story-pWgAXVlQT7yeQnepFpzj3O.html
18-06-2020||India||China opens another front, steps up cyberattacks that target India: Intel||China has opened another front against India with sustained DDOS (distributed denial of service) attacks on Indian information websites and the country’s financial payments system. DDOS attacks are malicious attempts to overwhelm a network by flooding it with artificially created internet traffic. A variety of targets were zeroed in on, including government websites and the banking system including ATMs.Most of the attacks were traced back to the central Chinese city of Chengdu. The capital of Sichuan province, Chengdu is known for being the headquarters of the People’s Liberation Army’s Unit 61398, the Chinese military’s primary covert cyberwarfare section. The attacks began on Tuesday and continued through Wednesday, said people aware of the developments, but they largely proved unsuccessful.Chengdu is also home to a large number of hacker groups, many of whom are hired by Chinese government agencies to provide a cover for their operations. While cyberattacks against India normally come from Pakistan or from known hacker-for-hire centres in Central Europe or the United States, the past two days has seen a surge in attacks coming directly from China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-steps-up-cyberattacks-intel/story-hQXYHWJTeRq1ut6P0g7yGL.html
18-06-2020||India||‘Test a must,’ says Kerala CM on certificates for west Asia returnees||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday defended his government’s move of making Covid-free certificates mandatory for all passengers returning from West Asia from June 20, saying it was in the state’s larger interest. As many as 200-odd chartered and 70 flights as part of the Vande Bharat Mission for the repatriation of stranded Indians abroad are scheduled to arrive in Kerala.The state earlier insisted on Covid-free certificates for those returning on chartered flights. It added the conditionality to Vande Bharat flights on Tuesday. Vijayan asked the opposition to stop playing politics at the time of pandemic while insisting the state has been consistent with its demand. “Some people are creating confusion and misleading stranded people... We want to bring them back. But the test is a must as we cannot take any chances.”He added the number of Covid-19 cases went up after people started coming from abroad and other states. He said 179 Vande Bharat and 124 chartered flights have brought back 84,000 people so far.Vijayan insisted Indian embassies can arrange for testing if facilities for them are unavailable in some countries. He said tests were conducted when people were evacuated from Italy and other European countries last month. “Bringing back people without testing is really dangerous. If one passenger is infected, he will transmit it to others.”Bharatiya Janata Party’s Kerala president K Surendran accused Vijayan of planning to sabotage even Vande Bharat evacuations by putting “unreasonable demands”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/test-a-must-says-kerala-cm-on-certificates-for-w-asia-returnees/story-cNPro69ePBd3JxBs3rXD1L.html
18-06-2020||India||Plea to transfer PM-CARES fund to NDRF: Supreme Court notice to Centre||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notice to the Union home ministry on a plea by the Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL), a non-government organisation, seeking transfer of all contributions made to the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM Cares) Fund, formed after the outbreak of Covid-19, till date to the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF).The NDRF is a fund created by the central government under section 46 of the Disaster Management Act (DM Act) for dealing with disasters.The PM Cares Fund, the petition claimed has been set up in violation of the legal mandate under the Disaster Management Act of 2005 as per which any grant made by any person or institution for the purpose of disaster management should be compulsorily credited to NDRF.“However, currently, NDRF is not being utilized in fighting the ongoing Covid-19 and a PM-CARES Fund has been constituted instead, outside the purview and ambit of DM Act, as a public charitable trust and ail the contributions/ donations with regard to the Covid-19 pandemic are being made to the said fund in violation of clear statutory provisions”, the petition stated.The petitioner also prayed that a national plan should be drawn up for disaster management for the whole of the country as mandated by section 11 of the DM Act.“Section 11 of the DM Act makes it mandatory for a national plan to be drawn up for disaster management for whole of the country but currently, there is no such national plan in place to deal with the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic even though the same has been notified as a ‘disaster’ and numerous notifications are being issued to contain the same under the DM Act”, the petitioner pointed out.“The central government has overruled the mandate under the DM Act. We will show it”, senior counsel Dushyant Dave, who appeared for CPIL, submitted. A bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan sought the Centre’s response despite solicitor general Tushar Mehta arguing against it.“We have read the petition. We will issue notice. Let reply be filed in four weeks”, the bench, which also comprised justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MR Shah, said and listed the case for hearing next on July 8. The case will be heard along with the suo motu case initiated by the top court on May 26 to address the plight of migrant labourers.The PM Cares Fund was set up by the central government on March 28 as a public charitable trust with the primary objective of dealing with any kind of emergency or distress situation such as that posed by Covid-19 pandemic.The petitioner pointed out that two weeks before setting up PM Cares Fund, the central government had, on March 14, communicated to all states that Covid-19 would be treated as a notified disaster for the purpose of providing assistance under state disaster response fund (SDRF), a fund similar to NDRF and set up under the Disaster Management Act at the state level.The petitioner said that apart from SDRF, the Central Government should have included NDRF too for the purpose of providing assistance in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, which it decided to treat as a notified disaster. It wasn’t done so that the central government could later create the PM Cares Fund.“lt is to be noted that PM Cares is not subject to mandatory CAG audit and according to a recent RTI reply, dated May 29, PM Cares Fund doesn’t come under the RTI Act, 2005 either”, the petition submitted. CAG is short for the Comptroller and Auditor General of India. RTI is short for the Right To Information Act. The Centre has been refraining from disclosing information about the specific utilization of the money that has been contributed/donated to the PM Cares Fund till date, the plea said.“Even though there is a provision for NDRF under Section 46 of the Disaster Management Act, the central government has come up with a PM Cares Fund. All the contribution being made by individuals and institutions in relation to Covid-19 crisis are being credited into the PM Cares Fund and not to the NDRF, in clear violation of Section 46 of the DM Act”, the petition added.Earlier, the Rajasthan government had approached Supreme Court against excluding contributions made towards the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF) meant for Covid-19 mitigation from the purview of corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities while allowing contributions made to the PM Cares Fund as CSR funds, stating that it is irrational.The Supreme Court had issued notice in that case on Tuesday.“To allow the PM Cares Fund for Covid-19 as CSR but to exclude the CMRF for the very same purpose is creating a distinction without a difference. This is gross infraction of Art. 14 of Constitution of India”, the Rajasthan government had submitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-to-transfer-pm-cares-fund-to-ndrf-sc-notice-to-centre/story-iY52gAYbutXJmVsoDrAu9I.html
18-06-2020||India||CBI registers fraud case against BJP’s Mumbai gen secy, others||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a case against Mumbai Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) general secretary Mohit Bharatiya and others for allegedly cheating Bank of India of ₹57 crore, officials said Wednesday. The CBI teams conducted searches at five locations in Mumbai, including the residence and office of Bharatiya. According to the CBI FIR, the accused had diverted funds from the bank to different companies, including one owned by a renowned Bollywood producer. Bharatiya was the guarantor and managing director in Avyan Overseas Pvt Ltd, engaged in manufacturing and export of handcrafted gold jewellery to Dubai, Singapore, Hong Kong and other countries.According to CBI, between 2013 and 2018, the Avyan Overseas and its managing director Bharatiya, along with an unknown public servant, entered into an agreement with the bank’s Mid Corporate Branch in Fort, with an intention to cheat through FB purchase/ Foreign Bills Negotiation Limit and Export Packaging Credit Limit facilities worth Rs.60 crore (approx.) extended to the firm.“In pursuance of the conspiracy, the said private company allegedly got it (Rs 60 crore) sanctioned and got it released. It was further alleged that after availing the said limits, the accused company diverted the funds and prepared forged and fabricated documents in support of the claim. An alleged loss to the tune of Rs 57.26 crore (approx) was caused to Bank of India,” CBI Spokesperson R K Gaur said.The bank had declared the loan as a Non Performing Asset on March 31, 2015 due to non-servicing of interest and continuous overdues position of bills.The Head Office fraud monitoring Unit of the bank red flagged the account ordering a forensic audit by Ernst and Young, the bank said in its complaint to the CBI.In the forensic audit report submitted on March 31, 2017, it was pointed out that there was a diversion of loan funds to a sister concern, to other companies and there was even a flat purchase agreement between the wife of Kamboj and a construction company owned by a noted film producer.Kamboj told HT – “Compromise in the above loan account has been done in 2018 by paying Rs 30 crore as one-time settlement of dues. I have also received no dues certificate from the Bank of India in March 2019. I don’t know why the bank has gone ahead with this complaint, after two and a half years of clearing all the dues. Nevertheless, I will cooperate with the CBI probe as I have full trust in them”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-registers-fraud-case-against-bjp-s-mumbai-gen-secy-others/story-s51huccf8BDXjUjf1xliSK.html
18-06-2020||India||16-year-old dies by suicide after being mocked on gender identity||A 16-year-old resident of Subhashnagar in Bareilly district killed themselves on Monday afternoon.In a suicide note, the class 10 student said that they had the habits of a girl and self-identified as ‘kinnar’. The youngster also alluded to being mocked on their appearance.Kinnar is an indigenous socio-cultural group in north India, and comprises those whose gender identity is woman or transwoman. According to mental health experts, teenage years are marked by shame surrounding issues of gender and sexuality. The absence of proper sex and gender education in schools also results in bullying and stigmatization. “Teenagers go through a tough time during puberty and need someone to discuss their issues with specially, if it is linked to their bodies. Schools and parents must make such education mandatory and encourage children to speak about it,” said Mumbai-based psychiatrist Dr Anjali Chhabria, author of ‘Death is not the answer: Understanding suicide and the ways to prevent it’.“Body shaming has become a common phenomenon in present times which children face while growing up. Parents must be receptive to their children if they speak to them about it,” Surbhi Srivastav a school counsellor based in Lucknow said.“The boy lost his mother five years ago. His father told us that he used to remain quiet and distant from other family members,” circle officer of Suibhashnagar Seema Yadav said. The gender identity of the deceased youth is neither boy nor man.To seek help for depression and other forms of mental distress please reach out to the helplines of International Bipolar Foundation (+91-8888817666) and Jeevan Aastha (toll free: 1800 233 3330). For issues surrounding gender and sexuality, call LGBT organisation, Pahal Foundation at 8318837081 (operational on Friday to Sunday, from 3pm to 6pm).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16-year-old-dies-by-suicide-after-being-mocked-on-gender-identity/story-39EyFINimi5VghXMzCsDyN.html
18-06-2020||India||China sees India as an economic, political and military competitor: Lt Gen (retired) HS Panag||One of the first military analysts to raise an alarm about the border situation with China was Lt Gen (retired) HS Panag, a former GOC of the Northern Command. In an interview with Sunetra Choudhury, he talks about how the situation with China worsened with 20 Indian soldiers being killed on Monday.How did we get to a situation where 20 of our soldiers are killed in that region?I think we have not read China right, both politically and militarily. We have failed to appreciate what is China’s political aim. China sees India as an economic, political and military competitor not just in South Asia but in the international arena. Its intent is to impose its hegemony on India, and the border dispute is just a tool it uses. Otherwise all territories that China strategically requires were seized before the 1962 war. After that war, relations improved but despite all agreements and meetings, China refused to demarcate the LAC. They have kept this issue open and they use it to impose their hegemony on India.But you also say that by denying that the Chinese were in our territory, India committed a mistake?I say that because China always exploits a prevailing narrative. For example, they exploit race relations in America. In India, the narrative is that of a strong government which has given freedom to the armed forces and we will take aggressive action. When these clashes happened, it was at a time when we have said that there is no intrusion. So the Chinese have said, “We have done nothing, we have only come up to our area...”Why no guns and sticks and stones?...we didn’t want an escalation. So both sides wouldn’t carry arms and at times you would see soldiers putting their hands in their pockets and talking. But sooner or later when armies confront each other, first there is pushing and jostling, scuffles and then. as the temperatures went up by design by the Chinese, they came with clubs, they came with knuckledusters, studded baseball bats. It was an effort at a local level to show they supremacy and to humiliate us. And we fell into the trap.So what is the way forward, how should India respond?We must have a clear head when we start looking at the future. We have two options. One, when such a thing happens, even the Chinese will be disturbed about it; it affects them internationally. The sheer brutality of the incident, it calls for sanction internationally. It may create a ground for diplomatic negotiation. Our political aim today should be that status quo of April 2020 should be restored. Number two, at the end of this, we should demarcate the LAC so that such incidents don’t take place. We should put this incident behind but great ready for the worst.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-sees-india-as-an-economic-political-and-military-competitor-lt-gen-retired-hs-panag/story-lGRmgT5Lxmtn4cy5J32pvK.html
18-06-2020||India||Sonia, Rahul ask PM to speak up on India-China border row||Opposition leaders called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi to speak on the incident involving Indian and Chinese soldiers and “tell the nation how the Chinese managed to commit this act of aggression,” with Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi leading the charge against the government. Leaders from several other political parties, such as the Bahujan Samaj party (BSP) and the Shiv Sena, too asked the government to give out more information regarding what has been described as the worst confrontation with the neighbour in 45 years. All of the opposition leaders said they backed the army and were united with the country in facing the Chinese threat.“Today, when there is so much anger in the country over Chinese intrusion into Indian border, the prime minister should come out and tell the truth on how the Chinese occupied the Indian territory, why brave soldiers were martyred and what is the current situation along the LAC,” Congress president Sonia Gandhi said in a video statement, in which she added that the party stood with the army and the government.Earlier, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi questioned the Prime Minister over his “silence” on the issue. “Why is the PM silent? Why is he hiding? Enough is enough. We need to know what has happened. How dare China kill our soldiers? How dare they take our land?” he said in a tweet.In another tweet, the former Congress chief hit out at defence minister Rajnath Singh for not naming China in his statement on the killing.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra too attacked the government, saying India deserved a leadership that is willing to do anything before allowing its land to be taken. “Our land, our sovereignty is being threatened, our soldiers and officers have been martyred, are we just going to remain silent? India deserves the truth. It deserves a leadership that is willing to do anything before allowing its land to be taken,” she said on Twitter.BSP chief Mayawati termed the killings “extremely sad” and “shocking”. “Government should take steps in the country’s interest with utmost alertness and wisdom. The country is confident that the government will take the right decision at the right time and will not allow anyone to take even an inch of our land,” she said in a series of tweets.Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut assured that all parties will support any decision taken by the Prime Minister on the matter but the government must disclose all facts.“Our relations with China have not been great, but no bullets had been fired for close to 50 years. The killing of our 20 jawans is shocking. We cannot hold Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi responsible for that,” he told reporters in Mumbai.“We all are responsible for the martyrdom of 20 jawans. All parties will support whatever decision the Prime Minister takes but he should first tell people what went wrong,” Raut added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-rahul-ask-pm-to-speak-up-on-india-china-border-row/story-5uweyUp0zZAidSEuSQCfRN.html
18-06-2020||India||India-China-Russia meeting on track despite tension||Russia on Wednesday announced a virtual meeting of foreign ministers of the Russia-India-China (RIC) grouping will be held on June 23, removing doubts that had arisen about India’s participation in the wake of the violent clash along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).After a weeks-long military build-up along the LAC, Indian and Chinese troops were involved in what Indian officials described as a “violent face-off” on Monday night. One officer was among the 20 soldiers killed in the confrontation and several more were injured.The incident had cast a shadow on the planned meeting, originally scheduled to be held in March but postponed because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Russia had recently taken the initiative to organise the virtual meeting this month, as first reported by HT on June 13.“A video conference of the foreign ministers of the three countries is planned on June 23,” Russian foreign ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova told a media briefing.“During this, the ministers will exchange their views on global political, economic and financial trends following the [Covid-19] pandemic as well as the opportunities for cooperation to overcome this existing crisis,” she said.The border stand-off was not on the agenda of the RIC meeting since the grouping, by convention, doesn’t take up bilateral issues. The situation in Afghanistan and regional connectivity projects such as the International North South Transport Corridor involving India, Russia and Iran are expected to figure in the agenda.“The existence of the #RIC is an undisputable reality, firmly fixed on the world map. As for the current stage of the trilateral cooperation, there are no indications that it might be frozen,” Russian ambassador Nikolay Kudashev said in a tweet after Zakharova’s announcement.“We welcome all steps aimed at de-escalation at the #LAC, including the conversation between the two FMs, and remain optimistic,” Kudashev said in another tweet, referring to Wednesday’s phone conversation between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi.Moscow’s relations with both New Delhi and Beijing are currently very good, and Kudashev and deputy chief of mission Roman Babushkin have, in remarks to the Indian media, spoken of the need for easing tensions for regional stability.Kudashev said Russia is confident that India and China will be guided by commitments made by the Indian and Chinese leadership during their two informal summits and work for peace and tranquillity on the border. He also said Russia is looking toward further engagements in the RIC, SCO and Brics (Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa) groupings to enhance mutual trust and stability.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-russia-meeting-on-track-despite-tension/story-9BTdGW1wPXJlDN32mqXpmL.html
18-06-2020||India||‘A dark hour’: Experts predict shake-up in India-China ties||The Chinese aggression in eastern Ladakh, and the killing of 20 Indian Army personnel in Galwan valley, will complicate the planned disengagement process at the border, but more fundamentally, lead to a reset in New Delhi-Beijing ties and bring the competitive element of the relationship under sharper focus, experts say.It could force India to closely re-examine the cooperative elements of its relationship with the Asian neighbour, and have an impact on geopolitics.Commenting on Chinese motivations, Ashley Tellis, a strategic analyst at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington DC, who has closely studied South Asian security dynamics, said, “ I believe that entire crisis was driven by multiple intersecting Chinese calculations: to push back against India for what China feared was the beginning of Indian revanchism after the Article 370 decision—on this count, the Chinese misinterpreted India’s decisions entirely; to physically secure additional territory in Aksai Chin through salami slicing—an area that China already claims entirely and where it has been incrementally increasing its control now for some thirty odd years; and to embarrass India by inflicting political reverses for a variety of accumulating Chinese grievances.” In a separate video analysis posted on the Carnegie site, Tellis said that the planned disengagement between the two sides was now “somewhat in jeopardy”. “Remember, there are three locations where these confrontations are occurring. The Indians had hoped they would be able to secure a mutual disengagement from the first location, which is where the brawl occurred, and then move on to negotiating further disengagements in other locations. All this is now up in the air.”While emphasising that the most important thing now for India was to secure de-escalation along the entire front and a restoration of the status quo ante, Tellis underlined that China-India relations could not go back to the old normal. “Beijing has crossed a threshold that was important to India. Over the longer term, India needs to make some hard decisions about accelerating economic growth, getting military modernisation back on track, and more transparently balancing China in partnership with other Asian friends and the United States,” he added. Former Indian foreign secretary Nirupama Rao, who also served as ambassador to China and has closely studied the border dynamics, after a careful reading of the People’s Liberation Army statement on the incident, said on Twitter, “Chinese statement minces no words. The gloves are off.” She noted that the statement was in line with communications received from the Chinese after the border dispute erupted in 1959 and skirmishes in the western and eastern sectors. “A dark hour like this with all the blood that has been shed is such a dreadful tragedy. Efforts made for normalization since 1976 have come to nought. There is a bad moon rising on India-China relations.”Illustrating the possible Chinese motivations, S D Muni, professor emeritus at the Jawaharlal Nehru University and a former ambassador of India to Laos, said the Galwan violence was a “tough Chinese message” of not vacating strategic heights occupied through encroachments. “Strengthening Indian defence infrastructure in the region, along with the Indian political resolve on Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and Aksai Chin, is seen as a threat to Chinese illegal occupation of Aksai Chin and its strategic access through the Karakoram highway to Pakistan. It has sunk billions of dollars in Pakistan to nurse this strategic access,” Muni said.Muni said that India will now have to explore a wide variety of options. “India must negotiate for peace on the Line of Actual Control, but capture strategic heights wherever possible for military and diplomatic bargaining to push back the Chinese. The peace and tranquility confidence-building measures (at the border) will have to be renegotiated at the highest political level.” But alongside, he also called for a tougher stand from India. “Delhi should revisit its Tibet and Taiwan policies, must reinforce its Indo-Pacific strategic partnerships, and widen Quad by including Indonesia, Vietnam and Singapore in it. The building of Andaman and Nicobar as a formidable tri-service base must be expedited too.” Quad is an informal security dialogue between four countries -- India, the US, Japan and Australia. It was conceptualised, in part, to counter China’s growing influence in the Indo-Pacific. While suggesting that China’s motivations and the reason for the timing of its action in Ladakh are hard to gauge, Alyssa Ayres of the Council on Foreign Relations said it was important to note China’s territorial assertiveness in several other places as the world dealt with the pandemic. On the future of the bilateral ties, she added: “India-China ties will undoubtedly suffer; they have for decades been marked by security tensions but with some degree of multilateral cooperation. It is harder to see New Delhi want to compartmentalise in the same way going forward.” Ayres added that India’s options seem limited but it will have to make choices. “China is pushing India to make choices about who its friends are, a decision that India has historically refrained from making.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-dark-hour-experts-predict-shake-up-in-ties/story-FFDVwlzehtoRfKH4FLII2H.html
18-06-2020||India||35 fatalities on China side in Ladakh clash, suggests US report||The United States has said it is “closely monitoring” the India-China border situation and an American media report suggested China may have suffered severe losses in the eastern Ladakh clashes and put the number of its fatalities at 35 citing an intelligence assessment.US News, the media publication, went on to suggest that the Chinese are taking the deaths as a humiliation and might be reluctant, therefore, to announce or confirm them for fear of emboldening other adversaries.In the reported assessment of US intelligence it was a tense border meeting between military personnel of the two sides to de-escalate tensions that turned violent. Most deaths were caused by batons, knives or from falling off a steep cliff. The details of this account of events could not be ascertained independently.The state department pointed to an earlier statement when asked. A spokesperson had said: “We are closely monitoring the situation between Indian and Chinese forces along the Line of Actual Control. We note the Indian military has announced that 20 soldiers have died, and we offer our condolences to their families. Both India and China have expressed a desire to de-escalate, and we support a peaceful resolution of the current situation.”The spokesperson had gone on to refer to a June 2 phone call in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Donald Trump had discussed the India-China border.President Trump had earlier, on May 28, offered to mediate the dispute, saying in a tweet, “We have informed both India and China that the United States is ready, willing and able to mediate or arbitrate their now raging border dispute.” The offer was turned down by both India and China and Trump has since not said more on this, snowed under as he is with the twin crises of the Covid-19 epidemic that has killed nearly 117,000 Americans and the civil unrest triggered by the killing of an Africa-American man by a white police officer in Minneapolis.The state department had earlier slammed the border tensions as a reflection of Chinese aggression going beyond the rhetoric and the House foreign affairs committee had blamed the Chinese for as well.“I am extremely concerned by the ongoing Chinese aggression along the Line of Actual Control on the India-China border.,” Eliot Engel, the chairman of the House foreign affairs committee, had said in a statement in early June. “China is demonstrating once again that it is willing to bully its neighbours rather than resolve conflicts according to international law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/35-fatalities-on-china-side-us-report/story-dwC3UkXRmvcXck7CvhstsI.html
18-06-2020||India||We don’t want to see more clashes: Beijing||China on Wednesday continued its silence on the casualties suffered by the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in Monday’s deadly border clash that left 20 Indian soldiers dead in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley.Both foreign minister Wang Yi in his phone call with external affairs minister, S Jaishankar, and the Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian remained silent on the aspect despite talking about casualties sustained in the flare-up.Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian refused to share details – including the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) casualties – and repeatedly said border troops from both countries were dealing with the matter on the ground.China and India are in close communication on resolving relevant issues through both diplomatic and military channels, Zhao said, adding that China “…does not want to see more clashes”.At the regular ministry briefing on Wednesday, Zhao stalled queries on Chinese casualties.“As I said, the border troops of the two sides are dealing with the specifics on the ground. I have no information to release here,” he said when asked about the numbers.Hu Shisheng, a Beijing-based south Asia expert said it could be because China wants to keep domestic reaction quiet.“It seems that both sides, especially the Chinese side want to calm down the whole situation,” Hu, from the China Institutes of Contemporary International Relations, told HT.Wang Dehua from the Shanghai Municipal Centre for International Studies said he was optimistic about the future as “…neither side has the intention or reason to let the situation get out of hand”.The editor of Global Times Hu Xijin had tweeted on Tuesday -- without elaborating -- that the PLA too had sustained casualties.“Chinese side didn’t release number of PLA casualties in clash with Indian soldiers. My understanding is the Chinese side doesn’t want people of the two countries to compare the casualties’ numbers so to avoid stoking public mood. This is goodwill from Beijing.”On China’s Twitter-like social media platform, Weibo, millions of Chinese citizens shared and commented on Monday’s incident: By Wednesday evening, it was trending at the top of the “hot search” option on the platform.Many talked about the casualties that the Indian army suffered, discussing reasons why the situation went out of control and descended into violence.Some speculated about PLA’s possible fatalities and injuries as well.Chinese state media have followed the government in squarely blaming India for the situation without - expectedly - raising any question about the lack of details available.“The incident happened during a patrol and both sides suffered injuries and casualties, with this being the most severe situation China and India have experienced along the border in more than four decades and may render previous efforts to defuse border disputes fruitless,” Qian Feng, director of the research department of the National Strategy Institute at Tsinghua University in Beijing, told the nationalistic tabloid Global Times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-don-t-want-to-see-more-clashes-beijing/story-tgkkJnwsSMMnwoLZZCxahP.html
18-06-2020||India||ITBP asked to keep eye on Chinese troops along border||Intelligence agencies are assisting the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) technologically and providing it satellite imagery as the government has directed the force to solidify its presence and keep an eye on the movement of Chinese troops along the 3,488 km long India-China border from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh, two officials said. More troops were being rushed to the frontier, they added. Tensions between India and China have escalated since Monday when at least 20 Indian troops were killed after Chinese soldiers attacked them with clubs studded with nails and stones in Ladakh’s remote Galwan Valley.The officials cited above said the border guarding force was being provided with the imagery to ascertain if Chinese troops were trying to transgress from other areas along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the de facto border between the two countries.ITBP troops are deployed at 180 border outposts (BoPs) along LAC in Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh in a treacherous terrain located between 9,000 feet to 18,750 feet above sea level, where temperatures can dip to minus 45 degree C.“Each BoP usually has a strength of 100 to 110 personnel but following aggressive behaviour of [Chinese] People’s Liberation Army in the Ladakh sector and... [the attack] particularly, we are sending more troops from the battalion headquarters and other postings,” said an official who did not wish to be named.A second official said satellite-based surveillance is important for border guarding forces to know the movement of Chinese or even Pakistani troops before it is too late.The government had decided to make ITBP the nodal agency for a G-SAT Centre in Delhi to monitor things like Chinese troop movement, their strength along LAC in case of a similar situation after the 2017 Doklam standoff between the two countries. The centre is yet to become operationalThe government is also yet to raise four more ITBP battalions (around 4,000 troops) that it had decided in 2017 for better border management.Top ITBP officials could not be reached for a comment on the matter while the Union home ministry said it has no additional information to share.According to government data, Chinese transgressions along LAC have gone up over the last few years, particularly in Ladakh. In 2019, there were 663 such incidents.A parliamentary standing committee report on the Doklam standoff and the border situation with China in September 2018 noted Beijing remains in illegal occupation of 38,000 sq km area of the erstwhile state of Jammu & Kashmir. China has illegally acquired Pakistan Occupied Kashmir’s 5,180 sq km territory from Pakistan, it added. The report said China claims about 2,000 sq km territory in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand.The panel asked the government to monitor the Chinese activities along the border, improve the infrastructure and equip Indian forces to respond befittingly to any contingency. It added in absence of commonly delineated LAC, China sees it in its interest to keep the dispute alive indefinitely for “throwing India off-balance whenever it so desires”.The panel asked the government “to improve coordination between the army and the Air Force, which could provide better airborne early warning and control support to the forces on the ground when difficult situations arise, including through the deployment of unmanned aerial vehicles or drones”.The panel asked the Centre to urgently re-energize ties with neighbouring countries. “It is clear that we now have to contend with the possibility of some of the countries in our neighbourhood playing the China card as leverage in their relations with us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/itbp-asked-to-keep-eye-on-border-activity/story-LBJcS9IIBO7uNgKY8YntfN.html
18-06-2020||India||Behind Galwan’s bloody face-off, China’s plan to interdict gateway to Karakoram||It was the Chinese People’s Liberation Army’s insistence of constructing an observation post at Indian patrolling point that resulted in the violent scrap between the two sides on the evening of June 15, according to a a sequence of events put together by HT. The post would have helped the Chinese to not only observe Indian troop movement towards Karakoram but also would have had the capacity to interdict army vehicles plying on the Darbuk-Shyok-Daulet Beg Oldi (DBO) road . Most importantly, the post was on India’s side of the Line of Actual Control or LAC. While External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar red-flagged this issue in his conversation with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi, it is quite evident that the PLA had a pre-meditated plan in the garb of de-escalation to change the agreed alignment of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and push out Indian Army from Patrolling Point 14. This would have been hugely detrimental to Indian interests.  Also Watch | China’s response on Ladakh violence as PM Modi says ‘don’t provoke’ Set-up in 1978 by the Indian Army, Point 14 is on a ridge that overlooks both the Galwan River Valley and the Galwan Nullah which joins the Shyok river on whose bank the DSBO road is being build by Indian Army engineers.Based on detailed interactions with the military brass and former commanders, the Hindustan Times has learnt that the June 6 meeting between military commanders of  India and China, even defined the number of troops to be present at each point leading to Point 14. But even as the the de-escalation was on, the Chinese wanted to put up a watch post near Point 14 on grounds that they wanted to observe the dis-engagement of troops. This was strongly objected to by 16 Bihar Commanding Officer Col Santosh Babu who rightly saw this as the breach of laid down rules of disengagement.Also Read: The message is clear: China pressing forward to create new buffer zonesAround dusk on Monday, June 15, Col Santosh and his company commander went up to Point 14 and told his PLA counterpart to pull down the structure. A heated exchange ensued, more troops rushed in from both sides, and punches were thrown. The Chinese PLA, which has a base camp down from the ridge near the Galwan River, rushed in more troops in armoured personal carriers to the nearest road-head to Point 14. Initially, the Indian troops were present in significant strength but the PLA soon outnumbered them . While Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi has asked India to punish its troops for breach of discipline, the fact is that the PLA wanted to set up the observation post as part of its efforts to redefine the LAC; Chinese officers told their Indian officers before the scrap that the alignment of the LAC was behind Point 14. The illegal Chinese post would not only have made the Indian position at Point 14 untenable but also given a huge tactical advantage to the PLA with the option of interdicting Indian Army movement on the soon to be constructed bridge with artillery or direct fire. If the post had been allowed to be set-up the Indian army supplies to DBO camp ahead would have been at the mercy of Chinese PLA. With more than 600 troops involved in fisticuffs and hand to hand combat, the mountain ledge on which the fighting was taking place gave away to a landslide. This led to casualties on both sides as the troops fell into the Galwan nullah and river with a section of Indian troops being isolated on the other bank of the tributary. Drenched in ice cold water of Galwan and with temperatures running way below zero, the Indian troops had nowhere to hide against the elements at an altitude of 16000 feet. A large number of Indian casualties are on count on standing out in the open in wet clothes to prevent the PLA taking control of Point 14. According to top military officers, the Chinese PLA engaged in a show of strength on the morning of June 16 by bringing in more armoured personnel carriers to the nearest road head to intimidate their Indian counterparts. The PLA also linked the dis-engagement on Patrolling point 15 to the Indian Army allowing the observation post being built near Point 14 on the Indian side. It was the courage of Col Santosh and his men that prevented that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pla-s-plans-for-an-observation-post-triggered-clashes/story-HoEL1u5Dxtv1GVH46RnUfI.html
18-06-2020||India||Outnumbered, Indian soldiers stood ground in violent seven-hour face-off||The clash between Indian and Chinese troops in which both sides suffered casualties on Monday began at around 7 pm in the Galwan Valley when an Indian Army squad of about 50 soldiers, led by Colonel Santosh Babu, reached a contested site near what is known as Patrol Point 14, people familiar with the developments said on Wednesday.The soldiers were unarmed, as part of a protocol between the two sides. Forward troops patrolling the disputed border either do not carry guns, or, if they do, keep them slung on their backs with the magazines in pouches and not clipped on. Also read: ‘LAC holds no sanctity for Chinese army’, says General Ved Prakash MalikThe Chinese soldiers were supposed to have withdrawn from the location under a de-escalation plan discussed by senior commanders from both sides on June 6. “But the Indian squad found the Chinese troops, in violation of that understanding, did not pull back and their tents and an observation post was still around,” said one of the persons cited above.It was when Colonel Babu and his team confronted the Chinese soldiers about their continued presence at the site that the clash broke out, this official said, adding that the situation swiftly escalated as the Chinese soldiers refused to vacate their positions and the Indian soldiers removed the tents and the observation post that were on the Indian side of the LAC. Also Watch | The General who first saw through China’s intentions in LadakhAlso read: Satellite images show build-up at Galwan Valley where clashes killed 20 Indian soldiersIn a matter of minutes, the soldiers were locked in hand-to-hand fighting that triggered a seven-hour violent face-off involving reinforcements from both sides. The clashes spread out from the Patrol point 14 area to a nearby narrow ridge overlooking the river. It was here that both sides suffered casualties, second of the three officials HT spoke to, said.The soldiers exchanged blows, threw stones at each other, and the Chinese troops attacked Indian soldiers with iron rods and nail-studded clubs, as reported by HT on Wednesday. Some soldiers, from both sides, fell into the water and their bodies were later retrieved on Tuesday morning.The external affairs ministry corroborated this sequence of events on Wednesday when it detailed a conversation between foreign minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi. In a phone call, Jaishankar told Yi that the Chinese soldiers’ actions “reflected an intent to change the facts on the ground in violation of all our agreements to not change the status quo”.Jaishankar, in his call, underscored the need to implement the June 6 understanding reached by the military officials of both sides as part of a phased de-escalation strategy to ease tensions that had persisted for weeks. The plan was discussed between Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in the South Xinjiang region. According to it, the Chinese side was supposed to have fallen back around 5km to the east of the location, said the third official. They retreated a bit last week but came back to retake the positions they had temporarily vacated, this person said.On Monday, the Chinese deployment had numerical superiority over the Indian side --- more than 250 of them were present in the area when the Indian squad, despite being fewer in numbers, demanded the PLA remove the structures and withdraw in order to return to status quo, these officials added. “The Chinese were, however, adamant on holding their ground. They seemed prepared for a face-off,” said the second of three officials who was aware of the confrontation, asking not to be named. In the first wave of clashes on Monday night, Babu and two other soldiers were grievously hurt and succumbed to their injuries. Reinforcements arrived from the Indian side within an hour and the brawl spilled over to beyond midnight, the third person said, adding that the face-off involved more than 500 soldiers from both sides.The clash took place in pitch-dark conditions and resulted in 20 deaths on the Indian side, and possibly 40-45 casualties including injuries on the Chinese side, pushing the bilateral relationship between the two nuclear powers to an all-time low.They were the first Indian casualties in a border skirmish with the People’s Liberation Army since October 1975 when Chinese troops ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector and shot four soldiers dead. The deadly confrontation came on a day when army delegations from India and China held talks at two locations along the LAC --- one involving brigadier-ranked officers who met at the Galwan Valley, and the other between Colonel-ranked officers at Hot Springs --- as part of continuing efforts to resolve the standoff.The army acknowledged three casualties in a statement issued on Tuesday afternoon. It later issued another statement in the evening saying, “17 Indian troops who were critically injured in the line of duty at the stand-off location and exposed to sub-zero temperatures in the high altitude terrain have succumbed to their injuries, taking the total killed in action to 20.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/outnumbered-indian-soldiers-stood-ground-in-violent-seven-hour-face-off/story-HUkKcHVvoxjE03OKVU79JO.html
18-06-2020||India||960 train coaches set up as isolation wards deployed||The Centre has deployed 960 railways coaches converted into isolation wards in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, and Madhya Pradesh amid a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, officials said on Wednesday. Over half of the coaches (503) have been pressed into service in the national capital, followed by Uttar Pradesh (372), Telangana (60), Andhra Pradesh (20) and Madhya Pradesh (five), they added.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal last week said Delhi will need 150,000 beds by the end of July amid a spike in the Covid-19 cases. Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday promised 500 railway coaches for Delhi with a capacity of 8,000 beds to treat Covid-19 patients to mitigate any possible shortage of beds as he held meetings for augmenting health care infrastructure. The government also plans to use stadiums, hotels and banquet halls as makeshift hospitals in Delhi.The isolation coaches have been stationed at nine stations in Delhi with a bulk of them--267--at Anand Vihar. “The Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia... reviewed the coaches [on Wednesday]. They are seriously considering it and will inform us on the patients once the demand arises,” said northern railways general manager Rajiv Chaudhary. He added no patient has so far been admitted to these coaches.In a statement, the railway ministry said the isolation coaches will be under the care of the chief medical officers of the concerned states and they will deploy doctors and paramedics for them as per the Union health ministry’s procedures. It added the railways will deploy two liaison officers for each location to assist the state governments.The ministry said the isolation coaches can be used for patients with mild symptoms and in areas where states have “exhausted the facilities” and need to augment capacities for isolation of both suspected and confirmed cases.The first Covid-19 coaches with 160 beds were deployed at Delhi’s Shakur Basti railway station on May 31.Officials said the states have sought the coaches around two months after they were prepared. The railways has modified 5,231 coaches to be used as Covid-19 care centres.The 372 Covid-19 coaches in Uttar Pradesh have been deployed at 23 locations, including Lucknow, Varanasi, Bhadohi, Faizabad, and Saharanpur.In Madhya Pradesh, all five coaches have been stationed at Gwalior. The 20 Covid-19 coaches in Andhra Pradesh have been pressed into service in Vijayawada and the 60 in Telangana’s Secunderabad, Kachguda and Adilabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/960-train-coaches-set-up-as-isolation-wards-deployed/story-4B4Ko9vac40mjkrrBnLTXJ.html
18-06-2020||India||Church suspends 2 priests over abuse||Thiruvananthapuram: The Thalassery Archdiocese of Syro-Malabar Church in Kerala on Wednesday suspended two priests, who were accused of sexual harassment last year, after audio clips of their purported sleazy conversation went viral on social media.In a statement, the diocese apologised to the believers saying the two, Father Joseph Poothattil and Father Mathew Mullappallil, were supposed to “hold a high moral ground but they failed”.It said the priests have been debarred and restrained from carrying out priestly duties indefinitely. A woman last year complained to the diocese about the alleged harassment while others have also complained about their behaviour even. But the church brushed aside these charges and defended them.The audio clips surfaced on social media last week in which one of the priests is purportedly heard admitting to having a relationship with the woman and how they really wanted to get out of it. They were also purportedly talking about a dalliance with the woman. Some video clips also surfaced later.“Whatever we want to say, it is there in the statement. We don’t want to make more comments on this,” said the spokesman (NAME) of the archdiocese. Police said they are yet to get a complaint in this regard while the two priests were unavailable for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/church-suspends-2-priests-over-abuse/story-gBm0HTjxn57p74DwxnFmcM.html
18-06-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh braces for fresh swarm of locusts||As many as 36 districts of Madhya Pradesh have been ravaged by desert locusts, a pest that continues to wreak havoc on the state’s agriculture output despite concerted efforts by the agriculture department to control them. With a huge swarm of locusts expected to enter the country through Jaisalmer district in Rajasthan from Wednesday, and soon spread to other states, the Madhya Pradesh government has asked all its districts to be on alert to tackle the menace.Swarms of locusts had earlier entered the state through Neemuch in Malwa region and Sheopur in Gwalior-Chambal region around mid-May. A release issued by the state government on Wednesday said, “Two fire tenders sprayed about 80 litres of insecticide on a swarm of locusts spread over a 4km area in Simarhar village of Vidisha district on Tuesday. Similarly, chemicals were sprayed on locusts at Parana, Goojarakhedi and Dhanola villages in Agar Malwa and Kalidudhi and Harra villages of Anupur district on Tuesday.”“All districts have been directed to be alert and be prepared with necessary resources to track the movement of locusts and control it,” the release said. Locust warning office, a Union agriculture ministry wing, deputy director KL Gurjar said, “As on Wednesday, swarms of locusts were spotted in Panna, Damoh, Guna and a few other places in Madhya Pradesh. However, we are tracking and controlling the pests and they will be completely eliminated by the time the kharif crop season begins.”Madhya Pradesh’s minister for agriculture and farmers’ welfare Kamal Patel said, “A sum of ₹51 lakh was sanctioned to 15 districts and ₹64 lakh to 21 other districts for locusts control. We are taking effective measures in controlling the pest. Those farmers whose vegetables or other crops have been damaged will be compensated as per the rules of the revenue department.”The state government is yet to release any report on the extent of crop loss --mainly vegetables and lentils -- wrought by the pests belonging to the grasshopper family. However, since there is no rabi crop in the fields currently, officials said no massive damage was caused by locusts.The state agriculture department has decided to seek the help of farmers who own tractors and sprayers for spraying chemicals on locusts. A government official said the department wants farmers to come forward voluntarily to help control locusts, while chemicals will be provided by the department. Government may also consider incentivising them, another official from the agriculture department said.The next round of major locust attack is expected in mid-July with the pests travelling from the Horn of Africa and entering Rajasthan via Pakistan, the LWO has warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-braces-for-fresh-swarm-of-locusts/story-gxumsJqgTpYSwuYZoSk89H.html
18-06-2020||India||India all set to win seat at UN Security Council||Washington: India was expected to be elected unopposed on Wednesday to the UN Security Council this week and will hope to use its eighth term as a non-permanent member to bolster its claim to a permanent seat with the avowed goal of forging a “new orientation for a reformed multilateral system”.India is the endorsed candidate of the Asia-Pacific Group of UN member countries and faces no competition. Its election to one of the five open seats on the 15-member council is a given, though some UN diplomats involved with the election said they are “keeping our fingers crossed”.Voting by paper ballot will start at 9:30 am (7:00 pm India time on Wednesday) and is expected to go on till 1:30 pm (11pm, India), stretching a process that should have been wrapped up, with the results, possibly by noon, as it happened in 2010, the last time India was elected to UNSC. The results will be known around 4:30 pm (2:00 am Thursday in India).The 193 UN member countries will vote to elect five non-permanent members in a phased manner for the first time in the world body’s 75-year history. They will be allowed on to the floor of the general assembly, where the voting takes place, in smaller groups, or 20 or so, because of the social distancing norms in place because of Covid-19, said diplomats familiar with the process. New York City, where the UN is headquartered, remains the epicentre of the disease in the US. It has only recently started lifting restrictions on businesses and public life.UN diplomats are uncertain how many of the member countries which can vote — some like Venezuela are barred for non-payment of membership dues — will actually show up to cast their ballots, which must be done physically and not virtually or remotely through an electronic button.Candidate countries such as India need two-thirds of the votes cast to win; no shows will not count as yes, no or abstention, said officials familiar with the rules. India won 187 votes in 2010 and started its seventh term on January 1, 2011. Its previous terms were 1950-1951, 1967-1968, 1972-1973, 1977-1978, 1984-1985 and 1991-1992.Mexico is the other endorsed candidate that is likely to go through unopposed from the Latin American and the Caribbean Group seat. Canada, Ireland and Norway are contesting for the two seats for the Western European and Other Group and Kenya and Djibouti are running for the African Group seat.The Security Council has 15 members. Five of them are permanent members — the US, the UK, France, Russia and China — and 10 are non-permanent. Half the non-permanent members are elected every year, each for a two-year term, starting January 1.India expects to use its eighth term to further build its case for a permanent seat in a reformed Security Council, something that it has been pushing for years now along with other claimants like Japan, Germany and Brazil, which have called the current set up outdated and out of sync with the changed global realities.“Reformed multilateralism to reflect contemporary realities” will be one of India’s priorities, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said June 5, as he released a brief document laying out India’s priorities and approaches as it sought another term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-all-set-to-win-seat-at-un-security-council/story-iOW7OkbP8cZmIM8Y4bOlxK.html
18-06-2020||India||Holding pay of medical staff on Covid frontines may be criminalised||The Union government is likely to criminalise withholding salaries of doctors and nurses deployed at the frontlines of the battle against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and issue guidelines making it mandatory for states to make adequate quarantine and isolation facilities for medical professionals, after a Supreme Court order on Wednesday.The top court was hearing a petition by a doctor who said medical professionals were not being paid in several regions and found it tough to isolate themselves, citing risks to their families if they are infected. The court, which last week likened medical staff on Covid-19 duty to soldiers on the battlefield, was assured by the solicitor general that new rules will be issued within 24 hours. The bench, comprising Justices SK Kaul and MR Shah, directed the Centre to release the order by Thursday. Last week, the judges asked Centre to travel the extra mile: “This is a kind of war. You cannot keep soldiers unhappy during a war.”The Centre had received a representation last week from the petitioner Arushi Jain indicating problems in salaries and of keeping medical workers’ families safe. The communication flagged the May 15 “Advisory for Managing Healthcare Workers working in COVID and non-COVID Areas of the Hospital” issued by the health ministry, which said that only “high-risk” health care workers or those showing symptoms of Covid-19 should get 14-day quarantine. The representation, drafted by advocate Mithu Jain, highlighted non-payment of wages, insufficient PPE kits, and long working hours among other concerns.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Centre through videoconferencing, informed the Court that as regards non-payment of wages, the Joint Monitoring Group headed by the Director General of Health Services (DGHS) has decided to issue fresh directive to states for strict compliance. He said that non-compliance will be treated an offence under the Disaster Management Act read with Section 188 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) that prescribes punishment for disobeying orders passed by a public servant.For the petitioner, senior advocate KV Vishwanathan suggested to the bench that since health is a state subject, it would be proper to receive responses on quarantine facilities from states. But the Court refused to pass an order asking Centre to take up this aspect with states as part of its directive.The bench was of the firm view that doctors, nurses, medical staff who are looking after coronavirus infected patients must receive at least one week quarantine that can be further extended by a week, depending on their condition. The bench remarked, “The May 15 guidelines have done away with quarantine for health care workers unless they are high-risk or symptomatic.” Mehta clarified that quarantine is mandatory for all who are in contact with COVID patients.The bench has kept the matter after four weeks to monitor compliance of its directions by states and UTs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/holding-medical-staff-pay-may-be-criminalised/story-aKkABGNklo36yzE63rZfgM.html
18-06-2020||India||SC seeks CBSE response to plea against board exams in July||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE)’s response to a plea seeking quashing of the latter’s May 18 decision to hold the remaining board examinations for Class 10 and 12 from July 1 to July 15.The CBSE’s lawyer did not have concrete instructions from his client and sought time to respond.The court did not issue a formal notice but asked CBSE to consider the plea and respond by June 23 whether it would go ahead with the exams.CBSE on May 18 issued a notification on holding the remaining examinations. It put ongoing exams on hold two months earlier due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Four parents have filed the petition saying their children face the risk of contracting the infection if they appear for the exams while citing warnings that the infections will peak in July. They have called the fresh notification for the exams arbitrary.The court asked the petitioner’s counsel, Rishi Malhotra, what his clients’ proposal was in case the examinations are postponed. Malhotra told the court that results should be declared as per marks scored in exams held and internal assessment scores of the papers for which exams have not been held.The petition noted the exams were being held across 15,000 centres and added ensuring proper cleanliness and safety standards as prescribed would be “a herculean task”.“[Covid] cases in India are rising dramatically and as on date there are almost 3,00,000 cases... Moreover, even if it is to be assumed that 50 percent of the cases are asymptomatic, then the students appearing for these exams could also be potential careers themselves posing a great risk to the other family members,” the petition said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-cbse-response-to-plea-against-board-exams-in-july/story-KGCMi7F9WlkjYAYM0Zpx0H.html
18-06-2020||India||To arrest rising Covid-19 toll, govt plans to expand rapid testing||India is scaling up diagnosis using rapid tests across the country to track, trace and treat all cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to contain its spread and bring down the number of deaths, as the number of fatalities caused by the virus in the past 24 hours on Wednesday crossed 2,000 nationally.The government’s focus so far has been on keeping the death rate down, but with the surge in numbers, it is exploring all possible alternatives to track every single infected person in the country, and re-strategising disease management to ensure no serious patient is left untreated.For testing, the antigen-based rapid test recommended by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will be expanded in a big way across the states with a high disease burden, especially in containment zones and hotspots and hospitals.In a letter to health secretary Preeti Sudan on Sunday, Dr Balram Bhargava, director general of the ICMR said, “…Testing remains a cornerstone in our fight against Covid-19, and therefore ramping up testing is essentially critical to track, trace, and treat all cases of Covid-19. Since the gold standard RT-PCR test has essential requirements in terms of biosafety and biosecurity as well as specialized equipment, ICMR had been exploring alternate quick and reliable options for diagnosis of Covid-19.”The antigen-based testing will begin with Delhi that has been reporting about 50 deaths daily on average over the past few weeks, to prevent the spread of infection.“To prevent the disease spread, aggressive testing is the only solution. All states will have to strictly enhance their testing capacity as more you test, the more number of people you will be able to treat in time. Not everyone needs hospitalization but we must be able to identify those who do to save lives. Testing is the only way. The states have been advised to take up antigen based testing as it will be able to cover a large population in a short span of time that will give us quick results and modify strategies accordingly,” said an ICMR official, who did not wish to be identified.Community engagement is another key area that the government is focusing on to avoid people stigmatizing people suspecting either to have been infected by Covid-19 or have recovered from it.The ministry of health has drafted an elaborate awareness campaign material to be circulated within the community to educate people. The document highlights the issue of stigma being the one of the reasons why many people conceal symptoms, and don’t seek medical care, thus reporting late to hospital.“To some extent late reporting to hospital of Covid patients due to stigma attached is still a concern, and one of the reasons for patients turning serious,” says, Dr Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi.When assessing rising deaths in Gujarat recently, Dr Guleria had found that along with comorbidities, people were succumbing to Covid in the state because they were reporting their symptoms late for fear of stigma; and by the time they were tested and put on treatment it was already too late. “Community engagement to ensure people don’t face stigma in society that will be the ultimate key to help people come forward and report symptoms. And people who interact with the public, making door-to-door visits need to adequately trained to communicate the message well. It’s important for these people to connect with the masses well only then the mind-set will change,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head, community medicine department, Safdarjung Hospital. Another focus area is to enhance the health infrastructure across the country in terms of beds, especially Intensive Care Unit beds with oxygen support for serious patients, to treat all those serious enough to require hospital care.“We have added thousands of beds, especially increased ICU beds, labs and are procuring more ventilators. Even though our capacity isn’t fully utilized, both in terms of testing and hospitalization, the country is fully prepared to deal with the surge. This is all a part of the overall strategy to save lives. Cases may increase but we shouldn’t be losing lives, and we have been lucky that our death rate is the lowest in the world,” said a health ministry official.“As for rising deaths one must remember that it is reporting of deaths in past 24 hours; not really these many deaths in a day.”As of now India has 958 dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, with 167,883 isolation beds, 21,614 ICU beds and 73,469 oxygen supported beds. There are 2,313 dedicated Covid health centres with 133,037 isolation beds; 10,748 ICU beds and 46,635 oxygen supported beds have also been operationalised.In 7,525 Covid care centres there are 7,10,642 beds now available in the country. There are currently 21,494 ventilators available for Covid beds.Experts say that for better utilization of hospital beds, the strategy should be to prioritise admissions.“We should prioritise admission to hospitals with critical care for elderly and those with co-morbidities irrespective of age. Early identification of poor O2 saturation, faster transit to facilities with high-flow oxygen is important for those isolated at home. Planning can save lives. Allocation of critical care beds through centralised risk scoring and automatic allotment based on region/risk category can prevent confusion & promotes equity. Trust and partnerships with private hospitals and community are integral to reduce overall mortality,” says Dr Giridhara Babu, head, epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health, Public Health Foundation of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-arrest-rising-covid-toll-govt-plans-to-expand-rapid-testing/story-gHJiCjEiHsjALLkJvF7JqI.html
18-06-2020||India||Modi rejects demand to delink reforms from state borrowing||Prime Minister Narendra Modi wants to remain focused on economic reforms and use the Covid-19 pandemic to push some long-pending measures.The PM’s meeting with chief ministers on Tuesday provided a clear indication of the Centre’s intention to stay the course of reforms although its agenda was largely devoted to the pandemic. Punjab CM captain Amarinder Singh demanded at the meeting that the Centre delink a requirement for reforms from an enhancement of the states’ market borrowing limits. His argument, according to a person who attended the meeting, was that while the Centre had permitted states to borrow more money from the market, the increase has been linked to stringent reform conditions. Singh argued that reforms and borrowing should not be tied. The Prime Minister rejected the argument. Two people who attended the meeting quoted Modi as telling Singh not to make it a prestige issue. “Use this opportunity to bring in reforms this will help your state and your people. You should also create a conducive environment for economic growth while enhancing health infrastructure,” the PM said.As a part of the financial package announced by the Centre in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic, it had accepted the demand from many states and hiked the net borrowing limit to 5% of gross state domestic product (GSDP) from 3%. Out of the 2 percentage points increase in the borrowing limit, 1.5 percentage points would be linked to “specified and measurable” reform actions. The PM added that the Centre trusted the states to do the right thing and that’s why was pushing the states to implement reforms. Elaborating on the need for reforms, Modi said that going forward, the country would need a continuous upgrade of the health infrastructure and accelerated economic growth, the people cited above said. He also maintained that Covid-19 “cases in absolute terms may increase but don’t lose sight of economic revival and upgradation of our healthcare.” The laundry list of reform measures include four broad categories: pushing the one nation-one ration card programme to provide universal access to the public distribution system, further ease of doing business, making power distribution more viable and enhancing the revenues of municipal bodies. Announcing the reforms, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on May 17 that the extra borrowing will be linked to specific reforms, including some recommendations by the 15th Finance Commission. The Centre also expected the states to ensure sustainability of additional debt through higher GSDP growth and lower fiscal deficits. This measure, according to the Centre, would allow states to mop up from an additional, combined fund of Rs 4.28 lakh crore to meet their fiscal needs.Achiransu Acharya, an economist with Viswa Bharati University, said, “In this time of fiscal crunch, the state and its different arms should be able to able to improve its fiscal heath and for that reason they must usher in reforms. For example, if the states undertake power sector reforms, the power tariff might increase for consumers. Remember, when multilateral agencies such as IMF or World Bank gives loans, they too, want guarantee on reforms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-rejects-demand-to-delink-reforms-from-state-borrowing/story-SQ7nsaY5SOj4AdAQ1sQtTN.html
18-06-2020||India||Focus on testing, boost economy: Modi to CMs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said that instead of a lockdown, India now needs to focus on the next phase of unlocking the country; speed up economic activities; continue to expand testing, and trace-track-isolate Covid-19 positive cases; and battle the fear of being afflicted by the disease and overcome the stigma around it by highlighting the number of recoveries. Speaking at the second — and concluding day — of his meeting with chief ministers (the sixth such interaction on the coronavirus pandemic) on Wednesday, PM Modi also reiterated the fact that the economy was witnessing a revival. Six CMs spoke at the meeting, and their demands included extension of the PM Gareeb Kalyan Yojana for another three months, greater financial support, and policy initiatives to attract investments in their respective states. They also spoke about the challenge of providing employment to migrant workers who had returned home. The PM began the interaction by paying tribute to the personnel of the armed forces who had been killed in the India-China border face off. The PM mentioned that the country has entered the phase of unlocking and added, “We need to now think about phase 2 of the Unlock and how to minimise all possibilities of harm to our people.” Unlock 1.0 — which has seen relaxations in economic activity, travel, and opening of businesses and markets — will last till the end of the month. PM Modi also talked about the need to fight rumours of lockdown, after Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao mentioned in his speech how people thought this PM-CM meeting has been called to extend lockdown and rollback relaxations.HT had reported on June 13 that there are no plans to impose a stringent nationwide lockdown again.On the economic front, PM Modi spoke of the reduction in restrictions outside the containment areas and how indicators of economic performance are showing signs of revival. He pointed out that inflation is under control and asked states to boost infrastructure and construction related work, with an eye to engage the large number of construction workers who have returned to their villages. The PM also listed the measures under the Atmanirbhar Bharat programme to help different sectors and asked states effectively tackle the challenges faced by the migrant labourers in the coming months.NR Bhanumurthy of National Institute of Public Finance and Policy, said, “India already had a stringent lockdown period and it has managed it well. But now I am glad that PM Modi understood the weakness in economy. In unlock 2, there are a series of proposed measures, and time has come to roll them out quickly.”On the health front, the PM reiterated the importance of testing to quickly trace, track and isolate Covid-19 positive cases and said that apart from maximising the existing testing capacity, there must be a constant effort to expand it. He also emphasised the “emotional aspect” of the challenge and asked states to help people “battling fear of being afflicted and the stigma” by highlighting the large number of recovered patients. “Our priority must remain to help and support our corona warriors, doctors and health care workers,” Modi said, highlighting the importance of Jan Bhaagidaari, or people’s participation, in the battle.Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray and Telangana CM Rao urged the PM to extended to PM Gareeb Kalyan package by another three months to help the poor. The ₹1.7 lakh crore package was announced soon after the first lockdown, and provides income support and welfare to vulnerable segments of the population. Tamil Nadu CM E Palaniswamy asked for a relief package of ₹9,000 crore, another package for power sector and ₹1000 crore from the national disaster relief fund. Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath spoke about how they have mapped the skills of all 3.4 million migrant workers who returned to the state and now plans are afoot, across 80 skill areas, to give them employment. The UP CM also demanded an integrated strategy for the National Capital Region in tackling covid as a few UP states also fall in this region.Bihar CM said 3 million migrant labourers had returned to the state and now they did want to go back. He urged the PM to help Bihar get more private investments to create jobs as the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee scheme and other government programmes could not absorb such a large workforce. Telangana CM Rao, who spoke right after Bihar, requested the PM to persuade Nitish Kumar to allow workers who are willing to return to Telangana as the southern state is facing considerable difficulty in running industries.Bhanumurthy maintained that in the PM Garib Kalyan Yojna there are a few low-hanging fruits. “Expenditure that goes through DBT or PMGKY has to be used to push resources to boost demand. The government can think about increasing the cap of MGNREGS days. As millions of migrant labourers have returned to their villages, the states should think about their social security. There is an urgent need to have a labour policy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-on-testing-boost-economy-modi-to-cms/story-YRWDBpFaOwqdk8aMWtoGfJ.html
18-06-2020||India||Govt issues revised guidelines for Covid-19 lockdown: What’s mandatory, what’s prohibited||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the extension of Covid-19 lockdown, the government on Wednesday issued revised guideline to be followed till May 3.Travel by air, rail and road, operation of educational and training institutions, industrial and commercial activities, hospitality services, cinema halls and shopping complexes will remain closed, as per the order issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Tuesday.All social, political and other events and opening of all religious places will also remain closed till the time the lockdown is in force, said the order.Also Watch: 7 things PM Modi wants you to do during lockdown Also Read: 13 activities that will remain suspended till May 3The use of homemade face covers at workplace and public places has been made mandatory. The offices have been asked to provide sanitisers, run staggered shifts, ensure access control and put in place thermal screening, as per the revised guideline.“The objective of the revised guidelines is to consolidate the gains achieved during the 1st phase of lockdown and further slow down the spread of Covid-19 and at the same time provide relief to farmers and labour and daily wage earners,” the government said in a release.Also Read: What new guidelines mean for you“The revised consolidated guidelines are aimed at operating those sectors of the economy which are critical from the perspective of rural and agricultural development and job creation, while maintaining strict protocols in areas where safety is paramount to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the country,” the government release said.To mitigate hardship to the public, select additional activities will be allowed and come into effect from April 20.As per the guideline, “additional activities will be operationalised by states and the Union Territories (UTs) based on strict compliance to the existing guidelines on lockdown measures”.The revised guideline will not apply in containment zones, as demarcated by states, union territories and district administration. The guideline was issued after Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday morning announced extension of the 21-day lockdown for another 19 days until May 3 to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus or Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-issues-revised-guidelines-for-covid-19-lockdown-what-s-mandatory-what-s-prohibited/story-0G8mfTuLQ3onwxvBhpxN2O.html
