19-06-2020||India||‘Ranneeti, not Rajneeti’, KCR hands out mantra for a united strategy to counter China||Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao on Friday advised that India should not take any hasty decisions with regard to border confrontation with China, while, at the same time, It should also not compromise on the national interests. KCR made the remarks during the all party meet called to discuss the Chinese act of aggression in Galwan Valley which resulted in the deaths of 20 Indian soldiers on Monday night. “We need to adopt short-term and long-term strategies to counter China. In this regard, we all stand by the Central government,” KCR said, while leaders from other political parties made a range of suggestions including an economic blockade to counter Beijing .KCR laid emphasis on laying a careful strategy and said the need of the hour was not Raj Neeti (politicking) but Ran Neeti (war strategy). He added that China was not able to tolerate India’s growth as a stable democracy and an economic superpower. “In order to overcome its internal crisis, China is trying to create a war-like situation on the borders to divert their people’s attention,” he opined.KCR, however, opposed the suggestion for stopping all imports from China. “It will be a hasty decision. First, let us start indigenously producing the goods that we are importing from China and make them affordable. Then we can think of banning imports,” he advised.Also Read: ‘Taught them a lesson’: PM Modi explains the big picture in stand-off with ChinaHe also used the platform to announce an ex gratia relief of Rs 5 crore to the family of Colonel Santosh Babu, the commander of 16 Bihar regiment, who was killed in a clash with Chinese troops at Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh. In addition, the Telangana CM also announced Rs 10 lakh ex-gratia relief to each of the families of 19 soldiers who died in the clash along with Santosh.KCR said the state government was announcing the ex gratia in honour of the bravery shown by Col Santosh Babu while fighting the Chinese troops. “The state government will also provide a residential plot to his family and Group-1 job to the officer’s wife Santoshi,” he said.KCR said he would soon visit the family members of Col Santosh Babu and present the cheque personally on behalf of the state government.With regard to the financial assistance of Rs 10 lakh each to the families of the other 19 soldiers, he said the amount would be handed over to the bereaved families through the Union defence ministry.‘India is one’: Amit Shah spells out the message from all party meet on Galwan Valley clashThe chief minister said the state government would extend complete support to the family of Colonel Santosh Babu in future. He also said that the entire nation should stand united and extend support to the families of the soldiers who were guarding the borders.“We must display the symbol of unity and send a strong signal that the nation is with the brave soldiers and their families. Our actions will instill confidence among the armed forces personnel and their families,” he said.The chief minister said while the Central government will provide necessary support to the families of the martyrs, the states, too, should take responsibility.He emphasised the need for the States to provide monetary and other kind of support to the bereaved families by reducing their expenditures even during the Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kcr-announces-rs-5-cr-for-col-santosh-s-family-rs-10-lakh-each-for-kin-of-19-other-soldiers-killed-in-galwan-valley/story-hGo1Inbqa1TrvKeYp1K4FL.html
19-06-2020||India||KCR announces Rs 5 crore for Col Santosh’s family, Rs 10 lakh each for kin of 19 soldiers||In an unprecedented gesture, Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Friday announced ex-gratia of Rs 5 crore to the family of Colonel Santosh Babu, the commander of the 16th Bihar regiment, who was killed in a clash with Chinese troops at Galwan valley in Eastern Ladakh, on Monday night.The chief minister also announced Rs 10 lakh to each of the families of 19 soldiers who died in the clashes along with Santosh.KCR made this announcement while speaking at the all-party meeting held by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the evening.The chief minister said the state government was announcing the ex gratia in honour of the bravery shown by Col Santosh Babu while fighting the Chinese troops. “The state government will also provide a residential plot to his family and Group-I job to the officer’s wife Santoshi,” he said.KCR said he would soon visit the family members of Col Santosh Babu and present the cheque personally on behalf of the state government.With regard to the financial assistance of Rs 10 lakh each to the families of the other 19 soldiers, he said the amount would be handed over to the bereaved families through the Union Defence Ministry.The chief minister said the state government would extend complete support to the family of Colonel Santosh Babu in future. He felt that the entire nation should stand united and extend support to the families of the soldiers who were guarding the borders.“We must display the symbol of unity and send a strong signal that the nation is with the brave soldiers and their families. Our actions will instill confidence among the armed forces personnel and their families,” he said.The chief minister said while the Central government will provide necessary support to the families of the martyrs, the states too should take responsibility and join hands to extend support.He emphasised the need for the states to provide monetary and other support to the bereaved families by reducing their expenditures even during the Covid-19 crisis.The chief minister said India should not take any hasty decisions with regard to skirmishes with China on border issues, while, at the same time, not compromising on the national interests. “We need to adopt short-term and long-term strategies to counter China. In this regard, we all stand by the Central government,” he said.Stating that what we need at present is not Rajneeti (politicking) but Ranneeti (war strategy), KCR said China was not able to tolerate India growing as a stable democracy and an economic superpower. “In order to overcome its internal crisis, China is trying to create a war-like situation on the borders to divert their people’s attention,” he opined.KCR, however, opposed the clamour for stopping of all imports from China. “It will be a hasty decision. First, let us start indigenously producing the goods that we are importing from China and make them affordable. Then we can think of banning imports,” he advised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kcr-announces-rs-5-crore-for-col-santosh-s-family-rs-10-lakh-each-for-kin-of-19-soldiers/story-Kdt6sjfgl1cU3AsEJAKu5N.html
19-06-2020||India||‘India is one’: Amit Shah spells out the message from all party meet on Galwan Valley clash||Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday stated that India unites when it comes to matters of national security while referring to the sentiment of the all party meeting held on Friday evening to discuss Chinese aggression in Galwan Valley. Shah added that the meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi had sent out an unequivocal message that all parties have full faith in the valour of India’s armed forces and their ability to defend India’s sovereignty.“Attended all-party meet chaired by PM Modi. Meeting had an unequivocal message — India is one when it comes to national security. All parties are proud of our armed forces, their valour and have full faith in them to defend our sovereignty & territorial integrity,” Shah said in a tweet.He went on to say that the meeting was also a demonstration of Prime Minister Modi’s commitment to take all political stakeholders along on key matters.“The all-party meeting today was enriched by the views of various esteemed leaders. It was a manifestation of PM Narendra Modi’s commitment to take all political stakeholders along, when it comes to key matters involving India’s strategic interests,” Shah’s follow-up tweet said.Minutes ago, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had told the meeting that neither anyone entered Indian territory nor were Indian posts taken over during the recent stand-off and following clashes with China along the line of actual control (LAC).The prime minister was briefing leaders of key political parties on the more than six-weeks-long border standoff with China which has recently led to killing of 20 Indian soldiers in the Galwan Valley in a bloody clash which has sent the ties between the two neighbouring countries into a downward spiral.The prime minister also said that the soldiers who perished in the clash taught a lesson to the aggressors for daring to look towards India.He also added that the army has been given the “freedom” to take necessary steps to defend the nation’s territorial integrity.Also Read: ‘Taught them a lesson’: PM Modi explains the big picture in stand-off with ChinaThe prime minister also assured the leaders that the armed forces are leaving no stone unturned to protect the country. The categorical statement by the prime minister came in the wake of reports that Chinese military has transgressed into the Indian side of the LAC, which is treated as the de-facto border, in several areas of eastern Ladakh including Pangong Tso and Galwan Valley.A government statement on the meeting added that New Delhi has also clearly conveyed its position to China through diplomatic means. The Prime Minister, according to the statement, told leaders that India today has such capability that no one can even dare to look towards “an inch of our land”.PM Modi said the entire country is hurt and angry at the Chinese action while underscoring that India wants peace and friendship, but it considered upholding sovereignty to be of “foremost” importance.The nearly four-hour meeting was attended by top opposition leaders including Sonia Gandhi, Sharad Pawar, Mamata Banerjee, Uddhav Thackeray and Sitaram Yechury among others. NDA ally and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, too, attended the meet.Also Read: Parties unite behind Centre, offer tactics, strategies: All top quotes hereWhile Sonia Gandhi asked the government to answer if the incident was a result of intelligence failure that failed to pick up the Chinese build up at the LAC and also sought an assurance from centre that status quo ante would be restored at the border, she also pledged her party’s support to the government in dealing with the emergent issues of national interest.Sharad Pawar, a former defence minister said diplomatic channels should be used to defuse the tension, adding Chinese troops must be “evacuated” from the high ground in the Galwan valley, according to PTI.Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee said her party stands firmly behind the Centre in this hour of crisis and advocated blocking Chinese investments in strategically important infrastructure sectors.Opposition parties like the RJD, AAP and AIMIM reacted angrily over not being invited to the meeting and raised questions over the criteria for the invitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-is-one-amit-shah-spells-out-the-message-from-all-party-meet-on-galwan-valley-clash/story-PJS5hFTeehvYgDTOoAGQ8J.html
19-06-2020||India||Maharashtra sees record 3,827 new Covid-19 cases, state tally now over 1.24 lakh||Maharashtra registered 3,827 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, its highest single-day spike so far, taking its coronavirus tally to 1,24,331, the state health department said.The state also witnessed 142 deaths from the infectious disease while the death toll mounted to 5,893.Capital city Mumbai’s coronavirus count touched 64,139 as 1,264 new Covid-19 cases were recorded in the last 24 hours. ALSO READ | After a lull, 17 new Covid-19 cases emerge in Mumbai’s Dharavi, case count at 2,151Mumbai’s death toll touched 3,425 with as many as 114 people succumbing to the deadly pathogen. Out of the 114 fatalities reported, at least 55 deaths were recorded between June 15 to June 18, while the other 59 deaths occurred before June 15, the health department said.Seventeen new Covid-19 positive cases were reported on Friday in Mumbai’s Dharavi area, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the slums to 2,151, data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said.In the last 24 hours, one person has succumbed to the deadly coronavirus infection, taking the death toll in Asia’s largest slum dwelling to 79.ALSO READ | Covid-19: Eight states have more than 10,000 cases, but better rate of recoveryA day earlier on Thursday, 28 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Dharavi taking the total number of cases to 2,134. A total of 78 people had succumbed to the disease in the area so far, the BMC data said. India on Friday, registered a record one-day spike of 13,856 Covid-19 cases in a grim trend that has continued for most of June. In some encouraging news, the number of recoveries crossed the two lakh mark in the country and now stands at 2,04,710, while there are 1,63,248 total Covid-19 active cases, according to Union health ministry data. This indicates that around 53.79 per cent of patients have recovered so far, improving the recovery rate.The jump of 13,856 Covid-19 cases pushed the countrywide tally to 3,80,532, while the death toll stood at 12,573 with 336 new fatalities recorded in the last 24 hours, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-sees-record-3-827-new-covid-19-cases-state-tally-now-over-1-24-lakh/story-08o9Ih1Y8zI8UxvnpgZkUN.html
19-06-2020||India||How India military stacks up vis-a-vis Chinese defence forces||The stand-off between India and China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh region has created a tense situation at the international border. There have been efforts from both sides to defuse the tension but no breakthrough has been achieved so far. Indications are that the situation might deteriorate further. So, it becomes important to compare the military might of the two countries. On paper, the Chinese military appears to be stronger than India. But in reality, Indian soldiers are better equipped to fight in extreme climates, according to an analysis published in HT’s sister publication Hindustan.It is a well-known fact that China spends more on the defence sector. In 2019, it allocated $261 billion for the defence sector. In comparison, India spent a little over $71 billion. China might have more weapons, but India is ahead in terms of number of soldiers. India has around 34 lakh soldiers whereas China has 27 lakh. The Belfer Centre for Science and International Affairs in Harvard Kennedy School says that India’s Air Force is more powerful than China’s. The Mirage 2000 and Sukhoi 30 that India have give Indian Air Force an edge over China’s J10, J11 and Su-27 fighter jets. India also has all-weather multirole aircraft, whereas only the J10 in China has this capability.India also has more experience in fighting wars then China. It has fought many wars with Pakistan over the years and won all of them. China, on the other hand, fought the last war in Vietnam in 1979. When it comes to high altitude warfare, India is better prepared than China here too. There are many aircraft in India which are capable of flying at high altitudes, whereas Chinese pilots have to fly with limited supplies and fuel due to difficult weather conditions in their airbases near Tibet.Both India and China are nuclear powered countries. What makes this comparison interesting is that India keeps on participating in war exercises with other big countries like the US, France, the UK etc. The Americans can help Indians with intelligence inputs in case the situation deteriorates further. China, on the other hand, has been fighting many countries on too many fronts, the latest being on the spread of the coronavirus disease.(Analysis done by Defence and strategy expert Major (Retd) Mohd Ali Shah for Hindustan Times’ sister publication Live Hindustan)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-india-military-stacks-up-vis-a-vis-chinese-defence-forces/story-OHXDNM1X3al4DBSohTgZRI.html
19-06-2020||India||A depleted Telangana Congress may see another MLA move to TRS||An already thinned out Congress in Telangana - after 12 of its MLAs broke away from the party and merged with the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) in 2019 - may suffer further blow as its Bhadrachalam MLA Podem Veeraiah allegedly upset over infighting in the party may join ranks with the TRS. The Congress had won 19 out of 119 assembly seats in the state in December 2018 elections, but was reduced to just six seats after a big chunk of its MLA moved over to KCR’s party. While Congress’ Veeraiah could not be reached for comment, a senior Congress leader familiar with the development said the tribal MLA has become inaccessible to the state party leaders for the last few days.“We are aware that the TRS leadership has been trying to lure Veeraiah into the party because he holds considerable influence in the tribal areas of Khammam district. So, there is no surprise if he has any plans to move into the TRS,” the Congress leader said.If Veeraiah jumps changes track and joins the TRS, the Congress would be left with just five MLAs: Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka, D Anasuya alias Seethakka, D Sridhar Babu, T Jayaprakash Reddy and K Rajagopal Reddy. Out of those, Rajagopal Reddy is also looking towards the Bharatiya Janata Party and made statements in support of Prime Minister Narendra Modi many times.On Thursday, some senior Telangana Congress leaders, who met at the residence of a former Rajya Sabha member, expressed concern over the lack of unity among the party leaders, mainly due to the alleged unilateral decisions taken by PCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy.The ex-MP asked AICC general secretary in-charge of Telangana affairs R C Khuntia to immediately call for a meeting of the core committee to thrash out all the differences within the party and activate the party cadre.“It is because of the attitude of the PCC leadership that some leaders are leaving the party. It is time the core committee calls for an emergency meeting and sort things out, before they go further out of hand,” he said.The last time the core committee of the PCC, headed by Khuntia, had met was in November 2019 after the defeat of PCC chief’s wife N Padmavathi Reddy in the by-elections to Huzurnagar with a huge margin of over 43,000 votes. Following his wife’s defeat Uttam Kumar Reddy offered to step down as PCC chief.Around the same time, the party high command sent a team of observers comprising AICC general secretary Ghulam Nabi Azad and former Karnataka minister H K Patil to collect the opinions of all the party leaders on choosing a suitable candidate for the PCC chief post.The team held a series of meetings with party leaders who called for a dynamic team at the PCC and a complete overhaul of the party. “But there was no consensus on the candidate for PCC chief and after that, there was no information whatsoever from Delhi. The party continues to be in a state of limbo,” the Congress leader quoted above said.The attempts of PCC working president and Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy to project himself as a potential candidate for the PCC chief post were thwarted by seniors like former MP V Hanumantha Rao, former deputy chief minister Damodar Rajanarasimha, Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy and Sangareddy MLA T Jayaprakash Reddy.Jayaprakash Reddy went to the extent of threatening that he would have to choose his own path if Revanth Reddy is made the PCC chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-depleted-telangana-congress-may-see-another-mla-move-to-trs/story-IoVjyqrLkgANRG0TXlm8dL.html
19-06-2020||India||JMM’s Shibu Soren and BJP’s Deepak Prakash win Rajya Sabha polls from Jharkhand||JMM president Shibu Soren and Jharkhand BJP president Deeapk Prakash were elected on the two Rajya Sabha seats from Jharkhand on Friday, with the saffron party candidate crossing the victory line with backing from its formal ally AJSU party and independent legislators.Three candidates including former chief minister and JMM patriarch Shibu Soren, Prakash and Congress’ Shahzada Anwar were in the fray for the two Upper House seats in Jharkhand, for which 79 legislators in the 81-member Jharkhand assembly exercised their franchise. Two seats in the assembly are vacant as chief minister Hemant Soren vacated Dumka seat while retaining Barhait after the assembly polls in December. The Bermo assembly seat fell vacant after senior Congress MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh died last month.The candidates had to secure 27 first preference votes for victory. Shibu Soren, who lost from Dumka Lok Sabha constituency in 2019 elections, will be entering the upper house of Parliament for the second time after romping home with 30 votes. The BJP state president Prakash got 31 votes, while Congress’ Anwar could secure only 18 votes.Also Read: BJP and Congress win three RS seats in MP and Rajasthan, Jagan wins all 4 in AndhraWhile the JMM has 29 legislators in the current assembly, the BJP has 26 members including former chief minister Babulal Marandi, who merged his party with the saffron party after the assembly polls. The Congress currently has 15 representatives in the legislature.BJP’s former ally AJSU had pledged support of its two legislators to the BJP candidate, besides two BJP-rebels who won as independents in the assembly poll, including former minister Saryu Roy who had emerged giant killer in the assembly election by defeating former colleague and the sitting chief minister Raghubar Das.“I thank party’s national leadership and party legsilators. I also thank AJSU party, Saryu Roy and Amit Yadav (independent legislators) for their support. We always maintained we have the numbers and we have emerged victorious with maximum votes. Ideally this election should not have happened and even JMM president should have got elected uncontested. But the Congress fielded its candidate and forced an unwanted election,” Prakash told reporters. Chief minister Hemant Soren said while the JMM and NDA won one seat each, his party would continue its political fight against the BJP. “UPA had fielded second candidate thinking that many legislators and parties who had contested against the BJP in assembly election would support us, but it seems the BJP contested the Rajya Sabha election here, as it has been doing in other states, to win over MLAs to its side. We will continue our political fight against the BJP,” Soren told reporters. Jharkhand Congress working president and legislator Irfan Ansari said he wondered why those against the BJP did not support the UPA candidate. “I fail to understand why people like Saryu Roy did not support us. They are senior leaders of the state. Wonder what the youngsters would learn from them,” he added. With today’s win, the BJP now has four representatives from Jharkhand in the upper house of Parliament out of the total six RS seats in the state. The ruling JMM and Congress in the state have one member each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jmm-s-shibu-soren-and-bjp-s-deepak-prakash-win-rajya-sabha-polls-from-jharkhand/story-xo7gOyuaX35Xlc1teKLNgK.html
19-06-2020||India||To hike Covid-19 testing capacity, Delhi starts using rapid antigen kits for faster results||The Delhi government on Friday tested 12,680 people for the coronavirus infection using Rapid Antigen Testing kits and found at least 951 positive samples, Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said.“Today, 12,680 people in Delhi were tested for Covid-19 using Rapid Antigen Testing Kits, out of whom 951 people were found positive,” Sisodia said in a tweet. The deputy chief minister has recently taken additional charge of Delhi’s health ministry after health minister Satyendar Jain tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government began Covid-19 tests through the rapid antigen procedure in and around containment zones of the national capital on Thursday. A total of 341 teams were involved in the rapid-antigen testing that gives results within 30 minutes. In a tweet yesterday, Sisodia said, “7,040 people underwent rapid-antigen tests at 193 centres across Delhi. Of this, 456 people have been found positive.” He indicated that those residing in containment zones are being tested in the initial phase and the process would be gradually expanded to other areas in Delhi. ALSO READ | Covid-19: Manish Sisodia to chair meeting on increasing ICU beds in Delhi hospitalsThe Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has said a certificate will be issued to those people tested at various centres, subject to clearance from AIIMS and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).According to Union Minister G Kishan Reddy, the Centre plans to conduct at least six lakh rapid-antigen tests at these facilities.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal too tweeted on Thursday saying, “Two important things happened today. Covid-19 testing rates in Delhi have been reduced to Rs 2,400 and rapid-antigen testing has started. I hope people won’t face any problems in getting themselves tested now.” The rapid antigen kits, called Standard Q Covid-19 Ag detection, have been developed by South Korean company S D Biosensor. The testing method involves looking for antibodies, which are produced when the body is exposed to a pathogen.With a surge in coronavirus cases recently, Delhi’s infection tally stands at 49,979 and 1,969 people have died till date due to the coronavirus disease as of Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-hike-covid-19-testing-capacity-delhi-starts-using-rapid-antigen-kits-for-faster-results/story-SH2T5aJ3oQwCLjaHHJJrlN.html
19-06-2020||India||‘Taught them a lesson’: PM Modi explains the big picture in stand-off with China||Chinese troops were neither able to enter the country nor take over any post, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told an all party meeting on Friday evening, assuring the country and political parties that the armed forces were capable of action in more than one theatre.PM Modi had convened the all party meeting after a border stand-off with Chinese troops at four locations in eastern Ladakh escalated at one point in Galwan region on Monday night.PM Modi, who had started the meeting with rich tributes to the 20 soldiers who laid down their lives at the bloody Galwan face-off, praised them for their courage. Those “In Ladakh, our 20 jawans got martyred. But they taught a lesson to those who were eyeing Indian territory,” he said.Twenty Indian soldiers lost their lives in this deadly face-off. But information available with South Block indicates that the soldiers were able to cause heavy losses on their adversaries. According to this information, the Chinese side ended up with about 35 casualties - soldiers who died or were seriously injured. The dead include the People’s Liberation Army’s commanding officer and his second-in-charge.Also read | Ladakh isn’t South China Sea, will not allow status quo to change: OfficialPM Modi kept his thrust sharply on India’s improved military capability, telling political parties - friends and rivals alike - that the armed forces were doing all that they could. Right from deployment, taking action or counter-action.“We have the capability that no one can cast an eye on an inch of our territory,” the prime minister said, echoing his commitment to the country this week that India wanted peace but had the capacity and the will to strike back if provoked.India’s armed forces were capable of simultaneously moving into different theatres, he said, a reference to the oft-repeated concern around the military’s capability of fighting a two-front war on its western and northern borders. There has been a lingering concern within India’s strategic community that Pakistan was likely to try to exploit the situation in case a conflict between India and China blows up.Back in 2017 when he was the army chief and led the army into the Doklam crisis, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat had underlined that China was gradually trying to take over territory and testing India’s threshold and India needed to be prepared for a two-front war.At the all party meeting on Friday, PM Modi also stressed the vast improvement in border infrastructure and military capacities that had taken place over the last few years. “We have also addressed other requirements of the forces such as fighter planes, modern helicopters, missile defence systems,” he said.These factors had raised India’s capacity of patrolling along the Line of Actual Control. “Because of the improved patrolling, our vigilance has gone up and the military gets to know what is happening on the borders at the right time,” he said, pointing that our soldiers were able to intercept the Chinese forces who earlier had a free run. “If you keep on intercepting them, it is obvious that tensions will rise,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-one-can-take-an-inch-pm-modi-spotlights-india-s-military-capabilities/story-sq7sFZaVObfrkaoxeSXBrN.html
19-06-2020||India||Puri Shankaracharya, priests want SC to review stay on Rath Yatra||Upset over cancellation of Rath Yatra by the Supreme Court in view of Covid-19 pandemic, several priests of the Jagannath temple, including Puri seer Shankaracharya Swami Nischalananda Saraswati, on Friday insisted that the top court reconsider its decision on the festival.“The cancellation of Rath Yatra is not correct. The SC can allow the deities to get on the chariots. However, the congregation of the devotees should be banned and the festival be organised with limited servitors and police. The festival can be telecast live,” said Saraswati, a day after the apex court stayed the annual car festival at Puri.On Thursday, a three-judge bench, headed by chief justice SA Bobde, said as 10-12 lakh people may congregate in Puri for the Rath Yatra scheduled to be held on June 23, it would be appropriate in the interests of public health and safety of citizens to restrain the government from holding the Rath Yatra.This is the first time that the Rath Yatra would not be held in the last 285 years. The last time the car festival could not be held was between 1733 and 1735 when Mohammed Taqi Khan, deputy governor of Odisha, attacked the Jagannath temple, forcing the shifting of the idols to Ganjam district.Chattisa Nijog, the apex body of priests of the Shree Jagannath Temple, too urged the state government to approach the Supreme Court. “It seems that the Supreme Court was not properly apprised of the preparations made by temple administration and the Odisha government for the June 23 Rath Yatra. The Centre had allowed chariot construction for the festival, and accordingly all arrangements were made, with carpenters and servitors made to undergo health screening from time to time. With just four days to go before the festival, the state government should immediately move the apex court seeking a modification of its order,” said Janardhan Pattajoshi Mohapatra, the chief priest of Chattisa Nijog, in a letter to chief minister Naveen Patnaik.In Puri, two organisations — Srijagannath Sena and Srikshetra Suraksha Bahini – today called for a dawn-to-dusk shutdown in protest against the cancellation of the Rath Yatra. Members of the two outfits also staged protests in the town, claiming that the state government did nothing to facilitate the annual car festival.While the opposition BJP and Congress said everybody have to abide by the Supreme Court order on Rath Yatra, senior BJP leader Bijay Mohapatra said the state government’’s role will remain under “suspicion” after the sudden cancellation of the biggest festival of Lord Jagannath.“It is a fact that there is fear of the pandemic and all the people without any condition support the state government’s steps to fight against the virus. All rituals of the deities, including Snana Yatra (Bathing ritual), on June 5 were completed with strict adherence to the guidelines. The servitors also provided full cooperation and offered to undergo Covid-19 test during the construction of the chariots,” Mohapatra said.Congress MLA Suresh Kumar Routray said the state government is responsible for the stay on the Rath Yatra.“I cannot tolerate such development. You (state government) have broken the century old tradition... What have you done? Lord Jagannath will never forgive you (state government),” said Routray in a choked voice.However, senior BJD leader and government chief whip Pramila Mallick said there is no conspiracy. “Who will give the guarantee that the disease will not further spread when lakhs of people congregate during the annual festival,” she said.Meanwhile, two petitions have been filed in SC seeking review of the order. One Laxmidhar Biswal of Puri district moved the Supreme Court on the ground that the apex court had not consulted the Shankaracharya before announcing the order.Biswal proposed to the chief minister that the Odisha government should promulgate an ordinance to celebrate the Rath Yatra like the one done by Tamil Nadu government on Jallikattu.The first intervention application filed by the Jagannath Sanskruti Jana Jagarana Mancha seeking a recall of the Supreme Court order said that the Odisha Vikas Parishad did not cite the Orissa High Court order of June 9 in which the HC had not stayed the rath yatra, instead leaving it to the state government to decide “whether or not to hold the rath yatra on June 23.”It said the Snana Purnima ritual was performed on June 5 with the help of 800 servitors and all of them had tested negative in Covid-19 tests. The 800 servitors are in isolation for more than one month as of today, the petitioners said. As per the High Court order, 372 labourers were allowed to be engaged in the construction of the 3 raths for more than one and a half months. All of these labourers are in isolation and were found to be Covid-19 negative.It also said thousands of people in Puri municipality had gathered on the road connecting Puri Jagannath temple to Gundicha temple on May 30 by maintaining social distance for singing the state anthem.The Manch said the June 18 order be modified so that the Rath Yatra can be performed by 500-600 servitors by maintaining a social distance on the three-km road stretch.Another intervention application seeking a partial modification of the SC order was filed by Aftab Hossen, a resident of Puri, which argued that crores of rupees have been spent in construction of the chariots and Covid-19 tests of hundreds of servitors. The intervenor said after the June 18 order, people of Odisha are feeling hurt and that the Court should allow the conduct of the yatra with participation only from servitors and temple police, without the general public playing a role in it.Hossen further petitioned that it is important to celebrate the festival as there is “scientific evidence” that the weather becomes pleasant when Lord Jagannath is brought out of the temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puri-shankaracharya-priests-want-sc-to-review-stay-on-rath-yatra/story-MI4hkcCuPgipIYRHvYq1kM.html
19-06-2020||India||After a lull, 17 new Covid-19 cases emerge in Mumbai’s Dharavi, case count at 2,151||Seventeen new Covid-19 positive cases were reported on Friday in Mumbai’s Dharavi area, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the slums to 2,151, data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said.In the last 24 hours, one person has succumbed to the deadly coronavirus infection, taking the death toll in Asia’s largest slum dwelling to 79.A day earlier on Thursday, 28 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Dharavi taking the total number of cases to 2,134. A total of 78 people had succumbed to the disease in the area so far, the BMC data said. ALSO READ | Covid-19: Eight states have more than 10,000 cases, but better rate of recoveryMaharashtra, which is the worst-hit state by the coronavirus pandemic, on Thursday, recorded the highest single-day spike with 3,752 new Covid-19 cases. The total number of coronavirus cases now stands at 1,20,504, the state health department said.The death toll is currently at 5,751 after 100 deaths were reported on Thursday, while 60,838 patients have been cured and discharged till date.In the last 24 hours, at least 1,672 coronavirus patients have recovered and been discharged across the state.In Mumbai, 1,298 Covid-19 positive cases, 518 recoveries and 67 deaths were reported on Thursday, according to the BMC.The total number of coronavirus cases in the financial capital is now at 62,799, including 31,856 patients who have recovered and been discharged.There are 27,634 active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai currently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-a-lull-17-new-covid-19-cases-emerge-in-mumbai-s-dharavi-case-count-at-2-151/story-q9VALH0y68WRxRXQfWgM8M.html
19-06-2020||India||Parties unite behind Centre, offer tactics, strategies: All top quotes here||Opposition parties, attending the all party meet called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the Galwan Valley clash with Chinese Army that led to deaths of 20 Indian soldiers, have expressed their solidarity with the Indian armed forces and also the government of India. They placed their suggestions on how India should respond to Beijing after its ‘belligerent’ act of aggression. While Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar suggested looking at economic options, Shiva Sena chief and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said India had the strength to look the ‘enemy’ in the eye.Here are some comments made by leaders of different political parties, which has not been reproduced here in any particular order. Sonia Gandhi (Congress)-- We in the Indian National Congress and the entire opposition unitedly stand by our defence forces and are prepared to make any sacrifice to ensure they are battle ready. The Entire nation expects that the Government will take all Opposition Parties & the country into confidence and brief us regularly so that we may present to the world a picture of unity and solidarity. Mamata Banerjee (TMC)-- Don’t let China enter the telecom, railway and aviation sectors. We will face some problems but we won’t allow the Chinese to enter. China is not a democracy. They are a dictatorship. They can do what they feel. We, on the other hand, have to work together. India will win, China will lose. Speak with unity. Think with unity. Work with unity. We are solidly with the Govt. All-party meeting is a good message for the nation. Shows that we are united behind our Jawans- – As reported by ANIRam Gopal Yadav (SP) -- Nation is one. ‘Neeyat’ of Pakistan and China is not good. India will not be China’s dumping ground. Impose 300% duty on Chinese goods. – As reported by ANIUddhav Thackeray (SS)-- India wants peace but that doesn’t mean we are weak. China’s nature is betrayal. India is ‘Mazboot’ not ‘Majboor’. Our government has the ability to - ‘Aankhien Nikalkar Haath Me de dena’. We are all one. This is the feeling. We are with you, PM. We are with our forces and their families. – As reported by ANIPinaki Misra (BJD)--China has repeated history, once again in the cover of darkness in a cowardly move, they attacked our soldiers who went with a message of peace. ‘Sarkar ko jawab dena padega’, strong action will have to be initiated (against China). Whatever that action may be, the BJD will fully support the Government. Shri Naveen Patnaik ji’s appeal to all parties is not to indulge in a blame game at this point. We must be in lockstep with the Government, the entire country needs to talk in one voice. – As reported by ANINitish Kumar (JDU)-- There is nationwide anger against China. There should be no differences among us. We are together. Parties should not show any disunity that can be explored by other nations. China’s stand on India is known. India wanted to give respect to China. But what did China do in 1962. Goods from China flooding Indian markets have major problems. They’re plastic heavy, aren’t eco-friendly & they harm the environment. Electronic waste associated with them is high. Chinese products don’t even last long. It’s our duty to be one and support the Centre. – As reported by ANISharad Pawar (NCP)--During my tenure as the Defence Minister of India, I had visited China and signed a Peace and Tranquillity Agreement with China. The agreement of 1993 was the first peace effort after 1962 Indo-China War. Both the countries have continued to respect the terms of Understanding, barring some incidents on a minor scale as compared to this incident. I shared my views with Hon’ble PM on the basis of my past experience in dealing with border issues and with the information available.Sitaram Yechuri CPI(M)- CPM expresses its deep condolences at the death of our army officers and soldiers in the recent clash that took place along the Indo-China LAC, at the Galwan valley in Ladakh.In the talks between our Minister for External Affairs and the Foreign Minister of China, our official statement states: “At the conclusion of the discussion, it was agreed that the overall situation would be handled in a responsible manner, and both sides would sincerely implement the disengagement understanding of 6 June sincerely. Neither side would take any action to escalate matters and instead, ensure peace and tranquility as per bilateral agreements and protocols.” As the Government of India has adopted this stand, the CPI(M) extends its support to this approach. Following this, the Government of India should initiate high level talks, so that steps are taken, including clear demarcation of the LAC, to maintain peace and tranquillity on the border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parties-unite-behind-centre-offer-tactics-strategies-all-top-quotes-here/story-106FI31Fonqm5DGp6V2XyJ.html
19-06-2020||India||‘China did not enter our territory, no posts taken’: PM at all-party meet on Ladakh clash||The Chinese neither entered our territory nor has any post been taken over by them, underscored Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the all-party meet to discuss the border incident along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh where 20 Indian soldiers died in the line of duty in brutal hand-to-hand combat with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA). “Neither have they intruded into our border, nor has any post been taken over by them (China). Twenty of our jawans were martyred, but those who dared Bharat Mata, they were taught a lesson,” said PM Modi.Underlining India’s might, the PM said no one can take even an “inch of the land”.“Today, we possess the capability that no one can eye even one inch of our land. India’s armed forces have the capability to move into multiple sectors at one go,” said the PM.Congress’ Sonia Gandhi, Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, Telangana Rashtra Samithi leader K Chandrasekhar Rao, Janata Dal (United) chief Nitish Kumar, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) leader MK Stalin, YSR Congress Party’s YS Jagan Mohan Reddy and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray were among those who attended the meeting.Assuring the opposition parties, the PM said be it deployment, action or counter-action our forces - be it on land in air or water - are doing everything to protect our borders.The infrastructure development in border areas has gained in pace over the past years, said the PM, adding that it has strengthened our patrolling capacity. The immediate cause for the conflict at Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh isn’t known, although it could have been about Chinese soldiers dragging their feet about removing some of the installations they erected in May in an area India claims as its own. The troops have since disengaged, the Indian Army said in a statement confirming the number of dead at 20. Indian Army officials claimed 43 Chinese were killed or seriously injured, citing radio intercepts and other intelligence. HT couldn’t independently verify this.These were the first Indian casualties in a border skirmish with the PLA Army since October 1975 when Chinese troops ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector and shot four soldiers dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-troops-did-not-enter-our-territory-says-pm-modi-at-all-party-meeting-on-ladakh-standoff/story-QGgGUyL3sVRYB7mp3Y8bBI.html
19-06-2020||India||Defence minister Rajnath Singh expected to attend Russia’s Victory Day parade||Defence minister Rajnath Singh is expected to visit Russia next week to participate in the Victory Day parade in Moscow on June 24, people familiar with developments said on Friday.The people, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the visit is on “as of now” and that Singh will be accompanied by senior Indian officials. He is expected to travel a day or so before the parade, they added.“There is a proposal from the Russian side and we are considering it. The visit is on as of now,” said one of the people cited above, declining to give details.The people said the visit will be closely linked to developments on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), where Indian and Chinese troops have been engaged in a tense standoff since early May. Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in a violent face-off with Chinese troops in Galwan Valley on June 15, exacerbating tensions.A high-level Chinese delegation will be present for the Victory Day parade though no meetings are expected with the Indian team, the people said.It was originally expected that defence secretary Ajay Kumar would accompany Singh to Russia, but the defence minister is now expected to travel with senior defence and military officials as Kumar is recovering from Covid-19. Officials had confirmed on June 3 that Kumar had tested positive for Covid-19.India on Thursday confirmed that external affairs minister S Jaishankar will join a virtual meeting of the Russia-India-China (RIC) grouping on June 23, a day ahead of Indian and Chinese military contingents marching in the Victory Day parade.Russia formally announced the virtual meeting of the RIC foreign ministers on Wednesday, quashing doubts about India’s participation in the aftermath of the violent clash along the LAC.A day after the RIC meeting, military contingents from India and China will participate in the Victory Day parade in Moscow, which marks the Soviet Union’s victory over Nazi Germany on May 9. Each year, Russia organises a massive military display involving thousands of troops and tanks parading through the Red Square. This year’s event has been delayed by the pandemic.A 75-member Indian tri-service contingent left for Russia on Friday. China sent a 105-member contingent of the People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) honour guard on June 15.Moscow’s relations with New Delhi and Beijing are currently very good, and Russian diplomats, in recent remarks to the Indian media, have spoken of the need for easing tensions between India and China for regional stability.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-expected-to-attend-russia-s-victory-day-parade/story-3jr0FHDEwJJfjQhNpr7TEM.html
19-06-2020||India||YSRC bags all 4 Rajya Sabha seats from Andhra; TDP nominee loses 6 party votes||The ruling YSR Congress Party in Andhra Pradesh won all the four Rajya Sabha seats from the state, elections for which were held on Friday.The four YSRC candidates – Alla Ayodhya Rami Reddy, Pilli Subhash Chandra Bose, Mopidevi Venkata Ramana and Parimal Nathwani were declared elected as they polled the number of votes required for their election.Ayodhya Rami Reddy and Parimal Nathwani are industrialists – the former heading the Ramky Group of Industries while the latter is senior group vice-president of Reliance Industries.The remaining two were, hitherto, members of the legislative council and are part of the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy cabinet. While Subhash Chandra Bose is a deputy chief minister holding the revenue portfolio, Venkata Ramana is the state excise minister.All the four YSRC candidates would have been elected unanimously because the party has enough strength in the assembly – 151 out of 175 MLAs, but the election was necessitated with the Telugu Desam Party fielding its candidate – Varla Ramaiah despite the fact that it has only 23 MLAs in the assembly technically, including three rebels, and requires another 17 votes to win the seat.TDP president and leader of the opposition N Chandrababu Naidu said the party knew it won’t win the Rajya Sabha seat, but had chosen to contest only in the spirit of democracy.At the same time, the TDP was also hoping to expose three rebel MLAs –Vallabhaneni Vamsi from Gannavaram, Karanam Balarama Krishna Murthy from Chirala and Maddali Giridhar from Guntur (West) constituencies, if they voted for the YSRC. The party issued a whip to all the MLAs.However, the TDP candidate ended up getting only 17 votes, as four votes of the party were declared invalid. The three rebel MLAs ensured that their votes become invalid so that they could avoid being disqualified.Another TDP MLA Adireddy Bhavani from Rajahmundry also messed up in marking her first preferential vote in favour of party candidate Varla Ramaiah, as a result of which her vote also was declared invalid.Two other TDP legislators also could not cast their votes. While Tekkali MLA K Atchen Naidu could not exercise his franchise as he is in judicial custody in connection with the Employees State Insurance Scam, another MLA Anagani Satyaprasad from Repalle excused himself stating that he was in self-quarantine at home as he had come in contact with Telangana MLA M Yadagiri Reddy who had tested Covid-19 positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ysrc-bags-all-4-rajya-sabha-seats-from-andhra-tdp-nominee-loses-6-party-votes/story-o6m3A06wKNQRCTV4j4RbVN.html
19-06-2020||India||Rajya Sabha polls: When tribal leader Chottu Bhai Vasava refused to vote||Gujarat MLA Chottu Bhai Vasava on Friday declined to vote in the Rajya Sabha elections, making it easier for the BJP candidates to win their seats. Vasava’s two Bharatiya Tribal Party MLA were expected to vote for the Congress. The decision of not voting, Vasava told HT, was a mark of protest against the BJP government’s “inability” to protect the rights of the tribal communities in the state. The leader added that he was equally disillusioned by the Congress.The BJP had fielded Abhay Bharadwaj, Ramila Bara and Narhari Amin, while the Congress put up Shaktisinh Gohil and Bharatsinh Solanki in the polls. Vasava denied allegations that his decision to not vote was a covert attempt to help the BJP, which had fielded four candidates for the three vacant seats in the state.“I have been asking the BJP government to accept our demand for making tribal areas autonomous by bringing them under Schedule 6 of the Constitution from Schedule 5. There has been no effort to accept the demands of tribal communities, instead tribal people are being divested of their land and forest produce. Even though there is a separate budgetary allocation for the tribal communities governments end up spending this money on other sectors. To protest against these irregularities, I decided not to vote,” said Vasava.This is not the first time that the tribal leader has made news during the Rajya Sabha elections. In August 2017, Vasava - then with the JDU - going against his party whip voted for Congress candidate Ahmed Patel in the Rajya Sabha elections. His vote played a key role in Patel winning the elections. Vasava justifies his decision by announcing that he had done so to protest against JDU president Nitish Kumar’s decision to align with the BJP in Bihar.Patel, along with Amit Shah and Smriti Irani at the time, was re-elected to the Upper House. The election result, announced post midnight, was marked by political wrangling as the Congress demanded that the Election Commission invalidate the votes of two MLAs who had voted for the BJP. A decision that the EC eventually announced after reviewing the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-polls-when-tribal-leader-chottu-bhai-vasava-refused-to-vote/story-ar0yn31B2JoHq9sNcmM7hI.html
19-06-2020||India||All eyes on Manipur RS seat amid tussle for power and drama during voting||There was high drama for the election to the lone Rajya Sabha (RS) in Manipur on Friday amid an ongoing tussle between the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the opposition Congress over power-sharing in the politically-volatile north-eastern state.Manipur assembly Speaker Yumnam Khemchand Singh played a key role, as 52 of the 59 members of the legislative assembly (MLAs) were allowed to cast their votes for the two main candidates, the BJP’s Sanajaoba Leishemba, the titular king of Manipur, and the Congress’s T Mangibabu. Earlier this year, the 60-member assembly was reduced to 59 after BJP MLA, Thounaojam Shyamkumar Singh, who had defected to the Congress in 2017, resigned after the Supreme Court (SC) banned him on anti-defection charges.Though polling in the north-eastern state ended at 4pm, the counting of votes had not started even after 7 pm. The delay is being attributed to the Congress’s complaints about the irregularities during the voting process and the Election Commission of India (ECI) is believed to be looking into them.Friday’s voting took place a day after the Congress staked claim to form the state government and two days after nine MLAs including three from the BJP, four from the National People’s Party (NPP), one from the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and an Independent withdrew support to the government, challenging the majority of the N Biren Singh-led coalition government.Earlier in the day, Speaker Singh allowed four of the seven rebel Congress MLAs, who had switched sides to the BJP after the 2017 polls, to vote, but barred the three others.On June 9, the Manipur high court (HC) had restrained the seven Congress MLAs from entering the assembly till the Speaker disposed of disqualification proceedings against them.On Thursday, the HC had asked Speaker not to decide on their cases till June 22.Though the decision on the disqualification of the seven MLAs was to be taken on June 22, the Speaker advanced it to June 17, prompting the Congress to seek his removal the following day.The names of the three BJP MLAs, who had resigned from the party earlier this week and joined the Congress, were not in the list of voters on Friday.The TMC legislator, who had withdrawn support to the BJP, was also not allowed to vote, and he has moved the HC.The Congress demanded that the ECI rejects votes of two MLAs, including that of the Speaker, for allegedly showing their ballot papers to agents present during the polls. The Congress also alleged that one of its party lawmakers had shown his vote to a BJP representative, which violates the Upper House poll norms.Meanwhile, several leaders of the Secular Progressive Front (SPF) led by Congress, NPP, TMC and the lone Independent MLA met Governor Najma Heptullah at the Raj Bhawan on Friday evening seeking a special assembly session soon for a trust vote to take place. “Today Congress has 24 MLAs while the BJP has only 18. Therefore to uphold democracy a trust vote is needed soon,” Manipur Congress spokesperson Ningombam Bupenda Meitei said. The delegation comprised former chief minister Okram Ibobi Singh, former Manipur Congress president Gaikhangam and NPP leader Y Joykumar Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-eyes-on-manipur-rs-seat-amid-tussle-for-power-and-drama-during-voting/story-6VVAHQ6D4iRTfWdx92cWUN.html
19-06-2020||India||Was there intel failure? Sonia Gandhi asks PM on border stand-off with China||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday sought an assurance from the government that status quo will be restored on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) at Galwan Valley in Ladakh area and that China will revert to its original position.In her address at the all-party meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the border stand-off with China, Gandhi asked pointed questions on whether there was an intelligence failure on the massive build-up of Chinese forces along the LAC.“In fact, even at this late stage, we are still in the dark about many crucial aspects of the crisis,” Gandhi said.The meeting was attended by leaders of 20 political parties. Defence minister Rajnath Singh and external affairs minister S Jaishankar too were present.The Congress has been asking the government to be transparent about the situation along the LAC, especially after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in violent face-off with Chinese troops on Monday night.Modi has said the sacrifice of Indian soldiers will not go in vain and the country will give a befitting reply to any provocation.At the meeting Gandhi said: “We have some specific questions for the government. On which date did the Chinese troops intrude into our territory in Ladakh? When did the government find out about the Chinese transgressions into our territory? Was it on May 5, as reported, or earlier?“Does the government not receive, on a regular basis, satellite pictures of the borders of our country? Did our external intelligence agencies not report any unusual activity along the LAC? Did the Military Intelligence not alert the government about the intrusion and the build-up of massive forces along the LAC, whether on the Chinese side or on the Indian side? In the government’s considered view, was there a failure of intelligence?”She contended that valuable time was lost between May 5 and June 6, the date on which senior Indian and Chinese commanders met and agreed on some de-escalation and disengagement measures. She added that even after the June 6 meeting, efforts should have been made to talk directly, at the political and diplomatic levels, to China’s leadership.“We failed to use all avenues, and the result is the loss of 20 lives as well as dozens injured. I would urge the prime minister to kindly share with us all the facts and the sequence of events beginning April this year till date,” the Congress chief said.“The question is, what next? What is the way forward? The entire country would like an assurance that status quo ante would be restored and China will revert back to the original position on LAC,” she said.Gandhi also sought to know the status of the Mountain Strike Corps, with two mountain infantry divisions, that was sanctioned for the army in 2013, when the Congress was in power at the Centre.“Should the government not treat it with utmost priority? We would also like to be briefed on the preparedness of our defence forces to meet any threat,” she said.Gandhi said the all-party meeting should have been held sooner and immediately after the government had been reportedly informed about the Chinese intrusion on May 5 at several places in Ladakh and elsewhere.“As always, the entire nation would have stood together like a rock and fully supported the government of the day in the steps required to defend the territorial integrity of the country. Alas, that was not to be,” she added. Gandhi said the Congress and the entire opposition unitedly stood by the defence forces and are prepared to make any sacrifice to ensure they are battle-ready.“The entire nation expects that government will take all opposition parties and the country into confidence and brief us regularly so that we may present to the world a picture of unity and solidarity,” she said. Gandhi began her speech by paying homage to the 20 soldiers killed in a violent clash with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in Galwan Valley on Monday night.“We meet today in the aftermath of a tragic conflict and our hearts are filled with great sorrow and anguish. Let me begin by paying homage to the brave soldiers of our army, who laid down their lives as also convey my deepest condolences to the bereaved families. To the injured jawans, we wish them a speedy recovery and good health,” she said.Apart from Gandhi, Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, Telangana Rashtra Samithi leader K Chandrasekhar Rao, Janata Dal (United) chief Nitish Kumar, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) leader MK Stalin, YSR Congress Party’s YS Jagan Mohan Reddy and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray were among those who attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/was-there-intelligence-failure-sonia-asks-pm-on-border-standoff-with-china/story-sOJseblYToRZ9a71HMJlVN.html
19-06-2020||India||Goa: 90% of state’s 705 Covid-19 positive cases have been recorded in June||Goa, which has a relatively smaller population of 16.6 lakh, has reported 705 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases, which are comparable with states such as Himachal Pradesh (HP) that has a far higher population. Goa has been reporting 35 Covid-19 positive cases on an average daily since early June. Worse, the daily average has been 41 Covid-19 positive cases in the past week. On the contrary, HP, whose population is four times that of Goa, has reported 595 Covid-19 positive cases and a daily average of 14.72. While 90% of Goa’s 705 Covid-19 positive cases have been recorded in June, and the daily spike is comparable with much larger states such as Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh, which have been reporting 60 and 49 cases, respectively.Goa’s Covid-19 positive graph started rising June 2 onwards, when the coastal state recorded its first local case, when a resident with no recent travel or contact history was found to have contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease, and was rushed to a hospital after he complained of severe difficulty in breathing.Now, the state has two containment zones, two micro-containment zones and over 30 isolated cases that could spark outbreaks in their respective neighbourhoods.However, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant sought to explain away the higher number of Covid-19 positive cases and attributed them to aggressive testing.“We’re conducting aggressive testing along the state’s borders and containment zones. That’s why more Covid-19 positive cases are being reported daily,” the CM said.He also pointed out that Goa’s early detection of the viral infection is helping timely treatment for the patients.“Most Covid-19 positive cases are asymptomatic, except 8-10. The symptomatic patients are undergoing treatment at dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and care centres,” he added.Goa has conducted over 46,500 tests, which work out to around 30,000 per million people, which is being touted as among the highest in the country.So far, the state has not recorded any Covid-19 related death, and the lone critical patient has also been taken off the ventilator support. Though Goa has more Covid-19 positive cases as compared to HP (595), no death has been recorded in the state so far. While in HP six people have died due to the viral outbreak.Goa’s Covid-19 positive count is also comparable with the Union Territory of Ladakh and the north-eastern state of Manipur, which have reported 687 and 606 cases, respectively.State health secretary Nila Mohanan has urged all Goa residents to take the utmost precaution such as strict compliance with social distancing norms, use of face masks and report any flu-like symptoms to the health authorities concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-90-of-state-s-705-covid-19-positive-cases-have-been-recorded-in-june/story-gua3qeFwLqWkBeSLqfmrMI.html
19-06-2020||India||BJP and Congress win three RS seats in MP and Rajasthan, Jagan wins all 4 in Andhra||Congress has won two seats from Rajasthan in Rajya Sabha elections, while BJP has won 1 seat from the state, while the saffron party won two out of the three seats on offer from Madhya Pradesh leaving one for the Congress. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s YSRCP has won all four Rajya Sabha seats in Andhra Pradesh, according to news agency ANI.The results for the 19 RS seats that went to polls on Friday are being announced.In Madhya Pradesh, the BJP had fielded senior leader and former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia and former professor of a government college Sumer Singh Solanki.The Congress had fielded veteran leader Digvijaya Singh and Dalit leader Phool Singh Baraiya. Digvijaya Singh was the party’s first candidate.The Congress has 92 MLAs in the MP assembly and it had asked 54 of these to vote for the party’s first preference candidate Digvijaya Singh.PTI quoted officials to say that all three including BJP’s Jyotiraditya Scindia and Sumer Singh Solanki and Congress veteran Digvijaya Singh had been declared elected from Madhya Pradesh.In Rajasthan, Congress candidates K C Venugopal and Neeraj Dangi were declared winner, while Rajendra Gehlot of the BJP also got elected, PTI said quoting an assembly official.The BJP’s second candidate for Rajasthan quota of seats, Onkar Singh Lakhawat lost. With the wins on Friday, the number of Congress party’s Rajya Sabha MPs from Rajasthan has increased to three out of a total of 10. The rest seven are BJP members.The counting of votes for four Rajya Sabha seats in Gujarat was delayed due to a demand by the Congress to invalidate two BJP votes-- by MLA Kesrisinh Solanki and minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama-- on different grounds. The election commission was seized with the matter, PTI reported.The Congress claimed Chudasama’s election to the assembly had been annulled by the Gujarat High Court last month and therefore he was ineligible to vote. The BJP pointed out that the Supreme Court has stayed the HC order. Congress also questioned Solanki’s vote, claiming he was accompanied inside the polling booth by an unauthorised person. The person being referred to, was an assistant Solanki brought to pull his wheelchair, reported PTI.A total of 19 Rajya Sabha seats--- four each from Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh, three each from Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, two from Jharkhand and one each from Manipur, Mizoram, and Meghalaya—were voted for today.Before the elections were held today, the BJP had 75 members, Congress 39, followed by 13 of the TMC and eight of the Samajwadi Party in the Upper House. TRS and DMK have 7 members each. The party wise tally will change after the results from the elections held today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-and-congress-win-three-rs-seats-in-mp-and-rajasthan-jagan-wins-all-4-in-andhra/story-Bea6V8d4MBzRF1g8fuC7uI.html
19-06-2020||India||Released after 60 hours by China, 10 Indian soldiers undergo debriefing||Intense negotiations through diplomatic and military channels, including three rounds of talks between senior military officers, led to the release of 10 Indian soldiers detained by the Chinese side during the violent brawl of June 15 in Galwan Valley, people familiar with developments said on Friday on the condition of anonymity.The soldiers are being debriefed by senior officials at Leh, the headquarters of the army’s 14 Corps, on the over 60 hours they spent in Chinese custody, said one of the persons cited above.“There’s a protocol for debriefing and that’s being followed,” he said.Another person cited above said the 10 soldiers, including two majors and two captains, were returned to the Indian side on Thursday evening, three days after the violent face-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) left 20 Indian soldiers, including a colonel, dead.“The debriefing is critical. It will be a formatted military narration of what they went through in Chinese captivity. This will form the basis of what really happened during those three days and how was the military posturing and conduct of the people who detained them,” said Lieutenant General AS Lamba (retd), a former army vice chief.The negotiations for their release were kept tightly under wraps due to concerns for the safety of the soldiers amid the heightened tensions between the two sides, said the first person cited above.There was no official word on the development. All that the Indian Army and the external affairs ministry said on Thursday was that no Indian soldiers were “missing in action”.“The release of the Indian soldiers reflects Chinese intent. It perhaps shows the Chinese want to de-escalate and disengage,” said Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd), a former director general of military operations.However, a top retired army commander, who didn’t want to be identified, said China had already achieved what it set out to achieve – gaining control over Galwan Valley and the strategic feature Finger 4 near Pangong Tso where a significant Chinese build up has taken place over the last six weeks.“The gesture of returning the soldiers is a message to the world that they [the Chinese] are not the aggressors and they have returned people who intruded into their territory,” he said.The release of the 10 soldiers figured in three rounds of talks between Indian and Chinese delegations, led by major generals, near Patrol Point 14 in Galway Valley between Tuesday and Thursday. Major General Abhijit Bapat, commander of Karu-based headquarters 3 Infantry Division, and his Chinese counterpart, met for the third time on Thursday.The meetings were part of ongoing military engagements to de-escalate the situation and to disengage on the disputed border. The two senior military officers have met seven times since the stand-off began in early May.The 10 soldiers, after their release, were sent for a medical examination and were found to be in good health, said the second person cited above.Monday night’s seven-hour brutal clash, involving more than 500 rival troops, also marked the first time India suffered combat fatalities in an incident involving Chinese troops since 1975.Following reports that an unspecified number of soldiers were unaccounted for after Monday night’s clash, the Indian Army had on Thursday only said that none of its personnel was missing in action.“It is clarified that there are no Indian troops missing in action,” the army said in a terse statement. An army spokesperson had said the statement was in reference to the article “In China-India Clash, Two Nationalist Leaders with Little Room to Give” published in The New York Times on Wednesday.Asked about the specific issue of the status of Indian soldiers after the clash of June 15, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly media briefing on Thursday: “This has been clarified by the army earlier today afternoon that there are no Indian troops missing in action.”China has so far not acknowledged any casualties among its troops, while 76 Indian soldiers were also injured. Army officials claimed 43 Chinese were killed or seriously injured, citing radio intercepts and other intelligence. The Chinese fatal casualties reportedly include a colonel-ranked officer but HT couldn’t independently verify this.India has attributed the clash of June 15 on Chinese forces crossing to the Indian side of the LAC and attempting to build a structure. It has also rejected China’s People’s Liberation Army’s claim of sovereignty over the Galwan Valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-soldiers-released-by-china-60-hours-after-ladakh-clash-undergo-debriefing/story-MY66gpr5q7QbgR9KC6zdUL.html
19-06-2020||India||Security personnel deployed outside Chhattisgarh CM’s residence tests Covid-19 positive||A security personnel deployed outside the residence of Chhattisgarh chief minister has tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to hospital for treatment, officials said on Friday.“The duty of the security personnel found infected was at the western side gate outside the Chief Minister’s residence, and clearly not inside the residence,” a press release by the public relation department of Chhattisgarh stated.“The security personnel did not enter inside the Chief Minister’s residence. All the prescribed protocols and health safety standards are being followed as precautionary measures,” the release added.The total number of active cases in the state is 735 out of a total 1,946 cases detected in the last three months, as per the state health department’s bulletin. Nine patients have succumbed to the disease while 1,13,329 have been tested so far.Most of the Covid-19 cases detected so far in Chhattisgarh have been in the northern part of the state - Korba , Bilaspur, Baloda Bazar, Raipur and Mungeli districts. No cases were found in the three southern districts of Sukma, Bijapur and Narayanpur.The department’s data, however, revealed that the tests conducted in the southern districts were much less than in the northern non-tribal dominated districts.“Most cases detected are from the migrant community. The parts which have seen large influx of inter-state travellers have shown spike in the cases. In Chhattisgarh, people who came from western part and Uttar Pradesh have particularly been Covid-19 carriers. The southern (tribal dominated) districts so far do not have many such people with travel history and therefore, the cases are less,” said health secretary Niharika Barik Singh.She said the lesser number of tests was done in southern districts because fewer people came under the criterion of Covid-19 testing, which allows testing of only those who show symptoms of the disease. “We have followed ICMR guidelines for testing,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-personnel-deployed-outside-chhattisgarh-cm-s-residence-tests-covid-19-positive/story-PXzeT0z2i7cNRLKx58IRtM.html
19-06-2020||India||All party meet begins with tribute to 20 Indian Army soldiers who died in Galwan clash||The leaders of political parties present at the all party meet called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the Galwan Valley clash with Chinese soldiers began the meet by paying tribute to the 20 soldiers from the Indian Army who lost their lives on Monday night near the line of actual control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, reports ANI.Union home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, external affairs minister S Jaishankar are representing the government in the meeting with leaders of different political parties being held via video-conferencing.News agency PTI quoted officials to say that defence minister Rajnath Singh, who was also at the Prime Minister’s residence, informed all the party leaders about the situation at the LAC and asked for their support.Aam Aadmi Party, RJD and AIMIM are among some political outfits that have not been invited to join the discussions called by the defence minister on the prime minister’s behalf following demands by the opposition to share details of circumstances of the clash between Chinese and Indian soldiers in eastern Ladakh during the process of de-escalation between two sides.Congress President Sonia Gandhi, West Bengal CM and Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee, Maharashtra CM and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackarey, NCP chief Sharad Pawar, Bihar CM and Janata Dal-United chief Nitish Kumar, LJP leader Chirag Paswan, DMK leader M.K. Stalin, Left leaders D. Raja and Sitaram Yechury are some of the prominent leaders present at the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-party-meet-begins-with-tribute-to-20-indian-army-soldiers-who-died-in-galwan-clash/story-loWsI912VT0AKNvdtD23SJ.html
19-06-2020||India||Ravi Shankar Prasad visits Sushant Singh Rajput’s kin at Patna home, says ‘he deserved more’||Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad visited the family of actor Sushant Singh Rajput at their Patna residence on Friday and offered his condolences to the bereaved family. He paid tribute to the actor by offering flowers at a simple memorial set up in the family home.The law minister, who also belongs to Patna, shared with the actor’s father his memories of meeting Sushant Singh Rajput during an oath-taking ceremony in May 2019, at the Rashtrapati Bhawan. “Visited Patna home of Sushant Singh Rajput. Met his family members. Paid my condolences. A super talented actor with great promise had to meet such an unfortunate end. Creative acting in films is left poorer with his sad demise. He had to achieve great heights. He deserved more,” the minister tweeted on Friday.Earlier when the news about Sushant Singh Rajput’s death by suicide had emerged on Sunday, Prasad had remembered the Patna boy as a super talented actor who left too soon.The actor was found dead at his house in Bandra and in a case of suicide, the police said, triggering shock and stunned disbelief across the nation.As the Mumbai film industry expressed grief on Twitter, the political establishment also expressed condolences for the actor who rose to stardom with Balaji Telefilms’ television show Pavitra Rishta in the last decade.Sushant Singh Rajput, later became known for films like MS Dhoni: The Untold Story, where he played the titular role, Byomkesh Bakshi and Chhichhore.“Shocked to learn that super talented actor SushantSinghRajput is no more. He was from my city Patna. Remember meeting him in Rashtrapati Bhawan during oath-taking ceremony last year. He had told me that his family lived in Rajiv Nagar, Patna. He had miles to go. He left too soon,” Ravi Shankar Prasad had tweeted earlier on the actor’s untimely demise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ravi-shankar-prasad-visits-sushant-singh-rajput-s-kin-at-patna-home-says-he-deserved-more/story-doUs9dS9g5x1MTMRkP5TqM.html
19-06-2020||India||‘Covid Rani’: Kerala Congress chief mocks state health minister KK Shailaja||Not taking kindly to the Kerala government making Covid-free certificates mandatory for expatriates hoping to return to the state from the Gulf countries, Kerala Congress president Mullapally Ramachandran said the state health minister KK Shailaja was not interested in saving lives and mocked her with a “Covid Rani” epithet.The state Congress chief said the health minister was only after records and laurels.“She is trying to get the label of ‘Covid Rani’ and earlier she was fighting for the title of ‘Nipah Rajkumari’,” he said after inaugurating the one-day sit-in protest by opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. He was referring to the nipah outbreak which was localised and contained effectively in 2018.“More than 200 people died in the Gulf due to covid-19 in the last three months. Our people are desperate to come back. But the government is scared of its numbers and image. It is after records and recognition and shedding crocodile tears for poor expatriates who made Kerala,” he said. The state government, said Ramachandran, should be held responsible for these deaths. Many took to social media to slam the state Congress chief, calling out his speech as “misogynistic and unparliamentary”.CPI(M) leader Brinda Karat and CPI leader Annie Raja sought teh Congress leader’s apology. The CPI(M) youth wing the Democratic Youth Federation of India said the leader’s remarks exposed “culture” of the party.Last week the state had issued an order making a certificate mandatory for all foreign travellers coming to the state but the Centre said it was impractical.After the issue snowballed into a controversy, Ramachandran clarified that his remarks were not against womanhood but against “an insensible government and minister”. He said full credit for fighting virus should go to health workers not to the government which hijacked it.On Thursday, CM Pinarayi Vijayan had suggested that the state will send testing kits to embassies. There are an estimated 18 lakh people from the state in the middle-east and at least four lakh are expected to return. More than 80,000 people have returned in the last one month. The state was forced to take such a decision after 80 per cent of recent cases were found to be imported - people who came from abroad and other states.Kerala was the first state to report a Covid-19 case in the country in January, but has since managed it well with high recovery and lowest mortality rates.The state health minister has been hailed for her leadership role in effectively fighting the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-rani-kerala-congress-chief-mocks-state-health-minister-kk-shailaja/story-mj31o6CN3Y2vgRETTgtyRK.html
19-06-2020||India||PM Modi holds all-party meeting on Ladakh face-off||An all-party meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the situation along the India-China border on Friday saw leaders of major political parties putting across their views on the sensitive issue.The virtual meeting began with participants paying tributes to the 20 Indian soldiers killed in the violent face-off with Chinese troops in East Ladakh earlier this week.Prime Minister Modi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar were seen standing in silence as a mark of respect for the fallen army men.Singh and Jaishankar spoke on the stand-off at the meeting, according to early visuals.Also Watch l All party meet on faceoff with China: RJD and AAP excluded, slam Modi govt Congress president Sonia Gandhi, NCP leader Sharad Pawar, TRS leader K Chandrashekhar Rao, JD (U) leader Nitish Kumar, DMK’s M K Stalin, YSR Congress Party’s YS Jagan Mohan Reddy and Shiv Sena leader Uddhav Thackeray were among those who attended the meeting.The government had invited presidents of major political parties for the meet.Opposition parties, including the Congress, have been asking the government to be transparent about the situation on the border and slammed its handling of the issue.Modi has asserted that the sacrifice of Indian soldiers will not go in vain.Defence Minister Singh had said that Indian soldiers displayed exemplary courage and valour in the line of duty and sacrificed their lives in the highest traditions of the Indian Army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-all-party-meet-over-border-tensions-with-china-underway/story-4EtS4kz2x0EWGVLbEvq0VN.html
19-06-2020||India||SC declines stay on Central Vista redevelopment for the second time||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to stay the redevelopment of Lutyen’s Delhi’s Central Vista for the second time in two months, saying it cannot prevent government authorities from acting according to the law.The bench headed by justice AM Khanwilkar, however, made it clear that any work done on the project will be subject to orders passed by the court in future.The bench clarified this after the government, through its second senior-most law officer, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, told the top court it cannot give any assurance that “no work on the ground” will be done. The case was adjourned till July 7 after the government requested additional time to file its response.The Supreme Court had earlier refused to stay the project when the matter had come up for hearing on April 30.The Central Vista is home to iconic buildings such as the Parliament, Rashtrapati Bhavan and the North and South Block buildings, which house important ministries, and the India Gate.The Union government plans to redevelop the Central Vista by constructing a new Parliament, a new residential complex that will house the prime minister and the vice president and several new office buildings.The petitioners, advocate Rajeev Suri and Lt Col (retired) Anuj Srivastava, told the court on Friday that approvals by various authorities are being granted despite the matter pending before the Supreme Court. They sought a direction from the court that no further construction work should take place for the project even if approvals are granted.“Solicitor general must assure that no further step is taken,” it was urged on behalf of the petitioners. The bench declined to grant such relief and the solicitor general said no such assurance can be given.Suri and Srivastava first approached the Delhi high court in February, challenging a notification issued by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on December 21, 2019 regarding changes in land use for the redevelopment.Suri challenged the alterations envisaged by the central government on the ground that they involve changes to land use and standards of population density, and that DDA doesn’t have the power to bring about such changes. He submitted that this power, if at all, lies with the central government.Srivastava challenged the public hearings held to raise objections to the exercise, arguing they were a mere formality devoid of any meaningful content.A single judge bench granted interim relief to the petitioners on February 11 but this was overturned by the division bench of the high court on February 28. Suri then approached the Supreme Court, challenging the denial of interim relief by the high court.The Supreme Court transferred the entire case to itself from the Delhi high court on March 6, saying in an order that in the “larger public interest, we deem it appropriate that the entire matter pertaining to challenge pending before the high court is heard and decided by this court expeditiously”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-declines-stay-on-central-vista-redevelopment-for-the-second-time/story-Cd5zuhsAiPbY8fjrzzPD6K.html
19-06-2020||India||Shiv Sainik to lead the country in future: Uddhav Thackeray on Sena foundation day||Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray on Friday told senior party leaders and office-bearers, that the ideology of the party has not changed. He added that he decided to take up the chief minister’s position to show that neither the Shiv Sena nor its chief was “helpless” in the alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Thackeray made the statements during an interaction through a digital platform with party MPs, leaders and functionaries on the occasion of the 54th foundation day of the Sena.This is his first formal interaction with party leaders after becoming the chief minister of Maharashtra.“Shiv Sena has not changed its ideology,” Thackeray told party functionaries answering criticism that Sena had abandoned Hindutva after it joined hands with secular parties Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) to form the government in November 2019.He also added that he went to Shivneri Fort, the birthplace of Chhatrapati Shivaji, and Ekveera temple, the family deity of the Thackerays. “I took the soil from Shivneri to Ram Janmabhoomi (Ayodhya) and within a year a decision was announced on the Ram Temple case, and later, I became the chief minister.”Also Read: Maharashtra CM reiterates stand over scrapping final-year examsIn an indirect jibe at the BJP, Thackeray said, “I am sitting here as the chief minister because there was an attempt to play politics with us and we foiled it… Trusting isn’t our weakness but it’s our culture. Shiv Sena is not helpless, nor is the Shiv Sena chief,” he said.Nearly seven months after Thackeray took over as the CM, Shiv Sena is now eyeing the prime minister’s post in the future. Thackeray said that a Shiv Sainik would lead the country in the future.“[Senior Sena leader and MP] Sanjay Raut told Uddhav ji that we are now looking at him to lead the country. He responded saying that he would not, but a Shiv Sainik would lead the country in future,” Sena MP Anil Desai said.Incidentally, Thackeray had taken a similar stance for the position of Maharashtra’s chief minister before political compulsions led to him taking over the reins of the state government.Also Read: Covid-19 patients, family must get test report: Supreme Court tells Maharashtra govtThe Sena chief also looked to bridge the alleged distance between him and party functionaries as there is a sense that Thackeray is no longer managing the party closely after taking over as the CM.“My interactions with you may have reduced after becoming the chief minister, but I will not let it create distance between us,” he told leaders and functionaries.Before the interaction with party leaders, Thackeray along with son and Yuva Sena chief Aaditya Thackeray hoisted party’s saffron flag atop the party headquarters at Shiv Sena Bhavan in Dadar. Senior party leaders including Diwakar Raote, Eknath Shinde, Sanjay Raut, Chandrakant Khaire, Gajanan Kirtikar, Aaditya Thackeray, Anil Desai, MLA Sada Sarvankar were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sainik-to-lead-the-country-in-future-uddhav-thackeray-on-sena-foundation-day/story-zj6lYCnfiV9zahgJZsEZPL.html
19-06-2020||India||Mango shipments from Bengal’s Malda hit craters on NH-34, traders appeal to PM Modi||Mango farmers in Bengal’s Malda district, who are among the highest producers of the seasonal fruit in the country, claim to have been badly affected by the poor condition of National Highway-34 in the district.Goods vehicles carrying mangoes from Malda to other districts and states are being delayed because of craters and potholes on the national highway. Several vehicles have been damaged. Since the containers are not temperature-controlled, a large quantity of fruit has also been rotting because of delay in shipping, the traders said.The traders have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday, seeking a relief package to cover their losses.Though many orchards were damaged by Cyclone Amphan on May 20, Malda is expected to produce more than 3,00,000 metric tons of mango crop this year. Traders claim that no district in India produces more.Ujjal Saha, president, Malda Mango Merchants’ Association, said, “We were expecting a production of at least one lakh metric ton more this year but the cyclone played spoilsport. The orchards are spread across 31,000 hectares.”“More than 5,00,000 people in Malda district are directly or indirectly associated with the mango trade. We have suffered a loss of more than Rs 100 crore because of the cyclone and now shipments to Jharkhand, Bihar, Assam and Odisha have been hit because of bad roads,” Saha said.“Most traders use NH-34 to send the shipments. The monsoon has damaged the highway and craters have been found in many places. This is delaying shipments. Traders cannot afford temperature-controlled containers,” Saha added.According to the traders, the condition of the highway is exceptionally poor in Fatullapur, Jadupur, Narayanpur, Islampur and some areas in Murshidabad, Nadia and North 24 Parganas district. A sizeable quantity of Malda mango is consumed in Kolkata.Nimai Biswas, secretary of the Malda Bus and Minibus Owners’ Association, said the issue raised by mango traders is a raging one.“NH-34 and its bypass are both in very poor condition. Our vehicles get damaged everyday but the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has not taken any action so far,” Biswas said.Project director of NHAI (Malda Division) Dinesh Hangsaria said, “It is not possible to start the repair work right now because of continuous rainfall.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mango-shipments-from-bengal-s-malda-hit-craters-on-nh-34-traders-appeal-to-pm-modi/story-DNN8ZhgK6zh1iWr6TDJQLL.html
19-06-2020||India||‘We stand with India and forces’: Kejriwal on AAP’s exclusion from all party meet on Galwan clash||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said his Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) stands with the country and its security forces and demanded “strict” action against China while answering a question on Centre’s decision to not invite AAP for the all party meet to discuss the violent clash between Indian and Chinese soldiers at Galwan Valley on Monday night resulting in deaths of 20 Indian soldiers.“We stand with the country and our security forces. Strict action should be taken against China: Delhi CM and AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal on AAP not invited for an all-party meeting called by PM,” Kejriwal was quoted as saying by ANI. He didn’t comment on his party’s exclusion from the invitees for the all party meet on Friday evening.His colleagues in the party, however, didn’t mince words and hit out at the central government for leaving AAP out of the meeting. HT Exclusive: Galwan river bridge that China tried to stop in Ladakh is complete, says official“The BJP government should take everyone along on serious issues concerning national security. It is unfortunate for our democracy that a three-time elected chief minister was not invited for consultations on such an important issue,” AAP leader Sanjay Singh said.He has also accused the centre of hiding information from the country.“It is treacherous to not give a truthful account of the border dispute to the nation. The central government will have to answer why it hid information from the country,” he said.Also Watch: ‘China may have instigated clash to grab Indian territory’: US SenatorOther political parties like the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) in Bihar and AIMIM (All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen) in Telangana have also expressed their disappointment at not being invited for the meet.Defence minister Rajnath Singh had on Thursday invited leaders of 20 parties on the behalf of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, according to reports. The meeting will be also attended by Union home minister Amit Shah and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda, they said. Reports said all recognised national parties, those with more than five MPs in the Lok Sabha, leading parties from the northeast and parties with Union cabinet ministers have been invited for the all-party meeting.AAP has decided to launch nationwide protests against the Chinese aggression on Saturday with party MLAs in Delhi staging protests in their respective constituencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-stand-with-india-and-forces-kejriwal-on-aap-s-exclusion-from-all-party-meet-on-galwan-clash/story-5E1ZHWmlh82XMT0QuEmNcM.html
19-06-2020||India||Resolve Galwan standoff through proper dialogue: Former Tripura CM||Former Tripura chief minister Manik Sarkar has spoken out on the violent clash on June 15 between Indian and Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley, which left 20 Indian soldiers dead, and advocated for a dialogue between the two most populous nations in the world in a bid to resolve the protracted border disputes. Sarkar, the leader of opposition in the state assembly, made this comment while addressing a condolence meeting organised by the Communist Party of India (Marxist)-affiliated Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) for three of their leaders on Thursday evening. CITU leaders Pijush Nag, Subrata Sarkar, and Kajal Ghosh died of old age-related ailments over the past three months.“We pay our homage to the Indian soldiers, who were martyred along the LAC. We hope that both countries would start a dialogue to end the stand-off. India and China should be good neighbours for mutual co-existence. We wish the stand-off be resolved soon. That will be good for all,” said Sarkar.On a separate note, the ex-CM alleged that the country witnessed misrule since the Narendra Modi-led government came to power six years and cited a raft of “draconian measures” such as the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA); the revision of National Register of Citizens (NRC); the National Population Register (NPR), anti-labour policies like low wages, increasing working hours from eight to 12, reducing holidays and allowances, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/resolve-galwan-standoff-through-proper-dialogue-former-tripura-cm/story-MqjQjPS2jOS29FgGPoy0QK.html
19-06-2020||India||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain’s lung infection worsens, to be given plasma therapy||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, who is currently under treatment after testing positive for Covid-19 earlier this week, has been diagnosed with pneumonia and has been shifted to an ICU of another Covid-19 hospital as his condition started deteriorating on Friday afternoon. The 55-year-old minister has now been kept on total oxygen support as his oxygen saturation level (Spo2) dipped, according to doctors treating him. He has been taken to Saket’s Max Hospital, where he will be administered plasma therapy for Covid-19 after his lung infection increased, news agency ANI reported.“We have put him fully on oxygen support as his Spo2 level had fallen to 89 at one point, normal level is about 95. He has also been diagnosed with pneumonia, so we are shifting him to an ICU at another hospital,” a senior official of the hospital said.ALSO READ | Sisodia takes charge of Delhi health ministry after Satyendar Jain tests positive for Covid-19Jain had tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, a day after he was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH) in the national capital after running high-grade fever and suffering sudden drop in his oxygen level.AAP MLA for Delhi’s Kalkaji assembly constituency Atishi and two other leaders of the Aam Aadmi Party have also contracted the respiratory disease. Akshay Marathe, an advisor to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, and Abhinandita Mathur, an advisor to deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, also tested positive for the viral disease on Wednesday.ALSO READ | AAP MLA Atishi tests positive for Covid-19On Sunday, the Delhi health minister had attended a high-level meeting on the coronavirus situation in the national capital, chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah, which was also attended by Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal, CM Arvind Kejriwal, his deputy Manish Sisodia and Union health minister Harsh Vardhan. “Praying for the speedy recovery of Shri Satyender Jain, Health Minister of Delhi who is battling with Covid-19 infection,” Amit Shah tweeted on Friday afternoon as news emerged of Jain’s health deteriorating.With a surge in coronavirus cases recently, Delhi’s infection tally stands at 49,979 and 1,969 people have died till date due to the coronavirus disease as of Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-health-minister-satyendar-jain-s-lung-infection-increases-to-be-given-plasma-therapy/story-cIWwzcMZb4cwYVVKae0wwL.html
19-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: Slash bed rates in Delhi by more than half, suggests Central panel and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Slash rates of Delhi’s isolation beds by more than half, suggests Central panelIn a decision aimed at providing affordable medical treatment to Covid-19 infected patients in private hospitals in Delhi, a Committee set up by the Centre has recommended slashing the rates of beds in private hospitals by more than half - between Rs 8,000 and Rs 10,000, including the cost of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) for isolation beds; and between Rs 13,000 to Rs 18,000 for Intensive Care Units (ICUs) beds with or without ventilator, the ministry of home affairs said on Friday. Read moreChina’s recent actions maybe a step towards shaping post-pandemic global order: ExpertsIs China using the world’s preoccupation with the Covid-19 crisis to enlarge its position on several border disputes and target rivals that could have a say in shaping the post-pandemic global order? Read moreHow was Galwan Valley named? Explorer’s grandson explainsGalwan Valley, the place where a clash took place on Monday night between Indian and Chinese soldiers, has been named after local explorer Ghulam Rasool Galwan. Read moreFormer captain Waqar Younis thinks ‘Pakistan got it totally wrong’ against India in 2019 World CupFormer Pakistan captain and coach Waqar Younis is known for his sharp cricketing acumen and displays the same as a cricket pundit these days. During his career, Younis was part of several memorable victories over arch rivals India. But he was also part of the teams that lost to India in the 1996 and 2003 editions of the World Cup. Read moreFan asks Irrfan Khan’s son Babil to ‘unfollow star kids’, his humble response will win your heartThe news of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death has reignited the nepotism debate and angry fans are unfollowing star kids on social media. One such Instagram user urged late actor Irrfan Khan’s son Babil Khan to support the movement by unfollowing all star kids. However, his humble response is winning hearts. Read moreMalala Yousafzai completes degree at Oxford. Immediate plans include NetflixNobel Peace Prize winner Malala Yousafzai has completed her degree at the University of Oxford. Malala, who was pursuing Philosophy, Politics and Economics at Oxford’s Lady Margaret Hall, shared her happiness at completing her degree. She tweeted about the big news with two pictures. Read more‘China may have instigated clash to grab Indian territory’: US SenatorUS Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has said that it appears China instigated the clash with India to grab Indian territory. He went on to add that China is dead-set on brutalizing people within their own borders, challenging and remaking the international order anew in their image to include literally redrawing the world map. 20 Indian soldiers had been martyred in a faceoff with the Chinese Army in Ladakh. Watch the full video for all the details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-slash-bed-rates-in-delhi-by-more-than-half-suggests-central-panel/story-PryYw4UKpeyPgR997obF9K.html
19-06-2020||India||Suspended J-K DSP Davinder Singh gets bail in terror case after police fails to file charge sheet||Suspended Jammu and Kashmir DSP Davinder Singh, arrested while ferrying two Hizb-ul-Mujahideen terrorists in a vehicle on the Srinagar-Jammu Highway earlier this year, was granted bail by a Delhi court on Friday, his lawyer said.Singh and another accused in the case — Irfan Shafi Mir — were granted the relief by the court in a case filed by special cell of Delhi Police, noting that the probe agency failed to file charge sheet within 90 days from his arrest, as prescribed under law, their lawyer M S Khan said.The bail was granted on a personal bond of Rs 1 lakh and two sureties of like amount.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-court-grants-bail-to-suspended-j-k-dsp-davinder-singh-in-terror-case/story-XttAfDzTSCLFrHOGlVravN.html
19-06-2020||India||Ladakh isn’t South China Sea, will not allow status quo to change: Official||The commanding officer of the PLA battalion deployed in eastern Ladakh and his second-in-command died in the violent faceoff between Chinese and Indian soldiers in the Galwan area of eastern Ladakh on Monday, people familiar with the developments said on Friday. China has confirmed that the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) suffered casualties but has dodged repeated questions from international media about details of the clash.Twenty Indian soldiers including a colonel-ranked officer were killed in the violent scrap, the first Indian casualties in a clash with the PLA in 45 years.“This was the first clash of its kind on the Line of Actual Control because India has the capability and the will to stand up to an aggressive China,” a top military commander told Hindustan Times.Chinese troops, which had mobilised soldiers along the Line of Actual Control and set up a stand-off with India for nearly six weeks, refused to back down in line with the understanding reached between top commanders of the two armies on June 6. What started off as an argument between local commanders of the two sides on June 15 evening after the PLA attempted to build a structure on the Indian side during the de-escalation process soon spiralled into a full-blown fisticuffs.Also read | HT Exclusive: Galwan river bridge that China tried to stop in Ladakh is complete, says officialA senior government official said the PLA clearly was attempting to execute its “Walk in Strategy” in Galwan. But this was contested and China had to pay the price with equal, if not more. According to inputs available with South Block, the PLA had to evacuate nearly 35 soldiers and officers who were either injured or had died in the clash. “Our information indicates that the Chinese side lost the commanding officer of the battalion deployed near Patrolling Point 14 of the Galwan region where the two armies clashed. The battalion’s second-in-command also died in the incident,” a senior official at South Block said.India has blamed China for the clash, underscoring that the Chinese side had “unilaterally attempted to change the status quo there” and took “premeditated and planned action that was directly responsible for the resulting violence and casualties suffered by both sides”.Officials said the bloody face-off at Galwan would be a turning point in relations between the two countries, not just because of the bitterness that is likely to creep into relations between the two giants but also because of the message that it had sent.“This face-off has demonstrated that Ladakh isn’t the South China Sea where the Chinese would be able to unilaterally change the status quo,” one of them said.It also marks a perceptible shift in the way India handles issues relating to the border and sovereignty, he said.“Thus far, undemarcated borders were being managed through protocols and agreements where military actions were not employed. This incident makes it clear that if Beijing disregards agreements and attempts to unilaterally change the status quo, the Indian army is prepared to deal with the situation, firmly,” a senior government functionary told Hindustan Times.Also read | On Ladakh border incident, China official asked 6 questions. Answers noneThis is the message that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had delivered this week as well. That India wanted and worked for peace but if provoked, was capable of giving “a befitting reply”. PM Modi is expected to underscore the same message on the India-China border at the all party meeting that he has convened.Political will to take on China, a senior defence ministry official said, is only one of the reasons why it has been possible for India to take this approach. There has been a massive improvement in India’s military capabilities over the last few years, both in terms of force levels, training, procedures and most importantly, battle hardened troops.The military also has access to better weaponry under the modernisation plan, he said, conceding that it hadn’t moved as fast as the government would have liked it to proceed. The armed forces, he said, also have the advantage in application of air power and superior capability at sea. And a rapidly improving border infrastructure that had, in the first place, irked the Chinese because this would enable the military to exercise better control of the areas along the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ladakh-isn-t-south-china-sea-will-not-allow-status-quo-to-change-official/story-iBZonBNAE0qo3MywqQdADJ.html
19-06-2020||India||Amit Shah wishes speedy recovery after AAP minister Satyendar Jain’s condition deteriorates||Union home minister Amit Shah has wished speedy recovery to Delhi health minister and senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Satyendar Jain, who has been shifted to a private hospital in the city after his condition was said to have deteriorated on Friday afternoon.Jain was diagnosed with Covid-19 on Wednesday, his second positive test in a week. He was hospitalized after experiencing high fever and breathing difficulty-- symptoms of coronavirus disease. “Praying for the speedy recovery of Shri Satyendra Jain, Health Minister of Delhi who is battling with COVID-19 infection,” Shah tweeted on Friday afternoon.Two other AAP leaders including MLA Atishi Marlena and Anindita Mathur, advisor to the deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, have also tested positive for the disease.Akshay Marathe, an advisor to CM Arvind Kejriwal, has also tested positive for the viral disease on Wednesday, according to PTI. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said Jain’s latest CT scan report show that the pneumonia patches in his lungs have increased. “He experienced increased giddiness and tiredness today. The advice of doctors will be followed,” Arvind Kejriwal was quoted as saying by ANI. The 55-year-old minister was put on full-time oxygen support as his oxygen saturation level (Spo2) had dipped.“We have put him fully on oxygen support as his Spo2 level had fallen to 89 at one point, normal level is about 95. Also, he has been diagnosed with pneumonia, so we are shifting him to an ICU at the hospital,” a senior official of the hospital told PTI.A decision to shift Jain to a bigger private hospital was later taken. He was first admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH).Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain’s condition worsens, moved to another Covid-19 hospitaJain has been attending several meetings before he was diagnosed positive. On Sunday, he attended a meeting chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah which was also attended by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, his deputy Manish Sisodia, L-G Anil Baijal, and Union health minister Harsh Vardhan.Also Read: Day after Jain tests Covid +ve, Sisodia oversees health ministry affairsManish Sisodia has taken over the additional charge of the health ministry in Jain’s absence. He will hold an important meeting on increasing the number of ICU beds in city hospitals on Friday. As per a senior official quoted by PTI, Satyendar Jain was also supposed to attend the meeting via video link, but that was before his condition deteriorated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-wishes-speedy-recovery-after-aap-minister-satyendar-jain-s-condition-deteriorates/story-dwIGISeNguRQ2Md1rdxl7M.html
19-06-2020||India||‘China has no detained Indian army personnel at present’: Official||China has no detained Indian soldiers at present, the Chinese foreign ministry said on Friday hours after it emerged that 10 Indian Army personnel captured by the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) had been freed after intense negotiations on Thursday.The Indian soldiers were captured following the bloody confrontation with Chinese troops near the Galwan Valley area of eastern Ladakh on Monday.Twenty Indian soldiers, including a colonel, died in the line of duty in the violent face-off that has shattered years of tenuous peace along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and plunged bilateral ties to a deep low in decades.“As far as I know, China has no detained Indian personnel at present,”Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, Zhao Lijian, said at the regular press conference on Friday.Earlier in the day, HT had reported that 10 soldiers, including at least two officers, were returned to the Indian, three days after the brutal combat along the LAC.These negotiations were kept tightly under wraps due to concerns for the safety of the soldiers amid the heightened tensions between the two sides, people familiar with developments said.Asked to comment on calls in India to boycott Chinese goods and the possibility of New Delhi launching anti-dumping investigations, Zhao said: “China values our bilateral relations. Hope India can work with China to maintain the long-term development of bilateral relations”.At the same time, Zhao reiterated Beijing’s consistent stand that India was to blame for the conflict.“I like to reiterate that regarding the serious situation in the Galwan Valley, the right and wrong is very clear. The responsibility entirely lies with the Indian side.”The foreign ministry spokesperson continued to parry queries on PLA’s casualties.“China and India are in dialogue to resolve the matter on the ground through diplomatic and military channels. I do not have any information for you at the moment,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-has-no-detained-indian-army-personnel-at-present-official/story-kyVUUpAeaz3Ukk5swqK6zH.html
19-06-2020||India||How violet ink became colour for marking Rajya Sabha votes||In 2016, the Election Commission, which has the mandate to hold elections for the Rajya Sabha, announced that a specially manufactured violet sketch pen will be given to voters for the polls.The special pen with violet ink was introduced following the so-called “ink controversy” that erupted in Haryana after 12 votes cast with markings in the wrong ink were declared invalid.These 12 votes were of Congress legislators, and led to the defeat of party-backed independent candidate and lawyer RK Anand, who lost to Subhash Chandra, backed by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Two more votes were declared invalid as the ballot was unmarked in one and Randeep Singh Surjewala’s vote was rejected as he showed his vote to another legislator, Kiran Chaudhary.The development stoked a political furore and the Congress and the INLD had asked the Election Commission to countermand the election to both Rajya Sabha seats.After a working group of senior officials suggested ways to prevent a repeat of the ink fiasco in future Rajya Sabha polls, the Election Commission made it mandatory for all voters to use only the pen provided by polling officials. Votes marked in any other colour are deemed invalid.Since then the Election Commission provides the pens with violet ink, and these are kept inside voting booths and voters are not allowed to remove them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-violet-ink-became-colour-for-marking-rajya-sabha-votes/story-gYJ6frdM1MjIepw4KChduJ.html
19-06-2020||India||Slash rates of Delhi’s isolation beds by more than half, suggests Central panel||In a decision aimed at providing affordable medical treatment to Covid-19 infected patients in private hospitals in Delhi, a Committee set up by the Centre has recommended slashing the rates of beds in private hospitals by more than half - between Rs 8,000 and Rs 10,000, including the cost of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) for isolation beds; and between Rs 13,000 to Rs 18,000 for Intensive Care Units (ICUs) beds with or without ventilator, the ministry of home affairs said on Friday.MHA Spokesperson Nitin Wakankar said – “The committee has recommended Rs 8000-10000, 13000-15000 and 15000-18000 including PPE costs for isolation beds, ICUs without and with ventilator respectively to all hospitals as compared to the current charges of Rs 24000-25000, 34000-43000 and 44000-54000 (excluding PPE cost)”.The high-powered committee was set-up by home minister Amit Shah on Sunday under the chairmanship of Niti Aayog member Dr V K Paul to fix the rates of isolation beds, ICUs and testing kits in Delhi and to also assess if 60% of beds in private hospitals can be made available exclusively to Covid-19 patients at lower rates. Earlier on Wednesday, the committee had recommended that rates for RT-PCR kits should be capped at Rs 2,400, a decision which has been accepted by the Delhi government and laboratories have already been informed in this regard.Delhi’s infection tally stands at 49,979 and 1,969 people have died due to the coronavirus disease as of Friday.The home ministry also said that, as discussed in the Sunday meeting, a door-to-door survey has already been completed in 242 containment zones in Delhi covering a total of 2.3 lakh people so far.It added that testing through rapid antigen testing methodology, started on Thursday, 7,040 people have been tested as of now in 193 centres and that this number would go up in coming days. “Testing will continue with increased number in coming days,” said Wakankar.The ministry further informed that the samples tested have been doubled in the capital in line with the directions given by Amit Shah in a series of meetings with Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, all municipal corporations of Delhi and hospital authorities.“Sample testing has been doubled immediately in pursuance of decisions taken by HM Amit Shah in a series of meetings. A total of testing samples of 27,263 have been collected in Delhi from June 15 to 17 against the daily collection which varied between 4,000 and 4,500 earlier,” the spokesperson said.Shah had asked the Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments to work together for the welfare of people of the national capital region rather than working in silos.A senior MHA official, who didn’t want to be named, said that the home minister is closely monitoring the situation in Delhi and may call more review meetings in coming days if he sees the situation going out of hand. “For now, things start to look like they are getting back on track (in terms of testing),” said this officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/slash-rates-of-delhi-s-isolation-beds-by-more-than-half-suggests-central-panel/story-129Uxukqzmabqz8180WahO.html
19-06-2020||India||States asked to replicate initiatives taken by Karnataka for Covid-19 management||The Centre has asked all states to replicate the best practices implemented by Karnataka which includes comprehensive contact tracing of Covid-19 cases and physical or phone based household survey, for better management of the coronavirus pandemic. The Union Health Ministry on Friday lauded the two initiatives taken by Karnataka that have been developed as part of the ‘whole of government’ approach with the involvement of multi-sectoral agencies and supported by technology based solutions and interventions. They effectively trace and track each case thereby successfully containing the spread of the epidemic, the ministry said. “The Centre has asked the other states to adapt these best practices to their local context and replicate them for better management of the Covid-19 pandemic,” the ministry said in its statement.India on Friday added 13,586 new Covid-19 cases, the highest recorded in a single day so far, pushing the tally to 3,80,532, while the death toll rose to 12,573 with 336 new fatalities, according to Health Ministry data.Karnataka has reported 114 deaths and 7,944 cases, according to the data updated at 8 am.Contact tracing is a critical component towards containing the epidemic and ensuring that the health infrastructure does not get overwhelmed. Karnataka has widened the definition of ‘contact’ to include both the high-risk as well as low-risk contacts as defined by the central government. The number of primary and secondary contacts in Karnataka were meticulously traced and put under strict quarantine, the ministry said. More than 10,000 well trained field staff carried out specific responsibilities for contact tracing as per the detailed SOP designed by the state which prescribes step-by-step actions to be performed by each designated person. Contact tracing mobile app and web applications are being used to overcome the huge quantum of work, genuine forgetfulness of the positive persons and attempts to hide facts due to various reasons, the statement said. The State has been able to curtail the spread of infection in slums of big corporation areas through compulsory institutional quarantine of the contacts residing in slums or similar areas. It has also been made mandatory for all returnees and travellers coming to Karnataka to register on “Seva Sindhu” portal, which enables the state to follow them for the next few days when they are in home or institutional quarantine. The ‘Quarantine Watch App’ is used to assist the field workers in enforcing the quarantine. The state has also formed mobile squads for enforcement of the home quarantine through community participation. In case information is received from the neighbour or public about violation of quarantine by any person, that person is moved to institutional quarantine. With a view to identifying, protecting and treating high risk population like the elderly, persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women and those with Influenza like Illness (ILI)/ Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) on priority, Karnataka has conducted a physical/phone based household survey, the ministry said. The survey was carried out during May and covered 153 lakh households out of total 168 lakh total households. Polling Booth Level Officers (BLO) were engaged to collect necessary information by using a Health Survey App as well as a web application. The data collected through the survey was complemented by the information already available with the Health Department for pregnant mothers and TB/HIV/Dialysis/Cancer patients. An outreach campaign through Apthamitra tele-consultation helpline (14410) set up by the state government, with support from NASSCOM, is being used to reach out to the households at risk through interactive voice response system (IVRS) and outbound calls. The households reporting anyone with Covid-19 like symptoms are triaged by a telemedicine doctor and further advised. Field level health worker (ASHAs) also visit these households to ensure that the required healthcare service is provided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-asked-to-replicate-initiatives-taken-by-karnataka-for-covid-19-management/story-vlK4QTl3FXqdPpNvAY9n8N.html
19-06-2020||India||J-K forces compliment Valley youth for choosing ‘peace’ despite Pak provocation||The security forces in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday complimented the residents of Kashmir for showing “faith in peace” and particularly the youth for walking on the “path of peace” despite “huge provocation” by Pakistan and its agencies involved in the business of terror.A routine security press conference helmed by General Officer Commanding (GOC) 15 Corps Lt Gen Baggavalli Somashekar Raju and Jammu and Kashmir Director General of Police (DGP) Dilbag Singh made the above observations while briefing the media on encounters in Pampore’s Meej and Shopian’s Munand in Jammu and Kashmir in the last 24 hours that led to elimination of eight terrorists in two different operations.The senior security officers added that the last 18 months or so have been one of the most peaceful in terms of handling law and order in general in the region.“I compliment the people of Kashmir because they have faith in peace and it is their belief which is leading to these successful operations and I’m sure that at the end of next few months they’ll be able to take this process forward and ensure that normalcy is brought in,” the GOC 15 Corps was quoted as saying by ANI.The forces were briefing the media on two encounters in south Kashmir’s Pulwama and Shopian districts in the last 24 hours leading to the killing of eight terrorists, including six on Friday.Also Read: 6 terrorists killed in simultaneous encounters in J-K’s Pulwama and ShopianThe officers said local support for terrorism had come down signalling a rethinking amongst the youth of the Valley.“I would also like to compliment our youth, who are moving on a peaceful path despite huge provocation by Pakistan and its agencies involved in terror business. Perhaps, they’ve started seeing through the game plan of these agencies which brought violence and destruction here,” said J&K DGP.He added that the last 18 months have been one of the most peaceful in terms of the cooperation extended by the locals in handling anti-terror operation sites.“It gives me immense pleasure to say that the complete last year and about 5 and a half months of this year have been one of the most peaceful months we had, in terms of handling law & order in general & around the operation sites. It happened only because people are cooperating,” Dilbagh Singh added.The presence of Indian security forces in Jammu and Kashmir was raised last year in anticipation of trouble fomented by Pakistan after Indian Parliament’s decision to scrap Article 370 which gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcate the erstwhile state into two Union Territories of J&K and Ladakh. The officers added that some new recruits into terror organizations had been neutralized.“Of the 49 new recruits who got enrolled into ranks of terrorist tanzims, 27 have been neutralised. It doesn’t give us any pleasure to neutralise these boys but if anybody takes up arms and causes harm to others, we’ll do what we’re doing,” said Lt Gen Baggavalli Somashekar Raju.Regarding the operation conducted over the last 24 hours, the GOC of 15 Corps specifically mentioned that extreme restraint was exercised by the security forces to ensure that no damage was caused to a mosque in Pampore’s Meej where three terrorists were neutralized.Kashmir’s Pashmina: India-China Himalayan standoff deadly for cashmere herdsThe Pulwama encounter started during a cordon and search operation at Meej in the Pampore area on Thursday morning when terrorists fired on the forces. One terrorist was killed in the gunfight yesterday but two others entered a nearby mosque to take refuge. On Friday morning, security forces used tear smoke shells to force the holed up terrorists out of the mosque before they were killed while maintaining the sanctity of the religious place.DGP Dilbag Singh had chaired a high level meeting of police , BSF and army officers on Thursday to review the security scenario in view of the Ladakh standoff at the border.He had said that Pakistan will try to push more terrorists to give impetus to violence in Kashmir Valley and elsewhere in view of the Ladakh standoff and added that the border alongside Pakistan needs extra attention in view of the Ladakh developments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-forces-compliment-valley-youth-for-choosing-peace-despite-pak-provocation/story-JYV0GwUe5qTfq7iFZXw0oO.html
19-06-2020||India||Take action against Bhim army chief Chandra Shekhar Azad for making derogatory remarks against women: NCW to UP Police||The NCW has asked UP police to take action against Bhim Army chief Chandra Shekhar Azad for allegedly making derogatory and defamatory statements against women.In a letter to UP DGP H C Awasthy, NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma said the commission has taken cognizance of Azad’s tweets “wherein it is seen that derogatory and defamatory statements have been made against women by him”.“The commission has taken note of the rise in cyber harassment and use of derogatory statements in cyberspace against women amounts to serious offence under law,” she said in the letter.In view of the above, it is requested that action shall be taken against the culprit as per the relevant provisions of law to avoid recurrence of the crime in the future, she added.However, Azad has clarified that the tweets were not been sent by him as he was in jail during the period.“Some tweets of hate speech on women are going viral from my account. I want to explain that I was in jail from 08/06/2017 to 14/09/2018 in the case of Saharanpur violence. These tweets belong to this period, which I do not know about. I respect women very much,” he said in a tweet.“Let me clarify that this Twitter account was created in February 2018 and I was released from jail in September 2018. Some worker gave me this account. I am a soldier of Babasaheb and respect for sister, daughters is paramount. The tweets are very wrong. I am improving the account. Jai Bhima, Jai Bharat,” he said in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/take-action-against-bhim-army-chief-chandra-shekhar-azad-for-making-derogatory-remarks-against-women-ncw-to-up-police/story-6POQqFCWptLPEiTneXKX2L.html
19-06-2020||India||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain’s condition worsens, moved to another Covid-19 hospital||The condition of Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, who has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), deteriorated on Friday and he is being shifted to another hospital in the Capital, officials said.Union home minister Amit Shah wished Satyendar Jain a speedy recovery.“Praying for the speedy recovery of Shri Satyendra Jain, Health Minister of Delhi who is battling with COVID-19 infection,” Shah tweeted.Satyendar Jain had tweeted on Wednesday that he has tested positive for the coronavirus disease. He was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH) on Tuesday after he developed high fever and his oxygen saturation levels dropped.Also read | No Delhi lockdown is being planned, says CM Arvind Kejriwal amid rise in Covid-19 casesAam Aadmi Party (AAP) legislator Atishi and two other leaders of the party have also contracted the respiratory disease.Akshay Marathe, an advisor to CM Arvind Kejriwal, and Abhinandita Mathur, an advisor to deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, also tested positive for the viral disease on Wednesday. Last week, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tested negative for Covid-19. His swab samples were collected after he developed mild fever and a sore throat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-health-minister-satyendar-jain-s-condition-deteriorates-moved-to-another-covid-19-hospital/story-4mwNvB6YGKSXdLcYCTRCSM.html
19-06-2020||India||China’s recent actions maybe a step towards shaping post-pandemic global order: Experts||Is China using the world’s preoccupation with the Covid-19 crisis to enlarge its position on several border disputes and target rivals that could have a say in shaping the post-pandemic global order?That’s a question now being debated by experts and analysts following a string of actions by China over the past few weeks and months.India-China border standoff:The most urgent of the crises is the tense weeks-old face-off between Indian and Chinese border troops in the Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) that has sparked at least three clashes since early May, the latest being the violent brawl of June 15 that left 20 Indian soldiers dead.India has accused China of taking “pre-meditated and planned action” that reflected an intent to change the status quo on the LAC.ALSO READ | China releases 10 Indian soldiers after intense negotiationsReasons advanced for China’s actions have ranged from anger over India’s beefing up of infrastructure along the strategic Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldie (DSDBO) road and India’s decision last August to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and create the union territory of Ladakh, which Beijing has indicated had an impact on its territorial claims in the region. Experts have also pointed to China’s desire to protect its considerable investments in the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, a key part of which is located in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir.Australia cyber attack:The Australian government said on Friday it was dealing with a massive cyber attack targeting all levels of the administration, industry, education, essential services, critical infrastructure and political organisations. Prime Minister Scott Morrison said a malicious and sophisticated “state-based cyber actor” was behind the attack, adding that “there are not a large number of state-based actors that can engage in this type of activity”.Though Morrison didn’t name any country, Australian experts and observers pointed the finger of blame at China. Peter Jennings, executive director of the Australian Strategic Policy Institute, told CNN there was a “95% chance that it is China who is responsible for this attack”.Australia has been vocal in recent months about an international investigation into the origins of the Covid-19 pandemic and backed India’s calls for reforms of the World Health Organization (WHO) for its initial handling of the crisis. China retaliated with tariffs on Australian exports, including barley and beef. India and Australia have also spoken about working together to shape the post-Covid world order.South China Sea:There has been no let-up in China’s activities to bolster its presence in the South China Sea, where it is embroiled in maritime boundary disputes with several countries, despite the Covid-19 pandemic. A Vietnamese vessel was rammed by a Chinese ship near Paracel Islands on June 10, months after another Vietnamese boat was sunk by China’s coast guard in the same area. Numerous Chinese vessels have been spotted near Thitu Island, controlled by the Philippines but claimed by China. ALSO READ | World busy with Covid-19, Beijing pushes South China Sea agendaEarlier this month, Filipino authorities launched work on critical infrastructure on Thitu, located just 24 km from an artificial island created by China and equipped with radars and missiles. Over the past two months, an exploration vessel operated by Malaysia’s state-run oil company Petronas has been harassed in the South China Sea by Chinese vessels.Of these three countries, Vietnam has often turned to India to back its position in the South China Sea. Last year, Chinese vessels repeatedly operated in areas close to the waters where state-owned ONGC Videsh is engaged in oil and gas production.Senkaku Islands:On Thursday, China set a new record of sorts by sending its vessels into waters off the Senkaku Islands for 66 consecutive days. The islands in the East China Sea are controlled by Tokyo but claimed by Beijing, and Chinese vessels have been spotted in Japan’s “contiguous zone” every day since April 14. The contiguous zone is the area beyond the territorial sea and extending up to 24 nautical miles from the baseline that a country can claim. Technically, the presence of the Chinese vessels is not an intrusion but Japan regards it as a provocation. Japan’s chief cabinet secretary Yoshihide Suga told the media on Wednesday the Senkaku islands are “unquestionably our territory historically and under international law” and that a protest had been lodged with China over the presence of the vessels. “We think it is extremely serious that these activities continue,” he said.Both Japan and India are part of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad, which was upgraded to the level of foreign ministers last September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-recent-actions-maybe-a-step-towards-shaping-post-pandemic-global-order-experts/story-H73EmguaoIXGD7Rk2Ahx6L.html
19-06-2020||India||How was Galwan Valley named? Explorer’s grandson explains||Galwan Valley, the place where a clash took place on Monday night between Indian and Chinese soldiers, has been named after local explorer Ghulam Rasool Galwan.Rasool’s grandson Mohammad Amin Galwan said that his grandfather was the first to cross the valley while trekking with the British in 1895.“The weather turned bad and it was difficult to save the British team. Death was in front of their eyes. Rasool Galwan steered the team to the destination,” he told news agency IANS. “The British were happy and asked him what reward he wants, he said I don’t need anything but name the nallah on my name,” Galwan added.“During British time, the area was named Galwan Rasool or Galwan Nala,” he said.Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in the clash in this valley in Ladakh on June 15. A Colonel was among those killed. The face-off happened as a result of an attempt by the Chinese troops to “unilaterally change” the status quo during de-escalation in eastern Ladakh, India said. The situation could have been avoided if the agreement at the higher level been scrupulously followed by the Chinese side, the foreign ministry said.Speaking about the current stand-off, Amin Galwan said he salutes the jawans who made the supreme sacrifice in Galwan Valley.“In 1962, the Chinese entered that area and our brave soldiers pushed them back. There are a lot of activities happening in that area these days. Our jawans are standing their ground. The area belongs to us for the last over 200 years and it will remain so,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-was-galwan-valley-named-explorer-s-grandson-explains/story-IARlVZ97v68UUBQAZPtExK.html
19-06-2020||India||Odisha’s Covid-19 tally nears 5,000; 165 new cases reported||165 more Covid-19 cases have been reported from Odisha in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the state to 4,677, informed the state Health Department on Friday.Of these, the number of active cases stands at 1,519.“165 new cases of #COVID19 recorded in Odisha in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 4677 out of which 1519 cases are active,” the state Health Department tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-s-covid-19-tally-nears-5-000-165-new-cases-reported/story-6hBNYieTTixMDAucai7JCM.html
19-06-2020||India||Covid-19 positive Cong MLA in PPE suit votes in RS polls in Madhya Pradesh||Voting for three vacant Rajya Sabha seats in Madhya Pradesh concluded on Friday afternoon after all the 206 MLAs, including a Congress legislator who has tested Covid-19 positive, cast their votes.Voting began at 9 am in the state assembly complex here and ended around 1.15 pm, an assembly official said.The Congress legislator, who is a Covid-19 patient, was the last one to cast his ballot wearing a PPE suit. He came to the assembly complex in an ambulance, the official said.Both the parties- the BJP and the Congress- had fielded two candidates each for the three seats of the Upper House of Parliament.While the BJP fielded senior leader and former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia and former professor of a government college, Sumer Singh Solanki, from the Congress’s side, veteran politician Digvijaya Singh and Dalit leader Phool Singh Baraiya were in the fray.BJP members, including state Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, cast their votes in the morning.Former chief minister Kamal Nath and other Congress leaders also cast their ballots soon after the process began.Chouhan was the first member to cast vote, followed by the Home Minister Narottam Mishra.The members were seen wearing masks and standing in a queue maintaining social distance in view of Covid-19 pandemic. For winning a seat in the Rajya Sabha polls from MP, a candidate needs 52 votes. As per the numerical strength of the two parties, BJP is set to win two seats as it has 107 MLAs of its own and has the support of two MLAs of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), one MLA of the Samajwadi Party (SP) and two Independents, party sources said.The saffron party has the support of 112 in the 230 member Assembly whose effective strength is 206. Scindia and Solanki, thus, can get the 52 votes each needed for victory.Leaders of the BSP and the SP said they voted in favour of the BJP. Talking to reporters after the polls, SP’s Rajesh Shukla said, “It is our compulsion to go with the government.I have voted for the BJP on my own for the development of the area. There was no directive from the party leadership on the issue.” BSP’s Sanjeev Kushwaha said, “The Congress government collapsed not because of us, but due to its internal differences. There was no directive from the party for us.Therefore, we voted for the BJP on our own for the development of our region. The BSP will contest the upcoming by-polls on all the seats.” In the 230-member Madhya Pradesh assembly, 24 seats are currently vacant.Congress has been left with 92 MLAs after 22 of its legislators, including six who were ministers then, quit the party in support of Scindia’s move to join the BJP.Thus, Congress is set to win a single seat out of the total three for which polls are being held, sources added.The Congress Legislature Party (CLP) had asked 54 of its 92 MLAs to cast their first preference vote for Digvijaya Singh. The former chief minister needs 52 votes to get elected to Rajya Sabha for the second consecutive term.Baraiya, placed after Singh in the pecking order by his party, does not have the numbers on his side to win.The counting of votes will begin at 5 pm. PTI MAS NP NP||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-positive-cong-mla-in-ppe-suit-votes-in-rs-polls-in-madhya-pradesh/story-d0FhUAuUdQIqV5hSKA5o6O.html
19-06-2020||India||Over 15k samples collected in 24 hours for testing Covid-19||Over 15,000 samples were collected for testing coronavirus in the national capital within a 24-hour span, a senior official said on Friday. A total of 7,040 samples were collected for rapid antigen test and 7,972 samples were collected for the RT-PCR test for coronavirus on Thursday, the official said. The Delhi government commenced Covid-19 testing through rapid antigen methodology at 193 centres on Thursday. A total of 7,040 samples were collected and out of them, 456 people were found to be positive. In the initial phase, those residing in containment zones are being tested. The Delhi government has also capped the rate of Covid-19 RT-PCR test at Rs 2,400 with the city witnessing an alarming spurt in coronavirus cases. On Thursday, the national capital recorded its highest spike of 2,877 cases taking the tally close to the 50,000 mark, while the death toll mounted to 1,969, authorities said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-15k-samples-collected-in-24-hours-for-testing-covid-19/story-9qq8tmbXDVZomYDgPfe10L.html
19-06-2020||India||Supreme Court asks Centre to fix Covid-19 test rates across country||Taking note of dissimilarity in Covid-19 testing rates across states, the Supreme Court on Friday asked the Centre to decide on the issue, and said all states should set up a panel of experts to inspect hospitals to ensure proper care of patients.A bench comprising Justices Ashok Bhushan, S K Kaul and MR Shah, which would pass the order later, observed during the hearing that there should be uniformity in rates charged across all states.It indicated however that the court will not venture into the fixation of the charges which will be taken care of by the Centre.It said the court may also consider passing an order for installation of CCTVs in hospitals to ensure monitoring of patient care. In the last week of May, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) removed the price cap of Rs 4,500 for the real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test used to detect coronavirus disease (Covid-19), allowing the states a free hand to negotiate with the approved list of laboratories and fix the cost to conduct Covid-19 test.At the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, the ICMR said, there was a global crisis of testing kits and reagents, as India was heavily reliant on imported products for molecular detection of viruses. No rates for RT-PCR test for coronavirus were available for ready reference in the country, the top medical body said. The cost of imported kits and efforts involved in carrying out the test made the ICMR to suggest the upper limit of a single test at Rs 4,500.Since then the government has been working with domestic manufacturers to bring down the cost and develop kits. The ICMR this week recommended use of antigen-based testing kits for diagnosis that is likely to bring down the cost of testing. However, hospitals say the kit is not readily available in market yet.Earlier today, in relief to Covid-19 patients in Delhi, which has seen a sudden rise in cases over the past week, a panel set up by the Union home ministry has recommended lowering the cost of isolation beds and treatment at the intensive care units at the private hospitals in the national capital.On Monday, the Telangana government capped the cost of Covid-19 tests and treatment at private labs and hospitals across the state. State health minister Eatala Rajender said the private labs authorised by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in the state would not charge more than Rs 2,200 per person for a single Covid-19 diagnostic test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-asks-centre-to-fix-covid-19-test-rates-across-country-install-cameras-in-wards/story-YkdovlN5GzQMjzTuNBWTrN.html
19-06-2020||India||Covid-19 patients, family must get test report: Supreme Court tells Maharashtra govt||The Supreme Court on Friday directed the Maharashtra government to provide the reports of test for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to patients and their relatives directly. The bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan passed the order. The direction came as part of the suo moto monitoring by the top court of facilities to Covid-19 patients. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had issued a circular on June 13 which said that the test report will not be shared by the laboratory directly with the patient.“Laboratory will share the report with MCGM (Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai) and MCGM in return will share it with the patients,” the circular had said.The Indian Medical Association (IMA), as well as doctors, had complained against the circular, saying it is leading to delays in the treatment of Covid-19 patients.“Because of the new rule, the patients come to know about the result of the test after three to four days, and during this time their symptoms may aggravate and may become serious,” IMA had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-patients-family-must-get-test-report-supreme-court-tells-maharashtra-govt/story-xaHpRLAJLNaNuYxdk8tMHN.html
19-06-2020||India||2 BTP MLAs in Gujarat decide not to vote in Rajya Sabha polls over their demands||Just before the polling for four Rajya Sabha seats in Gujarat began on Friday morning, two Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) MLAs said that they would not cast their votes until they are given a written assurance about the welfare of tribals, migrants and Dalits.Votes of BTP chief Chhotu Vasava and his son Mahesh Vasava are crucial for both the BJP and the Congress in this election.“We will not give our votes unless and until we get a written assurance. We are an independent party, which keeps distance from both the BJP and the Congress,” Mahesh Vasava told reporters.“My father and I have decided not to cast our votes until we get an assurance about the implementation of schedule 5 of the Constitution and PESA Act. Although our votes are important, people whom we represent are more important to us,” he added.Also read| Battle for 19 Rajya Sabha seats today: All you need to knowPESA Act refers to the Panchayats (Extension to Scheduled Areas) Act.“Despite repeated representation to both the parties in the past, they did nothing for the welfare of ST, SC, OBC, minority and migrant workers,” he alleged.“We will think about voting only after getting an assurance,” Vasava said.Both BJP and Congress are hopeful of getting those two crucial votes of the BTP.Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani said, “The BJP and its governments have done numerous things for the welfare of tribals. A separate ministry for tribal welfare was created when Atal Bihari Vajpayee was the prime minister.” “The Gujarat government under Narendra Modi had spent crores on tribal-centric schemes. PESA Act came into effect in Gujarat under my rule. I am confident that the BTP will vote in BJP’s favour,” he said.Gujarat Congress president Amit Chavda also expressed confidence that the BTP MLAs would support his party in the election.“It was the Congress government at the Centre that had pushed forward the PESA Act. Our MLAs fought for its implementation inside and outside the Gujarat Assembly.Congress and BTP have a similar ideology and we are confident of getting their votes,” he said.The BJP, which has the strength of 103 in the Gujarat Assembly, requires two more votes for a comfortable victory of its all the three candidates. So for the BJP, the votes of the BTP are crucial.But if these two votes go to Congress, the party may inch closer to victory on both the seats, but may not get an absolute majority to win the second seat.Congress requires 70 votes and has 65 of its own and one Independent MLA, Jignesh Mewani, supporting them.Rajya Sabha election for four seats in Gujarat became necessary as the BJP decided to field a third candidate, taking the number of candidates in the fray to five.While the Congress has fielded Shaktisinh Gohil and Bharatsinh Solanki, the BJP has fielded Abhay Bhardwaj, Ramilaben Bara and Narhari Amin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-btp-mlas-in-gujarat-decide-not-to-vote-in-rajya-sabha-polls-over-their-demands/story-BO0395BjsD907VRTm0I0lO.html
19-06-2020||India||HT Exclusive: Galwan river bridge that China tried to stop in Ladakh is complete, says official||Army engineers have completed a 60-metre bridge over Galwan river in eastern Ladakh that would consolidate India’s hold of the sensitive sector by allowing Indian infantry to move across the cold mountain river and also protect the 255 km strategic road from Darbuk to Daulat Beg Oldie, the last military post just south of the Karakoram Pass, top officials told Hindustan Times. The bridge was built by the formation engineers despite the PLA showing hostile moves in the area in an effort to force Indian Army to abandon the project.The construction of the strategic bridge was seen as one of the triggers for the aggressive maneuvers by China’s People’s Liberation Army in eastern Ladakh that led to the stand-off between the two countries before Western Theatre Command of PLA made an “exaggerated” claim to the entire Galwan river Valley.A senior government official said the bridge was completed on Thursday, signalling that the border infrastructure upgrade projects being executed by the formation engineers and the Border Roads Organisation will continue despite the PLA’s attempts to stall them.The four-span bridge is located three kilometres east of the Shyok river-Galwan river confluence with the contested Patrolling Point 14 a further 2 km east of the Bailey bridge. Patrolling point 14, which was the site of the June 15 fisticuffs, is close to the Y-junction where the Galwan rivulet joins the main river. An Indian army base camp, called ‘120 km camp’ is on the confluence of the two rivers and next to the DSDBO road. “We did not pause work on this bridge through the stand-off and kept working despite the violent face-off on June 15,” a senior army officer said.Also Watch | Explained: Amid Ladakh clash, India to cancel Chinese firm’s deal for poor work The Chinese tall claim of holding the entire Galwan river valley is an attempt to reduce the Indian claim line to the Shyok river. If this happens, then the Chinese can overrun the DSDBO road in times of hostility and cut the road to Dault Beg Oldie. This will allow them to open another road to Pakistan via Murgo, the last Indian village before DBO.The Bailey bridge built on concrete pillars gives India a major advantage in terms of access and military mobilisation and is considered vital to protection of indian strategic interests. With Indian Army vehicles now being able to cross the Galvan River, the troops now have other military options available against the aggressive PLA in case of worst case scenario. The bridge replaces a footbridge on the Galwan River.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/galwan-valley-bridge-that-china-tried-to-stop-in-ladakh-is-complete-official/story-ODJ7CHLEtwr1Wn34kZnEkM.html
19-06-2020||India||4 children among 6 of family found dead in flat in Ahmedabad: Police||Six members of a family, including four children in the age group of seven to 12, were found hanging from the ceiling of an unoccupied flat in Ahmedabad city of Gujarat early on Friday, police said.Bodies of two brothers- Amrish Patel (42) and Gaurang Patel (40)- and their four children were found hanging in the family-owned empty flat in Vatva GIDC locality in the early hours, inspector D R Gohil of Vatva GTDC Police Station said.According to him, the Patel brothers lived in different localities of the city.“On June 17, they left their homes with the children, after informing their wives that they were going for an outing,” the official said.“When they failed to return till Thursday night, their wives went to the unoccupied flat. However, they found it locked from inside, following which they approached the police around midnight,” he said.It is suspected that the two men might have given food laced with sedatives to the children and killed them before hanging themselves from the ceiling, the official said.The police found the bodies of the two men in the drawing room, two girls - Kirti (9) and Sanvi (7) - in the kitchen and two 12-year-old boys- Mayur and Dhruv- in the bedroom. All of them were found hanging from the ceiling, he said.The bodies of the deceased have been sent for post- mortem and further probe was underway, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-children-among-six-of-family-found-hanging-in-flat-in-ahmedabad/story-u9KbxaW5uQkHYfvUqVS5nL.html
19-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand doctor, his elder brother arrested for raping 7-year-old daughter||A doctor (43) and his elder brother (46) were arrested on Thursday on charges of allegedly raping his minor daughter (7) on two separate occasions two years ago in Uttarakhand’s Nainital district’s Haldwani town, said police. Though the incident had occurred in 2018, the matter came to light last year after the victim’s mother lodged a complaint against her husband and the brother-in-law in Varanasi, where she is currently staying with her daughter following a family discord.Last September, the Uttar Pradesh Police had transferred the case to Haldwani.“Two persons were arrested on Thursday for allegedly raping the minor on two separate occasions at their home in Haldwani. They were booked for rape under the relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, and the Indian Penal Code (IPC),” said a police official, requesting anonymity.“The complainant started staying separately from her accused husband following a family discord. The victim narrated her ordeal to her mother following which she lodged a complaint at a local police station in Varanasi,” he added.The police attributed the delay in the arrests to receiving the relevant documents late and also because the complainant had wanted to shift the case back to Varanasi.“The accused were produced before a court on Thursday and were later sent to police custody. A probe is on,” said Amit Shrivastava, additional superintendent of police (ASP), Haldwani (city).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-doctor-his-elder-brother-arrested-for-raping-7-year-old-daughter/story-o6oidAWojHA1lLT38fFt6N.html
19-06-2020||India||Central panel recommends rate caps at Delhi private hospitals for Covid-19 treatment||A committee set up to fix rates to be charged by private hospitals in Delhi for isolation beds, ICUs with and without ventilator support for patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has given its recommendation, the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) said on Friday.Union home minister Amit Shah had constituted the panel under the member of the NITI Aayog to fix these rates “to provide relief to the common man in Delhi”, MHA said in a series of tweets. “Committee has recommended Rs 8000-10000, 13000-15000 & 15000-18000 including PPE costs for isolation bed, ICUs without & with ventilator respectively to all hospitals as compared to the current charges of Rs 24000-25000, 34000-43000 & 44000-54000 (excluding PPE cost),” it said.The ministry also said that house to house health surveys were completed in 242 containment zones in the Capita. “A total of 2.3 lakh people were surveyed,” it said.“Sample testing has been doubled immediately in pursuance of decisions taken by HM @AmitShah in series of meetings. A total of testing samples of 27,263 have been collected in #Delhi from 15 to 17 June 2020 against the daily collection which varied between 4,000-4,500 earlier,” it added.The home ministry also said testing through rapid antigen testing methodology was started on Thursday and 7,040 people were tested in 193 centres. “Testing will continue with increased numbers in coming days,” it said.Four hundred and fifty-six people were found infected with Covid-19 in the national capital in the new testing programme involving quick-result kits across containment zones.Delhi’s infection tally stands at 49,979 and 1,969 people have died due to the coronavirus disease so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-caps-rates-at-private-hospitals-for-covid-19-treatment-in-delhi/story-dWaJVhHUu4vbAvt89pj8NM.html
19-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Four districts in Tamil Nadu under Covid-19 lockdown from today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19: 4 Tamil Nadu districts under lockdown from today, drone monitoring carried out in ChennaiThe Tamil Nadu government has extended lockdown in four districts to curb a surge in the number of Covid-19 positive cases. These ditricts are Chennai, Thiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpet. The Covid-19 lockdown will remain in place here till June 30. Read moreMonsoon likely to arrive in Delhi around June 25, says IMDIndia Meteorological Department (IMD) has said conditions may become favourable for the advancement of southwest monsoon in Delhi and Haryana around June 25 even though it is unlikely to progress further till June 21. Read morePM Modi to hold all-party meeting on Ladakh face-off today; Mamata to attend, AAP claims not invitedPrime Minister Narendra Modi will chair an all-party meeting on the India-China border face-off on Friday. Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in the Monday night brawl and 19 others have been injured. Read moreLadakh face-off: Troops deployed on LAC to get body protection suits, batonsThe Indian Army has ordered body protective suits and batons for forward troops deployed along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, the focus of current tensions with China, to protect them from assaults by Chinese troops, two officers familiar with the development said on Friday. Read moreOutrage after Bolivian TV broadcasts Covid-19 deathA TV channel sparked controversy in Bolivia on Thursday after it broadcast live the final minutes of a Covid-19 patient’s life while doctors tried desperately to save him. Read moreApple says no to Facebook Gaming app for the App Store, for the fifth timeApple has said no to Facebook, for the fifth time, to having their Facebook Gaming app on the Apple App Store. The reason being given is that Facebook Gaming offers users an access to casual games that is out of bounds of Apple’s App Store. Read more‘Dada, nothing will happen at no. 5’: Former India coach’s advice that turned Sourav Ganguly’s careerSourav Ganguly is regarded as one of the best captains of the Indian cricket team. Under his leadership, the Indian cricket team developed a new attitude, a new energy and dynamism in the early 2000s. Read morePenguin review: Keerthy Suresh delivers one of her career-best performances in this emotional thrillerKeerthy Suresh’s Penguin, which is the second mainstream Tamil film to directly release on Amazon Prime Video, is one of those thrillers that’s mounted on a very promising idea. Read moreNagpur Police tweets what tarri poha means to them. Chances are you’ll relate to itNagpur Police often takes to Twitter to share various advisory and informative tweets which often receive appreciative comments from people. Their recent tweet, despite being of a different taste, has sparked the same reaction among people and piqued their attention too. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-tamil-nadu-extends-lockdown-in-4-districts-to-curb-rise-in-covid-cases-and-all-the-latest-news/story-lOegettApAudvhaBlR931H.html
19-06-2020||India||Covid-19: CSIR institute to conduct clinical trials of antiviral drug Umifenovir||The CSIR -- Central Drug Research Institute (CDRI) Lucknow, has got the nod for carrying out clinical trial of antiviral drug Umifenovir for treating coronavirus patients, according to a statement.The Phase III clinical trials will be carried out at King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences (RMLIMS) and ERA’s Lucknow Medical College & Hospital, Lucknow, it added. The drug has a good safety profile and acts by preventing entry of viruses into human cells and also by priming the immune system, it added. Umifenovir is mainly used for treatment of influenza and is available in China and Russia, and has recently come into prominence due to its potential use for Covid-19 patients. To evaluate its efficacy in Indian patients, CSIR-CDRI has taken up the clinical trial. Further, it has developed the process technology for Umifenovir in record time and licensed the economical process technology for manufacturing and marketing the drug to M/s. Medizest Pharmaceuticals Private Ltd. Goa, which has already received a test license from DCGI, it added.Prof. Tapas Kundu, Director CSIR-CDRI, said all the raw materials for the drug are indigenously available and if the clinical trial is successful, Umifenovir can be a safe, efficacious, affordable drug against COVID-19. He added that the drug has the potential for prophylactic use.Dr Shekhar Mande, Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), highlighted that this clinical trial is an integral part of the CSIR strategy of repurposing drugs for Covid-19. “The clinical trial application was processed on high priority as per the DCGIs initiative against Covid-19. The next steps of the trial are being fast tracked to enable the availability of the drug to Indian patients as soon as possible,” the statement added.CSIR labs have been trying to repurpose different drugs for treating coronavirus patients. For the last three months, the Drug Controller General of India has allowed the use of Favipiravir drug, developed within the country by a CSIR laboratory, for clinical trials to treat coronavirus patients.In another case, the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), has tied up with Cadila Pharmaceuticals Ltd to evaluate Mycobacterium W (Mw) for faster recovery of hospitalised Covid-19 infected patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-csir-institute-to-conduct-clinical-trials-of-antiviral-drug-umifenovir/story-JA6S6qzibAWNLEdYwARPXL.html
19-06-2020||India||Delhi-NCR: Small magnitude earthquakes do not indicate a bigger one is coming, says Wadia Institute||Small magnitude earthquakes in Delhi-NCR region do not indicate a bigger temblor is coming, the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology said on Friday.The Dehradun-based autonomous research institute under the Union science and technology ministry clarified that the vulnerability of a region can be understood from past seismicity, calculation of strain and mapping of active faults.Delhi-NCR is in the second highest seismic hazard zone or Zone IV.Sometimes a vulnerable zone remains quiet, experiences small magnitude earthquakes that do not indicate any bigger earthquake, or can receive a sudden jolt by a big earthquake without any call, the institute said in a statement.HT had reported on June 4 that Delhi-NCR witnessed at least 14 earthquakes in around two months (March 24 to June 3). A 3- magnitude earthquake was recorded near Gautam Budh Nagar on Wednesday night, according to data from the National Center for Seismology.All earthquakes in the past two months have been mild with only two above 3.5 magnitude. On May 29, Rohtak recorded an earthquake of 4.6 magnitude. There have been several more mild quakes in June.The statement from Wadia Institute said: “The recent events cannot be defined as the ‘foreshocks’. If a big earthquake takes place in a region, all smaller events that occurred in the immediate past at that region are categorised as the foreshocks. Therefore, scientifically all these tremors in the Delhi-NCR can be demarcated as the foreshocks only after a big earthquake takes place immediately.”While a stronger earthquake posing a threat to people and property cannot be ruled out, since earthquakes cannot be predicted by any mechanism, the tremors cannot be described as the signal of a big event. All the quakes recorded in Delhi-NCR are due to the release of energy, which have accumulated as a result of northward movement of the Indian plate and its collision with the Eurasian plate, through the fault or weak zones.There are many weak zones and faults in Delhi-NCR – Delhi-Haridwar ridge, Mahendragarh-Dehradun subsurface fault, Moradabad fault, Sohna fault, great boundary fault, Delhi-Sargodha ridge, Yamuna river lineament and Ganga river lineament, the statement said.Delhi is also vulnerable to quakes because of its proximity to Himalayas. There are many faults, ridges and lineaments transverse to the Himalayan arc. A major earthquake in the Himalayan seismic belt may be a threat to Delhi-NCR, the institute said.The Garhwal Himalaya, lying in the Central Seismic Gap and to the north of Delhi-NCR, experienced the 1991 Uttarkashi earthquake of 6.8 magnitude, the 1999 Chamoli earthquake of 6.6 magnitude and the 2017 Rudraprayag earthquake of 5.7 magnitude.This region is due for a major to great earthquake, and such a scenario can make a pronounced impact on north India and Delhi-NCR, Kalachand Sain, the director of Wadia Institute, explained in the statement.One of the important ways to prevent damage is to delineate active faults and ensure major infrastructure is not built near them. If such infrastructure is built, it will have to be done according to the guiding principles of the Bureau of Indian Standard (BIS).The outcome of recent micro-zonation studies for Delhi-NCR by IMD should be considered for construction projects.“The only solution to minimise the loss of lives and properties is the effective preparedness against the earthquake. Countries like Japan have proved this, where earthquakes are common phenomenon, yet the losses are negligible. Annual mock-drill is a regular feature there,” Sain recommended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-ncr-small-magnitude-earthquakes-do-not-indicate-a-bigger-one-is-coming-says-wadia-institute/story-OJ09JR8niGT9mQhLRFeerI.html
19-06-2020||India||In PM Modi’s Ladakh meeting today, AAP and RJD say they aren’t invited||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) have said they did not get an invite to the all-party meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the border face-off between India and China on Friday, their leaders have said.Defence minister Rajnath Singh had on Thursday called and invited all leaders on behalf of the Prime Minister and 20 parties will attend the meeting, according to reports. It will be also attended by Union home minister Amit Shah and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda, they said.AAP leaders Sanjay Singh and Gopal Rai have said their party did not get the call for the meeting.“A strange ego-ridden government is ruling at the Centre. The Aam Aadmi Party has a government in Delhi. It’s the main opposition party in Punjab. There are four MPs all over the country but still the BJP does not want its opinion on such an important matter. The whole country is waiting for what the Prime Minister will say in the meeting,” Sanjay Singh tweeted in Hindi on Thursday.Singh also said all parties should be brought together during a national emergency.Gopal Rai, who is also a minister in the Delhi government, said it is unfortunate that the AAP was not invited.“Instead of taking all the parties together, the BJP is using mathematical formulas to ascertain who should be invited and who should not be. It is unfortunate,” he said.Rai also said the AAP will launch nationwide protests against the Chinese aggression on Saturday and party MLAs will stage protests in their respective constituencies.“To protest the attack on Indian soldiers by China, Aam Aadmi Party will hold ‘Aakrosh Pradarshan’ tomorrow on June 20 at 11:00 am. There will be a demonstration in all the 70 assembly constituencies of Delhi. India will not tolerate the insult of brave soldiers,” Rai tweeted in Hindi.Similarly, the RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav said his party has not been called for the meeting.“The Rashtriya Janata Dal is the largest party in Bihar and it has 5 MPs in Parliament but we have not been invited to today’s all-party meeting on the face-off between India and China We want Rajnath Singh ji to clarify as to why the RJD hasn’t been invited,” Yadav, who is Bihar’s Leader of Opposition, said on Friday, according to ANI.Before that, he had questioned the defence minister and the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) over the miss. “Dear @DefenceMinIndia @PMOIndia, Just wish to know the criteria for inviting political parties for tomorrow’s #AllPartyMeet on #GalwanValley. I mean the grounds of inclusion/exclusion. Because our party @RJDforIndia hasn’t received any message so far,” he had tweeted on Thursday.Reports said all recognised national parties, those with more than five MPs in the Lok Sabha, leading parties from the northeast and parties with Union cabinet ministers have been invited for the all-party meeting.It comes amid demands by the opposition seeking details of the violent face-off between Indian and Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh which left 20 Indian Army personnel dead.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-pm-modi-s-ladakh-meeting-today-aap-and-rjd-say-they-aren-t-invited/story-lg72WkacQZykaXnHSzj4bN.html
19-06-2020||India||Rajya Sabha polls: JMM chief Shibu Soren set to enter upper house, advantage BJP on second seat from Jharkhand||Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) chief and former Union minister Shibu Soren is set to enter the Upper House for the second time from Jharkhand, while it’s advantage BJP on the second seat, which is a contest between Jharkhand BJP president Deepak Prakash and Congress’ Shahzada Anwar.Election for the two Rajya Sabha seats of the state is being held on Friday. The voting will end at 4 pm. The polling in the biennials has been necessitated as three candidates are in the fray from Jharkhand.The BJP has nominated its state president Deepak Prakash who was confident of defeating the Congress. “Our win is certain,” he said, adding that with the Congress falling short of required numbers it was playing “dirty politics.”The BJP leadership, however, is cautious, as the party is short of one vote (lawmaker) against the required 27 first preference votes, and has to depend on the AJSU that has two legislators. The BJP has 26 legislators in the House. Despite the assurance of AJSU chief Sudesh Mahto, who after attending the NDA legislature party meet on Wednesday said that the party would vote for the NDA candidate, BJP central leader Om Prakash Mathur called on him once again on Thursday.Another central BJP leader Arun Singh, who was here to overview the party’s poll preparation, met independent MLA Saryu Roy. The latter fell apart with the saffron party before the assembly election, contested against former BJP chief minister Raghubar Das from Jamshedpur (East) assembly seat as rebel candidate and had won.The BJP had put up its legislators in a private university hostel situated on the outskirts of the state capital. The senior party leaders on Thursday trained the new BJP legislators on how to vote in the biennials correctly.The UPA legislators, including chief minister Hemant Soren, also met at a luncheon party thrown by Irfan Ansari on Thursday and discussed their strategy - how to win both the seats.The Congress has fielded Sahazada Anwar. However, the party lags in number (it is short of five votes) and Anwar’s chances depend mostly on cross-voting (if any).There are 79 legislators in Jharkhand assembly after chief minister Hemant Soren had quit the Dumka seat and retained Barhet and the demise of Congress legislator Rajendra Prasad Singh.To win, a candidate thus requires 27 first preference votes. The JMM has 29 MLAs and thus it would be a smooth sail for party president Shibu Soren.The BJP has 26 after Babulal Marandi merged his JVM (P) with it. However, two others - Pradeep Yadav and Bandhu Tirkey who had won the assembly election on JVM (P) ticket did not align with the BJP and joined the Congress. The Election Commission however, accepted them as independent.Besides AJSU, BJP candidate Deepak Prakash has the support of two independent MLAs as well.On the other hand, Congress candidate Shahazada Anwar has 22 votes including two independents, two second preference votes of the JMM, one each of the NCP and CPI (ML) and two independents, besides its own 15 legislators.Senior Congress leader and rural development minister Alamgir Alam said, “The party’s chances will depend if MLAs decide to cross vote. The party is in touch with a few opposition MLAs and independents,” he added.AICC leader PL Punia is in the town as observer to oversee the election management of paty candidate. Here is how the UPA and NDA camps stack up:UPAJMM: 29Cong: 15RJD: 01NCP: 01CPI ML: 01Independents: 02NDABJP: 26AJSU Party: 02Independents: 02||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-polls-jmm-chief-shibu-soren-set-to-enter-upper-house-advantage-bjp-on-second-seat-from-jharkhand/story-iHk2I7zTNmlV79kfnT3XuO.html
19-06-2020||India||Assam: Covid-19 patient dies from head injuries while trying to flee quarantine||A man (40) has died in Assam due to head injuries sustained while trying to flee from a quarantine centre after he came to know that he has tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive.The deceased, who had recently returned from Odisha, where he was working, amid the easing of nationwide lockdown restrictions, was quarantined at a makeshift facility in a school near his native village in Bongaigaon district.“The deceased and another person tested Covid-19 positive on Tuesday. He was informed about it and an ambulance was sent to transfer both these patients to a hospital,” said MS Lakshmi Priya, deputy commissioner (DC), Bongaigaon.“When the ambulance reached the quarantine centre, the other person boarded the vehicle. But the man, who had recently returned from Odisha, gave an excuse that he would need to collect some of his stuff from the quarantine centre. He tried to scale a wall of the centre in a bid to escape. Unfortunately, he slipped and sustained severe head injuries,” the DC added.He was immediately shifted to the medical college hospital in neighbouring Barpeta district, where he was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU). He died on Thursday.“Even though he had tested Covid-19 positive, he didn’t die due to symptoms related to the viral outbreak. His death won’t be counted as a Covid-19 fatality,” the DC said.“This is an unfortunate incident and the deceased would definitely have recovered from the viral disease within a few days. We’ve no idea why he took such an extreme step. We’re taking extra care of all those who are under institutional quarantine in the district,” she added.His last rites were performed at his native village in Bongaigaon district on Thursday, as per the central government’s strict guidelines of disposing of bodies of Covid-19 patients.Bongaigaon district has recorded 65 Covid-19 positive cases until Thursday.Around 7,000 people working in other states have returned to the district in the past 45 days since the ban on inter-state movement was lifted.Assam has recorded 4,862 Covid-19 positive cases till Thursday, including 2,849 patients have recovered and nine deaths.Over 2.91 lakh people have returned to the state from other states in the north-east and the rest of the country since May 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-covid-19-patient-dies-from-head-injuries-while-trying-to-flee-quarantine/story-GX7q6WIacdjEL7g7JMdp5L.html
19-06-2020||India||PM Modi to hold all-party meeting on Ladakh face-off today; Mamata to attend, AAP claims not invited||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair an all-party meeting on the India-China border face-off on Friday. Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in the Monday night brawl and 18 others have been injured.“In order to discuss the situation in the India-China border areas, Prime Minister @narendramodi has called for an all-party meeting at 5 PM on 19th June. Presidents of various political parties would take part in this virtual meeting,” the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) had tweeted on Wednesday. In order to discuss the situation in the India-China border areas, Prime Minister @narendramodi has called for an all-party meeting at 5 PM on 19th June. Presidents of various political parties would take part in this virtual meeting.News agency ANI reported that 20 parties will attend the virtual meeting in which home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh and BJP president JP Nadda will also be present. The defence minister had personally called and invited all leaders on behalf of PM Modi on Thursday, ANI further reported.Indian Army officials claimed 43 Chinese were killed or seriously injured in the incident on June 15.Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said on Thursday that the country has taken the incident in Galwan Valley very seriously.“We all pay tributes to the martyred Army officers and soldiers. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has made clear India’s view over what was done by the neighbouring country China,” the PIB release quoted him as saying.“India has taken this incident very seriously,” the senior BJP leader said. PM Modi had said ahead of a meeting with the chief ministers on the Covid-19 situation that India is a peace-loving country but can give befitting reply if provoked.West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee will attend today’s meeting, news agency PTI quoted sources in the Trinamool Congress (TMC). Banerjee, the TMC chief, had on Wednesday said the Centre’s move to call the all-party meeting to discuss the situation was a right decision.She had skipped the chief ministers’ meeting on the Covid-19 situation because West Bengal was not given time to speak during the video-conference.Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Sanjay Singh, meanwhile, claimed that they have not been invited to Friday’s meeting. “A strange ego-ridden government is running at the Centre. The Aam Aadmi Party has a government in Delhi. It is the main Opposition party in Punjab. There are four MPs all over the country, but still the BJP does not want AAP’s opinion on such an important matter. What will the prime minister say in the meeting, the whole country is waiting for it,” Singh tweeted in Hindi on Thursday. केन्द्र में एक अजीब अहंकार ग्रस्त सरकार चल रही है आम आदमी पार्टी की दिल्ली में सरकार है पंजाब में मुख्य विपक्षी पार्टी है 4 सांसद हैं देश भर में संगठन लेकिन किसी महत्वपूर्ण विषय पर भाजपा को AAP की राय नही चाहिये कल की बैठक में प्रधानमंत्री जी क्या बोलेंगे पूरे देश को इंतज़ार है?The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) has also said that it has not been invited to today’s meeting. Rashtriya Janta Dal MP Manoj Kumar Jha on Friday said it was unfortunate. “This is very sad and unfortunate that we are not invited. We are the single largest party in Bihar including five Rajya Sabha MPs, eight MLC and 80 MLAs. The party is present in 21 states. I do not know what criteria they have fixed. Bihar regiment has lost five soldiers. We have many things to ask and suggest to the Prime Minister,” the RJD leader said.The Congress, meanwhile, has been attacking the government over the incident in Ladakh. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi had earlier questioned whether the Indian soldiers were sent to the site of the clash in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley “unarmed”. Foreign minister S Jaishankar had hit back, saying the soldiers were carrying arms but did not open fire following protocols.Twenty Indian Army personnel, including a colonel, were killed in a clash with Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on Monday night, the biggest military confrontation in over five decades that has significantly escalated the already volatile border standoff between the two neighbours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-to-hold-all-party-meeting-on-ladakh-face-off-today-mamata-to-attend-aap-claims-not-invited/story-kEwn3UY7LPQMHf4ysIM8QP.html
19-06-2020||India||‘Price paid by our jawans’: Rahul Gandhi sharpens attack on govt on Ladakh face-off||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday sharpened attack on the Indian government over the face-off between the Indian and Chinese soldiers in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed.“It’s now crystal clear that: 1. The Chinese attack in Galwan was pre-planned; 2. GOI was fast asleep and denied the problem; 3. The price was paid by our martyred Jawans,” Gandhi said on Twitter.Also Watch | ‘Govt was fast asleep, soldiers paid the price’: Rahul Gandhi on Ladakh faceoff  It’s now crystal clear that: 1. The Chinese attack in Galwan was pre-planned.2. GOI was fast asleep and denied the problem.3. The price was paid by our martyred Jawans.https://t.co/ZZdk19DHcGHe attached a news report with his tweet in which Union minister Shripad Naik said that the June 15 attack was “pre-planned by China”. He had made the remarks on Wednesday and said that Indian forces will give a befitting reply.Gandhi had attacked the government on Thursday too, asking whether the Indian soldiers were sent to the site of the clash in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley “unarmed”.“China has committed a crime by killing India’s unarmed soldiers. I want to know who sent these unarmed soldiers in the harm’s way and why. Who is responsible?” Gandhi had asked in Hindi during an 18-second video clip posted by him on Twitter.The government said that soldiers involved in the Monday night clash with Chinese troops were carrying weapons and ammunition but did not open fire as they were following border agreements between the two countries.“Let us get the facts straight. All troops on border duty always carry arms, especially when leaving post. Those at Galwan on 15 June did so. Long-standing practice (as per 1996 & 2005 agreements) not to use firearms during faceoffs,” external affairs minister S Jaishankar tweeted, responding to a post by Gandhi.Jaishankar and Gandhi were both reacting to an HT interview with Lt Gen (retired) HS Panag, who said “soldiers do not shoot arms to avoid escalation of the situation”. Panag also said: “The Chinese, by design, came with clubs, with knuckle dusters.”Indian and Chinese soldiers engaged in their first deadly conflict in at least 45 years at Patrol Point 14 in Galwan Valley, resulting in 20 deaths on the Indian side, including that of a commanding officer, and possibly 43 casualties including injuries on the Chinese side during the seven-hour brutal brawl that also involved hand-to-hand fighting.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said on Wednesday that India is a peace loving country but can give befitting reply if provoked. He had made the remarks ahead of a video conference with chief ministers to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the country.Defence minister Rajnath Singh had mourned the death of the 20 soldiers, saying the nation will never forget their supreme sacrifice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/price-paid-by-our-jawans-rahul-gandhi-sharpens-attack-on-govt-on-ladakh-face-off/story-Q6ELuZwHBMTtQpbUYeFuvJ.html
19-06-2020||India||Explainer: What are the Rajya Sabha polls?||In India’s bicameral Parliament – inspired by the British system – the Rajya Sabha or upper house enjoys nearly all the powers of the Lok Sabha or lower house, except that it can’t veto a budget or any money bill.As India’s federal laws need the approval of both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha, the upper house – whose members aren’t directly elected by the public – can reject a bill or seek amendments. Also, a legislation introduced in the Rajya Sabha has no shelf life and will remain alive till it has been passed by the House.How the members are elected?While Lok Sabha members are elected directly by voters, the Rajya Sabha members come through a complex process of proportional representation and by votes of the legislators of their respective state. The calculation is: Total number of legislators of the state ÷ no of seats going to polls in the state + 1.Each legislator or MLA will give ranking of candidates according to his or her preference. If a candidate gets the minimum requisite votes, he or she will be elected.But in a contest, if a candidate fails to get the requisite votes from the first preference of the voters, the second preference votes will be counted.How many members are there in Rajya Sabha?The strength of the Rajya Sabha is 245, of whom 233 are elected from the states and union territories. The remaining 12 are nominated by the president. The number of Rajya Sabha MPs from a state depends of the size of its population. Uttar Pradesh, the most populous state, sends 31 MPs to the upper house, while Arunachal Pradesh has just one seat.Who are the nominated members?These members are nominated by the president because of their special knowledge or practical experience in fields such as literature, science, art and social service. Nominated members enjoy the same perks and privileges as that of elected members except on one count – they can’t participate in the election of the president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explainer-all-about-rajya-sabha-polls/story-KXuwGz1Cl1kMGIHcazz5VJ.html
19-06-2020||India||Indo-China border standoff: Plan to start construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya suspended||Amid the Indo-China border standoff, the Ram Mandir trust has put on hold its plan to begin the construction of the temple in Ayodhya. In an official communique, the trust said that the situation at the India-China border is “serious” and defending the country is “most important”.  The decision comes days after a violent face-off between Indian and Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in Ladakh left 20 Indian Army personnel dead. Expressing concern over the killing of Indian soldiers, the trust which has been charged with the construction of the temple after the historic Supreme Court verdict last year, said a new date will be decided soon.  “The decision to begin construction (of temple) will be taken according to the situation in the country and will be announced officially,” Anil Mishra, member of the trust told PTI.The trust also paid tributes to the soldiers. Meanwhile, different Hindu organisations staged protests against China in Ayodhya. While Hindu Mahasabha activists burned the Chinese flag, activists of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) burned the effigy of Chinese President Xi Jinping and smashed Chinese-made products.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indo-china-border-standoff-plan-to-start-construction-of-ram-temple-in-ayodhya-suspended/story-G5uPI8iHByt37xLL5bj3rI.html
19-06-2020||India||Battle for 19 Rajya Sabha seats underway: All you need to know||Elections underwayElections to fill 19 vacancies in the Rajya Sabha in nine states are underway. These elections were originally scheduled for March 26, but were deferred after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic.Eye on gainsThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is the single largest party in the Rajya Sabha with 75 members out of the current strength of 224, and it is expecting its numbers to go up to 86.Though the BJP will add more seats to its kitty, it won’t reach the halfway mark, which it has been eyeing to help the party get crucial legislation passed in the upper house of Parliament. To be sure, the government didn’t face hurdles in the passage of key bills such as the Reorganisation of Jammu and Kashmir and the bill to ban triple talaq, despite not being in a majority.NumbersThe NDA currently has 90 members which includes 75 MPs from the BJP. The Congress has 39 MPs and the opposition bloc together has 69. Parties that are not part of the NDA, but are friendly to the BJP, have 27 MPs.Key contestIn Madhya Pradesh, the BJP is sure of winning two of the three seats – one that of senior leader Jyotiraditya Scindia and the other of Sumer Singh Solanki – while the Congress is expecting the return of Digvijaya Singh as its Rajya Sabha member from the state.In Andhra Pradesh, where four seats are up for grabs, the YSRC has fielded AR Reddy, Parimal Nathwani, PS Bose and Venkat Ramana Rao Mopidevi, while TDP has fielded VRV Ramaiah.The contest is interesting in Gujarat, where the Congress saw eight party legislators resigning ahead of the Rajya Sabha elections. The Congress here was confident of winning two seats, but with the resignations, only Shakti Singh Gohil seems to be a sure winner. Its second candidate is Bharat Singh Solanki. The BJP is confident that all its three candidates – Narhari Amin, Abhay Bhardwaj and Ramila ben Bara – will make it to the upper house.In Rajasthan, the Congress and the BJP have been guarding their legislators in resorts to guard against defection. The Congress is confident of winning two of the three seats, and its candidates are KC Venugopal and Neeraj Dangi. The BJP will win one seat and its candidates are OS Lakhawat and Rajendra Gehlot.In Jharkhand, the Congress’ ally, the JMM, is set to win one seat with Shibu Soren as the candidate. There is a fight for the second seat between the Congress and the BJP, which is hopeful of winning one seat with the support of All Jharkhand Students Union and independent candidates. The BJP’s candidate is state party president Deepak Prakash. The Congress has fielded Shahzad Anwar.The BJP is also hopeful of winning one seat each from Mizoram, Meghalaya and Manipur.Voting arrangementsIn the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Election Commission has made stringent arrangements to allow members who are unwell to vote through postal ballot. Members will be provided sanitation and PPE kits if required.How is the voting done?MLAs vote to elect Rajya Sabha members through a proportional representation system with a single transferable vote (STV) system. A ballot has the names of candidates and MLAs have to register their first, second and third preference votes.A candidate with the highest first preference votes wins. As per the rules Conduct of Elections Rules, 1961, the single vote is transferable from one nominee to another and that takes place in two contingencies where there would otherwise be wastage of votes. These are when a candidate obtains more than what is required for his/her success and, therefore, has an unnecessary surplus; and when a candidate polls so few votes that he/she has absolutely no chance and therefore the votes nominating him/her are liable to be wasted.Each elector has only one vote, irrespective of the number of seats to be filled. But that single vote is transferable from one candidate to another. The ballot paper bears the names of the candidates, and the elector marks on it his preferences for the candidates with the figures 1,2,3,4 and so on against the names chosen.The returning officer counts the votes. They first count the postal ballot papers, and then opens the ballot boxes.All votes have to be marked using a pen specifically provided by the EC for the purpose of election. Votes marked in ink from any pen other than the one supplied by the EC are invalid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/battle-for-19-rajya-sabha-seats-today-all-you-need-to-know/story-sEYADnnztX99EQU9iidOIN.html
19-06-2020||India||Covid-19: 4 Tamil Nadu districts under lockdown from today, drone monitoring carried out in Chennai||The Tamil Nadu government has extended lockdown in four districts to curb a surge in the number of Covid-19 positive cases.These ditricts are Chennai, Thiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpet. The Covid-19 lockdown will remain in place here till June 30.“We have started enforcing the lockdown measures. In many areas of the city, monitoring is being through drones and even announcements are being made. Except for permitted purposes, vehicles will not be allowed,” Chennai Police Commissioner AK Viswanathan said on Friday.Tamil Nadu has recorded 2,141 positive cases of coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours, pushing up the state’s tally to 52,334. Among these, Chennai reported 1,373 positive cases, bringing the city’s total to 37,070.The death toll in the state is at 625 after 49 deaths were reported on Thursday, the health department said.Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had announced ‘maximised restricted lockdown’ in these four districts on Monday. During the 12-day long complete lockdown period, only essential services will be allowed with restrictions.On two Sundays (June 21 and 28) there shall be a full-scale shutdown without any relaxations, the chief minister had said.The chief minister’s announcement came following a consultative meeting with experts and senior officials on Monday.Last week, Palaniswami had said that capital city Chennai, which is also the largest in the state, is densely populated due to which the number of Covid-19 cases are more there.Palaniswami also said there is no community transmission of Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu and that the virus has been contained in most districts.India’s infection tally on Friday reached 3,80,533 with 1,63,248 active cases of the respiratory disease and 12,573 fatalities, according to the health ministry’s dashboard at 8 am.The country’s recovery rate, which is the ratio of the number of patients recovered to the number of patients infected, is now 53.79 per cent after 204,710 patients were cured of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-4-tamil-nadu-districts-under-lockdown-from-today-drone-monitoring-carried-out-in-chennai/story-arYIlF5BclrIG92xbFuL0M.html
19-06-2020||India||Ladakh face-off: Troops deployed on LAC to get body protection suits, batons||The Indian Army has ordered body protective suits and batons for forward troops deployed along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, the focus of current tensions with China, to protect them from assaults by Chinese troops, two officers familiar with the development said on Friday.The Chinese troops have been using stones, iron rods and nail-studded clubs to inflict serious injuries during border brawls. Twenty Indian soldiers, including a colonel, were killed in a seven-hour brawl in Galwan Valley on Monday night.The order for the suits – essentially light-weight riot gear – was placed with a Mumbai-based firm last month after scores of Indian soldiers, including a colonel, were injured in a clash with Chinese troops on the northern bank on Pangong Lake on the night of May 5-6, said one of the two officials cited above.Also Watch: India pays tributes to Galwan valley martyrs Also read: On Ladakh border incident, China official asked 6 questions. Answers noneIndian and Chinese soldiers have been caught in a tense confrontation along the disputed border since rival patrols clashed near Pangong Lake last month.The soldiers along the LAC will get 500 sets of protective suits soon in the first instalment, said the second officer. The army has ordered a total of around 2,000 sets of protective suits and batons, he said.The tensions escalated significantly after the brutal clash between Indian and Chinese troops in Galwan Valley on June 15. Both sides suffered casualties. The Chinese soldiers employed the same modus operandi and attacked Indian troops with stones, iron rods and nail-studded clubs.Two retired senior commanders that Hindustan Times spoke to said it was inappropriate to supply riot gear to soldiers as their role was not the same as policemen.The June 15 clash also left 76 Indian soldiers injured, including 18 with serious injuries, officials said. All of them are now stable.Also read: Chinese firm’s Rs 470 cr contract to be cancelled, says railway amid Ladakh face-offIndian Army officials claimed 43 Chinese were killed or seriously injured, citing radio intercepts and other intelligence. The Chinese fatal casualties reportedly include a colonel, but HT couldn’t independently verify this.The Galwan Valley clash took the relationship between the two nuclear powers to an all-time low.The deadly clash came on a day army delegations from India and China held talks at two locations along the LAC – brigadier-rank officers met in Galwan Valley and colonel-rank officers in Hot Springs – as part of continuing efforts to de-escalate and disengage.According to provisions of an agreement on confidence-building measures in the military field along the LAC, signed by India and China in November 1996, both sides will not open fire or conduct blast operations within two kilometres of the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ladakh-face-off-troops-deployed-on-lac-to-get-body-protection-suits-batons/story-ACQdyxNGYmuTfDU5I9fSFM.html
19-06-2020||India||Voting begins for 19 Rajya Sabha seats, all Covid-19 protocols in place||Rajya Sabha election, the country’s first major voting exercise during the Covid-19 pandemic, began on Friday.There are 19 seats - four each from Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh, three each from Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, two from Jharkhand and one each from Manipur, Mizoram, and Meghalaya - for which the elections are being held.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted to say on Friday morning that he reached the state assembly (Vidhan Sabha) to cast his vote. Gehlot also said that all health protocols are being followed for the safety of all legislators in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic.In Madhya Pradesh, Congress MLAs reached the state assembly in buses from party’s sate unit president Kamal Nath’s residence to cast their vote. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has also cast his vote.The voting also began for the four Rajya Sabha seats in Gujarat. The contest between the Congress and the BJP in Gujarat is likely to go down to wire as none of the two parties have absolute numbers. The BJP has fielded three candidates for four seats, while the Congress has given tickets to two candidates.Watch l Key contests in Rajya Sabha polls: All you need to know Both the parties have expressed hope that all their candidates will win the Rajya Sabha polls. Eight Congress legislators have resigned from the Gujarat assembly since the Rajya Sabha polls were first announced in February, reducing the party’s strength to 65 from 79 in 2017. Nearly 1,000 legislators will vote across these states. Health departments of these states oversaw the preparations for the elections. The Election Commission has also appointed a nodal officer for each state to ensure Covid-19 guidelines are followed.The ruling BJP is set to win two seats in Madhya Pradesh as the Bahujan Samaj Party, Samajwadi Party, which have two and one lawmakers respectively, as well as two of the four independent legislators pledged support to the party on Thursday. The BJP has fielded former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia and Sumer Singh Solanki while Congress Digvijaya Singh and Phool Singh Baraiya.Congress’ two candidates, KC Venugopal and Neeraj Dangi, are expected to win from Rajasthan as the party enjoys the support of a total 125 legislators, including independents and those from smaller parties. The BJP has 72 legislators and can easily win one seat as 51 votes are required for that. The BJP has fielded Rajendra Gehlot and Onkar Singh Lakhawat.In Jharkhand, ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) chief Shibu Soren is set to win his seat.The ruling YSR Congress Party is poised to win all four seats given its strength - 151 in the 175-member House - in the Andhra Pradesh assembly.The BJP-led coalition government in Manipur was dealt a blow on Wednesday after three of its legislators resigned and a key alliance partner withdrew its support two days before the election to the lone Rajya Sabha seat from the state.Before the crisis, the BJP-led government had 39 lawmakers in the 60-member House. The Opposition had 21. To win the Rajya Sabha seat, a candidate requires 26 votes.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/voting-begins-for-20-rajya-sabha-seats-all-covid-19-protocols-in-place/story-Sn4KoqfWorQGBr4v6k7UBJ.html
19-06-2020||India||From warning on dexamethasone to HCQ: Latest on Covid-19 treatment, vaccines||More than 8.4 million people have contracted the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 453,290 have died across the world in nearly six months after it was first reported from China’s Wuhan late last year.Around 10 potential vaccines are now undergoing trials in humans, in the hope that a shot to prevent infection can become available in coming months. And even before any vaccines have been proven to work, several countries have already begun making deals with pharmaceutical companies to order doses.The World Health Organization (WHO) hopes hundreds of millions of doses of coronavirus vaccine can be produced this year and 2 billion doses by the end of 2021, chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan said on Thursday.The WHO is drawing up plans to help decide who should get the first doses once a vaccine is approved, she said.Priority would be given to frontline workers such as medics, those who are vulnerable because of age or other illness, and those who work or live in high-transmission settings such as prisons and care homes.Here are all the latest updates you need to know about Covid-19 vaccines:Caution on dexamethasoneDexamethasone, a cheap steroid that can help save the lives of patients with severe Covid-19, should be reserved for serious cases in which it has been shown to provide benefits, the World Health Organization (WHO) has warned. Mike Ryan, the head of the WHO’s emergencies programme, said the drug should only be used in those serious cases where it has been shown to help.“It is exceptionally important in this case, that the drug is reserved for use in severely ill and critical patients who can benefit from this drug clearly,” Ryan said during a briefing.Trial results announced on Tuesday by researchers in Britain showed dexamethasone, a generic drug used since the 1960s to reduce inflammation in diseases such as arthritis, cut death rates by around a third among the most severely ill coronavirus patients admitted to hospital.The research body involved in the trial was the same one which found evidence that HCQ (Hydroxychloroquine) was not extremely effective on all Covid-19 patients.That makes it the first drug proved to save lives in fighting the disease. However, some doctors were cautious, citing possible side-effects and asking to see more data.Volunteers lining up to be infectedThousands are signing up to take part in a high-stakes experiment willing to deliberately expose themselves to the coronavirus to test a potential vaccine, should researchers decide to proceed.Known as human-challenge studies, these tests can hasten research by placing volunteers in the path of the virus, rather than waiting for accidental exposure.Pascal Soriot, chief executive officer of drugmaker AstraZeneca Plc, said the controversial approach may become necessary at some point as the disease ebbs in some cities, making it harder to evaluate shots in the more conventional way.The company is working with the University of Oxford on one of the most advanced vaccines against the virus.The initiative is organized by 1DaySooner, a group that advocates on behalf of people who want to join challenge studies. The organisation has held discussions with potential partners and vaccine manufacturers in a bid to start production of the virus, said Josh Morrison, one of its founders.More than a quarter of the volunteers are in Brazil, where the coronavirus is spreading fast.Morrison said 1DaySooner has contacted vaccine developers planning final-stage studies there to suggest they consider people on its list for conventional studies, too.Proponents note that the approach was used safely for diseases such as malaria, typhoid, cholera as well as the flu. Some experts are calling for a cautious approach.Caution towards polio vaccine for Covid-19Indian scientists have responded cautiously to a suggestion by global researchers that the oral polio vaccine be tested for Covid-19 treatment, saying it is a “testable idea” based on a sound scientific concept but may offer only limited protection against the infection.With a vaccine for Covid-19 at least a year away, scientists say repurposing already safe and effective vaccines is the way to go for immediate relief against Covid-19. The repurposed vaccines could include the oral polio vaccine (OPV) and the Bacillus Calmette–Guerin (BCG) used against tuberculosis, both part of the immunisation given to Indian children.It is worth conducting a clinical trial, said Ram Vishwakarma, director of the CSIR-Indian Institute of Integrative Medicine (CSIR-IIIM) in Jammu.A study was published last week by an international team of researchers in the journal Science. The researchers, including Shyamasundaran Kottili and Robert Gallo from the University of Maryland School of Medicine in the US, said the OPV should be tested to see if it might protect people from the SARS-CoV-2 virus.They noted that the vaccine used to prevent poliomyelitis infections has been around since the 1950s, and is found to provide some protection against other viral infections.Hydroxychloroquine won’t stop coronavirus deathsWHO’s top scientist has said it’s now been definitively proven that the cheap malaria drug hydroxychloroquine the drug favoured by President Donald Trump doesn’t work in stopping deaths among people hospitalised with the new coronavirus.But Dr Soumya Swaminathan said there could still be a role for the drug in preventing people from catching Covid-19 in the first place and noted that clinical trials testing hydroxychloroquine’s role in this are ongoing.Swaminathan said in a press briefing on Thursday that there is still a gap in determining whether hydroxychloroquine has a role at all in the prevention or minimising the severity of the illness in early infection or even in preventing it.The UN health agency announced this week that it is suspending the hydroxychloroquine arm of its own trial testing various experimental therapies for Covid-19, referring to previous results from a large UK trial and a separate analysis of the evidence on the drug.The other drugs being tested by WHO, including treatments used in the past for Ebola and AIDS, are still being pursued.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-warning-on-dexamethasone-to-hcq-latest-on-covid-19-vaccines/story-RQgg1glrPIl9SPp9jxShxO.html
19-06-2020||India||India sees another record spike of 13,587 Covid-19 cases, tally over 3.8 lakh||The Union health ministry said on Friday there were 13,587 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 336 people died across the country in the last 24 hours.India’s infection tally now stands at 380,533 with 163,248 active cases of the respiratory disease and 12,573 fatalities, according to the health ministry’s dashboard at 8am.The country’s recovery rate, which is the ratio of the number of patients recovered to the number of patients infected, is now 53.79% after 204,710 patients were cured of Covid-19. Also read| Covid-19: Eight states have more than 10,000 cases, but better rate of recoveryBut India’s recovery rate was still behind the global average, which is at around 55%.The number of patients who recovered from the coronavirus disease in India had crossed 200,000 on Thursday. Of the 381,010 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in India, 205,092 recovered as of Thursday, according to data collated by HT.Maharashtra, which has roughly a third of all infections in India, logged the highest number of absolute recoveries at 60,838. It was followed by Tamil Nadu at 28,641 and Delhi at 21,341.In terms of recovery rate among major states, Rajasthan topped the list with 77.5%, followed by Madhya Pradesh at 75.5%.Also read: 3,884 Covid-19 patients cured in Delhi, recovery rate stand at 42.69%While a section of experts said the increasing number of recoveries was a good sign, others said it was important to find out how many of the severely ill patients had recovered.According to America’s Johns Hopkins University, there are more than 8.4 million infections and 453,290 deaths across the world. The United States has reported 2,189,056 Covid-19 cases, Brazil 978,142 and Russia has 560,321 patients of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sees-another-record-spike-of-13-587-covid-19-cases-tally-over-3-8-lakh/story-92lLm4gaxWibICyB6xPGaI.html
19-06-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: UP crosses 15,000-mark, recovered patients nearly thrice the number of active cases in Gujarat||Maharashtra continues to add to its grim tally of the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country. On Friday, the number of coronavirus disease cases in the state reached 1,20,504, according to Union health ministry update.Tamil Nadu, where the Covid-19 tally crossed the 50,000-mark on Thursday, added another 2,141 cases in the last 24 hours and the number of cases in the souther state has now reached 52,334.National capital Delhi has 49,979 cases of Covid-19. Four hundred and fifty-six people were found infected with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the national capital in a new testing programme involving quick-result kits across containment zones, where 7,040 samples were collected on Thursday.However, the number of recovered cases in almost all the worst affected states has seen an increase. In fact, in Gujarat, the number of discharged patients is nearly thrice the number of active cases.Worst-hit statesMaharashtraCovid-19 tally here jumped to 1,20,504 on Friday. As many as 5,751 people have died of coronavirus in Maharashtra while 60,838 have recovered. The number of active cases in the state are 53,915. Tamil NaduCovid-19 cases have jumped to 52,334 in the southern state. Six hundred twenty five people have died of Covid-19 in the state, over 28,641 people have recovered. The number of active cases in the state are 23,068.DelhiIn the national capital, the Covid-19 tally rose to 49,979 on Friday, 21,341 patients have recovered here while 1,969 have died due to Covid-19. The number of active cases in Delhi are 26,669. Gujarat PM Modi’s home state saw the Covid-19 rise to 25,601 on Friday. The state has seen 17,819 people recover from coronavirus while 1,591 people have died. The number of active cases in Gujarat is 6,191.Uttar PradeshThe state has reported 15,181 cases of coronavirus so far. As many as 9,239 people have recovered in the state while the death toll stands at 465. The number of active cases in Uttar Pradesh is 5,477.Rising numbersMadhya Pradesh saw its Covid-19 tally jump to 11,426 on Friday while in Rajasthan Covid-19 cases have increased to 13,857. In West Bengal, Covid-19 cases have zoomed to 12,735. Covid-19 cases in Bihar stand at 7,025 while Andhra Pradesh has reported 7,518 Covid-19 cases till date. Karnataka has reported 7,944 coronavirus cases till date. Telangana has 6,027 coronavirus cases while in Jammu and Kashmir the tally has reached 5,555. Haryana has recorded 9,218 Covid-19 cases. In Odisha, cases stand at 4,512 while Assam has reported 4,777 cases till date. Punjab’s Covid-19 tally has reached 3,615. States with less than 3,000 casesStates and Union territories where coronavirus cases are less than 3,000, but more than 500, include Uttarakhand, Ladakh, Kerala, Jharkhand, Tripura, Manipur, Goa and Himachal Pradesh. Chandigarh, Nagaland, Puducherry, Mizoram have reported under 500 Covid-19 cases or less. Meghalaya, Sikkim, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Dadra Nagar Haveli have less than 100 Covid-19 cases. Arunachal Pradesh has 103 Covid-19 cases now.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-up-crosses-15-000-mark-recovered-patients-nearly-thrice-the-number-of-active-cases-in-gujarat/story-GF0HSlj6FClGCOSMEwvwWN.html
19-06-2020||India||Galwan Valley face off is a crisis that needs a calibrated response: BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) believes the mounting tension at the border with China is due to Beijing growing restive over New Delhi’s “emergent economy” and its “strategic assertion on Arunachal Pradesh”, party functionaries aware of details said on Friday. The party said the violent face-off between Indian and Chinese troops in Galwan Valley on Monday night, which resulted in the death of 20 Indian soldiers, is a crisis that needs a “calibrated response and a well thought out reaction”.On Thursday, the BJP called off all its political programmes for the next two days as a mark of respect for the 20 soldiers killed in action at the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Party president JP Nadda tweeted, “The supreme sacrifice of our brave soldiers while guarding our motherland in Galwan Valley will always be remembered. The nation is indebted to them. I pay homage to the martyrs. BJP has decided to postpone all its political programmes including virtual rallies for next 2 days.”A senior party leader said on condition of anonymity that China’s aggression stemmed from “its growing insecurity” about India emerging as an economic rival.“China sees India as a threat to its economic clout. They are also threatened by India asserting its position in Arunachal Pradesh in a more forceful manner. And now post-corona, they feel investors will prefer India over them. So, they have opted for aggression on the border,” said the first functionary. Will the government accept the Rashtriya Swayam Sevak Sangh’s demand for revisiting trade ties with China? A second functionary said India’s priority is securing national security and the government will take steps to safeguard Indian interests.On Wednesday, the department of telecommunications (DoT) conveyed to BSNL not to use Chinese-made equipment while upgrading its 4G facilities, and a day later, the Indian Railways’ PSU Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited (DFCCIL) announced it will terminate a contract with China’s Beijing National Railway Research and Design Institute of Signal and Communication for signalling work on the Kanpur-Deen Dayal Upadhyay Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor. Affiliates of RSS, the ideological fount of the BJP, are pushing the government to boycott Chinese goods.“The Indian Army is capable of handling Chinese occupation at the borders, but we have to evict their occupation from our markets,” said CK Saji Narayanan, president of the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh.Responding to the opposition’s criticism that the government has maintained silence on the issue, a third BJP leader said there has been no compromise on national security.“The opposition is irresponsible in asking the government for knee-jerk reactions. The government is taking its time to issue a statement because of the sensitivity of the problem. Besides, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair an all-party meeting on Friday to discuss the situation in the India-China border areas,” the third functionary said.The first functionary added, “The government’s approach to the loss of lives will be based on the cardinal principle of drawing up a befitting response to the attack.”The BJP also denied that deepening strain in the ties with China, Pakistan and Nepal indicates problems in the government’s foreign policy. A muscular foreign policy has been the mainstay of the government’s report card during its first term in office. Even during ongoing digital rallies being addressed by senior BJP leaders to mark the completion of the first year in office during the second term, there have been references to surgical air strikes against terror camps in Pakistan as an example of the government’s undeterred focus on national security.Political analyst Sanjay Kumar of the Centre for Developing Studies said the BJP’s narrative of projecting the crisis as a fallout of China’s insecurity will resonate with the people.“The BJP is very good with its messaging and the prime minister enjoys immense credibility with the man on the street. So if the government says it is not a diplomatic failure but China trying to block India’s entry into the expanded G-10 or rivalling its emerging markets, they will believe it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/galwan-valley-face-off-is-a-crisis-that-needs-a-calibrated-response-bjp/story-oSwkHcAaQWqWDsTUort1dL.html
19-06-2020||India||Covid-19: Eight states have more than 10,000 cases, but better rate of recovery||The coronavirus disease has been rapidly spreading across the country. The number of cases has already passed the 3.6 lakh-mark with over 10,000 cases being recorded in the last few days.The Centre has held review meetings to discuss the ways to check the spread of the disease. While Prime Minister Narendra Modi met the chief ministers of various states over two days, home minister Amit Shah held meetings on the situation in national capital Delhi which has seen spike in the Covid-19 cases.Maharashtra continues to lead the grim tally with nearly a third of the coronavirus disease cases.Here is a list of states with highest number of Covid-19 cases:Maharashtra: The state has seen the highest number of coronavirus disease cases because of the rapid spread of the disease after the outbreak. According to Union health ministry update on Thursday, Maharashtra has 1,16,752 cases of Covid-19. The state has recorded 5,651 fatalities. The number of active cases in the state are 51,935 while 59,166 have been discharged.Tamil Nadu: The southern state has recorded more than 50,000 Covid-19 cases so far, the highest after Maharashtra. While 21,993 are active cases, 27,624 have been discharged. The number of fatalities in the state due to the coronavirus disease is 576.Delhi: The number of Covid-19 cases in national capital were increasing at a steady pace initially, but in the last fortnight, there has been a huge spike. And with the state government correcting its data and including some past numbers too, Delhi’s Covid-19 tally stands at 47,102. The city-state has seen 1,904 deaths due to the disease. While 27,741 cases are active, 17,457 patients have been discharged.Gujarat: The western Indian state of Gujarat is also among the states which have very high number of Covid-19 cases. The number of such cases in the state are 25,093, according to Union health ministry data. Though the number of half of that of Tamil Nadu, such high caseload makes Gujarat one of the worst affected states in the country due to Covid-19. The numbe rof active cases in the state are 6,103 and 17,430 have been cured or discharged. As many as 1,560 patients have died due to the disease in Gujarat.Uttar Pradesh: India’s most populous state has seen its Covid-19 tally nearing the 15,000-mark. As per the Union health ministry, the number of coronavirus disease cases in the state are 14,598. While 5,259 are active cases, 8,904 have been discharged. Uttar Pradesh has recorded 435 Covid-19-related fatalities.Rajasthan: With 13,542 Covid-19 cases, Rajasthan is next in the tally of high caseload states. The western Indian state has 2,762 active cases, while 10,467 have been discharged. The state has recorded 313 deaths due to Covid-19.West Bengal: The number of Covid-19 cases in West Bengal are 12,300. There are 5,261 active cases and 6,533 have been cured or discharged. The number of Covid-19 fatalities in West Bengal are 435.Madhya Pradesh: The number of Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh are 11,244. Out of these, 2,374 are active cases whereas 8,388 patients have been cured or discharged. The number of fatalities in the state due to Covid-19 are 482.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-eight-states-have-more-than-10-000-cases-but-better-rate-of-recovery/story-Iwh7eLDrSca8FUyKkuETzO.html
19-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Amid Covid-19 outbreak, voting for 20 Rajya Sabha seats across 8 states to be held today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.In 1st major poll amid Covid-19, voting for 20 Rajya Sabha seats todayElections to 20 vacant Rajya Sabha seats will be held on Friday amid fears of poaching that have prompted political parties to move their lawmakers to hotels and resorts in some states. Read moreIndia’s UNSC election: Govt slams Pakistan for misusing international foraIndia hit out at Pakistan after the election to the UN Security Council. Pakistan reportedly did not vote for India in the UNSC election. Pakistan’s move was in vain; India got 184 votes against the minimum requirement of 128. Read moreNitin Gadkari underlines need to produce EV parts locally, not depend on ChinaUnion Minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday said India should no longer depend on China and instead focus on research and innovation to ramp up domestic manufacturing. Read moreChaman Bahaar movie review: Jitendra Kumar plays Kabir Singh on a budget, in an equally bad filmIt’s unusual for a film to open with a deleted scene. It is even more unusual for it to be based on a wildly inappropriate premise that unfolds without a hint of irony, but somehow, Chaman Bahaar manages to do both. Read moreWorld Music Day: Top smart speakers that you can buyWorld Music Day is right around the corner. The day that is dedicated to music, artists and music lovers is celebrated on June 21 every year. Read moreInternational Yoga Day 2020: Quotes, images, Facebook and WhatsApp StatusOver the past many years, Yoga has become a popular form of exercise around the world especially since it not only exercises the body, but also the mind. Read moreStunning Karim Benzema strike crowns Real Madrid win over ValenciaReal Madrid’s Karim Benzema scored one of the goals of the season as they beat Valencia 3-0 at home on Thursday to stay in touch with La Liga leaders Barcelona, but the visitors were left fuming after having a goal ruled out following a VAR review. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-amid-covid-19-outbreak-voting-for-20-rajya-sabha-seats-across-8-states-to-be-held-today-and-all-the-latest-news/story-A6Cu3wQYiKBM9TBe5gdGHN.html
19-06-2020||India||Negotiating with India on restoring its preferential trade status: US official||The US is mulling over restoring India’s beneficiary status under its trade preference programme Generalized System of Preferences on receiving a counterbalancing proposal from New Delhi, a top Trump ministration official told lawmakers on Thursday. The United States US is currently negotiating with India for it, he added.“We’re in negotiations with India, we took away their GSP, and we’re in the process of restoring it if we can get an adequate counterbalancing proposal from them,” US trade representative Robert Lighthizer told members of the Senate Finance Committee.“Till now, we haven’t done that. But this is something that we’re actually actively negotiating right now,” Lighthizer said, responding to a question from Senator Maria Cantwell from the Washington State.Senator Cantwell expressed disappointment over high import tariffs on apples from her State to India.“India has a 70 percent tariff on apples, so obviously a big product in the State of Washington. What can we do to get those tariffs off from apples in India?” she asked.“We, of course, agree with you and we agree that -- that their regular tariffs are bad, their retaliatory tariffs are even worse,” Lighthizer said.The top trade official from the Trump Administration said the US is currently in a big trade negotiations with India.“We have a big negotiation with India which I’m sure you’re aware of and potentially even moving to an FTA at some point if we can ever make any headway, and that’s Asia.“We have a lot of ongoing discussions. We call them TIFAs, trade and investment discussion forums or negotiating forums with most of the countries throughout that area,” he said.Senator Steve Daines from Montana expressed his concerns over high import tariffs on pulses by India, which is the largest consumer of pulses and an important market for Montana farmers.“Unfortunately, US pulses face high tariffs and an unfair playing field in India,” Daines said.Early this year, he and Senator Kevin Cramer from North Dakota submitted a letter to President Donald Trump urging him to prioritise the issue and raise it directly with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “In fact, I was pleased to see the president, President Trump, hand deliver that letter to Prime Minister Modi. In fact, he sent a picture back handing that specific letter to the prime minister and wanted to make sure that we saw it,” Daines said.The Montana senator asked about the status of negotiations with India. “Will you commit to working to remove these tariffs in any ongoing negotiations?” he asked.Lighthizer said, “Yes.” “The MFN tariffs that India has are extremely high on pulses and on just about everything else. One of the indictments I have of the WTO is the fact that we find ourselves in this position. When India joined the GATT, then the GATT, in like 1948, they had a GDP of maybe USD250 billion. Now they’re almost USD3 trillion and they still have a third of their lines of tariffs not bound at all and a whole bunch of them bound at 100 percent,” Lighthizer said.And there’s nothing that the US can do about that, he told the Senators.“How do we change that? The notion that we’re locked into a WTO that says just forever you’re stuck with that imbalance is, to me, crazy. And we have to do something about it,” he said.Lighthizer said negotiations with India are clearly taking longer than he expected.“They are dogged and insistent on keeping their tariffs and we’re dogged in insisting that we’re going to get a fair deal. So, we’re still working on it very much. And hopefully we’ll get to a good outcome,” Lighthizer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-mulls-over-restoring-india-s-preferential-trade-status-top-official/story-DV4J3NitzDhKWg2qsRpo6K.html
19-06-2020||India||Delhi among 10 hottest cities as heatwave-like conditions scorch North India||Many parts of North India are reeling under heatwave-like condition for the past few days. The temperature in many cities is hovering above 42 degrees Celsius.The India Metrorological Department (IMD) has predicted severe heatwave in some parts of Rajasthan.Meanwhile, an India Meteorological Department (IMD) official said unseasonal showers in central Maharashtra and Cyclone Nisarga that lashed coastal areas have put the state in the ‘largely excess rainfall’ category.According to the IMD forecast, widespread showers are likely in the coastal areas of Maharashtra, while the rest of the state is expected to get scattered and isolated showers till June 22.Here is a list of 10 hottest cities in India as per temperature data till Thursday:• Ganganagar: 46.1 degrees Celsius• Churu: 45.6 degrees Celsius• Bikaner: 44.8 degrees Celsius• Hisar: 44.2 degrees Celsius• Jaisalmer: 44 degrees Celsius• Narnaul: 43.6 degrees Celsius• Jaipur: 43.3 degrees Celsius• Ludhiana: 41.6 degrees Celsius• Amritsar: 41.4 degrees Celsius• Ambala: 40.8 degrees CelsiusNational capital Delhi also sweltered under the stifling heat with the mercury crossing the 46 degrees Celsius-mark in some parts on Thursday. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded a maximum of 42.5 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal. At 46.4 degrees Celsius, the weather station at Ayanagar recorded the maximum temperature in the city. The Pusa Observatory recorded a high of 45.1 degrees Celsius.Humidity levels oscillated between 38 and 81 per cent in the city. The IMD department has predicted a partly cloudy sky on Friday. The maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to settle at 43 degrees and 30 degrees Celsius, respectively.On Wednesday, the IMD said that monsoon is likely to reach the national capital three to four days earlier than the usual date of June 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-among-10-hottest-cities-as-heatwave-like-conditions-scorch-north-india/story-Usgn7Z8RYlHXP9STEeLuIN.html
19-06-2020||India||18 soldiers injured in Galwan Valley face-off stable: Latest developments||The tension along the contested areas of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) has been continuing despite several rounds of meeting between Indian and Chinese officials.A meeting was held on Thursday to defuse the situation after the skirmish at Galwan Valley on June 15 in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed. This was the seventh meeting since the stand-off began in May and third since the Monday night clash.Here are the latest developments in the India-China border stand-off:• India on Thursday asked China to restrict its activities to its side of the Line of Actual Control - a significant move following external affairs minister S Jaishankar’s assertion during a phone conversation with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on Wednesday, that Chinese troops entered the Indian side in Galwan Valley and sought to erect a structure.• The Indian Army has said that no soldier was “missing in action” after the violent brawl of June 15, in which the Chinese side also purportedly suffered casualties. “It is clarified that there are no Indian troops missing in action,” the army said in a terse statement, responding to reports that some troops were unaccounted for after the seven-hour clash that involved more than 500 rival troops.• The brawl left 76 Indian soldiers injured, including 18 with serious injuries who are now said to be stable. News agency PTI reported that 18 personnel are undergoing treatment at a hospital in Leh while 58 are admitted to various other hospitals.• India has rubbished Chinese claims of sovereignty over Galwan Valley where the incident took place.• Late on Thursday, people aware of the development indicated that 10 soldiers, including two officers, were released by the Chinese side. Official word on this development was awaited.• Indian and Chinese delegations, led by major generals, met on Thursday near Patrol Point 14 in Galwan Valley as part of military engagements to defuse tensions on the disputed border. “The two sides had a long discussion on the border situation after the clash. They agreed to hold more talks in the coming days. These talks will be held at different levels,” an Indian Army official said on condition of anonymity.• Thousands attended funerals on Thursday for many of the 20 Indian soldiers killed in the clash.• The two armies were engaged in a standoff in Galwan and several other areas of eastern Ladakh since May 5 when the two sides clashed on the banks of the Pangong Tso.• The trigger for the face-off was China’s stiff opposition to India laying a key road around the Pangong Tso Lake besides construction of another road connecting the Darbuk-Shayok-Daulat Beg Oldie road in Galwan Valley. India has already decided not to stall any border infrastructure projects in eastern Ladakh despite Chinese protests.• The last time the Chinese military had taken Indian soldiers captive was in July 1962 after a clash in Galwan Valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/18-soldiers-injured-in-galwan-valley-face-off-stable-latest-developments/story-6NZKAhn8eJpShbGhU4x9cJ.html
19-06-2020||India||Solar eclipse in times of Covid-19: No gathering allowed, holy dip to be banned in Kurukshetra||India will witness the annular solar eclipse on Sunday (June 21). The Ministry of Earth Sciences has said that the celestial event will be visible in Rajasthan, Haryana and Uttarakhand.A solar eclipse occurs on a new moon day when it comes in between the earth and the sun and all the three objects are aligned.An annular solar eclipse occurs when the angular diameter of the moon falls short of that of the sun and it fails to cover up the latter completely. As a result a ring of the sun’s disk remains visible around the moon.The sky gazers will get an opportunity to observe the “ring of fire” during the phenomenon.Few prominent places within this narrow annularity path are Dehradun, Kurukshetra, Chamoli, Joshimath, Sirsa and Suratgarh.The full solar eclipse will begin at 10:12 am and the phase of annularity will end at 11:50 am. The entire event, however, will end after 2 pm.But this year, the coronavirus pandemic is set to affect the event. At Kurukshetra, one of the places where the eclipse will be visible, the administration has decided to impose prohibitory orders from Friday. The provision bans the assembly of more than four persons.District Magistrate Dhirendra Khadgata said the decision has been taken to ban the holding of the solar eclipse fair in the city as well as within one km of holy tanks at Pehowa and other religious places in Kurukshetra district.He said that steps are being taken to ensure that no one takes a dip at Kurukshetra’s Brahma Sarovar and Sannehit Sarovar during the solar eclipse in view of coronavirus outbreak.Violators would be charged under Section 188 of IPC (disobedience to order duly promulgated by the public servant).Police have started setting up barricades and increased ‘check points’ on the approaching roads to Kurukshetra to stop any vehicular traffic from June 19 night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/solar-eclipse-in-times-of-covid-19-no-gathering-allowed-holy-dip-to-be-banned-in-kurukshetra/story-mfdxOzW3jwrvbPxMBqY1rN.html
19-06-2020||India||Covid-19 may infect respiratory centre of brain, suggests research||A team of researchers at CSIR - Indian Institute of Chemical Biology (IICB), Kolkata has explored the neuro-invasive potential of Covid-19 and suggested that the virus may infect the respiratory centre of the brain, a statement said.The researchers have also suggested that attention should be focused on the respiratory centre of the central nervous system to learn about mortality due to coronavirus.The paper published in ACS Chemical Neuroscience and supported by Science & Engineering Research Board (SERB), a statutory body of the Department of Science & Technology (DST), implies that coronavirus could enter the human brain through the nose and reach the olfactory bulb of the brain.  From there, the virus might infect PreBotzinger complex (PBC), the primary centre of the brain that controls the respiratory rhythm generation. This explains that collapse of the respiratory centre in the brain may be responsible for breakdown of Covid-19 patients.The team of researchers comprising Dr. Prem Tripathi, Dr. Upasana Ray, Dr. Amit Srivastava and Dr. Sonu Gandhi suggested that while the lung is one of the most infected organs, several other organs, including the brain, are also affected by Covid-19. This is the first report that highlights that SARS-CoV-2 may target the PBC of the brainstem that controls respiration and causes respiratory collapse of Covid-19 patients, the statement added.The scientists have suggested that cerebrospinal fluid of Covid-19 patients and postmortem of the brain of the deceased should be assessed to better understand the route of SARS-CoV-2 entry and its spread to the respiratory centre of the brain.The PreBotzinger complex functions as the primary respiratory oscillator and it has been proposed as a centre of respiration. It has been earlier shown that disruption of PBC causes lethality due to respiratory failure, suggesting its central role in respiratory rhythm generation. “It is possible that SARS-CoV-2 may shut down respiratory centre, and in turn breathing by infecting and destroying the PBC of the brainstem,” it said, adding that this hypothesis needs to be validated for SARS-CoV-2.Another recent study from a group of scientists at King’s College London, UK highlighting that loss of smell was one of main symptoms of Covid-19 patients, hinting at the involvement of the same route through which coronavirus may enter the brain.The study highlights that it is important to not only screen the Covid-19 patients for neurological symptoms but also further segregate when the symptom appears. The researchers have pointed out that while at present, the brain is not considered as the site of primary or secondary reason for death of a Covid-19 patient, attention needs to be focused towards the brain’s respiratory centre. “Postmortem of brain of COVID-19 patients could be assessed to know the route of entry and affected areas including detailed assessment of respiratory centre of the brain,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-may-infect-respiratory-centre-of-brain-suggests-research/story-HnqKDAmEEmLh3pquLdTDaM.html
19-06-2020||India||Body of Covid-19 positive man found inside his car in Delhi’s Moti Nagar||The body of a 38-year-old man, who had tested Covid-19 positive a couple of days back, was found inside his car in west Delhi’s Moti Nagar area on Thursday, police said.The deceased has been identified as Deepak, a resident of Moti Nagar. He owned a motor mechanic shop in Jwalaheri area, they said.Click here for full Covid-19 coveragePolice received information at 3.25 pm about the body inside the car which was parked near Jhulelal Mandir foot over bridge in Moti Nagar, a senior police officer said. Police found that the car was locked and the AC was on, the officer said. It is suspected that the man died due to a a cardiac arrest, police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/body-of-covid-19-positive-man-found-inside-his-car-in-delhi-s-moti-nagar/story-xm9niIT5NbAdINhI2MorgM.html
19-06-2020||India||PPE kits, food to be distributed on Rahul Gandhi’s birthday||The Congress has decided to distribute 50 lakh food packets among the poor and personal protection equipment (PPE) kits and masks to corona warriors across the country on June 19 to mark the 50th birthday their former president Rahul Gandhi.However, Gandhi has made it clear to his colleagues that he will not celebrate his birthday in view of the pandemic and the extraordinary difficulties faced by people, besides the death of 20 Indian soldiers in clashes with Chinese army in Ladakh area on Monday night, according to a party circular on Thursday.“As you all know, the nation is mourning the tragic loss of our brave soldiers in the standoff at the border with China. In this context, the suggested programmes like distribution of food kits among the neediest people and community kitchens for the poor must be held with utmost reverence and respect to our brave soldiers,” Congress general secretary KC Venugopal said in his communication to all state units and leaders on Thursday.“All sorts of celebrations, including cake-cutting, sloganeering and putting up banners must be avoided up to the grassroot level,” he said, adding that leaders and workers across the country should observe silence and offer prayers for two minutes in honour of soldiers||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ppe-kits-food-to-be-distributed-on-rahul-s-birthday/story-t4TLRcB6v3tsWkGZGiiZoN.html
19-06-2020||India||‘Seen such behaviour since past many years’: MEA on Pak not felicitating India’s unopposed win at UNSC||After the reports in Pakistani media that the Islamabad did not vote in favour of India in the final round of UN Security Council’s non-permanent membership, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said that such kind of behaviour has been witnessed from Pakistan over the past many years.“This is the kind of behaviour we have now been seeing from Pakistan over past many years,” said Vikas Swarup, Secretary (West), MEA, on being asked, “there are some reports on Pakistan media that after endorsing India last year in Asia Pacific group, they would not vote for India in the final round.”Swarup’s remarks came following Pakistan’s refusal on Thursday to felicitate India after it was elected as a non-permanent member of the powerful UN Security Council. Pakistan raised the Kashmir issue on the forum.“They always rake up bilateral issues in multilateral forum. In fact, they have made it almost a standard norm for their policy. Our foreign policy has a much broader canvas. We have a much wider and global focus,” Swarup said.India was elected unopposed as a non-permanent member of the powerful UN Security Council on Wednesday for a two-year term.India, the endorsed candidate from the Asia-Pacific States, won 184 votes out of the 192 ballots cast in the elections for the five non-permanent seats of the Security Council.Swarup has said that India’s election as a non-permanent member of the Security Council demonstrated the goodwill that New Delhi enjoys at the global body and the confidence the international community has reposed in the country’s capability to contribute to the work of the council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seen-such-behaviour-since-past-many-years-mea-on-pak-not-felicitating-india-s-unopposed-win-at-unsc/story-HbAYh1bXVWgGmny79o1ghP.html
19-06-2020||India||200,000 recuperate, rate of recovery from Covid-19 stands at 54%||The number of patients who recovered from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India crossed 200,000 on Thursday but the country’s recovery rate still trailed the global average.Of the 381,010 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in India, 205,092 recovered as of Thursday, according to data collated by HT. The global recovery rate stood at around 55% while that in India was around 53.8%.Maharashtra, which has roughly a third of all infections in India, logged the highest number of absolute recoveries at 60,838. It was followed by Tamil Nadu at 28,641 and Delhi at 21,341.In terms of recovery rate — which is the ratio of the number of patients recovered to the number of patients infected — among major states, Rajasthan topped the list with 77.5%, followed by Madhya Pradesh at 75.5%. “India’s recovery rate has been steadily going up, which is a good news. More than 50% of those having tested positive have recovered and taken out of active medical supervision,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry, last week.A section of experts said the increasing number of recoveries was a good sign.“When the number of those infected in a day is the same as number of people recovering then it usually highlights the fact that the disease outbreak is going to stabilize and start declining in some time, unless some other variables come in such as floating population, new births etc. that change the entire dynamics,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, professor and head, community medicine department, Safdarjung Hospital.But other experts said it was important to find out how many of the severely ill patients had recovered.“Earlier all positive patients, even those with mild symptoms, were being treated in a hospital, so 50% recovery right now wouldn’t mean much. Now that hospital admissions are being restricted and largely serious patients are being kept in a hospital it remains to be seen what is the recovery rate based on that the real picture will emerge,” said Dr Charu Hans, former head, microbiology department, New Delhi’s Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/200-000-recuperate-rate-of-recovery-stands-at-54/story-Dd8LAlqMtiU2g6eWPuibmL.html
19-06-2020||India||Maoists in Chhattisgarh pack off woman cadre suspecting she has Covid-19||A woman Maoist returned to her village in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district after her colleagues reportedly asked her to leave when she showed flu-like symptoms on Wednesday, police said on Thursday.The police have sent the woman to a quarantine centre where she will be interrogated.“We have been informed that a woman about the presence of Maoist, Sumitra Chepa (32), in the forest near in Modakpal and a team of force was sent there on Wednesday. Police have found her and during interrogation, Chepa said she was suffering from fever, cold and cough following which her colleagues asked her to leave the group suspecting coronavirus,” said Bastar’s Inspector General of Police, Sunderaj P.The IGP said that Chepa was an active member of the Maoists’ PLGA battalion No. 1, which is headed by Madvi Hidma. She has been with the CPI (Maoist) for a decade.“She was inducted in 2010 and was working with Hidma and hence she is very important for us,” said Sunderaj.The IGP said that Chepa also claimed that several cadres were suffering from fever and cold and most of them were being asked to leave the camps.“We have sent her in quarantine and her sample will be sent for a coronavirus test,” the officer said. Police have also appealed to villagers in the area to inform them if any Maoist return to their village due to similar reasons so that their health examination can be done and preventive measures to contain the spread of the virus can be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoists-in-chhattisgarh-pack-off-woman-cadre-suspecting-she-has-covid-19/story-hAGdPSmIj7cJs1hre42a7N.html
19-06-2020||India||456 test positive for Covid-19 on first day of new rapid antigen tests||Four hundred and fifty-six people were found infected with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the national capital in a new testing programme involving quick-result kits across containment zones, where 7,040 samples were collected on Thursday.The tests were carried out through new “antigen” test devices that can be used on-site, and Thursday’s rapid sampling numbers are close to the 8,700-odd RT-PCR tests carried out by labs across the city on Wednesday, underscoring how such kits can ultimately speed up the test-trace-isolate process that health experts across the world see as crucial to containing the pandemic.Officially, the city added 2,877 new cases on Thursday, according to the government’s daily health bulletin, that showed that there had been 65 new fatalities. The new infections came from 8,729 RT-PCR tests, resulting in a confirmation rate of 3.3%. The results from the antigen test results were not included in the bulletin.Rapid antigen testing was done at 193 centres in Delhi on Thursday. A total of 7,040 people were tested of whom 456 tested positive for the infection. At the beginning, those people are being tested whose houses are in the containment zones,” tweeted acting health minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday.The new programme is part of the Union and state government’s effort to ramp up the number of tests in Delhi by six times by the end of this week. The city administration has asked district teams to test those who live in the 242 containment zones in Delhi and are willing to be tested. The new test, developed by a South Korean company and manufactured in Manesar, is highly specific (99.3% to 100%) -- meaning a positive result on the test is a “true positive” and does not need any confirmatory test. The sensitivity is between 50.6% to 84% depending on the viral load, meaning those who test negative might still have the infection and are advised to go for a test through the more reliable RT-PCR method if they show symptoms of the disease.The tests began on a day the government announced that lab tests will be capped at Rs 2,400, a day after it was suggested by a committee formed by the Union government. “Two important decisions have been taken in connection with Covid-19 testing in Delhi: The rate for testing has been reduced to Rs 2,400 and from today, rapid antigen testing has begun by which results will be available in 15 minutes,” said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in a tweet, adding that he hoped the decisions will address problems faced by the people.Apart from being quicker than lab-based RT-PCR tests, antigen tests are cheaper – one kit costs Rs 450 – and differ in technology as they look for specific protein associated with the Sars-Cov-2 virus, the pathogen that causes Covid-19. The lab tests look for the exact nucleic signatures of the virus. A third mechanism that can give quick results is the antibody test that checks for the presence of disease-fighting antibodies in a person’s blood, but these have proven to be unreliable and scientists are not sure when and for how long the antibodies can be detected. When antibody tests were rolled out on April 21, only 62 people were tested in one district on the first day. The test was discontinued from the following day after several states reported wide variation in results from the China-sourced kits.“This is certainly a good way of ramping up testing – these tests are cheaper and faster. And at the community level, the test will enable us to identify more cases of Covid-19, they can then be asked to remain in isolation at home preventing further spread of the infection,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital. “The test is not very sensitive, meaning it can give false negative reports. If it’s a false positive, all we would be doing is keeping more people in isolation. Since there is a chance of false negatives with this test, it will have to be reconfirmed. Having said that, the sensitivity of the RT-PCR test is also about 67% and not very different from this test,” he added.On Thursday, people in containment zones began reaching the testing facilities – set up mostly in neighbourhood government schools, dispensaries and mohalla clinics – where they were seated at 1m distance before they were administered the test. At the Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya in Naraina in west Delhi, around 50 people gathered after community volunteers reached out and persuaded people living in a nearby containment area to come to get diagnosed. Four people in a full-body suit in an air-conditioned room called people one by one. One paramedic collected naso-pharyngeal swabs, before a second one took it and inserted into a tube. This process is meant to inactivate the virus, and dissolve it in a solution that was then put on the main test strip that would give the final result. A third person numbered the antigen kits with a permanent marker and wrote down the name of the tested person along with the kit number on another sheet. The fourth entered this data to an online portal.“There were teething troubles on Thursday, with a lot of the time being wasted on setting up the centres. It will be streamlined in a couple of days,” said a district-level health official, asking not to be named. “The antigen testing is very beneficial for district teams as we get a result immediately and ask people to remain in quarantine if they have the infection. This prevents further spread. It also ensures that people who do need to be admitted to hospitals, reach there in a timely manner,” this person added. Apart from the containment zones, the antigen tests are likely to be rolled out in Delhi’s hospitals within a couple of days. In a hospital setting, the ICMR recommends the test be used for those who develop influenza-like symptoms, are immune-compromised because of an existing condition, or are undergoing procedures such as chemotherapy and dialysis. “We have already ordered the tests and should get it within a couple of days. Once that happens, we will start testing patients who fit the ICMR criteria with the antigen kits. Those who test negative will be tested using RT-PCR. In the absence of the antigen test, we would have had to test all the people using RT-PCR, which is time and resource-intensive,” said Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent of AIIMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/456-covid-19-on-first-dayin-new-rapid-antigen-tests/story-Bkrro1afOtJJVDidUniyTP.html
19-06-2020||India||India tells China to stick to its side, says no soldier missing||India on Thursday asked China to restrict its activities to its side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) while rubbishing Chinese claims of sovereignty over Galwan Valley, even as the Indian Army said that no soldier was “missing in action” after the violent brawl of June 15.Indian and Chinese delegations, led by major generals, met on Thursday near Patrol Point 14 in Galwan Valley as part of military engagements to defuse tensions on the disputed border. This was the seventh meeting between Major General Abhijit Bapat, commander of Karu-based headquarters 3 Infantry Division, and his Chinese counterpart since the stand-off began in early May, and the third after Monday night’s clash that left 20 Indian soldiers dead.“The two sides had a long discussion on the border situation after the clash. They agreed to hold more talks in the coming days. These talks will be held at different levels,” an Indian Army official said on condition of anonymity.Amid the continuing contacts via military and diplomatic channels, India asked the Chinese side to limit its activities to its side of the LAC – a significant move following external affairs minister S Jaishankar’s assertion during a phone conversation with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on Wednesday, that Chinese troops entered the Indian side in Galwan Valley and sought to erect a structure.“Given its responsible approach to border management, India is very clear that all its activities are always within the Indian side of the LAC. We expect the Chinese side to also confine its activities to its side of the LAC,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly media briefing.Earlier in the day, Srivastava dismissed the Chinese military’s claim of sovereignty over Galwan Valley, which is at the heart of the stand-off. He pointed to the June 6 agreement reached at a meeting of senior military commanders for de-escalation and disengagement along the LAC, and said: “Making exaggerated and untenable claims is contrary to this understanding.”After the clash of June 15, a statement in Mandarin issued by the Western Command of China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) said: “The sovereignty of the Galwan River Valley has always been ours.”The Indian Army also asserted that no soldiers were missing in action after the June 15 brawl in Galwan Valley, in which the Chinese side also purportedly suffered casualties.“It is clarified that there are no Indian troops missing in action,” the army said in a terse statement, responding to reports that some troops were unaccounted for after the seven-hour clash that involved more than 500 rival troops.The June 15 clash marked the first Indian casualties in a border skirmish with PLA since October 1975, when Chinese troops ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector and shot four soldiers dead.The soldiers exchanged blows, threw stones at each other, and Chinese troops attacked Indian soldiers with iron rods and nail-studded clubs. Some soldiers from both sides fell into the river and their bodies were retrieved on Tuesday morning, Indian Army officials said on condition of anonymity.The brawl left 76 Indian soldiers injured, including 18 with serious injuries who are now said to be stable. Indian Army officials claimed 43 Chinese were killed or seriously injured, citing radio intercepts and other intelligence. Fatal casualties on the Chinese side reportedly include a colonel, but HT could not independently verify this.The external affairs ministry said India had expected de-escalation and disengagement along the LAC in Eastern Ladakh to “unfold smoothly” after senior military commanders of both sides reached a consensus on these efforts during the meeting in Chushul-Moldo region on June 6.External affairs ministry spokesperson Srivastava reiterated India’s assertion the Chinese side was to blame for the violence as it “departed from the consensus to respect the LAC in Galwan Valley”. The violent face-off of June 15, he said, occurred “when the Chinese side unilaterally attempted to change the status quo there” and took “premeditated and planned action that was directly responsible for the resulting violence and casualties suffered by both sides”. He added: “This could have been avoided had the agreement at the higher level been scrupulously followed by the Chinese side.”Srivastava said that during his phone conversation with Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi on Wednesday, Jaishankar “conveyed that the need of the hour was for the Chinese side to reassess its actions and take corrective steps”. He added: “They should strictly respect and observe the LAC and not take any unilateral action to alter it. It was agreed that both sides would implement the dis-engagement understanding of June 6 sincerely. Neither side would take any action to escalate matters and instead, ensure peace and tranquillity as per bilateral agreements and protocols.”The two sides are in regular touch through their embassies and foreign offices, and have maintained communication at the military commanders’ level on the ground. Meetings of other established diplomatic mechanisms such as the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs are being discussed, Srivastava said.“While we remain firmly convinced of the need for maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the borders areas and the resolution of differences through dialogue, at the same time, as [Prime Minister Narendra Modi] stated [on Wednesday], we are also strongly committed to ensuring India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity,” Srivastava added.Former ambassador Rajiv Bhatia, distinguished fellow for foreign policy studies at Gateway House, said: “We aren’t out of the woods as yet. The foreign ministers of the two sides had a candid conversation and the crux of the matter was outlined in India’s readout – that the consensus reached on June 6 was broken by the Chinese side.” “Things are very fluid and there is trouble at other points of the LAC though we are not focusing on them. We have made our position clear, but whether the Chinese side adheres to the consensus at the diplomatic or military levels remains to be seen. A solution won’t come at the military level, and that’s why the diplomatic and political levels become important,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-tells-china-to-stick-to-its-side-says-no-soldier-missing/story-jtJi1wgbOIoSfdP5ETY8fO.html
19-06-2020||India||India-China stand-off: Galwan skies go quiet, tension simmers on the ground||The stalemate between India and China at four points in Eastern Ladakh continues with the withdrawal of troops by both sides virtually coming to a stop after the June 15 escalation in the Galwan sector.While divisional military commanders from the two sides are in continuous conversation in the Galwan sector, intelligence inputs reveal that the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has hardly moved as per the de-escalation matrix laid down by Corps Commanders on the two sides on June 6.It is now evident, experts say, that the resolution of the India-China stand-off at patrolling point 14 (Galwan), patrolling point 15 (Kongka La) and patrolling point 17 (hot springs) may take weeks of intensive deliberations. The stand-off at Pangong Tso will take even more time.There were, however, some positive indicators in Eastern Ladakh with the Chinese PLA Air Force not undertaking any night fighter operations on Thursday and the two armies scrupulously obeying the rules of engagement. The strict adherence to laid down military protocols by the two armies has also reduced chances of any vertical escalation.Even though the situation is stable after the violent scrap of June 15, the Chinese PLA is fully deployed in Xinjiang and Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) with air, artillery and missile support. The PLA Air Force has activated its bases in both Xinjiang and TAR with fighter aircraft making a show of strength in Aksai Chin area in the night. The basic idea is to pressure Indian military to back off in Eastern Ladakh.Also read: India tells China to stick to its side, says no soldier missingWhile a section of the Indian military establishment was elated after the two generals worked out the June 6 dis-engagement process, Indian diplomats and intelligence operatives said it was imperative that this be translated on the ground. It was quite evident to both, people familiar with the matter said, that China was not showing any signs of intent of withdrawing from the stand-off without achieving its political objectives. The Chinese military build-up and aggressive intention of the PLA was evident after surface-to-air missile batteries and armed drones were moved to Aksai Chin after Indian Su-30 MKIs made a sortie near Pangong Tso in early May after the skirmish at the salt water lake. The movement of large numbers of armoured personnel carriers and heavy calibre guns made the Indian national security establishment uneasy about the military intentions of its northern Asian neighbour. It was only because of this alertness that Indian Army was able to foil PLA’s Galwan game plan to capture the entire river valley and make the Darbuk Shyok Daulet Beg Oldi road at the confluence of Galwan-Shyok come under the intense gaze of the Chinese artillery.Also read: Behind Galwan’s bloody face-off, China’s plan to interdict gateway to KarakoramWhile Indian forces are fully deployed along the 3,488km Line of Actual Control to blunt any Chinese PLA offensive, experts said conversations between military commanders must yield result soon or else the possibility of a military accident cannot be ruled out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/withdrawal-of-troops-on-hold-since-june-15/story-wkD4e4OxkFoPNGHAn5c01N.html
19-06-2020||India||‘Intrusion can’t be compared to Kargil, unless it escalates’: General VP Malik||Chandigarh: Former chief of army staff General Ved Prakash Malik, who was the helm during the Kargil war, spoke to Ramesh Vinayak about the military escalation on the Line of Actual control that led to the killing of 20 Indian soldiers in the deadliest border clash in last four-and-a-half decades between with China, the fallout of the escalation. Edited excerpts of an email interview: What is your reading of the deadly clash between Indian and Chinese soldiers in Ladakh? What makes this an extraordinary escalation?Two facts stand out from the present face-off: the People Liberation Army (PLA) encroachment across the LAC in Galwan Valley and in the disputed area of Fingers, North of Pangong Tso, has been a well-planned military activity; and military-level dialogue and understanding on the LAC has no sanctity for PLA. This military action has eroded whatever confidence was created with China at the military level, and trust at diplomatic and political levels.From the defence standpoint, what are the most crucial consequences?Despite several agreements and protocols, special representative-level talks and political summits to maintain peace and tranquillity along the LAC, the number of PLA attempts to encroach upon undisputed and disputed territories have increased. The level of violence -- from scuffles to stone pelting and the use of nails-embedded wooden clubs to kill opponent soldiers -- has increased. I foresee larger deployment of troops on both sides along the LAC to ensure security of our territory and assets. This will also require urgent improvement of military infrastructure to sustain troops deployed.What do you see as the tactical and strategic objectives of China’s multiple and in-depth transgressions and holding areas that India has so far seen as its side of the LAC?China under President Xi Jinping is committed to retake all territories it perceives to have belonged to China in the past. Its attempts to execute salami slicing or creeping encroachments avoiding major escalation will continue. We can expect more such military level activities, particularly in Ladakh, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh.Do you think our military response on the ground was adequate and effective enough to countervail the Chinese intrusion?As per past practices in the Demchok, Depsang, Chumar areas in Ladakh and in Doklam, the effort at military and diplomatic levels was to defuse and disengage. This has been the government’s policy and the usual response to maintain peace and tranquillity and avoid violent escalation. The army has gone as per those policy guidelines. These guidelines may change hereafter.What options does India have for the restoration of status quo ante in the region and to counter China while keeping its aggression below the threshold of actual conflict?While the armed forces have to be prepared for any military escalation, it is for the Cabinet Committee on Security to consider wider geopolitical and strategic aspects and then give further directions. I think the government will now explore diplomatic and political level possibilities to get the encroachments vacated before going in for escalation.Is a localised military response still one of the options?Any military-level dialogue at this stage is unlikely to produce desired results. It has to be tackled at the diplomatic and political levels now. However, with prevailing tension and anger among troops who are in an eyeball to eyeball situation, a violent escalation cannot be ruled out. The armed forces have to remain extra alert for any military action.What, in your assessment, are the chances of the situation flaring up along the LAC?I do not expect the situation will develop into a full-fledged war or even major skirmishes along the length of our border. It is likely to remain localised. That, however, does not mean that we should become complacent militarily or politically. Amid heightened antagonism and mistrust between India and China, what will be the most important geostrategic consequences of a tense LAC for India vis-à-vis Pakistan? Pakistan may attempt to intensify its sponsored terrorist activities in J&K, and ceasefire violations along the LoC (Line of Control) and AGPL (Actual Ground Position Line). India has the capability to handle any such escalations.Why it is crucial to resolve or freeze the border dispute with China? The border dispute must be resolved peacefully or frozen till both nations can find a peaceful solution. That way both nations will be able to contribute towards peace, tranquillity and prosperity of Asia and also improve the quality of life of their people.Is a two-front scenario now more real than ever before?Unless the border dispute is resolved peacefully, such a possibility in the north-west part of India cannot be ruled out in the middle distant horizon.Do you see any parallel between Pakistan’s intrusion of Kargil in 1999 and China’s intrusion in Ladakh?No. The Pakistani military and political objectives in Kargil were much larger. It became a limited war situation. The present Chinese intrusion in Ladakh, unless it escalates further, cannot be compared to Kargil conflict. Given the complexity and high-level bilateral and multilateral interaction (including security) between India and China, the stakes in any India-China conflict, whether large-scale or limited, will be much higher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/intrusion-can-t-be-compared-to-kargil-unless-it-escalates-general-ved-prakash-malik/story-lAHOBX6QJjXKFQmWqV9InM.html
19-06-2020||India||Families pay final tributes as bravehearts laid to rest||Jamshedpur/Kolkata/Bhopal: When Ganesh Handsa, 22, returned home in Jharkhand’s West Singhbhum in February for a holiday, he promised to help his family build a two-brick room house for them. Handsa, who was among the soldiers killed in the violent face-off with Chinese troops in Ladakh on Monday, was the sole bread-earner for the improvised family that lives in a two-room thatched mud house. Six of the 20 soldiers killed in Ladakh were from the country’s most backward and poorest parts in West Bengal, Jharkhand, Odisha and Chhattisgarh. The villages of some of them do not have even basic facilities like piped drinking water and proper connectivity. Ganesh Handsa’s brother, Dinesh, said the local administration overnight built a road to bring his body and installed street lights in their Bandhdih Tollah village, which does not have a proper drinking water source. Paresh Munda, a village council member, said Bandhdih Tollah is one of the most backward areas of the tribal-dominated district, where women still walk long distances to fetch water.Villagers said the road construction was going at a slow pace after starting under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, which employs Dinesh, about a year ago. They added the authorities on Wednesday swung into action and built the remaining part of the road to Ganesh Handsa’s house, which is about two km from the closest national highway. Three street lights were also installed as political leaders, district officials and journalists visited the Hansdas. “My brother’s death has ensured that our village now has a road,” Dinesh Handsa said. But he added Ganesh Handsa’s dream of building a concrete house for the family of six remains unfulfilled. “When he came in February, he promised to send money to build two brick rooms for us. With him, the dream is also gone,” Dinesh Handsa said.Around 500 km away, the family of another soldier, Rajesh Orang, 26, killed in Ladakh, lives in a single-storey house, a part of which is old with a thatched roof in West Bengal’s Birbhum district. “The old house needs restoration. I do not know whether the family without their only earning member will be able to repair their home now,” said Ritesh Orang, a relative of the soldier.He said that the only source of drinking water for close to 200 families in the village is a handpump and a narrow lane connects it to the main road about five km away. “So, the body could be brought only to the main road from where people carried it to the village,” Orang said. Ruling Trinamool Congress legislator and agriculture minister Asish Banerjee visited Orang’s home on Thursday morning and assured all the help to the family. The village of Bipul Roy, 26, another soldier killed in Ladakh, in West Bengal’s Alipurduar district has electricity but no concrete road. During the monsoon, people have to take a kilometer-long muddy road to reach the village, said Taranikanta Das, Roy’s brother-in-law. He said Roy’s father is a farmer and the family lives in a house made of mud, bricks and tin. “Bipul said he was saving money to build a proper brick house for five or six years,” he said. The construction of a road to sepoy Deepak Kumar’s Farenda village in Madhya Pradesh was announced in 2017. “Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has directed officials to complete the road fast,” said Ashish Singh, a resident of the village, who attended Kumar’s funeral. “We will name the road after Deepak,” he said. Residents said their major concern is the lack of health facilities. “There is a health centre but no doctor. Villagers take medicines from the lone chemist in the village,” said Rakesh Singh, another villager. Kurretola in Chhattisgarh’s Kanker district, where sepoy Ganesh Ram Kunjam was from, got a road under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana last year. His friend Surya Nevendra said Kunjam was able to build a concrete house last year. It is the only such house in this tribal village, said his uncle Tiharu Ram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/families-pay-final-tributes-as-bravehearts-laid-to-rest/story-hkArC1WUoCF4x2drsbwSGI.html
19-06-2020||India||Positivity rate rises nationwide, pointing to faster spread of Covid-19||The average rate of samples testing positive for Covid-19 across the country has risen from 4.6% for the week ending May 17 to 7.8% for the week ending June 17, but the rise has been alarming in states such as Delhi and Haryana — a trend experts said is suggestive of an expanding outbreak.In Delhi, the figure has grown from 7% on May 17 to 31.6% on June 17, according to government data analysed by HT. In other words, while seven of every 100 samples were turning out to be positive a month ago, this has risen to 31 of 100 now.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here India does not give out data of individuals tested but of samples tested. This means that people who get tested multiple times are counted every time, so the positivity rate may be higher than what data suggests.More than 6.2 million samples have been tested for Covid-19 in India as of June 17, of which 367,117 cases have been reported, resulting in an overall positivity rate of 5.9% from when testing began in January.The rise of positivity rate, coupled with increasing new cases, suggests that the virus is spreading in the community, experts said.Also read: Covid spreads easily within families, symptomless spread common, says study“An increase in positivity rate is a reflection of the increase in prevalence of the virus in the community,” said T Jacob John, former head, Indian Council for Medical Research’s Centre for Advanced Research in Virology.A rising positivity rate can be heavily influenced by targeted strategies -- such as the one in India, where only those exhibiting symptoms are tested. The downside of this is that large sections of population who are asymptomatic are left out.“We have tested less than 0.5% of the total population in the country; this is a very small number. We can’t assume that the entire infected population is confined to a tiny fraction. The rising positivity rate indicates that infection rate is increasing in the remaining 99.5% and indirectly points to the fact that there is community transmission happening,” John said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Among the 10 worst-hit states, Delhi reported the biggest change in positivity rate (from 7% on May 17 to 31% on June 17), followed by Haryana (1% to 10.1%) and Tamil Nadu (4.2% to 10%). The positivity rate has increased from 16.4% on May 17 to 21.2% on June 17 in Maharashtra, the state with the highest number of cases and deaths. Gujarat, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, however, are the only states among the 10 worst-hit regions to report a reduced positivity rate -- albeit marginally. In Gujarat, it went from 11.3% to 10.1%, in Rajasthan from 2.2% to 2% and in Madhya Pradesh from 4.3% to 2.8%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/positivity-rate-rises-nationwide-pointing-to-faster-spread-of-covid-19/story-dIMUHNCgmHKjOBHxgjk7XO.html
19-06-2020||India||‘Armed, but followed protocol’: Govt||India said on Thursday that soldiers involved in the June 15 Galwan Valley clash with Chinese troops were carrying weapons and ammunition but did not open fire as they were following border agreements between the two countries -- a remark that came in response to a question from Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on whether the Indian soldiers were sent in “unarmed”.Agreements between India and China bar using firearms during face-offs, two senior army officers said, as a political controversy erupted over whether the Indian soldiers were carrying weapons that could have been used to defend themselves.“Let us get the facts straight. All troops on border duty always carry arms, especially when leaving post. Those at Galwan on 15 June did so. Long-standing practice (as per 1996 & 2005 agreements) not to use firearms during faceoffs,” external affairs minister S Jaishankar tweeted, responding to a post by Gandhi.“How dare China kill our UNARMED soldiers? Why were our soldiers sent UNARMED to martyrdom?” Gandhi tweeted earlier in the day. Jaishankar and Gandhi were both reacting to an HT interview with Lt Gen (retired) HS Panag, who said “soldiers do not shoot arms to avoid escalation of the situation”. Panag also said: “The Chinese, by design, came with clubs, with knuckle dusters.” Border agreements from 1996 and 2005 between India and China disallow the use of firearms during face-offs. Article 6 of the agreement on confidence-building measures in the military field along the Line of Actual Control, signed by India and China in November 1996, states that both sides will not open fire or “conduct blast operations or hunt with guns or explosives within two kilometers from the Line of Actual Control”.HT reported on Wednesday and Thursday that forward troops patrolling the disputed border either do not carry guns, or, if they do, keep them slung on their backs with the magazines in pouches and not clipped on. “Things can spiral out of control even if one bullet is fired,” one of the officers quoted above said on condition of anonymity.Indian and Chinese soldiers engaged in their first deadly conflict in at least 45 years at Patrol Point 14 in Galwan Valley, resulting in 20 deaths on the Indian side, including that of a commanding officer, and possibly 43 casualties including injuries on the Chinese side during the seven-hour brutal brawl that also involved hand-to-hand fighting.Rival soldiers exchanged blows, threw stones at each other and Chinese troops even attacked the Indians with rods and nail-studded clubs during the brawl that went on for over seven hours.But some experts were sceptical. The inherent purpose of carrying a weapon is to put it to use in case of an attack like the one in Galwan Valley, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd). “Why do soldiers carry weapons? There are restrictions on using firearms during a face-off that involves banner drills or soldiers pushing each other around. Galwan was different. It was attack on our soldiers,” he said.A former military chief, who also served as the chairman, chiefs of staff committee, suggested it was unlikely for armed soldiers not to fire their rifles on opposing troops while their commanding officer and comrades were being beaten to death. “No soldier will exercise that kind of restraint. The rules of engagement and agreements usually go to hell in such a scenario,” he said. Gandhi, in a brief 18-second video, said that “China committed a grave crime by killing unarmed India soldiers”. He added, “I want to ask, who sent these brave soldiers unarmed in the face of danger? Who is responsible?”Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Sambit Patra hit back at the former Congress president, asking him to “read, understand and then ask questions”. “In November 1996, under the (HD) Deve Gowda-led government India signed an agreement with China that neither side shall open fire, cause biodegradation or cause explosions within 2km of LAC. It was stipulated that weapons shall not be used by either side,” Patra said. The Indian Army is the “most professional” force that sticks to agreements, Patra added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/armed-but-followed-protocol-govt/story-fjuuwtLXNsMtAtjPKE5LPJ.html
19-06-2020||India||From infrastructure to hi-tech: Mapping China’s large trade footprint in India||The deadly border skirmishes between India and China have cast a cloud over trade relations, which have seen the latter rapidly expand its footprint in the Indian economy, spanning infrastructure, physical goods and hi-tech, with the value of total bilateral trade surging 20% in the last six years, according to official data. At least some of this surge, experts admit, has come at the cost of local industry. Chinese firms have ploughed huge investments into some of the country’s most iconic tech brands, such as the ride-hailing service Ola, a fintech company Paytm, food-delivery app Zomato and e-commerce platform Flipkart. How large are Chinese investments in India and what do the two countries trade in? Mapping these two variables shows bilateral trade clocked an average double-digit growth in the last three years, and much of it to China’s advantage. Also read| India-China stand-off: Galwan skies go quiet, tension simmers on the groundAccording to data from the commerce ministry, India’s bilateral trade with China was worth nearly $80 billion in 2019. Data posted on India’s Beijing embassy website, which it sourced to China’s customs department, showed total bilateral trade between Jan and Nov 2019 at $84.3 billion, a drop of nearly 3.2% from the previous year’s $ 95.7 billion. China is India’s largest trading partner, but the latter runs a large trade deficit. This means India buys far more goods from China, in value terms, than it sells to that country. Imports from China account for an average 16% of India’s total. On the other hand, in India’s total exports, China’s share is just 3.2%. So, to be sure, the trade imbalance is substantial and works to India’s disadvantage.Despite this, analysts say stakes for China are high in India’s technology sector. In 2019-20, Chinese tech firms invested in India the most, according to data from FDI Intelligence, a global investment advisory firm owned by The Financial Times Ltd. Also read| 18 soldiers injured in Galwan Valley face-off stable: Latest developmentsIn 2019, there were “19 inbound projects, which is more than double the eight projects invested in Russia, the second-highest destination for investment”, according to an April 22 report published by FDI Intelligence. Two-thirds of Indian unicorns -- a label for start-ups valued at $1 billion – have Chinese investment, according to data from the think-tank Gateway House. In 2018, Alibaba invested $216m in online grocer BigBasket. It also invested $210m in food delivery app Zomato. Tencent has $400 million riding on ride-hailing app Ola, besides $700 million in e-commerce platform Flipkart, an investment made in April 2017. This investment set a record of being the highest foreign investment picked up by an India-based tech firm. Alibaba is a large investor also in Paytm, while Tencent has invested in Byju’s, an education start-up. Also read: India tells China to stick to its side, says no soldier missingIndia exports mostly a basket of primary goods to China, including cotton, yarn, organic chemicals, ores, natural pearls, precious stones, and fabrics. Chinese imports into India include electric machinery, electronic equipment, nuclear reactors, boilers, solar energy components and APIs (active pharmaceutical ingredients), the backbone of India’s pharma industry.“India is likely to put a lot of things under the scanner now, though I don’t see any overnight impact on goods trade,” said Geethanjali Nataraj, a trade economist with the Indian Institute of Public Administration. Nataraj said a “trust deficit” between the two countries was apparent, referring to Indian commerce ministry’s tightening of foreign investment rules in April. The new rules say any business from a country “which shares land border with India” will need the government’s nod before investing in an Indian firm. “This was to block possibility of opportunistic takeovers from China,” said Biswajit Dhar, a trade expert who teaches at the Jawaharlal University and who previously advised the commerce ministry,According to Dhar, going forward, India will likely reduce overdependence on any one country, including China. “Of most sectors, the health sector’s heavy dependence on Chinese active pharmaceutical ingredients is most crucial. Nearly 90% of our critical therapeutic is import-dependent. One solution is to ramp up our public pharma sector’s capacity,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mapping-china-s-large-trade-footprint-in-india/story-3fIpfOfG1BAN6JMRIboKoI.html
19-06-2020||India||Freight body to end contract with Chinese firm||The Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited (DFCCIL) is in the process of terminating a contract given to a Chinese firm in 2016 because of delays in the signalling and telecommunication work assigned to it, the railway ministry said on Thursday. The decision to terminate the Beijing National Railway Research & Design Institute of Signal & Communication’s contract was taken in April due to the firm’s “slow progress” in the work, officials said. The ministry’s announcement came three days after 20 Indian soldiers were killed as hundreds of troops from India and China fought with iron rods and clubs studded with nails in Ladakh. India is mulling economic measures, including limiting China’s access to its vast market, in response to the face-off. HT on Thursday reported at least 100 Chinese products are staring at anti-dumping action and future investments from China, including the participation of its firms in big and important projects such as the 5G market, could be barred.A ministry spokesperson maintained the DFCCIL’s decision to terminate the contract was due to the firm’s “very poor performance”. The contract relates to signalling and telecommunication work along the Kanpur-Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Junction stretch of the Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor, which is being built for faster movement of freight across the country’s eastern parts. The World Bank-funded project is worth Rs 471 crore. Also read: 18 soldiers injured in Galwan Valley face-off stable: Latest developments“The contract was awarded in August 2016 and was to be completed within 1,000 days. However, the progress has been very slow and hardly 20% of work has been completed. We decided to terminate it and approached the World Bank to grant us NOC [no objection certificate for it] in April and are hopeful the process will be completed by June end. It is an important project and was being monitored by the PMO [Prime Minister’s Office],” DFCCIL managing director Anurag Sachan said.DFCCIL, a public sector undertaking under the railway ministry, needs the NOC to terminate the contract as per the bank’s project financing regulations. It brought to the bank’s notice the delays in April. “The bank had sought more details on the contract implementation issues. We received most of the information by June 9, 2020, and are currently reviewing the information provided,” a World Bank spokesperson said. In its termination notice, DFCCIL said only 20% of the work had been completed “despite the passage of four years” and added it has decided to terminate the contract in view of the poor progress. (HT has seen a copy of the notice?).DFCCIL said the company was reluctant to furnish the technical documents. “Non-availability of the engineers/authorised personnel was a serious issue,” it said. It added the physical work on the project also could not progress as the firm had no tie-up with the local agencies. “Material procurement, which is an independent activity, has not been done earnestly. There is no improvement in progress despite repeated meetings with them at every possible level.” DFCCIL has been tasked with developing the Golden Quadrilateral for linking Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, and Howrah. The project seeks to decongest up to 70% freight load of the railways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/freight-body-ends-contract-with-chinese-firm/story-bDHqQt4te3380FTqzNKjRP.html
19-06-2020||India||Nepal Houses okay map amendment||The upper house of Nepal’s parliament on Thursday passed a constitutional amendment to give legal backing to a new map that depicts the Kalapani region as Nepalese territory, a move that could exacerbate a border row with India.All 57 voting members of the 59-member National Assembly or upper house voted to endorse the new political map issued last month showing the disputed areas of Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as part of Nepal. The amendment was passed by 258 votes in the House of Representatives, or lower house, on April 13. Its passage in the upper house was considered a formality as the ruling Nepal Communist Party has a majority, unlike in the lower house. However, even the lower house passed the bill by a two-thirds after it was backed by key opposition parties such as the Nepali Congress and the Rastriya Prajatantra Party. Later, the bill was approved by President Bidya Devi Bhandari. External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a media briefing in New Delhi that India had made its position clear on June 13, when an official statement said the “artificial enlargement” of territorial claims by Nepal wasn’t based on historical fact and wasn’t tenable. “We have already made our position clear on this.”On Monday, the Indian side said the onus is on the KP Sharma Oli government in Nepal to create a “positive and conducive atmosphere” for talks to resolve the row over the Kalapani-Lipulekh region. India has repeatedly conveyed its readiness to discuss the issue, with the latest offer for talks between foreign secretaries of the two sides made around the time Nepal tabled the constitutional amendment in Parliament on May 31, people familiar with developments said.The boundary row with Nepal has flared up at an inopportune time for India, which is engaged in a tense border stand-off with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). A violent face-off between Indian and Chinese troops on Monday night left at least 20 Indian soldiers dead.The border row erupted last month after India opened an 80km road to Lipulekh on the border with the Tibet Autonomous Region to facilitate pilgrims going to Kailash Mansarovar. Nepal lodged s strong protest and Oli’s government issued a new map that showed Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as Nepalese territory. It then moved the constitutional amendment in Parliament to give legal backing to map.Almost 98% of the 1,750km land and riverine border between India and Nepal has been delineated and differences remain only in the Kalapani sector in Uttarakhand and Susta sector in Bihar. The Indian side has said Nepal’s “shifting” claims are contrary to the Treaty of Sugauli signed in 1815 by Nepal and the British, a ruling by the British governor general in 1817, and Nepal’s boundary treaty with China of 1961 and protocols signed in 1963 and 1979.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-houses-okay-map-amendment/story-PLUTJYsZElFmpFDhilC8rK.html
19-06-2020||India||Coalsector out of years of lockdown, says PM Modi||New Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday launched the auction of 41 coal mines for commercial mining and said that the Indian economy was recovering fast amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, expressing confidence in the domestic industry to accomplish the idea of a self-reliant India.At an industry event titled “Unleashing Coal: New Hopes for Atmanirbhar Bharat”, the Prime Minister said he wanted India to be a net exporter of coal – the annual production capacity of the 41 coal mines is nearly a third of the country’s total output.The launch of the auction process not only marks the beginning of the unlocking of the country’s coal sector from the “lockdown of decades”, but aims at making India the largest exporter of coal, the Prime Minister said. The auction marks the opening up of the Indian coal sector to commercial mining. The Union Cabinet approved the new auction process of coal and lignite blocks on revenue-sharing basis last month as part of its strategy to revive economic activity amid the pandemic. The reform was announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on May 16 as part of the economic stimulus package.India is determined to convert adversities into opportunities and the Covid-19 disaster has taught the lesson of becoming self-reliant, Modi said as he spoke about the vision to make the country the largest exporter of goods that are currently imported.The PM said the auction of the coal mines was taking place at a time when business activity in India was recovering fast, with consumption and demand moving rapidly towards pre-Covid levels. “There is no better time to launch this new initiative. Between end of May and the first week of June, power generation, consumption and demand for petroleum products have grown rapidly... In June, toll collection reached 70% of the February collection. Railway freight traffic improved by 26% compared to April,” he said.Even the rural economy has gathered pace, he said. “This time, area of kharif crop was 13% more than the previous year. This year, both production and procurement of wheat have increased. Till now, 11% more wheat is procured compared to last year. This means, more money reached the farmer. These indicators... show that the Indian economy is ready to bounce back fast,” he said.The Prime Minister said India will reduce its import dependence, which is part of the government’s self-reliant India initiative that was launched as a Rs 20-lakh crore economic stimulus package between May 13 and May 17.The Prime Minister has previously said India should turn the public health crisis into an opportunity to create an “Atmanirbhar Bharat” by ensuring that products the country imports start getting manufactured in India.“Atmanirbhar Bharat means that India will reduce its dependence on imports. Atmanirbhar Bharat means that India will save foreign exchange worth lakhs of crore spent on imports, and use that [money] for the welfare of the poor,” he said.PM Modi said that India’s success and its growth is certain. “We can become self-reliant. You will recollect, until recently, we would import N95 mask, Corona testing kits, personal protective equipment – PPE, ventilators. Now the country is meeting its demand through Make in India. Very soon, we will become an exporter of important medical products. You [the industry] have confidence, you keep your morale high, we can together achieve this objective,” he said.According to experts, the Prime Minister’s speech should be taken seriously in the present context of an economic slump due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the recent stand-off at the border by China, the biggest supplier of cheap manufactured goods to India. India-China bilateral trade is heavily tilted in favour of China. According to trade figures released by the General Administration of Customs of China (GACC), India’s trade deficit with China was $56.77 billion in 2019. Bilateral trade between the two countries was about $92.68 billion that year.Deepak Bagla, managing director and CEO of Invest India, said: “The government is serious working on a self-reliant India. The domestic sentiment is against Chinese goods and the industry cannot ignore this phenomenon, which is getting stronger day by day,” he said.He said the three key strengths present in the industry can help its transformation. First is nimbleness in the modification of the business model. “How the industry ramped up production of PPE from zero to 450,000 per day,” he said.“The second is efficient use of capital and the third is innovation. The most of it is seen among MSMEs [micro, small and medium enterprises], who contribute 30% of the GDP [gross domestic product] and the government is focusing on this segment that would achieve its objective of self-reliance,” he added.Vinod Kumar, president at the India SME Forum said that PM’s thrust on Atmanirbhar Bharat was a game changer for MSMEs. “Rationalisation of import duty and antidumping duty are bound to reduce India’s overdependence on imports and re-position India as a serious exporter,” he said.Ram Singh, professor at the Delhi School of Economics, said that India has the potential to become self-reliant, but in some sectors, its production is critically dependent on cheap Chinese imports. “We import more than 70% of APIs [active pharmaceutical ingredients] for production of some drugs and medicines. In absence of Chinese imports, our cost of production will go up [in the short run], but it will serve us well in the medium and long term,” he said.He pointed at the current ecosystem of start-ups in India, which is hugely funded by China and proposed that the government unlock the country’s vast reserve of human capital. “Our investment in higher education, and research and development is less than what China had 20 years ago. If we are serious about self-reliant India, we cannot afford wastage of the most important national asset,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coalsector-out-of-years-of-lockdown-says-pm-modi/story-bFyVBujsi64qINcNQvtoPP.html
19-06-2020||India||Cong stakes claim to form govt in Manipur, seeks a special session||The Congress on Thursday staked a claim for form the next government in Manipur a day after three Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmakers resigned and six others withdrew their support to chief minister Biren Singh-led ruling coalition.Chaltonlien Amo, a Congress leader, said they submitted an application to governor Najma Heptullah requesting her to convene a special assembly session for a no-confidence motion against the government.“We want the governor to call the newly-formed Secular Progressive Front (SPF), under Okram Ibobi Singh, leader of the single largest party, the Congress, to form the government after dismissing the present ministry as it no longer commands a majority.”Okram Ibobi Singh wrote to Heptullah, saying they have moved the no-confidence while calling for the session “at the shortest possible time” to vote on it. He wrote alternatively, “since the present ministry is in minority, it may be dismissed outright”.He appended letters of support from other members of SPF—20 from Congress, four from National People’s Party (NPP), one Trinamool Congress (TMC), and an Independent lawmaker.The four NPP, one TMC legislator and the Independent lawmaker withdrew support to the coalition government on Wednesday. The three BJP lawmakers, whose resignations were accepted by the Speaker, have joined the Congress.Meanwhile, the Manipur high court on Thursday directed the assembly Speaker that orders regarding disqualification of the Congress MLAs be kept in abeyance till Friday.NPP leader Y Joykumar Singh, a former deputy chief minister, said they will form the next government led by Congress. “The government’s handling of the Covid-19 situation and interference in ministries handled by our party’s ministers are some reason why we decided to withdraw support to the government,” he said. The BJP’s strength has been reduced to 18 and it has the support of five more lawmakers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-stakes-claim-to-form-govt-in-manipur-seeks-a-spl-session/story-ZuVAb6s1cuQdNReYdTRBBL.html
19-06-2020||India||India elected to UNSC as non-permanent member||Washington/New Delhi: India was on Thursday elected a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council with 184 of the 192 votes polled as officials said solutions to the Covid-19 crisis, reforms of multilateral systems, and enhanced counter-terror cooperation will be focus areas of the two-year term beginning in 2021.India was the endorsed candidate of the Asia-Pacific Group of UN member countries and faced no competition in the elections, whose results were announced early on Thursday (Indian time). Afghanistan withdrew in India’s favour in 2013 and the votes secured by India were much higher than the minimum threshold of a two-thirds majority or 128 votes.The elections were conducted by secret ballot, and people familiar with developments said Pakistan was among the eight countries that did not vote for India. The people, speaking on condition of anonymity, noted the overwhelming number of votes received by India indicated Arab and Muslim countries were not swayed by Pakistan’s campaign opposing India’s candidature.“Deeply grateful for the overwhelming support shown by the global community for India’s membership of the @UN Security Council. India will work with all member countries to promote global peace, security, resilience and equity,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted.“We have received overwhelming support and I’m deeply humbled by the tremendous confidence which the member states of the United Nations have reposed in India,” T S Tirumurti, India’s permanent representative to the UN, said in a video message.“India will become a member of the Security Council at a critical juncture and we are confident that in the Covid- and the post-Covid world, India will continue to provide leadership and a new orientation for a reformed multilateral system,” he said.Officials said the strong support for India demonstrated the goodwill the country enjoys. This will be the eighth time India will be serving in the Security Council. Vikas Swarup, secretary (West) in the external affairs ministry, said finding innovative and inclusive solutions to the Covid-19 crisis, reforming multilateral forums and organisations, including the UN, and enhancing counter-terror cooperation will be focus areas for India during its stint. “We will act as a voice of reason and moderation and a firm believer in respect for international law and peaceful settlement of disputes,” he told a media briefing.Swarup refused to speculate about the eight countries that did not vote for India, saying: “Focus on the 184 – this reflects an almost universal acceptance, the most widespread support possible.”Asked about reports that Pakistan had politicised the elections, Swarup replied: “Unfortunately, this is the kind of behaviour we have now been seeing from Pakistan over the past many, many months and years. They always rake up bilateral issues in multilateral forums. They have almost made it a norm for their policy.”He said one of India’s main priorities is enhancing counter-terrorism action by the UN Security Council. During its last stint in the body in 2011-12, India had chaired the UN Counter-Terrorism Committee and brought in the concept of zero tolerance for terror.“During our coming term, we will work to enhance the global action against terrorism, their supporters and sympathisers and safe havens by seeking the streamlining of the process of sanctioning of the terrorists and terrorist entities. The process of sanctions also needs to be depoliticised as there is no justification for any act of terrorism,” he said.He added that India will also work for the finalisation of the Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism it had proposed in 1996.The UN system, Swarup said, needs reform urgently and all its bodies, including the Security Council and World Health Organization, need to change to reflect contemporary realities. Rajiv Bhatia, a distinguished fellow for foreign policy studies at Gateway House, said India should play a calibrated role in the UN Security Council instead of creating unnecessarily high expectations.“We have to be happy and satisfied with the election result and not euphoric. The global geopolitical situation is very complex. If we think we can push reforms in a big way by sitting in the UN Security Council, that would be unrealistic,” he said.“We must do whatever we can to strengthen multilateralism and build coalitions that can help some of the common causes of the international community,” Bhatia added.The others which went through were Mexico, also an endorsed candidate from its Latin American and Caribbean Group, and Ireland and Norway from the Western European and Other Group.The voting took place in a phased manner for the first time in the world body’s 75-year history. Member countries were allowed into the general assembly, where voting took place, in smaller groups of 20 because of social distancing norms.The Security Council has 15 members, including five permanent members — the US, the UK, France, Russia and China. Half of the 10 non-permanent members are elected every year for a two-year term, starting on January 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-elected-to-unsc-as-non-permanent-member/story-RebAqBFErmoTgaZHCTwzmK.html
19-06-2020||India||Health, safety and security of every student important: Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank||New Delhi: The Union human resources development minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank spoke to Amandeep Shukla about reopening schools after the lockdown, CBSE board exams for students in containment zones, and the new education policy, among other issues. Edited excerpts of an email interview:The HRD ministry has initiated a consultation with states on the process of reopening schools. What is the progress on this?The ministry has only initiated the consultation with states and Union Territories for preparing guidelines and SOPs -- for school health and hygiene, safety protocols, and academic and administrative matters -- to be taken into consideration when states and UTs decide to reopen schools. It is not for deciding the dates for reopening schools. The decision for reopening of schools will be taken by the concerned state government or UT administration as and when they find it safe to reopen schools following the guidelines of the MHA and the ministry of health.Has the ministry prepared a road map for opening of schools? Is there a possibility that the schools may open in some states or areas while those with high rates of COVID-19 incidence may teach online?Education is on the concurrent list. It is for the state government or UT administration to prepare the road map for reopening of schools and also decide the dates for reopening of schools in their respective regions. MHRD will be coming out with broad parameters to ensure uniformity across the nationSeveral reports suggest that many parents may not be comfortable to send their children to schools. How will you address those concerns?I understand the apprehensions of parents. The concerns of the parents and other stakeholders will be considered by the state government or UT administration before deciding to open the schools. I want to assure every parent that the health, safety and security of each and every students is of utmost importance to the government. I am sure that the decision will be undertaken in the student’s best interest after assessing the situation.The CBSE is to conduct Class X and XII board exams from July 1 to July 15. What measures will be put in place to ensure these exams are conduct safely?To address the issue of safe conduct of examinations, CBSE has taken two decisions in consultation with the HRD ministry: the examinations would now be conducted in the respective schools of the candidates instead of the examination centre already allotted; and CBSE will allow change of examination centre in respect of candidates who have shifted and are residing in some other district in the country than the place of their school. CBSE has also started a helpline (1800-11-8002) to address all the concerns of parents and students. The services are available between 9.30am and 5pm on all working days.In case a student finds it difficult to take the exam, as in states like Delhi the number of cases being reported are high, will there be a redressal mechanism? For instance, a student from a containment zone or a student who is in isolation may not be able to take the exam.In the containment zone, no examination centre will be permitted. In case of schools falling in containment zones as on date, examination centre of the students of these schools will be allotted outside the containment zone.For the preventive measures, directives issued by Union government and CBSE will be duly followed by the schools.What is the status of the New Education Policy? There have been several measures like starting of class-wise channels planned by the HRD ministry. Are any of the lessons learnt during the Covid-19 phase going to be included?The ministry is coherently working at a faster pace on the New Education Policy. We will submitting it to the Cabinet soon.Given that the Covid-19 pandemic has presented unique challenges to learning around the world. More than 35 crore students and 1.08 crore teachers across 15 lakh schools, 1,028 universities, 41901 colleges and 10 726 stand-alone institutes are unable to attend the classes due to nationwide closure of the education institutes as India prepares to fight against the pandemic. The crisis definitely needed to be converted into an opportunity. It became imperative from India to take steps to mitigate the immediate risks and continue to provide education to all children; and build education resilience as a strategic imperative across the sector. The pandemic gave me an opportunity to build a resilient and sustainable education for all the students. E–learning definitely has a long way to go. We are devising strategies to reach the farthest student.You have said that mid-day meals be provided to children during the current phase. How much has been possible in terms of providing meals? Are you planning to introduce any immunity-building food items in the scheme?India has taken various measures to prevent the spreading of this pandemic in the country. In these difficult crisis times, the poor vulnerable sections of the society with loss of livelihood leading to inadequate reserves of food are severely affected and children are bearing the brunt. Consequent undernourishment or malnourishment may lower their immunity against Covid-19. Thus, it becomes even more important to provide food especially to the poor and needy children to meet their nutritional requirements and thereby to safeguard their immunity.To meet the nutritional requirements of the eligible children, states and UTs have been advised to provide mid-day meal or its equivalent food security allowance inclusive of foodgrains and cooking cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-safety-and-security-of-every-student-important-ramesh-pokhriyal-nishank/story-eNaxlRriXQ9VSO6UvHPkHN.html
19-06-2020||India||Annual Jagannath Rath Yatra will not be held this year, rules apex court||New Delhi: The annual Rath Yatra scheduled to be held on June 23 at the Jagannath Temple in Odisha’s Puri district will not take place this year in view of the Covid -19 pandemic, the Supreme Court ordered on Thursday.The order was passed after a plea by an NGO, Odisha Vikas Parishad, pointed out the public health risk involved if more than one million devotees congregate for the event at a time when Covid-19 cases are rising.“Having regard to the danger presented by such a large gathering of people for the Rath Yatra, we consider it appropriate in the interests of public health and safety of citizens who are devotees to restrain the respondents (state and district authorities and managing committee of Jagannath temple) from holding the Rath Yatra this year”, the bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde ordered.The court also directed that no such Rath Yatra should be allowed in any other part of Odisha.“We direct that there shall be no Rath Yatra anywhere in the temple town (Puri) of Odisha or in any other part of the state this year. We further direct that there shall be no activities secular or religious associated with the Rath Yatra during this period”, the order read.The Rath Yatra lasts for 10 to 12 days and involves a procession of chariots containing the deities Lord Jagannath, his brother Lord Balabhadra, and sister Devi Subhadra.On May 7, the Union home ministry granted permission to the Odisha government to carry out the construction of chariots for conducting Rath Yatra subject to the condition that no religious congregation takes place while it is constructed.The central government had also left it to the discretion of the Odisha government to decide whether or not to hold the Rath Yatra based on the conditions prevailing at the relevant point of time.The Odisha government, on June 1, issued guidelines extending the lockdown in all Covid-19 containment zones in the state until midnight of June 30. It allowed reopening of prohibited activities in a phased manner in areas outside containment zones, though religious places continue to remain closed for the public till June 30. Even in areas which are not containment zones, social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural and religious functions and other large congregations remain closed.All the temples, including the Jagannath temple in Puri, are closed across the state for devotees since March 22 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.The petitioner pointed out that despite the restrictions, all the rituals leading to the Rath Yatra, such as Askhay Trutiya (the day on which the construction of the chariots start) and Snana Purnima were allowed to be performed by the state government, leading to the conclusion that the government may allow the Rath Yatra on June 23.When the case came up for hearing on Thursday, the bench, which also comprised justices Dinesh Maheshwari and AS Bopanna, made it clear at the outset that it was inclined to stay the festivities.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the central government, said that the issue was sensitive and sought a day’s time so that government could study the issue and get back to the court with a response but the bench disagreed.“This is a very serious matter. We will pass an order today. Lord Jagannath will forgive us,” CJI Bobde remarked.The petitioner also referred to the Tablighi Jamaat Muslim congregation in mid-March at the Nizamuddin area in Delhi that led to a spurt in Covid-19 cases across the country.The Odisha government, represented by senior counsel Harish Salve, did not oppose the prayer in the petition but requested the court that whatever order it passes should be clear and precise leaving no room for any confusion.As the hearing drew to a close, the CJI, on a lighter note, alluded to the origins of the English word juggernaut. “It is derived from Jagannath and it means something which cannot be stopped,” he said.“But the court has stopped it today,” Mehta responded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/annual-jagannath-rath-yatra-will-not-be-held-this-year-rules-apex-court/story-PPYKk6ddWVOYjHn2DoGSQJ.html
19-06-2020||India||Mobile Covid-19 testing labs inaugurated||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday inaugurated India’s first mobile testing laboratory for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) diagnosis in remote and inaccessible areas with no or limited testing facilities. No decision has been taken on where it would be started.The World Health Organization (WHO) has said ramping up testing is the best way of slowing the advance of the pandemic. India has increased its capacity to test with Delhi, one of the worst-hit by the pandemic in the country, conducting 8,093 tests, the most conducted in a single day, on Wednesday.Vardhan said most Indians live in rural areas and the country has about 650,000 villages. “This laboratory in a mobile van can easily be deployed in villages where testing facilities are limited. It will also be a boon for many inaccessible areas in the Northeast, and areas where there are no motorable roads. The core of this mobile lab can be disengaged and mounted on a cargo train to be transported to the desired destination. India’s railway network is spread far and wide,” he said at the launch of the lab.The I-Lab (infectious disease lab) has the capacity for testing about 250 samples through real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and ELISA (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) based antibody techniques daily. It includes 50 RT-PCR samples. Officials said another set of machines are expected to be installed to double the capacity to test to 500 samples daily. The government plans to have 50 such mobile labs to promote the last mile access to Covid-19 testing, according to the minister. In the longer run, such facilities will be provided for testing other infectious diseases like tuberculosis. A team from Andhra Pradesh MedTech Zone Limited, an enterprise under the state government dedicated to medical device manufacturing, designed the biosafety level II (BSL-II) lab in eight days, by June 14, at the cost of Rs 1 crore. It is a department of biotechnology initiative.There are four BSL levels based on the infectious organisms that the researchers are dealing with. BSL-I is considered to be the least hazardous, while BSL-IV poses a maximum safety risk. Each level builds on the previous category, adding more layers of constraints and barriers to contain contamination.The organisms include viruses, bacteria, fungi, parasites, etc. SAR-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, belongs to the BSL-II category.The mobile labs will be a part of the department of biotechnology’s hub and spoke model. There are close to 20 hubs in the country with 100 testing laboratories, and these labs will be linked to these hubs.“The project is a part of India’s effort to expand its network of facilities for handling infectious diseases in the country, both in terms of testing and treating,” said Vardhan.Experts say in the absence of full-fledged labs having mobile testing is a good idea. “BSL II labs are not everywhere so having these labs on site will definitely help. Linking them with some main laboratory will also help in cross-checking results in case of any doubts,” said Dr Charu Hans, a former head of the microbiology department at Delhi’s Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mobile-covid-testing-labs-inaugurated/story-tod0zx5hVv9Y6IWOThUJzH.html
19-06-2020||India||NCR cities cannot be separate from Delhi during crisis: Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday emphasised the need to have a unified strategy in Delhi-National Capital Region (Delhi-NCR) to tackle the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), adding that suburbs such as Gurugram, Noida and Ghaziabad can’t be separated from the Capital in the public health emergency.Shah held a meeting with Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and senior officials of the Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments to review the Covid-19 situation in Delhi-NCR amid a surge in the number of cases of the infectious disease. Delhi recorded 2,877 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, which took the total in the city to 49,979. “In view of the structure of Delhi-NCR region, all concerned bodies need to unite and work on a common strategy against the coronavirus pandemic. In this context, I met with Delhi Chief Minister and senior officials of Center and Delhi-NCR today to discuss how to evolve a strategy as soon as possible,” Shah tweeted.At the meeting, Shah said that keeping in view the close-knit urban structure of the NCR region, it was necessary for all concerned authorities in Delhi-NCR to come together to tackle the virus, according to a statement.The Union home minister has directed officials from Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to submit information about Covid-19 beds, ventilators, oxygen cylinders, ICUs and ambulances available with them and their plan to augment these resources by July 15 July to his ministry so that a common strategy could be devised in Delhi-NCR.Authorities in Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi have imposed border restrictions at different points over the past few weeks, leading to complaints of inconvenience from commuters, some of them engaged in essential services.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal recently announced that only patients from Delhi would be treated at hospitals run by the Delhi government and at private hospitals in the Capital. Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, however, overruled the Delhi government’s decision, saying that people from all states, including the adjoining cities, would be treated at all facilities in the Capital.A senior home ministry official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Gurugram, Noida, Sonepat, Faridabad and Ghaziabad are important suburbs and crucial to the Capital. “They cannot refuse to make available each others’ facilities. They have to work with each other else one or the other will be overwhelmed by the pandemic,” the official said.The home minister also suggested that the NCR districts could consider adopting the Rs 2,400 charge fixed for Covid-19 tests in Delhi, besides the new rapid antigen methodology being implemented in the national capital from Thursday.A committee under the chairmanship of NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul has fixed the price of Rs 2,400 for Covid-19 tests in the national capital. The Delhi government commenced Covid-19 testing through the rapid antigen methodology at 169 centres in and around containment zones of the city from Thursday. The Union home minister said that in order to control the virus, there was a need to test more and it was also necessary to identify and treat those who were diagnosed as positive. “The Union home minister said there is a need to work in a mission mode,” the official statement said.Shah has held a series of meetings with Delhi lieutenant governor Baijal, CM Kejriwal and senior officials this week over the strategy to augment Delhi’s health care infrastructure amid the Covid-19 outbreak.On Thursday, he told the meeting that a committee also decided on the rates for Covid-19 beds and treatment, and these rates could also be applied to hospitals in the NCR region after consultations.Shah also assured support from the Centre to the authorities in Delhi-NCR in the fight against the disease, which has so far killed 12,605 people in India.On June 4, the Supreme Court asked the Centre to convene a meeting of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana for easing interstate movement at all borders in the NCR. It also observed that there should be a consistent policy in this regard.The Centre informed the apex court that the union home secretary had convened a joint meeting on June 9 with chief secretaries of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to deal with the issue and now there was no barrier on these borders.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncr-cities-cannot-be-separate-from-delhi-during-crisis-shah/story-JMZds8ZMBo4zlv8I1pHjqM.html
19-06-2020||India||Girl from Nilgiri leads petition to ‘protect’ Western Ghats, Centre, states served notice||The Supreme Court has issued notice to the Union ministry of environment and forest and the six states lining the Western Ghats in response to a petition seeking reinstatement of the recommendations made in a report filed by Western Ghats Ecology Experts Panel (WGEEP).A young girl from the Nilgiris, M Kaviya, is the lead petitioner among the 23 individuals who moved the plea in SC. The petition, as interim relief, prays for allowing only those activities permitted in the WGEEP report in specified areas.M Kaviya is one among the seven children listed as petitioners and supported by several others including environmental activists and NGOs like the Goa Foundation from Goa, Ankur Trust from Maharashtra and Kerala’s River Research Centre apart from others from the six Western Ghats states.The WGEEP report by renowned ecologist Dr Madhav Gadgil was submitted in 2011, but its recommendations to restrict damaging activities like mining, quarrying and red-category industries in the Western Ghats are yet to be implemented by the Centre or the governments of the six states.The matter was listed before a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, who directed that a notice be issued to the relevant parties including centre and governments of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu.“[We] have approached the Supreme Court under Article 32 of the Constitution of India for urgent directions and orders that will result in an effective, sustainable and credible conservation regime for the Western Ghats, its diverse ecosystems and ecologically sensitive zones,” Claude Alvares, Director of Goa Foundation, said. Alvares stated that a population of 50 million people is directly dependent on the Western Ghats and its ecology, and another 200 million people are indirectly dependent.“The future of entire southern India is intimately linked with the healthy survival of the Western Ghats. The governments have abjectly failed to do justice to the Western Ghats, despite being empowered to do so,” he added.The petition has cited the “massive environmental disasters” that struck several parts of Kerala and Karnataka during the 2018 monsoon, and in 2019, killing 483 people in Kerala, 16 in Kodagu, Karnataka besides forcing 4.50 lakh people into relief camps as houses were destroyed, roads was washed out and buildings collapsed.Acknowledging that the Western Ghats are a global biodiversity hotspot, and hence needed to be conserved, the Union Government had set up the Western Ghats Ecology Expert Panel headed by Dr Madhav Gadgil back in 2009.Dr Gadgil had recommended that large swathes of areas falling within the Western Ghats be marked as ecologically sensitive areas.However, owing to opposition from states, the MoEF set up another committee called the High Level Working Group headed by former ISRO Chief Dr K Kasturirangan who further reduced the area to be notified as ecologically sensitive. However, this report too was rejected by many states.“The Kasturirangan Report has been watered down considerably by various State governments, with the active collaboration of the Ministry of Environment, to a level of meaninglessness,” Alvares said.He further pointed out that Kerala has excluded the entire area recommended by the Kasturirangan Committee and set up its own committee, Goa and Maharashtra have sought to exclude a large number of villages from proposed eco zones, while Karnataka has not accepted the Kasturirangan report. “As a result, the region, recognized as one of the world’s eight biodiversity hotspots, does not have the protection that was sought by the environment ministry when it set up the WGEEP,” he said.Back in November last year, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had set the ministry of environment, forests and climate change a fresh deadline of March 2020 for the finalization of eco sensitive zones in the Western Ghats, and warned that any further delay would mean that the advisor in the MoEF would not get any salary till the notification was finalized.The ministry had apprised the tribunal of states’ demand for more and more exclusions citing the need for development. It was said that the need for development sometimes runs into conflict with the need for environment protection and that both aspects need to be balanced.In August 2018, the NGT, while frowning upon yet another delay in finalization of the eco sensitive zones in the Western Ghats, had barred the linked states from making any changes to the ecologically sensitive areas as it “may seriously affect the environment”, especially in the view of the floods in Kerala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/girl-from-nilgiri-leads-petition-to-protect-western-ghats-centre-states-served-notice/story-rXgyChlmSfEkdcqGoxiO9J.html
19-06-2020||India||On Ladakh border incident, China official asked 6 questions. Answers none||India and China have agreed to deal with the “serious matter” triggered by the violent clash between border troops in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on Monday in a “just” manner, the Chinese foreign ministry said on Thursday.“Both sides (India and China have) agreed to deal with the serious matter caused by the conflict at the Valley in a just manner, jointly observe the commander level talks consensus and deescalate the tensions as soon as possible and safeguard the peace and tranquility,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, Zhao Lijian said at the regular ministry briefing on Thursday.Zhao took six questions on the border incident but managed to skirt it all by repeating statements and not revealing China’s casualty figures.Also Watch | China blames India; Jaishankar Vs Rahul; no jawan missing: Latest updates He declined to respond to queries on reports of China building a dam on the Galwan river at the Sino-Indian border to obstruct its flow.To a question on whether the confrontation started when the Indian troops arrived to demolish structures set up by China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), Zhao reiterated China’s allegation, squarely blaming the Indian troops for the incident.“The right and wrong of this case is very clear and responsibility doesn’t lie with the Chinese side,” he said, adding that China has provided the details of the case.Twenty Indian Army soldiers, including a colonel, were killed in the clashes with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on Monday night.Beijing hasn’t revealed the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) casualty numbers though China’s government-controlled official media has acknowledged it without mentioning numbers.Zhao reiterated Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi’s statement, which was issued after he had a telephone conversation with India’s external affairs minister S Jaishankar.The Indian minister conveyed India’s protest in “strongest terms” to Beijing and said the unprecedented development will have “serious impact” on the bilateral ties. He asked the Chinese side to reassess its actions and take corrective steps, the ministry of external affairs said in a statement in New Delhi.Separately on Thursday, Hua Chunying, director general of the Chinese foreign ministry’s information department, said India must not underestimate its firm will to safeguard its territorial sovereignty.“India must not misjudge the current situation or underestimate China’s firm will to safeguard its territorial sovereignty,” Hua tweeted.“Indian front-line troops broke the consensus and crossed the Line of Actual Control, deliberately provoking and attacking Chinese officers and soldiers, thus triggering fierce physical conflicts and causing casualties,” she said in a follow-up tweet.A large number of Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in an eyeball-to-eyeball situation in Galwan Valley and other areas of eastern Ladakh for the last five weeks, since May, including in Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-to-deal-with-border-incident-in-just-manner-beijing/story-Bgyd2SvWLyL6kRsTgXTJoN.html
19-06-2020||India||As family mourns soldier’s death, hours later he calls home to say ‘I am alive’||A phone call to soldier Sunil Kumar’s family at Dighra village at Parsa block in Saran district of Bihar, declaring that their valiant son had perished in a violent clash with the Chinese soldiers at Galwan Valley in Ladakh on Monday night, had led to mourning with a pall of gloom descending in the entire area in the remembrance of the local lad who was loved by all and stood out for his liveliness, as per a report in Hindi daily Hindustan.The scenes of mourning further deepened by the darkness of night were, however, replaced by relief and a sense of gratefulness with the first light on Thursday as in another phone call from Ladakh, Sunil’s voice, comforting his family with report of his well being, was heard.It turned out that the wrong news of Sunil’s martyrdom was the result of a mix-up with another soldier from the unit who had died in the action on Monday night.Also Watch | China blames India; Jaishankar Vs Rahul; no jawan missing: Latest updates Also See: In pics: India pays homage to 20 soldiers killed in Ladakh face-off India lost 20 soldiers, several of them serving in the Bihar Regiment, during an unprecedented violent clash between Indian and Chinese soldiers in eastern Ladakh along the line of control.Wednesday afternoon--when the incorrect news of Sunil’s demise was received-- followed by the long night, was heartbreaking for the family as they received details of arrangements made to transfer the slain soldier’s body to his hometown. They were sent the details in the mistaken belief that it was being conveyed to the family of the deceased soldier.While Sunil’s army unit had informed his brother Anil about the mix-up and confirmed Sunil’s well being to him on Wednesday afternoon itself, the family was not delivered completely out of the fear of losing their loved one till they heard Sunil’s voice the next morning on the phone.Sunil’s wife Menaka said she was relieved to hear his husband on the phone during the conference call that was specially arranged by his army unit. “I burst out with joy as I had no doubt that it was Roshini’s father’s voice speaking on the other side,” she was quoted as saying by Hindi daily Hindustan.Earlier on Wednesday, villagers and local politicians including MLA Chandrika Rai had assembled at Sunil’s house to give strength to the family and condoled his passing, they were equally relieved by the news of his well being, received later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-soldier-s-family-lost-all-in-16-hours-between-2-phone-calls-then-erupted-with-joy/story-nJkHkkwlmmo6e2Ix6kKp3I.html
19-06-2020||India||Intel agencies red-flag use of 53 mobile apps with links to China: Complete list||Indian intelligence agencies have asked the government to block or advise people to stop use of 53 mobile applications linked to China over concerns that these weren’t safe and ended up extracting a large amount of data outside India, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times.The list of applications sent by the security establishment to the government include video conferencing app Zoom, short-video app TikTok, and other utility and content apps such as UC browser, Xender, SHAREit and Clean-master.A senior government official said the recommendation of the intelligence agencies had recently been supported by the National Security Council Secretariat, which felt these could be detrimental to India’s security.“The discussions on the recommendations are continuing,” said an official, explaining that the parameters and the risks attached to each mobile app will have to be examined one by one.On the radar of intelligence agenciesTikTok, Vault-Hide, Vigo Video, Bigo Live, WeiboWeChat, SHAREit, UC News, UC BrowserBeautyPlus, Xender, ClubFactory, Helo, LIKEKwai, ROMWE, SHEIN, NewsDog, Photo WonderAPUS Browser, VivaVideo- QU Video Inc, ZoomPerfect Corp, CM Browser, Virus Cleaner (Hi Security Lab)Mi Community, DU recorder, YouCam MakeupMi Store, 360 Security, DU Battery Saver, DU BrowserDU Cleaner, DU Privacy, Clean Master – CheetahCacheClear DU apps studio, Baidu Translate, Baidu MapWonder Camera, ES File Explorer, QQ InternationalQQ Launcher, QQ Security Centre, QQ Player, QQ MusicQQ Mail, QQ NewsFeed, WeSync, SelfieCity, Clash of KingsMail Master, Mi Video call-Xiaomi, Parallel SpaceIn April this year, the home ministry had issued an advisory on use of Zoom on the recommendation of the national cybersecurity agency – Computer Emergency Response Team of India (CERT-in). India wasn’t the first country to restrict use of Zoom within the government. Taiwan has banned government agencies from using Zoom, the German Foreign Ministry restricts its use of Zoom to emergency situations on personal computers while the United States Senate advises members to use other platforms. The company had responded to the home ministry advisory, insisting that it was serious about user security.There have been calls for action against mobile apps that are perceived to be compromising security from time to time. And companies such as the hugely-popular video popular video-sharing app TikTok - owned and operated by Chinese internet company ByteDance - have issued denials.But officials said there were inputs that many Android and IOS apps, either developed by Chinese developers or launched by companies with Chinese links, had the potential to be used as spyware or other malicious ware. There have been reports that security agencies had advised security personnel from using them in view of the “detrimental impact that this could have on data security.Such concerns about backdoors in China-linked hardware or software have been frequently articulated by western security agencies too. One argument has been that China could use its access to degrade communications services in case of conflict.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/intel-agencies-red-flag-use-of-52-mobile-apps-with-links-to-china-complete-list/story-B50Slf39aSnVOrCcS92l1N.html
