21-06-2020||India||Security forces gun down three terrorists in Srinagar||Security forces shot dead three terrorists in a gunfight in Jammu and Kashmir’s Srinagar after they refused to surrender on Sunday, officials said. This was the second such operation in the city in just over a month.Vijay Kumar, Kashmir inspector general of police, said one of the militants — a local resident — was involved in the killing of two Border Security Force (BSF) personnel near the city’s Pandach Chowk during Ramzan May 20.He was identified as Shakoor Farooq Langoo of Bharthana near Srinagar. The second militant, Shahid Ahmad Bhat, was a resident of Semthan Bijbehara in South Kashmir, while the third person was yet to be identified.They were affiliated to the Hizbul Mujahideen, a banned local group, and the Kashmir unit of the Islamic State, according to the police, who said the terrorists were working jointly. Security personnel launched the operation after receiving intelligence inputs about their presence in a house in the densely populated Zadibal in downtown Srinagar late on Saturday night. Subsequently, the police and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) launched a cordon-and-search operation in the area’s Zoonimar.“Through our sources, we go to know of their identity and called their parents who appealed to them to surrender. But they didn’t relent...after that, an operation was launched to neutralize them,” he said.The house owner and people from nearby houses were evacuated successfully, and the terrorists cornered during the operation.“Your mother is suffering from a heart ailment. Come out and surrender. They will help you,” the uncle of one of the terrorists said. The mother of one of them, with tears in her eyes, urged her son to lay down his arms, according to news agency PTI.A police spokesperson said security forces showed patience and restraint, and ensured a “clean operation with no collateral damage in a highly congested and densely populated area of Srinagar”.Mobile internet services were suspended in the city view of the operation.The operation came less than 24 hours of security forces killing a terrorist, a Pakistani national, at Likhdipora village in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district. The police spokesperson said he was identified as Tayab Waleed, alias Imran Bhai, alias Gazi Baba, who was affiliated to the Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed.According to police records, he was the operational commander of the JeM and an expert in making improvised explosive devices (IEDS), besides being a sharp shooter. One AK rifle, one M-4 Carbine, and a pistol, among others, were recovered from the encounter.Security personnel have stepped up the offensive in the Kashmir Valley, killing over 100 terrorists in operations since the beginning of the year. Several of these encounters have taken place in south Kashmir, considered the hotbed of militancy. Among the major successes of security forces this year was the killing of Riyaz Naikoo, a top commander of the Hizbul, in an operation in Beighpora last month. On May 19, two top Hizbul terrorists were killed in the Safakdal area in Srinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-forces-gun-down-three-terrorists-in-srinagar/story-yJbTAFgbcHOE9w5JDMQasL.html
21-06-2020||India||Cong seeks clarification on PM’s comment||New DelhiThe Opposition kept up pressure on the central government on Sunday over the Galwan valley clash that left 20 Indian Army soldiers dead, with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi citing a satellite image to allege that China has occupied Indian territory. “The PM had said neither anyone entered into our territory nor anyone has occupied our land. But satellite photo clearly shows that near the Pangong lake sacred land of India has been captured,” Gandhi said on Twitter. In another tweet, Gandhi, who has been unrelenting in his criticism of the government on the issue, called Prime Minister Narendra Modi “surrender Modi”.His fresh tweets came a day after the Prime Minister’s Office said there was a “mischievous interpretation” of PM Modi’s comments made at Friday’s all-party meeting, which discussed the Galwan valley skirmish.At that meeting, Modi categorically said that neither has anyone present in the Indian territory currently and nor is any Indian post captured. He also praised the valour of the 20 army personnel killed in the clash, and said they “taught a lesson” to those who were eyeing Indian territory.The PMO statement on Saturday said: “The prime minister’s observations that there was no Chinese presence on our side of the LAC (Line of Actual Control) pertained to the situation as a consequence of the bravery of our armed forces.”On Sunday, the Congress again sought a clarification from the PM in what it called contradictions in the government’s position. “Why did the PM tell the All-Party Meeting that ‘no one intruded into our territory’? Why did PMO delete these words from the official statement?” asked senior Congress spokesperson Kapil Sibal.“How were 85 jawans seriously injured and how were 10 officers and jawans captured by the Chinese? Why does the statement of the External Affairs Ministry dated June 20th, 2020, contradict the PM’s statement on incursions by the Chinese?” Sibal asked, addressing a virtual press conference.The Congress alleges that the PM’s comments are contradictory to what the defence minister and the external affairs minister have said on the issue of the Chinese trying to erect a “structure in the Galwan Valley on our side”.The Communist Party of India (Marxist), too, hit out at the government. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said, “PM’s remarks came as a major setback to the legitimacy of the act of heroism of our brave soldiers. Further, this undermines the strength of our diplomatic efforts to resolve the dispute.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-seeks-clarification-on-pm-s-comment/story-luQbfD3tFM7xIoGhZRs4KJ.html
21-06-2020||India||US will try to help India, China, says Trump||: President Donald Trump has made yet another foray into the ongoing India-China conflict, saying the Asian neighbours are dealing with a “big problem” and the United States will try to “help them out”.Though Trump did not repeat his earlier offer of mediation, which has been firmly turned down by both India and China, he did say the United States is “talking” to them.The President, in a short reply to a reporter’s question before departing the White House for his election rally in Tulsa, Oklahoma on Saturday evening, said: “It’s a very tough situation... We’re talking to India. We’re talking to China.”He added: “They’ve got a big problem there. They’ve come to blows, and we’ll see what happens. We’ll try and help them out.”On May 29, the US President made an explicit offer of mediation and had gone on to claim that he had discussed the situation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. They had not till then, but did later in a June 2 call. Trump did not pursue his offer after being turned down.Trump has been keen to intercede in that part of Asia one way or another for months now. He first offered to mediate the India-Pakistan tensions last summer in the aftermath of the Pulwama terrorist attack. Though the first offer, elicited from him by the visiting Pakistani prime minister Imran Khan, was swiftly rejected by New Delhi, the President persisted, using a range of synonyms even as the offers were firmly rejected by India.In the India-China conflict, while Trump has not clearly picked sides, his secretary of state Michael Pompeo has been explicit on who is to blame. “The PLA has escalated border tensions – we see it today in India, the world’s most popular, populous democracy,” Pompeo said, referring to the Chinese military in a virtual conference of the Copenhagen Democracy Summit on Friday.He went on to call China a “rogue actor”, not only to its Asian neighbourhood but far beyond to the rest of the world.The top American diplomat also conveyed his condolences on the killing of 20 Indian soldiers in deadly June 15 clashes that marked the first fatalities on the India-China border in 45 years. He made no mention of the Chinese casualties. The Chinese have not declared their fatalities, but they are estimated to have lost more than 40 soldiers, according to Indian officials.US lawmakers have also been clear about their view of the face-off that have been on for weeks. “I am extremely concerned by the ongoing Chinese aggression along the Line of Actual Control on the India-China border,” Eliot Engel, a Democrat who heads the powerful House foreign affairs committee, said in a statement earlier in the month. “China is demonstrating once again that it is willing to bully its neighbours rather than resolve conflicts according to international law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-will-try-to-help-india-china-says-trump/story-uvr3vBrMcabpui50567SBL.html
21-06-2020||India||Visasuspension move likely soon, hints Trump||President Donald Trump confirmed on Saturday reports of an impending suspension of non-immigrant work visas such as H-1B and L-1, which impact Indian companies operating in the US and Indians hoping to work in that country the most, and said an announcement was expected “tomorrow or the next day”.“We’re going to be announcing something tomorrow or the next day on visas,” Trump said to a Fox News interviewer when asked about his plans to suspend these visas, which have been reported widely, including by Hindustan Times. “And I think it’s going to make a lot of people happy. And it’s common sense, to be honest with you.”He refused to preview the details of the order, but linked it to the state of the economy, which is struggling with record unemployment numbers caused by the lockdown in large parts of the US to fight off the coronavirus pandemic.“We have plenty of people looking for jobs,” he said.Asked if there will be exclusions, or exemptions, the President said there will be some to protect the flow of workers for big businesses. He did not specify.President Trump had suspended most categories of immigration in April, exempting relatives of US citizens and health care professionals, to “ensure that unemployed Americans of all backgrounds will be first in line for jobs as our economy reopens”. Non-immigrants visas were spared at the time, but they are due any day now.The United States grants 85,000 H-1B short-term work visas to highly skilled foreign professionals every year. More than 70% go to Indians hired either from among those enrolled in the US for higher studies or those brought from India. They are recruited both by US companies such as Google, Facebook and Microsoft, and Indian IT services majors such as TCS, Infosys and Wipro.And L-1 visas are used for intra-company transfers.These visas, especially H-1Bs, have been in the crosshairs of the Trump administration for a long time, going way beyond the unemployment crisis brought on by the Covid-19 outbreak. Increased scrutiny, tighter rules and qualification standards started just weeks after Trump took office with the issuance of the April 18, 2017 executive order rolling out his “Buy American,” Hire American” vision.Rejection rates of H-1B visas have been going up steadily since, as has been demands for additional information that make the programme prohibitively tiresome and expensive by piling up the paperwork and costs, companies say. Many Indian companies have recalibrated their business models and ramped up local hiring. The Indian government continues to raise these increasing restrictions with the Trump administration, but with few positive outcomes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/visasuspension-move-likely-soon-hints-trump/story-x4kyE2Biu8BUH5yNnWbUDJ.html
21-06-2020||India||Patra moves SC seeking changes in Rath Yatra order||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson, Sambit Patra approached the Supreme Court on Sunday seeking a modification of the top court’s June 18 order which had barred the annual Hindu festival of Rath Yatra at Jagannath temple in Puri this year in view of Covid-19 pandemic.Patra, who himself was hospitalized for Coronavirus symptoms and later discharged, prayed that the Rath Yatra should be allowed to be held without public participation. He submitted that the Ratha Yatra can be conducted by employing the services of Lord Jagannath’s 800 sevayats, who are persons who perform the ritual services of Lord Jagannath and other deities at the Puri Jagannath temple.In 2019, Patra had contested Lok Sabha elections from Puri and lost to Biju Janata Dal’s Pinaki Misra by 11, 714 votes.At least a dozen such applications including one by Janardhan Pattajoshi Mohapatra, who is the hereditary chief servitor of Lord Jagannatha of the Jagannatha Temple, are already pending before the apex court seeking modification of its order. These applications will be heard in chambers by a single-judge bench of justice S Ravindra Bhat at 11 am on Monday.The Rath Yatra is a festival associated with Lord Jagannatha. It was scheduled to commence this year on June 23. The festival lasts for 10 to 12 days and involves a procession of chariots containing the deities Lord Jagannatha, his brother Lord Balabhadra and sister Devi Subhadra.The Supreme Court had ordered a stay on the festival and all activities associated with it this year stating that allowing the same would lead to a congregation more than 10 lakh devotees in violation of social distancing norms which could compromise public health and safety.This order was passed in a petition filed by an NGO, Odisha Vikas Parishad which had moved the top court pointing out the public health risk involved if the annual event is allowed to take place.The NGO referred to the Tablighi Jamaat incident which was Muslim religious congregation held in mid-March at Nizamuddin area in Delhi resulting in a spurt in Covid cases across the country after people from various parts of India and even foreign countries had attended the event.“Of about 4,400 COVID-19 positive cases in India as on April 7, nearly one third were related to the religious gathering at the Markaz, Delhi. Thus, in order to avoid any similar instances of outbreak of COVID-19 cases, a religious gathering in the nature of Rath Yatra festival ought to be avoided”, the petition had stated.“Having regard to the danger presented by such a large gathering of people for the Rath Yatra, we consider it appropriate in the interests of public health and safety of citizens who are devotees to restrain the respondents (state and district authorities and managing committee of Jagannatha temple) from holding the Rath Yatra this year”, the bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde had ordered on June 18.The court had also directed that no such Rath Yatra should be allowed in any other part of Odisha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/patra-moves-sc-seeking-changes-in-rath-yatra-order/story-ql1UaRbvZYi6kTqVqybE2O.html
21-06-2020||India||PM underscores yoga’s benefits amid Covid outbreak||Yoga helps boost immunity and has emerged as a force for unity that enhances the quest for a healthy planet, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday, underscoring the importance of the ancient Indian practice at a time when the world is fighting the coronavirus disease.Pranayama, or breathing exercise, helps strengthen the respiratory system, which gets affected by Covid-19, Modi said in his 15-minute address on the sixth International Yoga Day.“Yoga boosts immune system of the body. You must include pranayama in your daily life... It is more relevant in the current times as it is the respiratory system of the body that is most adversely affected by Covid-19,” Modi said in his video address.Unlike previous years, there were no large gatherings to celebrate the occasion due to restrictions imposed to fight the pandemic, though several leaders and social media users posted photos and videos performing yoga.“This year’s theme is ‘Yoga at Home and Yoga with Family’. Yoga promotes family bonding as children, youngsters, elders in family come together to practise yoga; there is a flow of positive energy at home,” Modi said.He added that yoga has emerged as a force for unity and does not discriminate, as it goes beyond race, colour, gender, faith and nations.“Anybody can embrace yoga. If we can fine-tune our chords of health and hope, the day is not far away when world will witness the success of healthy and happy humanity,” he said.On December 11, 2014, the United Nations General Assembly declared June 21 as “International Day of Yoga”, approving of an idea proposed by PM Modi.Countries across the world have been celebrating the Internation Yoga Day since 2015, but this year, celebrations went digital, with the AYUSH ministry cancelling a big event planned in Leh.Modi said yoga provides not only physical strength, but also mental balance and emotional stability. “Eating the right food, playing the right sports, having right habits of sleeping and waking, and doing your work and your duties is yoga,” Modi said. “With this ‘karmayoga’, we get the solution to all the problems.”Home minister Amit Shah, too, greeted the nation on the occasion. “Yoga is much more than just a way of keeping the body healthy. It is a medium to maintain balance between body and mind, work and thoughts and also between human and nature,” he said.“Yoga is a unique gift of the Indian culture to entire humanity. The world has adopted yoga now; it received global acceptance due to the tireless efforts of Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi,” he added.PC Kapoor, director, Sivananda Yoga Vedanta Centre in Delhi, said: “I fully endorse what the PM has said — that breathing exercises in yoga help increase the lung capacity significantly. Almost all asanas (postures) have their benefits in terms of boosting immunity and preventing diseases...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-underscores-yoga-s-benefits-amid-covid-outbreak/story-qjavOpXQoOa9C81JRpJ8AK.html
21-06-2020||India||On International Yoga Day, Uttarakhand govt to set up yoga and natural medicine cell||On the occasion of International Yoga Day, the Uttarakhand government on Sunday announced setting up of a Yoga and Naturopathy Medicine Cell at the Ayurveda directorate in the state.The announcement was made by Harak Singh Rawat, minister for AYUSH in the state.Rawat said that with increasing practice of yoga, many yoga centers and institutions are being established and integrated across the state, but there is no section or board of the state government in place for validation and control of all the institutions.“In order to solve such problems, the Yoga and Natural Medicine Cell is being established. We hope that the establishment will pave the way for employment opportunities for Yoga instructors and students taking courses in the field of Naturopathy,” Rawat said.A statement issued by the Uttarakhand Ayurveda and Unani Services department mentioned that the cell will be responsible for registering and maintaining records of Yoga and Naturopathy institutes in the state, ensuring that such places follow norms of the Clinical Establishment Act if they are giving medical services, conducting inspections every two years, setting up a syllabus or course structure for these centers, spreading awareness and conducting research regarding yoga and naturopathy among other roles.A seven-member advisory committee will also be formed in the state for solving issues related to employment generation, give suggestions on spreading awareness about yoga and natural medicine. The members of this committee will not be given any additional wages.The Yoga and Natural Medicine Cell will hold a meeting of the advisory committee once every four months, where the problems and new suggestions of the establishment will be discussed in detail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-international-yoga-day-uttarakhand-govt-to-set-up-yoga-and-natural-medicine-cell/story-pkTKJKj0PScf70wvpIf4sO.html
21-06-2020||India||Maharashtra tally at 1.32 lakh with 4,000 new Covid 19 cases, numbers hide a success story||Coronavirus cases in Mumbai are advancing towards the 70,000 mark with 1,159 new cases on Sunday taking the maximum city’s tally to 66,488. The metropolitan also recorded 41 new fatalities taking the death toll to 3,671. Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, on the other hand, have surged to 1,32,075—more than double of Mumbai’s figures. The state has also registered 101 deaths in a single day, which has led to the statewide death toll climbing to 6,170, as per the health bulletin released by Maharashtra health department on Sunday.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe state has also managed to discharge 1,591 patients on Sunday after they were cured of the contagion, taking the total number of recoveries from Covid 19 to 65,744- almost half of the total number of infections recorded in the state since the outbreak. The current number of active cases under treatment stands at 60,147.On the testing front, so far 7,73,865 samples have been tested. Despite the gloomy numbers, Maharashtra does have a success story to tell.Earlier today, the Union health ministry praised the Mumbai civic body for effective containment of coronavirus in Asia’s largest slum of Dharavi. The central government credited proactive measures taken by the civic body for reducing the growth rate of the infection to 1.02 per cent in June from 12 per cent in April.The government also pointed out a steep decline of daily Covid-19 cases in Dharavi from an average of 43 a day in May to 19 a day in the third week of June.In sharp turnaround, Covid-19 growth rate dips to 1.02% in Mumbai’s Dharavi in JuneCentre’s assessment of containment strategies across the country also had a nice word for the Maharashtra government. It lauded the efforts of the Maharashtra government along with the BMC and said it had shown encouraging results.“As part of these efforts, they have actively chased the virus and aggressively conducted targeted tracing of COVID suspects,” the ministry said.Centre pointed out that Dharavi was densely populated-2,27,136 persons/sqkm—and therefore the threat of its 491 cases in April leading to a exponential spiral of cases was real but the 12% growth rate which translated into a doubling period of 18 days was reduced to a growth rate of 4.3% in May and even further to 1.02 % in June.“These measures also ensured an improved case doubling time to 43 days in May and 78 days in June,” the Centre said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-tally-at-1-32-lakh-with-4-000-new-covid-19-cases-numbers-hide-a-success-story/story-1sGfzcnNp2pdYBzzNipxsO.html
21-06-2020||India||Several MP MLAs get tested for Covid-19 after BJP legislator’s positive result||Several MLAs in Madhya Pradesh have opted for Covid-19 testing or quarantined themselves at the advice of the state assembly secretariat after a Bharatiya Janata Party legislator and his wife tested positive for the coronavirus disease, according to the secretariat officials.The test results of the MLA and his wife came late on Friday night, the day of voting in Rajya Sabha polls at the state assembly premises. The positive result caused panic among the other MLAs who were present there that day.As many as 206 legislators had participated in the voting. They included a Covid-19 positive Congress MLA who came for voting dressed in a PPE kit. Congress MLA and former minister PC Sharma said, “It was mainly BJP MLAs who were close to the infected (BJP) MLA. But we are also keeping watch on our health and have consulted doctors.”Principal secretary, Health, Faiz Ahmad Kidwai said, “The MLA himself approached a hospital to get tested along with his wife at 3.30 pm on June 19. They quarantined themselves and got the reports of tests at 10.30 pm on the day. The administration in his district was immediately informed about his health condition and a separate team was given the work of contact tracing. However, the MLA and his wife are in good health and they both are asymptomatic.”The principal secretary’s statement assumes significance after the Opposition Congress accused the BJP legislator of keeping others in the dark about his health condition, alleging he had tested positive for coronavirus two days prior to the RS poll. A state assembly official who didn’t want to be named said, “Of the 206 MLAs who cast their votes in RS poll, one was already infected with Covid-19 and the second tested positive on the very day of polling. Of the remaining MLAs , 25 are staying in MLAs rest house in Bhopal, some of them with their family members. All of these legislators, their family members and security personnel were screened on Sunday and five of them went for the tests as they had meetings with the infected MLA. Meanwhile, all the legislators across the state are being given Ayurvedic decoction for boosting their immunity.”He added, “During examination of the CCTV footage of the state assembly, four MLAs were identified who were standing close to the infected BJP MLA in the queue for casting their votes on the day of polling. These MLAs left for their home towns the next day. All these legislators were advised to get themselves tested immediately.” Health department additional director Dr Santosh Shukla said, “The health department officials in Bhopal and other districts are in touch with all the MLAs. So far, samples of nine MLAs have been tested and all the reports have come negative.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/several-mp-mlas-get-tested-for-covid-19-after-bjp-legislator-s-positive-result/story-1417yHYR90yPR8va8lW6AI.html
21-06-2020||India||Contact tracing now mandatory for all Covid-19 patients in Delhi: MHA||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Sunday said that contact tracing would be scaled up in the national capital and would be diligently followed for all Covid-19 positive patients in Delhi using the Aarogya Setu app. The national capital has witnessed a surge in coronavirus cases this month, soon after lockdown restrictions were eased by the Centre from June 1.There will be fresh delineation of containment zones in Delhi and a serological survey will be carried out from June 27 till July 10 on 20,000 samples to ascertain the scale of the spread of the infectious Covid-19 disease in the national capital, the MHA said in a statement.The announcement came soon after Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday evening chaired a review meeting to discuss the Covid-19 crisis in Delhi, a week after he held a series of meetings with top Delhi government officials, including chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and L-G Anil Baijal.ALSO READ | Amit Shah helms meeting over Covid-19 crisis in Delhi, suggests scaling up contact tracing According to a timeline suggested by the Dr VK Paul committee, the Delhi government has been directed to prepare a strategy by Monday, form district-level teams by Tuesday and prepare to rework the delineation of the capital’s containment zones by June 26.A total survey of such containment zones has to be completed by June 30 and by July 6, a survey has to be carried out on the whole of Delhi, the MHA has indicated.Home minister Amit Shah, according to a statement by the home ministry, has further directed that there should be an analysis pertaining to every deceased person, including the number of days he was in hospital and his place of residence; whether the person was in home isolation or being treated in a hospital. The reasons for not taking a victim of the infectious disease to a designated Covid Care facility also needed to be mapped by the government, according to the new guidelines.ALSO READ | Delhi adds 3,000 new coronavirus cases, tally nears 60,000-markShah also said that all Covid-19 positive cases will have to go to hospital, except those who have enough space in their homes and have no co-morbidities.Shah has been regularly holding meetings over the coronavirus health crisis in the national capital amid a sudden spike in the number of Covid-19 positive cases. Delhi on Saturday witnessed the highest single-day spike of 3,630 Covid-19 cases. The numbers, however, dipped a little with the capital city reporting 3,000 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, according to latest health department data.The health bulletin issued by the Delhi government today indicated that there are 59,746 positive cases in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/contact-tracing-now-mandatory-for-all-covid-19-patients-in-delhi-says-mha/story-zBvQg4f5DRp7ZnVkjcam1M.html
21-06-2020||India||Monsoon could reach Delhi on June 24, conditions favourable, says IMD||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that the SouthWest Monsoon is likely to further advance into some more parts of Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and some parts of Uttarakhand around June 23 and in Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and most parts of Punjab during June 24-25 due to favourable conditions.According to the special daily rain forecast issued by the national weather department, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall over northeast India is very likely to continue during the next 5 days. It adds that similar conditions may prevail and over east India and adjoining areas in central India during the next 2-3 days.Also Read: Rains, cloudy weather keep mercury in check in DelhiGiving further information about the expanse and advance of Monsoon, the IMD bulletin said that from June 23 onwards, widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy rain falls was also very likely over the western Himalayan region, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and East Rajasthan.According to the National Weather Forecasting Centre cum Regional Meteorological Centre situated in New Delhi, the northern limit of Monsoon (NLM) continues to pass through Kandla, Ahmedabad, Indore, Raisen, Khajuraho, Fatehpur and Bahraich.Also Read: Parts of UP receive rainfall; thunderstorm likely on Monday“A cyclonic circulation extending up to mid-tropospheric level lies over north interior Odisha & neighbourhood. A trough runs from north Punjab to northwest Bay of Bengal in the lower tropospheric levels and it is likely to shift southwards during the next 3 days. As a result, strengthening of easterly wind and high moisture feeding from the Bay of Bengal is very likely over north India during the same period,” it says. The tropospheric layer is the lowest layer of earth’s atmosphere where all weather activity impacting the earth takes place.It has also dealt out a warning for heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places over Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Odisha and heavy rainfall over isolated places in eastern Uttar Pradesh, eastern Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Saurashtra and Kutch, Konkan and Goa, Telangana Coastal Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal and Kerala and Mahe.Thunderstorms are expected at isolated places over Uttarakhand, West Bengal and Telangana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-could-reach-delhi-on-24th-june-conditions-favourable-says-imd/story-79TwMX3x93B1N28y0VnnSN.html
21-06-2020||India||Govt seeks details from industry to curb low quality imports from China: Report||The government has sought product-wise details of cheap imports, comparison with domestic prices and tax disadvantage, if any, from industry to curb low quality inbound shipments especially from China and boost domestic manufacturing, sources said.They said a high level meeting to discuss ways to promote Atma Nirbhar Bharat (Self-reliant India), including cut in import dependence from China, also took place recently in the Prime Minister’s office.Industry was asked to send comments and suggestions on certain number of goods and raw materials imported from China, which include wrist watches, wall clocks, ampoules, glass rods and tubes, hair cream, hair shampoos, face powder, eye and lip make up preparations, printing ink, paints and varnishes, and some tobacco items, one of the sources said.The other details sought include import surge data between 2014-15 and 2018-19; domestic prices of similar goods that are made here, domestic capacity, imports under free trade agreements, and inverted duty issue, if any.An industry source said that they are preparing their views on all those products and would soon send to the commerce and industry ministry.The exercise to reduce and curb imports from China assumes significance in the wake of border tensions between the two countries.China accounts for about 14 per cent of India’s imports and is a major supplier for sectors like cell phones, telecom, power, plastic toys and critical pharma ingredients.The government has recently put import restrictions on tyres, while also making its prior approval mandatory for foreign investments from countries that share land border with India to curb “opportunistic takeovers” of domestic firms, following COVID-19 pandemic, a move which will restrict FDI from China.During April 2019-February 2020, India imported goods worth USD 62.4 billion, while exports to the neighbouring country stood at USD 15.5 billion in the same period.The main goods imported from China include clocks and watches, musical instruments, toys, sports goods, furniture, mattresses, plastics, electrical machinery, electronic equipment, chemicals, iron and steel items, fertilisers, mineral fuel and metals.India has time and again raised concerns over widening trade deficit with China which stood at about USD 47 billion during April-February 2019-20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-seeks-details-from-industry-to-curb-low-quality-imports-from-china-report/story-vX25h5RP29omJ9iHairMLM.html
21-06-2020||India||Fears of community transmission in Odisha as state count crosses 5000-mark||Odisha on Sunday reported its highest-ever single day spike in Covid-19 cases as 304 people tested positive taking the total to 5,160 since the first case was reported on March 15.Health and family welfare department officials said of the 304 infections, 272 were reported from quarantine centres and 32 were from outside. Among the 272 from quarantine centres who tested positive, there were 42 fire services and NDRF personnel who returned from West Bengal after Cyclone Amphan duty.The state also reported 2 more deaths taking the death toll to 14. Health department officials said till date, 5 others who tested positive for Covid-19 have died of other underlying conditions.Odisha’s breaching of the 5000-mark comes 97 days after it reported its first case on March 15, when a 33-year-old student of Bhubaneswar arrived in Odisha from Italy’s Milan after spending 9 days in Delhi. Though the number of cases did not rise much till May second week, cases galloped once the migrant workers in quarantine centres started getting tested. Since May 15, a little more than 4,400 cases have been added to the state’s Covid-19 tally in a span of just 35 days.A concerned state government announced weekend shutdowns in 11 of the districts where cases are rising, but it has not helped much. What has added to the worries of the state government is the steady rise of infection among people outside quarantine centres, indicating the onset of community transmission. While only 37 local contact cases were reported in May, at least 350 cases have been detected between June 1 and June 20.In Bhubaneswar, at least 36 cases of infection have been reported among people who were not in home or institutional quarantine. However, the state has done well on the recovery front with 72 per cent of the 5,160 cases being discharged.In Berhampur town of Ganjam district, swab samples of two journalists were sent for testing after they were found with Covid-19 symptoms during a health screening programme at City Hospital on Sunday. In a special health screening program, 26 journalists were medically screened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fears-of-community-transmission-in-odisha-as-state-count-crosses-5000-mark/story-r5DJbuRs96HEESz4r3CUBI.html
21-06-2020||India||‘It’s life for Odias’: BJP’s Sambit Patra moves SC to allow Rath Yatra, hearing tomorrow||With the world-famous Rath yatra in Puri less than 36 hours away, BJP leader Sambit Patra, who lost Lok Sabha elections from Puri last year, has joined a dozen and half other litigants in Supreme Court seeking partial modification of its June 18 stay order and allowing holding of the festival without congregation of devotees.“Today I filled an application for clarification/modification of earlier order of SC and sought permission for the Holy Rath Yatra of Shri Jagannath Mahaprabhu in Puri scheduled for 23rd June. Hope all our prayers are answered by the Lord of the Universe,” tweeted Patra after filing the intervention application.Patra said the annual Rath Yatra is not just a festival for Odia people. “It’s life for Odias. Who are we without Rath Yatra. I hope we would be blessed by Lord Jagannath tomorrow. I would go on fast on Monday and I would request everyone in Puri to go on fast tomorrow for victory in SC tomorrow,” he said.On June 18, a three-judge bench led by Chief Justice SA Bobde had stayed the Rath Yatra in view of the threat posed by the Covid-19 pandemic after an NGO moved the court against holding the festival. The SC judgment has triggered a massive outrage in Odisha with 18 intervention applications filed to modify the order. They have been listed for a hearing in the chambers of Justice S. Ravindra Bhat on Monday.As people of Odisha wait with bated breath over the scheduled hearing in SC tomorrow, Puri Shankaracharya Nischalananda Saraswati of the Govardhan Peeth alleged that there seemed to be a well-orchestrated move to stop the Rath Yatra.Also Read: Plea in SC against Rath Yatra orderIn a statement issued on Sunday, Saraswati said if the Supreme Court wanted, it could have taken up for hearing the petitions filed on June 20. “The courts do remain open even on holidays if the situation warrants. The Rath Yatra is day after tomorrow and just a day remains for the big event now. That is why one is forced to view this as a well-planned project to stop the Rath Yatra altogether. The fact that it happened just a day before the summer vacations start, also proves the same,” he said in a statement.Saraswati said in religious and spiritual matters, the supremacy of the Shankaracharya is a settled issue. “In these circumstances, the judiciary should not just get advice from us in matters of religion, but also be guided by us. I don’t want to criticise the SC, but the court did not show enough wisdom while delivering the judgment,” he said, referring to the June 18 order.Questioning the SC observation that Lord Jagannath may not forgive if the Yatra was held during the pandemic, he asked whether the Lord would forgive if all the traditions are done away with.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesEarlier on Saturday, Puri’s titular king Gajapati Dibyasingh Deb, considered as the first servitor of the Lord and also the head of the temple management committee, had written to chief minister Naveen Patnaik to hold the Rath Yatra saying not holding would hurt the religious sentiments of countless devotees around the world who watch the sacred Yatra live on TV.“In the course of Odisha’s long history, Ratha Yatra has not been held only during attacks by Mughal forces during the 16th, 17th and 18th centuries, when the Lords had to be hidden in remote places. The present crisis caused by Covid pandemic, is not a situation which renders it impossible to conduct Ratha Yatra in Puri as it can be held without any congregation of general public. I request you to take appropriate steps for approaching Supreme Court for a partial modification of its June 18 order so as to permit the performance of Ratha Yatra only at Puri,” wrote Divyasingh Deb in his letter to Patnaik.Among the several intervention applications filed in the SC seeking modification of the June 18 order, is one filed by Aftab Hossen, a Muslim man from Nayagarh district of Odisha. Hossen in his application said after the June 18 order, people of Odisha are feeling hurt and that the Court should allow the conduct of the yatra with participation only from servitors and temple police, without the general public playing a role in it. It is important to celebrate the festival as there is “scientific evidence” that the weather becomes pleasant when Lord Jagannath is brought out of the temple, Hossen said in his petition.The construction of the three chariots is almost over with the Maharanas working overtime to finish the work. If allowed, the nine-day festival will begin on June 23 and go on for next 10 days.Meanwhile, adding a twist to the ongoing issue, the state government on Sunday evening issued a press note saying it would take a favourable action as legally permissible when the intervention petitions are taken up for hearing before the Supreme Court on Monday.The state government said its stand during June 18 hearing was primarily related to thousands of Rath Yatras taking place all over the State. Though the press note did not mention the Rath Yatra at Puri specifically, it said the thousands of Rath Yatras across the state in almost every gram panchayats of the State would involve lakhs of people.“More than 5 lakh people of Odisha have returned to the State since May and are likely to complete their quarantine period by the end of June. This along with the onset of monsoon has made the Covid pandemic likely to peak in the State in June and July. Any congregation during the probable peaking period can lead to loss of lives and serious public health hazard,” it said.On June 18, the state government had engaged senior advocate Harish Salve who had argued from London through video conference. Officials said the state government would put its best foot forward on June 22 hearing though best possible lawyers.The Rath Yatra has continued uninterrupted since 1736. It could not take place 32 times between 1558 and 1735 due to Mughal invasions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-s-life-for-odias-bjp-s-sambit-patra-moves-sc-to-allow-rath-yatra-hearing-tomorrow/story-zPOm5cmPwWS1LSVcGHLloJ.html
21-06-2020||India||‘Inappropriate content’: Nitish Kumar writes to PM, demands censorship of streaming services||Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding that streaming services airing serials, films and movies through the internet should be brought under censorship so that viewers do not get access to “inappropriate content”.In his letter, Kumar said the streaming services have content that are not censored and subscribers easily get access to content that are high on violence, sex and obscenity that negatively impacts the minds of the viewers, especially children. He said airing of such content was not good for viewing for long duration and was already creating societal problems including crime against women and children.The chief minister also referred to the demand for ban on pornographic websites and other inappropriate content on the internet because it was adversely affecting the mental health of youths and leading to crime against women and children.“The streaming services are cheaper than Direct to Home (DTH) and cable services, a reason why it has become more popular among consumers. As there is less clarity on legal provisions binding on the content aired through streaming services, uncensored stuff is getting aired without much advertisements in such programmes,” the CM said.Kumar said the Centre must take steps to bring all programmes that are streamed under the ambit of certification as per Cinematograph Act-1962 and also make necessary legal provisions so that those making inappropriate content and airing them should be punished. “There is immediate need to categorise the production and airing of such inappropriate content through streaming services as an offence so that it could be checked. I urge the PM to look into the matter,” Kumar said in the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-letter-to-pm-modi-nitish-kumar-demands-censorship-of-streaming-services/story-gCSQr8OuqUVelJJe0om6IJ.html
21-06-2020||India||14 ITBP personnel test positive for Covid-19, force now has 58 active cases||The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) has reported 14 new Covid-19 positive cases among its personnel in the last 24 hours, a statement from the force said on Sunday.Currently, there are a total of 58 active coronavirus cases in the Indo-Tibetan Border Police force.Till date about 210 security personnel have recovered and been discharged from various medical facilities across the country.On Saturday, seven paramilitary personnel including four ITBP and three Central Reserve Police Force soldiers tested positive for Covid-19 in the state of Chhattisgarh. The security personnel are among 107 people who have tested positive for the infection in the state.Both the CRPF and ITBP are deployed in Chhattisgarh for anti-Naxal operations.“Four Indo Tibetan Border Police personnel, belonging to the 45th battalion of the force tested positive in Narayanpur,” a police official said.ALSO READ | 45 ITBP men test positive for Covid-19, total cases in CAPFs now 298The security personnel had been kept in a quarantine centre of the paramilitary force in Narayanpur town after they returned for duty earlier this month from their home states.Earlier, seven ITBP personnel had tested positive for coronavirus in Narayanpur, Rajnandgaon and Kondagaon districts of Chhattisgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-itbp-personnel-test-positive-for-covid-19-force-now-has-58-active-cases/story-NEgLqnMgcT4mA8i5POQQbJ.html
21-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 tally nears 60k after highest single-day spike in cases and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesTamil Nadu reports highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases, tally nears 60,000Tamil Nadu, the state with second highest Covid-19 cases in the country, added over 2,500 new infections on Sunday, taking its tally near the 60,000 mark. The southern state reported its highest single-day spike of 2,532 coronavirus cases, according to the state health department. Read More ‘How did 20 soldiers die if no one entered Indian territory?’: Congress asks PM ModiSenior Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Sunday posed five questions for the Centre to answer on government’s position on the Indo-China border conflict over the past 6 weeks that peaked with a deadly clash in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley along the LAC on June 15, resulting in 20 casualties among Indian Army soldiers and an unverified number of deaths on the Chinese side .Read MoreIn sharp turnaround, Covid-19 growth rate dips to 1.02% in Mumbai’s Dharavi in JunThe Union health ministry on Sunday said that due to proactive measures adopted by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the Covid-19 growth rate in Asia’s largest slum, Mumbai’s Dharavi, has dipped to 1.02% in June.Read MoreAamir Khan shows off his grey new hairstyle in daughter Ira Khan’s Father’s Day post.Actor Aamir Khan is celebrating a sweet Father’s Day with his daughter Ira Khan. On Sunday, Ira shared a picture with her dad and he looks quite different from his usual self. What is new about Aamir?Read More ‘We had a couple of run-ins’: Steve Smith recalls ‘early days’ with Virat KohliAustralia star cricketer Steve Smith and India skipper Virat Kohli are two of the best batsmen in the world at the moment. While Smith and Kohli are seen at loggerheads on the field when competing for their respective teams, outside the field, the duo hold each other in utmost respect.Read MoreChinese brands dominate Indian smartphone market and you can’t just boycott themEarlier this week when Indo-China clashes took place at the LAC where 20 Indian soldiers lost their lives, the anti-China sentiment and hatred towards Chinese products spread like wildfire across social media. Users on all the social major platforms talked about boycotting China-based products and going all local. However, the idea is way more difficult to implement when it comes to the Indian smartphone market. Why? Read More.International Yoga Day 2020: Here is Sadhguru’s message of ‘self-transformation’ this Yoga DaySpiritual leader and author, Jaggi Vasudev, popularly known as ‘Sadhguru’ in his message for International Yoga Day talked about yoga being “the technology of self-transformation”.Read More Swami Ramdev tweets pic of baby elephant ‘doing’ yoga. Swami Ramdev has shared a picture on Twitter of a baby elephant ‘doing’ yoga . it’s an understatement to say that the picture is cute. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-tamil-nadu-s-covid-19-tally-nears-60k-after-highest-single-day-spike-in-cases-and-all-the-latest-news/story-v5TNamvq48nsGpJB3DltFJ.html
21-06-2020||India||‘Shows CPM’s true allegiance’: Cong, BJP question Kerala CM’s ‘silence’ on Chinese aggression||Kerala opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala on Sunday questioned the CPI (M)’s silence over Chinese act of aggression killing 20 Indian soldiers last week and said the communist party’s ideological baggage makes it soft towards India’s neighbour.“Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan is holding a press briefing every day. He did not utter a single word about the brutal killing of our soldiers. Even party general secretary Sitaram Yechury’s words are subdued in this regard. We want the party to explain its position,” Chennithala said.He added that the CPI(M)’s youth wing usually carries out poster wars all over the state on such issues, but it was silent this time. “It seems the party is still soft towards China. We have many examples to cite to prove this point,” he said referring to the party’s controversial position after the 1962 China attack. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has also questioned the left party’s silence over the martyrdom of Indian soldiers. “If anything happens in any part of the world, the CM reacts immediately, but this time he is totally silent. It shows the party’s true allegiance,” said BJP state president K Surendran.Amid war of words, the Congress has decided to rally behind PCC president Mullappally Ramachandran who was targeted for his controversial remarks against state health minister K K Shailaja. He had called her ‘Covid Rani’ and ‘Nipah Rajkumari’ two days ago inviting intense criticism. The CM had dubbed these remarks anti-women and questioned the Congress Party’s silence over them.“We don’t need a certificate from the CM. People know who uses the most abusive language in the state. The CM is targeting him to deflect attention from expatriates’ woes,” Chennithala said, adding more than 280 people from the state died due to covid-19 in Gulf countries but the CM was blocking their return citing lame excuses.Also Read: Playing the long game with China | OpinionThough the PCC chief’s remarks triggered a controversy, he refused to apologise saying a section of the media had twisted his words and ‘Rani’ and ‘Rajkumari’ were not derogatory terms. He had made these remarks on Friday while Inaugurating Ramesh Chennithala’s day-long fast in front of the state secretariat demanding the withdrawal of a government circular insisting on Covid-free certificates for expatriates returning to the state. As India and China clash, it is time to heed Chanakya | OpinionMeanwhile, the state’s virus graph is going up steadily with 133 new cases taking the total to 3,172 positive cases so far. Out of these, 1,490 are active and 1,659 have recovered. The state has reported 22 deaths so far. The difficulty in tracing contacts of fresh cases is worrying the state. On Sunday, it reported the highest single day spike of 133 cases since the outbreak began in the state in January last.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shows-cpm-s-true-allegiance-cong-bjp-question-kerala-cm-s-silence-on-chinese-aggression/story-XxwDBs7K32ozeCPbeHrKBL.html
21-06-2020||India||AAP says medical services to be boosted as Delhi’s Covid-19 tally nears 60k||The Delhi government plans to make contact tracing more robust and boost medical services in areas hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic, the Aam Aadmi party said Sunday..“Hon’ble CM @ArvindKejriwal and Hon’ble Dy CM @msisodia discussed key strategies with Hon’ble HM @AmitShah on making contact tracing more robust and further strengthening of medical services in severely impacted areas,” the AAP tweeted.Union Home Minister Amit Shah chaired a review meeting to discuss the Covid-19 crisis in Delhi. Shah, who took charge of the fight against Covid-19 in the capital last week, has been regularly holding meetings to take stock of the developments.The national capital recorded another 3,000 new cases of Coid-19 to take its tally to 59,746 on Sunday. It was the third straight day that the number of cases touched or crossed 3,000.Sixty three more deaths on Sunday took the casualty toll to 2,175. Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain who continues to be in hospital for Covd-19, is said to be recovering.Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, the Delhi government has been pulling out all the stops to tide over the crisis. It has already cancelled leaves of staff members of state-run hospitals and medical institutions and taken over a few large hotels and attached them to hospitals to cater to the rising number of infections. The railways have also stationed hundreds of coaches to serve as isolation wards for those not Covid-19 patients not severely affected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-says-medical-services-to-be-boosted-as-delhi-s-covid-19-tally-nears-60k/story-AozXLtD70NHzOLEtN8y6LL.html
21-06-2020||India||Delhi adds 3,000 new coronavirus cases, tally nears 60,000-mark||Delhi has reported 3,000 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the capital to 59,746--just a touch short of the 60-thousand mark as the capital looks set to overtake Mumbai as the country’s worst affected city in the next few days.The death toll in the city-state due to the contagion has risen to 2,175 after 63 new deaths were reported on Sunday, while the total number of people to have recovered from the virus till date stands at 33,013, according to the health bulletin released by the state health department on Sunday.It was the third straight day when the number of positive cases touched or crossed the 3,000-mark. Delhi had seen 3,630 cases on Saturday and 3,137 on Friday. The Saturday figure of 3630 is the highest single day spike so far.While Delhi approaches a grim landmark, the bulletin highlights that the order modifying guidelines for home isolation of Covid positive patients has been issued in an attempt to cap the controversy on the matter and end the confusion among patients and health professionals on the way forward.As per the revised order, Covid patients without underlying conditions or comorbidities can choose to be isolated at home if they have been deemed to not require hospitalisation by an expert. The order follows the withdrawal of five-day mandatory institutional quarantine order issued by the Lieutenant Governor of Delhi, Anil Baijal.In another important order, rates were also fixed for the treatment of Covid-19 infected patients in city’s private hospitals following complaints of inconsistent billing and overcharging by different hospitals. The rate for an isolation bed is fixed between the range of Rs 8,000-Rs 10,000 and an ICU bed with a ventilator is to be charged between Rs 15,000-Rs 18,000 per day.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesIn some good news, the number of samples tested daily are on a rise with more than 18,000 tests conducted on Sunday, taking the total number of samples tested in the capital to 3,70,014.On Sunday, another important meeting attended by Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, health secretary Priti Sudan, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia and chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah was held in the capital.According to the health bulletin released on Sunday, the city currently has 12651 beds for coronavirus patients including 6597 vacant beds in hospitals. Similarly, its Covid Care Centres have a capacity of a total of 5,909 beds, including 4,883 vacant beds. Another 344 beds are available at dedicated Covid health centres in the city. Also Read: Rains, cloudy weather keep mercury in check in Delhi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-covid-19-update-3-000-new-cases-bridge-the-gap-with-mumbai-18-000-tests-on-sunday/story-zb6LSUGfqMHhIgR7mJFyvM.html
21-06-2020||India||Mumbai has been very kind to me, says actor Ronjini Chakraborthy||Hailing from Kolkata, actor Ronjini Chakraborthy is all happy these days -- her latest venture on OTT is getting rave reviews and ratings after all. “It feels absolutely great. When I had signed these series, I had no idea that they will garner such high viewership, though I was totally sure about the scripts and screenplay. Such a big success came as a surprise.”With films like ‘Tumbbad,’ ‘Simmba,’ Article 15 to her credit, Ronjini comes from a non film background, “Living in Kolkata, I was in love with Bollywood movies. When I decided to take up acting, my parents were pretty forthwith-- complete studies and then go ahead with films. During college, I started doing plays and then joined a theatre group. That was when I realised what real acting was. So that was the beginning for me.”Replying to the ongoing controversy of favouritism and being treated like an outsider, she says, “After studying performing arts at Film and Television Institute in Pune, I went back to Kolkata and did two films back in Bengal that gave me a small recognition and made me go to Mumbai a bit more confident. I would like to mention that the city of dreams has been kind to me. Work came my way with films like ‘From Sydney with Love,’ ‘I.D’ along with TV shows. But real recognition happened with ‘Tumbbad.’ And when once I had no work, I did the job of assistant actor for Rohit Shetty that is we used to recreated scenes for his film ‘GoImaal Returns’ before the final shoot. Side by side I continued auditioning for roles. I gave around hundred auditions then. I don’t deny that people who are from non film background have to struggle and require really good work to stand out. The expectations are too high and proving your mettle many a time is tough. Personally, I feel we should know how to deal with all this and keep ourselves steady and strong.” Ronjini shot for one of her latest series, ‘Raktanchal’ in Varanasi, “Yes it was a long stay for over four months. Varanasi exhibits outstanding energy and when I went back I actually I missed my stay there. It is a different world altogether. Also I shot for ‘Article 15’ in Lucknow and nearby cities. It is was a fun shoot. Anubhav (Sinha) sir knows the city so well and took us to all food joints where we got to eat so many delicious delicacies.”Talking about her roles in OTT series ‘Lalbazaar,’ and ‘Raktanchal’, she says, “Both my characters are completely diverse yet have similarities. While in the former, I play a sex worker based in Bengal and how she manages her tough life, in the latter, I play a woman who has her head on her shoulders and runs the show behind one of the two protagonists. Both characters gave me a variety of emotions to project.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-has-been-very-kind-to-me-says-actor-ronjini-chakraborthy/story-l2WSUmAOfcqSWQgB10iiuK.html
21-06-2020||India||After Galwan clash, states look to end contracts with Chinese firms||Many state governments are planning to cancel contracts with Chinese companies amid a growing clamour in the country to boycott Chinese products following the death of 20 Indian soldiers in a clash with PLA troops in Ladakh, officials said.On Saturday, the Haryana government annulled two tenders for installation of flue gas de-sulphurization (FGD) system at their thermal power plants at Hisar and Yamunanagar. The works under the two tenders carried a financial implication of about Rs 780 crore, Haryana government officials said, adding more contracts with Chinese firms would be cancelled in the next few days.“Uttar Pradesh will not purchase any Chinese equipment for its energy sector,” its power minister, Shrikant Sharma said.“We will see to it that even the vendors do not supply any goods that are made wholly in China or use any part of it made in China,” he said on Friday, while pointing out that Chinese firms sell cheap solar panels and other electronic goods. But UP’s minister for industrial development, Satish Mahana, cautioned on Sunday that cancelling contracts with Chinese companies can have legal implications. “Such things (cancellation of Chinese contracts) cannot happen overnight as such deals have legal issues,” he said.Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has strongly expressed his sentiments against the use of Chinese goods in wake of the standoff with China at Galwan valley even though Bihar government has not issued any specific order in this regard. “There is a need for reviewing all the previous trade agreements in a bid to ensure that Chinese products are not used,” Kumar had said at the all-party meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Bihar industry minister, Shyam Rajak, said there was no role of the state government in banning Chinese products. “Any foreign firm investing in the state has to get clearances from the Centre,” he said.On Sunday, Uttarakhand instructed officials to list Chinese companies which have been given government contracts. Madan Kaushik, cabinet minister and spokesperson Uttarakhand government said that he has instructed officials to check whether the authorities in the state government have signed any contracts with Chinese authorities or companies in the past. “After we find whether there are any contracts and if there are, what sort of contracts we have, we will take a decision on whether to cancel them or not,” he said.Maharashtra government officials said the Centre will have to formulate a policy on investment by Chinese companies before states can decide.“As far as foreign direct investment (FDI) is concerned, Chinese investment is allowed in the manufacturing, service and real estate sector. If we have to ban them, then the decision has to come from the central government because we need a uniform policy and it should not happen that Chinese investment is allowed in one state and not in another,” said Bhushan Gagrani, principal secretary who is also the state coordination officer to attract investment in the state.On June 15, the state government signed 12 memorandum of understanding (MoUs) worth Rs 16,300 crore with major global companies, of them three were Chinese firms — Hengli (China), Great Wall Motors (China) and PMI Electro Mobility Solutions, a joint venture with Foton China. Six Chinese companies are involved in infrastructure projects in Mumbai with the 337-km Metro project that is estimated to cost Rs 1 lakh crore. Earlier this week, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) cancelled the bids to manufacture 10 monorail rakes received from two Chinese companies – CRRC Corporation Ltd and BYD Co Ltd. “As the two Chinese companies were dictating us to change tender conditions, MMRDA has decided to look for technology partners in India. As we do not require large quantities, it is possible for Indian firms to manufacture and supply (the coaches) in less time,” MMRDA metropolitan commissioner RA Rajeev said.Officials in several governments such as West Bengal, Odisha and Rajasthan, said no decision has been taken to ban Chinese products. “The decision to ban Chinese companies can only be taken by the Centre. Why doesn’t the BJP government snap all trade relations with China? Moreover, no Chinese company has base in West Bengal,” said Dola Sen, TMC Rajya Sabha MP and president of INTTUC, the trade union wing of the TMC.A Rajasthan government official, who was not willing to be named, said that the issue has not been discussed so far.Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh police have issued orders asking its personnel to remove Chinese apps from their phones.The Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force on Friday ordered its staffers to uninstall 52 mobile apps of Chinese origin, pointing that these applications could be used to extract information from their mobile phones and those of their family members. Amitabh Yash, Inspector General (IG) of Police of UP STF a circular had been issued to uninstall 52 Chinese applications in view of the possibility that their usage could lead to unauthorised sharing and stealing of personal data.Madhya Pradesh police on Friday issued an order instructing all officials to delete 52 Chinese apps from their mobile phones. However, DIG Harinarayanchari Mishra, in another order, on Saturday clarified that deleting the apps was an advisory and not a mandatory requirement. “Home ministry released lists of different apps from time to time to alert people that their personal data could be compromised on their mobile phones and could be stolen through these apps,” Mishra said in the order.Protests have been reported from various parts of the country demanding ban on Chinese products. Former RJD MP and chief of Jan Adhikar Party (JAP) Rajiv Ranjan had taken to streets in Patna on Thursday by blackening a hoarding of a Chinese mobile phone company and also exhorted shopkeepers not to sell Chinese goods. In some places, shopkeepers and residents have also burnt Chinese products to protest the Galwan valley clash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-galwan-clash-states-look-to-end-contracts-with-chinese-firms/story-aJVHNdgn63Gyb6BLLhOD2I.html
21-06-2020||India||‘Well orchestrated plan to stall Rath Yatra’: Puri Shankaracharya||Puri Shankaracharya Swami Nischalananda Saraswati has alleged presence of a “well-orchestrated plan” to stall the world famous Puri Rath Yatra this year using coronavirus pandemic as a ruse, even as attempts to get the Supreme Court to allow the age old ritual to take place on June 23 continues, reported PTI.BJP leader Sambit Patra is the latest to move the Supreme Court seeking permission to hold the Jagannath Yatra. His petition offers an assurance that congregation of devotees will not be allowed during the procession mitigating the risk of spreading coronavirus.The Supreme Court had stayed the holding of the yatra for the first time in over two centuries over fears that congregation of lakhs of devotees during on the occasion could prove to be a fertile ground for spreading Covid-19 infection.However, after the decision led to an outrage in Odisha, several petitions were filed requesting the court to reconsider its decision. On Saturday, Puri king Gajapati Dibyasingh Deb, who heads the management of the 12th century Jagannath temple, had requested Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik to approach the Supreme Court with a request for partial modification of its order and to allow the Rath Yatra only at Puri.Also Read: Puri King asks Naveen Patnaik to move SC to modify order stopping Rath Yatra“The cancellation of Rath Yatra is not correct. SC can allow the deities to get on the chariots. However, the congregation of the devotees should be banned and the festival be organised with limited servitors and police. The festival can be telecast live,” Saraswati had said a day after the SC judgement.A three-judge bench, headed by chief justice SA Bobde, had stayed the Rath Yatra on Thursday, a decision accepted by the state cabinet and rejected by various religious bodies. At least 4 intervention petitions have been filed in the matter. Chhatisa Nijoga, the apex body of priests of the Jagannath temple has filed two intervention petitions seeking recall of the order and allowing Rath Yatra at Puri to be held while adhering to all guidelines of Covid-19.Also Read:Plea in SC against Rath Yatra orderAmong the arguments presented to allow the Rath Yatra, the petitioners allege that it is a unique festival with an unbroken tradition for over 280 years. Another argument cites a 1964 order by the Supreme Court which allegedly termed the Puri Rath Yatra to be a unique event which “requires special treatment” by the state government. Another point seeks to highlight the huge expenses incurred in the preparation for the Yatra including construction of the chariots and Covid-19 testing of hundreds of servitors to seek its restoration.Petitions also mention an alternative way of holding the yatra sans the crowd of devotees by using the police force to pull the chariots while another suggests using either machinery or elephants for the purpose.Temple priests and other religious bodies in favour of holding the yatra had accused the Naveen Patnaik government for allegedly not presenting a convincing argument in the Supreme Court for holding the Yatra, with some even alleging that it was a deliberate tactic to stall the Yatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/well-orchestrated-plan-to-stall-rath-yatra-puri-shankaracharya/story-1kgO7q2gg9UgaCy1pukIEO.html
21-06-2020||India||Tamil Nadu reports highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases, tally nears 60,000||Tamil Nadu, the state with second highest Covid-19 cases in the country, added over 2,500 new infections on Sunday, taking it near the 60,000 mark.The southern state reported its highest single-day spike of 2,532 coronavirus cases, according to the state health department. With this, the total count of virus cases in Tamil Nadu stands at 59,377. The state now has 25,863 active cases. With 53 deaths due to Covid-19 reported in the last 24 hours, the toll has risen to 757, news agency ANI reported quoting the health department. The state government tested 33,231 samples for Covid-19 on Saturday, the highest number of tests carried out in a day so far. The state has tested 8,61,21 samples to date. The state has 83 testing centres –45 government and 38 private ones.Giving details of the number of recovered Covid-19 patients, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Saturday said that 54 per cent of the Covid-19 patients have been cured so far.“We implemented the lockdown announced by the Central government and kept people inside their homes. 300 medical camps have been set up and the state government is planning to increase it to 450,” he said.To stop the coronavirus infection from spreading further, the state government had announced “maximised restricted lockdown” earlier this week. The lockdown, which began on June 19, will continue till June 30 and has been imposed in four districts - Chennai, Thiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpet. The Covid-19 lockdown will remain in place here till June 30. During the 12 day lockdown period, only essential services are being allowed with restrictions.To ensure strict implementation of the lockdown, the Chennai Police is making announcements and using drones to monitor the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-reports-highest-single-day-spike-in-covid-19-cases-tally-nears-60-000/story-HLOpuGrWjvh9lj2AUtASRJ.html
21-06-2020||India||Clouds play spoilsport, turn solar eclipse into damp squib in north India||The solar eclipse was not visible in several parts of northern India because of the thick cloud cover and rains in some parts on Sunday morning. A large number of people had gathered at these places to see the eclipse that happened after a gap of 14 years.The eclipse was to be clearly visible in Suratgarh in Rajasthan, Sirsa and Kurukshetra in Haryana, Dehradun, Uttarakhand and in Tapovan in Himachal. But it could not be seen in most places due to cloudy weather.In Nainital’s Aryabhatta Research Institute of Observational Sciences (ARIES) where scientists had made arrangements for live streaming of the eclipse, weather played a spoilsport. Wahab Uddin, senior scientist at ARIES said clouds cleared briefly around 12.10 pm and people could see the eclipse through live streaming on YouTube. “Had weather been good, we would have witnessed a good crowd,” he said.In most parts of Uttarakhand, temples were shut during the eclipse period and people were seen taking dips in nearby rivers post-eclipse. “We witnessed very few customers during the eclipse. People came out after the eclipse,” said Amit Narang, a shopkeeper from Kumaon.In Haridwar, shrines, temples, mutts remained closed for almost 15 hours and the famous Ganga puja was not performed in the morning because the eclipse is considered inauspicious. After the solar eclipse got over at 2:51 pm, temples were cleaned and Ganga water was sprinkled amidst special chanting of hymns by priests.In Madhya Pradesh, people watched the solar eclipse in groups while maintaining social distance.“It was a great experience to watch the ring of fire very clearly amid clouds. I made all types of arrangements including spectacles and a telescope so that common people could enjoy the moment. Spectacles were not allowed to be exchanged with others due to Covid-19 situation but the telescope was sanitised properly,” said a science activist Sarika Gharu. A banker Ashok Singh from Gwalior said, “It is for the first time I saw a solar eclipse and I got enthralled while watching the moon covering the sun.” Sandhya Kesari, a housewife from Bhopal said, “I was hesitant to see the solar eclipse with naked eyes. However, I saw it for a few seconds, though not looking directly at the Sun. It was an amazing experience.” At Birla Planetarium in Kolkata, there was a huge crowd of people to watch the eclipse, especially students and astronomy enthusiasts. “This was one of those moments for which people have to wait for years,” said Debiprasad Duari, director, M P Birla Planetarium. The eclipse was recorded and streamed online by Birla Industrial and Technological Museum in south Kolkata. Science clubs in several districts arranged viewing sessions for its members. “I wish the sky was clear. We could have had a full view of the eclipse,” said Ananta Majumdar, a star gazer from Bhawanipore.In Rajasthan, astronomers and a large number of media persons assembled in Patroda village of Sriganganagar where the solar eclipse was said to have been viewed best. A student of astronomy present there said the sun was 99% covered around 11.50 am in a strip of 2 0km between Ghadsana and Anupgarh. Anupgarh MLA Santosh Bawri made arrangements for people to view the rare celestial event. In Jaipur, people who went to Birla planetarium to see the eclipse, had to return disappointed because it was closed. Later, some media crews were allowed in the planetarium. (With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clouds-play-spoilsport-turn-solar-eclipse-into-damp-squib-in-north-india/story-iPqj6lthwKYZ1cum9qoaSM.html
21-06-2020||India||Solar eclipse: No Ganga aarti in morning, temples open post-eclipse in Haridwar||Owing to the solar eclipse, shrines, temples, muths remained closed for almost 15 hours and famous Ganga aarti was not performed in Haridwar in the morning.Temples were closed owing to the solar eclipse since last evening and the portals of shrines and temple gates were opened for pilgrims by afternoon on Sunday.After solar eclipse got over at 2:51 pm, temples were cleaned and a sprinkling of holy Ganga jal was done with chanting of hymns by priests to purify premises.The famous Ganga aarti at sanctum sanctorum of Brahmakund at Har-Ki-Pauri in the morning couldn’t be performed.Notably, even during the three phases of lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus disease, the Ganga aarti continued at Brahamkund with only priests allowed to perform the rituals. But owing to the solar eclipse, Ganga Sabha and priests decided not to conduct Ganga aarti in the morning alleging the eclipse marked an unauspicious phase for religious rituals.Also Read: Solar Eclipse 2020: Truths behind the myths surrounding this celestial eventGanga Sabha president Pradeep Jha said that it was rare to not perform Ganga aarti altogether, instead of altering its timing, as has been the practice during such eclipses for the past hundred years ever since the Ganga Sabha came into existence.Currently, only local people are allowed at Har-Ki-Pauri barring those coming for ash immersion rituals.Apart from Har-Ki-Pauri, at adjacent Ganga ghats like Kushawrat, Gau, Alaknanda, Birla, Swami Vivekananda, Ramghat, Sita ghat, Rishikul, Rishi Kashyap, Prem Nagar, Maharaj Agrasen ghat, Kankhal, people were seen taking holy dip post solar eclipse as a purifying ritual.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/solar-eclipse-no-ganga-aarti-in-morning-temples-open-post-eclipse-in-haridwar/story-n1QWYv7gOfQEfu0dqnqiqK.html
21-06-2020||India||OIL plans legal recourse after Assam pollution watchdog issues closure notice||Oil India Limited (OIL) is planning to seek legal recourse after the Pollution Control Board Assam (PCBA) issued a notice asking the company to close down operations of its wells in Baghjan oil field.On June 19, 24 days after a natural gas well had a blowout and 11 days after it caught fire, PCBA directed OIL to close all production and drilling operations at 21 wells—4 natural gas, 17 oil--at Baghjan oil field for “nonchalantly violating provisions of law and causing pollution to the environment”.Reacting to the PCBA notice OIL spokesperson Tridiv Hazarika informed on Sunday that the company will seek legal recourse. The Baghjan oil field has been in operation since 2003 and is one of the high yielding gas and oil fields of OIL.ALSO READ | Assam OIL blowout, fire: The polluter must pay | HT Editorial“OIL is intending to file a writ petition in Gauhati High Court challenging the order passed by PCBA,” OIL said in a release issued on Sunday.In its closure notice, PCBA observed that OIL was operating the wells in Baghjan, including the one that had a blowout and fire, without obtaining necessary pollution clearances and there was no effluent treatment plant in the area.“Baghjan oil field is located just 500 metres from the Maguri Motapung wetland which is part of the eco-sensitive zone of Dibru Saikhowa National Park, which has been affected severely due to negligence from your end,” said PCBA in its closure notice to OIL.PCBA further said that OIL failed to take adequate measures to prevent spillage, blowouts and was operating the wells without proper safety measures posing a threat to lives and property as well as the environment.ALSO READ | Oil India reports blow out at well in Assam, at least 25 families evacuated“You are destroying the aquatic life of Dibru Saikhowa National Park and Maguri Motapung wetland in the name of exploring oil without any mitigation measures,” the notice read.Protests and blockades by local groups have affected gas and oil production of OIL in several places. Since May 27, when the blowout occurred, the company has suffered cumulative production loss of 8013 MT crude oil and 10.24 MMSCM of natural gas.On Saturday, a day after the PCBA notice, the gas and oil wells in Baghjan, which were shut down by protesters, were “opened between 7 pm and 8 pm and started flowing”, said the OIL release.However, drilling and work over operations in 5 more areas, which are outside Baghjan, are still disrupted by protesters.Meanwhile, efforts are underway to control the fire and plug the blowout. According to officials, the work is progressing on schedule and is likely to be over by the first week of next month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oil-plans-legal-recourse-after-assam-pollution-watchdog-issues-closure-notice/story-Dx3mk1xrS7pL4O3UT4W5iM.html
21-06-2020||India||Amid border dispute with China, defence forces get powers to buy critical weapons, ammunition||Amid the ongoing border dispute with China, the three defence forces have been given financial powers upto Rs 500 crore per project for the acquisition of critical ammunition and weapons which would be required in case an all-out or limited conflict breaks out.“The Vice Chiefs of the three services have been given the financial powers upto Rs 500 crore per project to acquire the required weapon systems under fast track procedures needed to fill whatever shortcomings or requirement is felt,” a senior government official told ANI.The requirement of granting this power again to the forces was felt by the government after the Chinese aggression in Eastern Ladakh and the way they have deployed their troops in large numbers there along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).Similar financial powers were given to the armed forces after the Uri attack and the Balakot aerial strikes against Pakistan.The Air Force had emerged as the biggest beneficiary of the powers granted by the government after the Balakot airstrikes as they procured large number of equipment including the Spice-2000 air to the ground stand off missiles, Strum Ataka air to ground missiles along with multiple spares and air to air missiles for its aerial fleet.The Army has acquired the Israeli Spike anti-tank guided missiles along with the precision-guided Munitions from America.The main focus in granting these powers to forces by the government has been to prepare themselves at a short notice for any contingency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-border-dispute-with-china-defence-forces-get-powers-to-buy-critical-weapons-ammunition/story-NgYcumekKS61pjCSNdb3zK.html
21-06-2020||India||Rajasthan police yet to get evidence on Congress’ complaints of poaching||Ten days after Rajasthan government chief whip Mahesh Joshi filed a complaint with the special operations group (SOG) and the anti corruption bureau (ACB) alleging attempts to lure Congress and Independent MLAs in order to destabilise the government, the state police is yet to get any concrete evidence about the horse trading charges.The opposition BJP, meanwhile, asked the government to present the facts of the allegation or face action.Joshi had filed his complaint on June 11.“We will talk more on this after June 19. I believe by June 19 the probe will be done and truth will be out,” he later had said. The Rajya Sabha elections were held on June 19.But the probe has not progressed much because Joshi is yet to record his statements with the police.Joshi said he has been unwell for two-three days and is under self-quarantine for a few days. “I will get an update on the preliminary probe by investigating agencies in a day or two,” he added.“The investigation is at a very preliminary stage and we are working on different angles. The police are examining the call records of suspects which includes chartered accountant, few MLAs of Congress and BJP, hawala brokers and property dealers,” a police official familiar with the development said.The police official added that they were also obtaining the records of big transactions related to the suspected accused. “The investigation will take some time to reach any solid conclusion as we are yet to link multiple facts and establish a connection,” he added.Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria said Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and Joshi made serious allegations against the BJP and lodged a case with the SOG. “I invite them, if there is any truth in the allegations then they should present the facts, otherwise we will take action,” he said.Kataria said the CM should prove his party’s allegations. “They went ahead and filed a case in the SOG. Now their statements should be recorded about who bought whom and where,” he said.Police said some big property dealers, Chartered Accountants and hawala brokers tried to contact at least 10 MLAs and offered them money up to Rs 30 crore to not only cast their vote in other party’s favour but to also topple the state government by changing their groups.“The biggest challenge in tracing these middlemen is internet calling which is comparatively difficult to trace,” said another official who requested anonymity.The Congress won two seats in the June 19 Rajya Sabha elections, and one seat went to BJP.Political analyst Narayan Bareth said the current atmosphere is the result of the wealthy and influential entering the Upper House of Parliament. He cited a report by the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) that suggests that 90% of people going to Rajya Sabha are millionaires.“The Upper House is for intellectuals to raise state’s issues but when the wealthy enter then such allegations are not new,” he said.“Unfortunately, such allegation in Rajasthan happens when both parties gave chance to workers – all four in the fray were party workers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-police-yet-to-get-evidence-on-congress-complaints-of-poaching/story-IsRA8Vsi38dT1arDz7TMYI.html
21-06-2020||India||Mizoram hit by 5.1 magnitude earthquake, epicentre near Aizawl||Mizoram was hit by an earthquake of magnitude 5.1 on the Richter scale at 4:16 pm on Sunday. The epicentre of the quake was 25 km east-northeast of Aizawl, National Centre for Seismology said.Further details are awaited. The earthquake was also felt in neighbouring Manipur at around the same time, according to the Earth Science Department of Manipur University, reports PTI. The news agency quoted the DGP Control Room in Manipur as saying that there was no report of any casualty or damage of property in Manipur so farEarlier this week on June 18, Mizoram was hit by another earthquake of magnitude 5.0 on Richter scale at 7:29 pm, about 98 km south-east of Champhai. The Northeast falls in a high seismic zone and earthquakes are frequent in the region.Over the past two months, several mild earthquakes have been recorded in Delhi -NCR and Gujarat. There have been no damages in any of the quakes so far.HT had reported on June 4 that Delhi-NCR witnessed at least 14 earthquakes in around two months (March 24 to June 3).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-hit-by-5-1-magnitude-earthquake-epicentre-near-aizawl/story-jrlGBAkVT8KxNrQ15CqtDP.html
21-06-2020||India||In sharp turnaround, Covid-19 growth rate dips to 1.02% in Mumbai’s Dharavi in June||Asia’s largest slum, Mumbai’s Dharavi had managed to flatten the coronavirus curve earlier this month but after a lull of about two weeks the deadly infection was back again with seventeen fresh Covid-19 cases being reported on June 19. The Union health ministry on Sunday, however, said that due to proactive measures adopted by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the Covid-19 growth rate in Dharavi has dipped to 1.02% in June.Known for being highly congested with eight to ten people living in small shanties, the virus had started spreading swiftly in Dharavi in the month of April. A slew of steps taken by the BMC with regular testing and isolation of Covid-19 positive patients helped the Mumbai slum to curb the spread of the infectious disease to a large extent.“Being densely populated about (2,27,136 people per sq km), Dharavi had 491 coronavirus cases in April with a 12% growth rate and case doubling period of 18 days. Proactive measures adopted by BMC reduced the Covid-19 growth rate to 4.3% in May 2020 and further to 1.02% in June,” the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said on Sunday. ALSO READ | After a lull, 17 new Covid-19 cases emerge in Mumbai’s Dharavi, case count at 2,151In the month of May, the growth rate for the Covid-19 disease in Dharavi was about 4.3%, a significant dip from the earlier 12% in April. During the nationwide lockdown in April, when movement of people was restricted to a large extent and people were advised by the state governments to remain indoors, Dharavi saw a doubling rate of 18 days. On June 19, seventeen new Covid-19 positive cases were in Mumbai’s Dharavi, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the slums to 2,151, data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said. A day later, the number dipped and only 7 Covid-19 cases were detected in the area on Saturday, June 20.Currently, the total number of coronavirus cases in Dharavi stands at 2,158. On Friday, only one person succumbed to the deadly infection, taking the death toll in the slum dwelling to 79. No deaths were reported from the area on Saturday.ALSO READ | How Mumbai’s Dharavi chased Covid-19 has lessons for other developing nationsThe civic agency’s aggressive testing procedures and containment plans have helped Dharavi to successfully deal with the Covid-19 pandemic.Once identified as a coronavirus hotspot, Dharavi slums had posed a huge challenge for the Maharashtra government and the local civic bodies, but now with a growth rate of hardly 1.02%, the congested slum is on its way to beat the deadly pathogen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-sharp-turnaround-covid-19-growth-rate-dips-to-1-02-in-mumbai-s-dharavi-in-june/story-LJfJSJsZu7XISfAe0gQWaO.html
21-06-2020||India||Amit Shah helms meeting over Covid-19 crisis in Delhi, suggests scaling up contact tracing||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday chaired a review meeting to discuss the Covid-19 crisis in Delhi, a week after he held a series of meetings with top Delhi government officials, including chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and L-G Anil Baijal.After the meeting, the Aam Aadmi Party said that the state government is closely monitoring the Covid-19 situation in Delhi, following chief minister Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia’s discussions on key strategies with the Union home minister this evening.Among other measures, contact tracing is likely to be scaled up in Delhi and medical infrastructure will also be strengthened in areas which have been badly hit by the coronavirus infection.Shah has been regularly holding meetings over the coronavirus health crisis in the national capital amid a sudden spike in the number of Covid-19 positive cases. Delhi on Saturday witnessed the highest single-day spike of 3,630 Covid-19 cases. The numbers, however, dipped a little with the capital city reporting 3,000 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, according to latest health department data.ALSO READ | Amit Shah holds another crucial meeting on Delhi’s Covid-19 situationThe health bulletin issued by the Delhi government indicated that there are 59,746 positive cases in the national capital.The Delhi chief minister, deputy CM Manish Sisodia, LG Anil Baijal and other health department officials attended the meeting via video conferencing. Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan and health secretary Priti Sudan also participated in the meeting at the Ministry of Home Affairs.Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal a day earlier said that treatment of Covid-19 patients have been made affordable in the national capital under the guidance of home minister Amit Shah.The home minister had earlier in the week visited LNJP Hospital to see for himself the treatment options being provided to coronavirus patients in the nation capital. He had also interacted with doctors at the facility and other healthcare workers.On Saturday, L-G Baijal also announced the rollback of the compulsory 5-day institutional quarantine for every Covid-19 positive patient in Delhi, reversing an earlier order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-chairs-meeting-over-covid-19-situation-with-delhi-l-g-cm-kejriwal/story-V40FgNfB4uXLOgEaLWrO0K.html
21-06-2020||India||‘How did 20 soldiers die if no one entered Indian territory?’: Congress asks PM Modi||Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Sunday posed five questions for the Centre to answer on government’s position on the Indo-China border conflict over the past 6 weeks that peaked with a deadly clash in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley along the LAC on June 15, resulting in 20 casualties among Indian Army soldiers and an unverified number of deaths on the Chinese side .Among other questions, Sibal alleged that the government was in denial of Chinese “intrusions” as “confirmed” by army generals and satellite imagery and sought to know the reason for the denials.“Despite statements of experts, army generals & satellite imagery depicting Chinese intrusion into Pangong Tso Lake up to 8 kms, construction of 60 permanent structures & occupation up to Finger4, why is the Govt denying Chinese transgression?,” Sibal asked in of the five questions.Also read: In fresh jibe at PM Modi on India-China face-off, Rahul Gandhi again accuses govt of surrendering Indian territorySibal’s question alleging India was in denial of Chinese transgressions come a day after the government issued a clarification on the controversy and said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s assertion that “no one has entered our territory, no one is at present within our territory and no one has occupied our posts”, referred to the situation after Indian Army’s brave action to thwart Chinese attempts to erect a structure on the Indian side of the LAC on June 15. The government’s clarification was necessitated after some commentators in general and opposition leaders in particular claimed that PM’s above mentioned statement, given during the all party meet called on the issue, amounted to a “surrender” to China and was tantamount to “appeasement” of the communist country’s leadership. Sibal said several security experts, retired army generals and veterans, along with satellite imagery have spoken about Chinese-designed incursions into our territories along the LAC. He also cited statements made by the defence and external affairs minister along with statements by the external affairs ministry on June 17 and 20, to say that government had itself referred to the Chinese incursions on multiple occasions between April-May 2020 till date in Galwan Valley, Pangong Tso Lake Area and Hot Springs. Sibal said that the government should not even appear to have ceded any part of these territories to the Chinese.Also read | ‘No restrictions on using firearms’: India gives soldiers freedom along LAC in extraordinary times“Until the Chinese retreat and status quo ante is restored, our Government should not let up or appear to cede any part of these territories to the Chinese,” he said, before adding that China’s “brazen transgressions” into India’s territory cannot be accepted and India’s territorial integrity cannot be allowed to be compromised in any circumstances.In one of his other four questions directed at the government and the prime minister, Sibal asked, “Isn’t the statement of the PM an affront to the valour & supreme sacrifice of Col B.Santosh Babu and 19 Jawans who sought to evict the Chinese from our territory in Galwan Valley? Does the Govt mean that their sacrifice was in vain?”In his next question he wanted to know why China had now advanced its claim on the Galwan Valley after having never made a similar claim in the past.“Is it not correct that China has never claimed Galwan Valley as its territory? Is it also not correct that China has now committed brazen transgressions into Galwan Valley,” Sibal askedIn his penultimate question, he wanted to know from PM Modi that if no one entered Indian territory, then how did India’s 20 soldiers die?“Why did the PM tell the All-Party Meeting that “no one intruded into our territory”? Why did PMO delete these words from the official statement? And if ‘no one intruded into our territory’, how did our 20 soldiers die?” he asked.The government’s clarification on the matter had answered some of these issues on Saturday and said that the PM statement was being misinterpreted and that it didn’t amount to a denial of Chinese incursions. It also referred to MEA’s statements over the past few days accusing China of attempting to change the status quo at the LAC as the primary cause for the violent clash between soldiers of the two sides.Also Read: ‘Ladakh face-off a turning point, India will have to change its China policy’: General VP MalikSibal’s last question wanted to know the reason for an alleged “contradiction” between PM Modi and external affairs ministry’s statement dated June 20.Kapil Sibal also asked the prime minister why US president Donald Trump had not come out in India’s support despite the friendship the PM enjoys with the US president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kapil-sibal-has-5-questions-for-the-centre-on-pm-modi-s-statement-on-galwan-valley-clash-with-china/story-RID8oqaAWJHTeyzbHTC5jK.html
21-06-2020||India||Include Chhattisgarh in Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan: CM Baghel to PM Modi||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel has demanded that the Centre includes all of the state’s districts in the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan.Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the Rs 50,000 crore central rural employment generation scheme on Saturday. It is aimed at creating livelihoods for thousands of jobless migrant workers who moved back from the cities to their home villages during the lockdown imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The scheme will cover 116 districts across six states – Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan , Jharkhand and Odisha -and offers 125 days of employment.In a letter written to the prime minister, Bhupesh Baghel said that even though Chhattisgarh’s neighbouring states ( MP, Jharkhand and Odisha) have been included in the scheme, his state has been excluded despite having similarities in terms of geographical, economical and social scenario with these states.“The states of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand and Orissa have been included but Chhattisgarh has not been included in the scheme. By incorporating all the districts of Chhattisgarh, all the migrant labourers of the state will get employment and self-employment opportunities according to their interest and skills for earning,” he stated.The chief minister further said that the entire nation is badly affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. Labourers, who earn their livelihood on a day-to-day basis, are the most affected due to the crisis. Migrant labourers have returned to their home states as employment avenues have shut down in places where they had gone for jobs. So far, over 5 lakh migrant labourers have returned to Chhattisgarh and the number is still increasing.He further wrote that about three-fourths of the state is extremely backward.“About 90 per cent of the total population of Chhattisgarh depends on agriculture and labour work for livelihood comprising unorganised sector, agricultural labourers and marginalised farmers. Bastar and Sarguja division of Chhattisgarh are tribal-dominated and there are also 10 aspirational districts in the state,” CM said in his letter.The Chief Minister requested that all the districts of Chhattisgarh be immediately included in the Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyan to facilitate employment and self-employment of all migrant labourers of the state may have opportunities to earn a living according to their interest and skills.Bhupesh Baghel has been writing letters to central ministers and the prime minister in the last couple of months related to the Covid-19 pandemic.Last week, he wrote to Union Minister for Road Transport & Highways, Nitin Gadkari, urging him to expedite the tardy construction work of national highways (NH) that pass through the state and convert some state highways into NH.He also wrote to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, asking the Centre to allow state governments to avail the additional borrowing limit of 2% and enhance their resources during the Covid-19 crisis without any conditions.Last month during the nationwide lockdown, the CM had written a letter to PM Modi in which he had suggested that state governments should be entitled to decide which areas should be kept under three zones- Red, Orange and Green – which, at that time, were being classified by the central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/include-chhattisgarh-in-garib-kalyan-rozgar-abhiyan-cm-baghel-to-pm-modi/story-B4KPcYSunBC6uUFElQG1DP.html
21-06-2020||India||Lost vision in one eye, suffered ‘torture’ due to Congress: Pragya Thakur||BJP’s Lok Sabha member from Bhopal Pragya Singh Thakur on Sunday attributed her health issues, including alleged loss of vision, to “torture” she suffered under the Congress regime.Thakur, who participated in the International Yoga Day event at the state BJP headquarters here, told reporters that she had “swelling and pus from retina to brain”, adding she lost vision from one eye.“I sustained several injuries due to torture by the Congress for nine years. Many injuries resurface due to this torture. There was formation of pus and swelling in my eyes and brain. I have blurred vision in the right eye and I cant see at all from the left one,” she said, apparently referring to her imprisonment in the 2008 Malegaon blast case.Asked about her posters appearing in Bhopal claiming she was ‘missing’ during the coronavirus outbreak, Thakur said she could not return to Bhopal from Delhi earlier because of travel restrictions due the lockdown.Thakur said she along with her staff and security could not get tickets on time due to the travel restrictions.Congress MLA and former state minister P C Sharma claimed that Thakur was in Bhopal when the lockdown began and left for Delhi later for treatment of a small ailment.Talking to PTI, Sharma also rubbished her claim that she was tortured under the Congress regime.“We respect women. How can the Congress torture her when there was a BJP government for 15 years in Madhya Pradesh and six years at the Centre? These allegations are aimed at creating confusion,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lost-vision-in-one-eye-suffered-torture-due-to-congress-pragya-thakur/story-TpXErYIeX6mgzcvF1otITI.html
21-06-2020||India||CRPF personnel in Jharkhand booked for allegedly beating villagers in anti-Maoist ops||The Jharkhand police have lodged an FIR against a group CRPF jawans for allegedly beating up seven people in a remote village in West Singhbhum district during a patrol.The FIR was registered in Goilkera police station on June 17 after villagers of Anjadbera complained of atrocities on June 15, police said on Sunday. The villagers were, are also demanding that that offences under the Scheduled Tribes Act and looting be added in the FIR against the jawans. Villagers have accused the CRPF jawans of looting of Rs 35, 000 cash, damaging their food-grain and other valuables.“We have lodged FIR under sections 323, 324 and 341 of IPC against CRPF jawans on the basis of complaint by Anjadbera villagers on June 16. Prima facie, it appears that some of the jawans have failed to handle the situation professionally. We are identifying the jawans and action as per law will be taken. CRPF has also filed a complaint against few villagers on the basis of interception of messages showing that some villagers were leaking information to the CPI (Maoist) about movement of forces,” Indrajit Mahatha, West Singhbhum superintendent of police (SP), said on Sunday.The CRPF could not be contacted for comments.According to the police and the CRPF, intercepted messages indicated that two dreaded Maoist commanders - politburo and central committee members -Prashant Bose alias Kishan-da and Misir Besra alias Sagar-da, both carrying reward of Rs 1 crore on their heads, have been camping in Sarjambudu forests and hills, adjacent to Anjdbeda, Chiriyabera and many other villages around under Goilkera, Sonua, Bandgaon, Gudri police station areas.A fact finding committee from Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha (JJM) comprising its members Manki Tubid and Kamalesh Purty has found 11 villagers were brutally beaten up by CRPF jawans of which seven sustained serious injuries and three were critically injured. On Sunday, they tweeted the committee’s report to Jharkhand chief minister (CM) Hemant Soren demanding action under ST Act.“Two of the injured villagers – one with a broken leg and the other with head injury – are still in hospital while the rest nine have been discharged after treatment. The villagers told us that 200-250 CRPF jawans had come to the Anjadbera village on June 15 afternoon when they were putting the roofs of their thatched houses. Jawans were asking about Maoists but were speaking in Hindi while the villagers only understood and spoke Ho language, leading to a communication gap. Later, 20-25 CRPF jawans took about a dozen villagers to an under-construction house and beat them up,” Manki Tubid said on Sunday.He said the incident came to light after a teacher phoned them in Chaibasa. “This teacher is the only man in the village with a mobile phone and can be connected only under the lone mobile tower in some distance,” Tubid said. The village has 125 people. The CRPF in its counter-complaint said four village youths started fleeing and when caught they got into a scuffle with the jawans. The CRPF troopers have has also seized Maoist pamphlets from their houses.Forces had entered the inaccessible Anjadbra and Chiriyabera villages after one and half years. Located 23 km from Chaibasa, the village has no electricity, piped drinking water and children don’t study there as the only primary school is 6 km away.The SP said they have not yet turned the CRPF complaint into an FIR but police were investing the same. “Maoists led by Prashant Bose and Misir Besra have now shifted their Eastern Regional Bureau (ERB) to Sarjamburu from Naxal hotbed Sranda forests. We have definite information that Maoists are working to turn the area into a positional warfare zone (PWZ) like they did in Bastar. Naxals don’t want police or security forces in the villages and have been exploiting them by threats and other means, using them for propaganda, forcing them to pass on information etc. They are even forcibly training village men, women and children,” said Mahatha.Sinu Cundi, a villager who was allegedly beaten up said the jawans asked them to come down from their house roofs but they could not understand. “We came down after seeing their hand gestures and they kept on asking where the Maoists were. They started beating me when I said I don’t know anything about Maoists,” said Sundi.Ram Surin said when he returned home after fishing in the river he saw his son with multiple injuries, even unable to speak. “When I entered my house I found it ransacked, Rs 35, 000 aadhaar cards, land records (khatiyan) everything gone and food-grain splattered away,” said Surin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpf-personnel-in-jharkhand-booked-for-allegedly-beating-villagers-in-anti-maoist-ops/story-SFvSyqJvlrZ72joB3lYwZL.html
21-06-2020||India||How the Bihar Regiment removed the Chinese observation post from PP-14 in Galwan valley||On the evening of June 15, the Indian 3 Infantry Division Commander with other senior officers was at an Indian post near the Y junction of Shyok and Galwan rivers in the eastern Ladakh sector as talks were to be held between the two countries.The Indian security forces including the 16 Bihar Regiment were asked to ensure that the post was removed by the Chinese after which a small patrol was sent to convey the message, sources told ANI.The Chinese observation post was manned by 10-12 soldiers who were told by the Indian patrol to go away from there as was agreed upon in the senior level military talks between the two armies. The Chinese refused to do so even as the Indian patrol returned to their unit to inform them about the development.This was when the Indian troops with around 50 people and 16 Bihar Commanding Officer Colonel Santosh Babu in the lead, went on to tell the Chinese to go back further in their territory as they were on Indian soil.Meanwhile, by the time the first Indian patrol returned from the site, the Chinese had called for reinforcements from their rear positions in the Galwan river valley who came with around 300-350 people.As the Indian patrol reached, the sources said, the Chinese had already built up troops on higher ground around the observation post and kept the stones and weapons ready for launching an attack on the Indian troops.As the two sides started talking, the discussion turned into a heated one and the Indian side started uprooting their tents and equipment. The Chinese, who had already prepared themselves for aggression against Indian troops, attacked the Indian side in which their first attack was on the 16 Bihar CO and Havildar Palani. After the CO went down, the Biharis lost control and started attacking the Chinese ferociously despite being heavily outnumbered and stones raining from the higher ground.The fight went on for over three hours till late in the night in which several Chinese troops were either dead or injured seriously.Next morning, when the situation calmed down relatively, the dead bodies of the Chinese troops were lying in the open and was handed over to them by Indian troops, sources said.A total of around 100 troops took part in the operations from the Indian side while the Chinese had over 350 people on the location.However, the Bihari troops had managed to uproot the Chinese position there at the Patrolling Point 14.Soon after the incident, the Chinese reinforced their positions near that location and have their offensive forces ready in the rear locations.Sources said that even though outnumbered, the Biharis managed to remove the Chinese post which was existing there in violation of the agreements between the two sides.Now the Indian and Chinese Lieutenant General level talks are being planned in the next few days in the Eastern Ladakh area to defuse the situation further on PP-14, PP-15 and PP-17A.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-the-bihar-regiment-removed-the-chinese-observation-post-from-pp-14-in-galwan-valley/story-LFnWgI7olCT4xfYBuug4UN.html
21-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: Hetero’s antiviral drug Covifor gets DCGI approval to treat Covid-19 patients and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.After FabiFlu, Hetero’s Covifor gets DCGI nod to treat Covid-19 patientsIndia-based pharma company Hetero on Sunday announced it has received both manufacturing and marketing approval for the investigational antiviral drug Remdesivir, from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) to treat Covid-19 patients. Read moreSatyendar Jain getting better, could be shifted to general ward on MondayDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain, who is being treated for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in an ICU of a private hospital, is doing better and could be shifted to the general ward by Monday, hospital sources said on Sunday. Read more‘Ladakh face-off a turning point, India will have to change its China policy’: General VP MalikIndia has the capability to fight war on two fronts with China and Pakistan, former army chief General VP Malik has said. General Malik was speaking to Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan. Read moreRatan Tata wants Internet to turn into a place of support rather than hate. His post is inspirationalRatan Tata took to Instagram to share a motivating message about online bullying and hate spewed on the Internet. His heartfelt message has once again won people over and is now going viral. Chances are that his post will strike a chord with you too. Read moreSonam Kapoor shares hateful messages she’s got after Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, explains viral Koffee With Karan videoSonam Kapoor has shared multiple messages full of hate and abuse that she has been receiving on Instagram. Sonam is one of the many celebrities on the radar of fans of Sushant Singh Rajput, who died by suicide on Sunday. Read moreDo you love yourself? Here’s why you shouldWe crave unconditional love, but do we love ourselves unconditionally? In my coaching sessions on dating, I ask people to name five things they love about themselves. More than half respond by saying, ‘I’ve never really thought about that’. Read more‘I gave a batsman out who was not out’: Steve Bucknor recalls umpiring decisions involving Sachin TendulkarSteve Bucknor was a top International Cricket Council (ICC) umpire in the 2000s. But some errors from his part led to his decline as a top umpire in international cricket.  Read moreApple iOS 14 at WWDC 2020: Expected release date and featuresApple is soon expected to announce its biggest software update for all the platforms with new features and updates during its WWDC conference. Read moreWatch: Protest outside UN office against persecution of Christians in PakistanA silent protest was held outside the UN office in Geneva against the persecution of Christians in Pakistan. The protesters were highlighting the plight of the minority community in Pakistan and called on the UN to act. They sought eradication of the blasphemy law, which is misused by authorities in Pakistan to target people from the minority community. Watch the full video for all the details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-hetero-s-antiviral-drug-covifor-gets-dcgi-approval-to-treat-covid-19-patients-and-all-the-latest-news/story-zLgyg9VJ6wtuMhkE4ZhIrK.html
21-06-2020||India||7 paramilitary personnel from CRPF, ITBP test Covid-19 positive in Chhattisgarh||Seven paramilitary personnel including four ITBP and three Central Reserve Police Force soldiers have tested positive for Covid-19 in Chhattisgarh. The security personnel are among 107 people who have tested positive for the infection in the state, a health department official said.Both the CRPF and ITBP are deployed in Chhattisgarh for anti-Naxal operations.With the new 107 cases, Chhattisgarh’s coronavirus count has now risen to 2,134.ALSO READ| Maoists in Chhattisgarh pack off woman cadre suspecting she has Covid-19An elderly Covid-19 patient died at a hospital in Raipur due to co-morbid conditions, taking the number of coronavirus fatalities in the state to 11.At least, 63 patients recovered and were discharged from hospitals across the state.“53 new cases were reported from Rajnandgaon district, 25 from Janjgir-Champa district, seven from Raigarh, six from Balrampur, five from Durg, four from Narayanpur, three from Sukma and two from Korba while one patient each were found in Raipur and Bilaspur districts,” the health department official said.ALSO READ | Tribal areas in Chhattisgarh and Odisha have less Covid-19 cases. Officials explain why“Four Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel, belonging to the 45th battalion of the force also tested positive in Narayanpur,” a police official said.The security personnel had been kept in a quarantine centre of the paramilitary force in Narayanpur town after they returned earlier this month from their home states.Earlier, seven ITBP personnel had tested positive for coronavirus in Narayanpur, Rajnandgaon and Kondagaon districts.The worst Maoist-affected Sukma district has recorded coronavirus cases for the first time with three Central Reserve Police Force soldiers, belonging to the 2nd battalion, testing positive, the health official said.They too had been kept in a quarantine centre in Sukma town after they came back from their native states.Earlier on Saturday evening, the 70-year-old man who had been admitted at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Raipur, died due to co-morbidities and viral infection, an official of the institute said.The elderly person had advanced stage of lung cancer, he added.The numbers of active cases in Chhattisgarh state stands at 755, as 1,368 people have been discharged after being cured.At least 1,23,983 people have been tested for the infection till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-paramilitary-personnel-from-crpf-itbp-test-covid-19-positive-in-chhattisgarh/story-TlpOHkLUsJ5UWrMnIBYk3J.html
21-06-2020||India||Odisha records highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases, crosses 5,000-mark||The number of Covid-19 cases in Odisha breached the 5,000-mark on Sunday as the state recorded its highest single-day spike in coronavirus infections.There were 304 new Covid-19 cases reported that took the state’s tally to 5,160, according to the state health department. This includes 1,607 active cases . With two more fatalities reported, the death toll from the disease has climbed to 14.The infections reported on Sunday included 42 personnel belonging to the NDRF and fire services who had returned to the state from Amphan restoration work in West Bengal, reports news agency IANS. Two hundred and seventy two cases out of 304 were recorded in quarantine centres which house migrant workers who have returned from other states. The remaining 32 were reported from different localities, according to PTI. Given the rising number of positive cases, earlier this week the Supreme Court stayed the annual Rath Yatra scheduled for June 23. In its order on a petition filed by a NGO, the three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice SA Bobde said that as 10-12 lakh people may congregate in Puri for the Rath Yatra, it would be appropriate in the interests of public health and safety of citizens to restrain the government from holding the Rath Yatra. Though the state cabinet has decided to abide by the SC order, at least four intervention petitions have been filed in the matter seeking recall of the order and allowing Rath Yatra at Puri by adhering to the government’s guidelines on Covid-19.The Supreme Court will hear these four petitions on Monday (June 22), reports news agency ANI.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-records-highest-single-day-spike-in-covid-19-cases-crosses-5-000-mark/story-fHuJuVQoeiVrLqfpFUqirI.html
21-06-2020||India||‘Asked for 1,000 you gave 50’: Telangana attacks centre with record Covid 19 spike||Telangana’s KCR-led government on Sunday launched an attack on Centre accusing it of not supporting the state with proper facilities and financial aid for coronavirus containment efforts and claimed to have managed the crisis on its own strength. The verbal assault came on a day when a record number of new cases took the state’s Covid-19 tally past the 7,000-mark.“How many times has your ICMR changed guidelines, you must think about it. We asked for 1000 ventilators but you have given us only 50. Our machine was diverted to Kolkata by ICMR on the orders of the PM. We ordered the machine but you diverted it there,” Telangana health minister Eatala Rajendra was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.546 new Covid 19 cases were reported from Telangana in the past 24 hours, pushing the total to 7,072 cases including 203 deaths to the disease, 5 of them registered in the last 24 hours. Total number of active cases in the state currently stands at 3,363.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe state has witnessed a sharp rise in the number of infections in the past few days and the government was forced to reintroduce some restrictions as a precautionary measure.“You did not give us proper facilities and financial aid but our state government has managed,” Rajendra said while snipping at the Centre on Sunday.The coronavirus situation in the entire country has gone from bad to worse with a record 15,413 Covid-19 cases getting registered across the country, pushing India’s tally to 4,10,461—Fourt highest in the world after the United States, Brazil and Russia. The country’s death toll has risen to 13,254 with 306 new fatalities, as per the health ministry data released on Sunday.3,506 coronavirus patients have been cured and discharged in Telangana. The Telangana government issued fresh guidelines on Sunday to tighten the restrictions in government workplaces. A circular issued by the chief secretary said that all state-level government offices will function with reduced manpower.Also Read: Telangana tightens restrictions in govt offices as Covid-19 cases on the riseApart from common people, several politicians, bureaucrats and police officers have also contracted the virus.According to ANI, senior Congress leader V Hanumanth Rao confirmed on Sunday to have tested positive for the disease.On Friday, as many as three IPS officers in Hyderabad Police Commissionerate had tested positive, besides, 18 police personnel in the special branch wing of the state police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asked-for-1-000-you-gave-50-telangana-attacks-centre-with-record-covid-19-spike/story-HvdANGGhHBCluZ9r2QSCBP.html
21-06-2020||India||Assam registers nine Covid-19 deaths; 5,388 cases||A total of 133 more people tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the tally in the state to 5,388, Health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said.Of the 133 fresh cases, 73 are from Kamrup (Metro), 31 from Nagaon, 18 from Jorhat, five from Udalguri, two each from Golaghat and Majuli and one each from Dhemaji and Tinsukia, the minister said.Assam currently has 2,174 active cases. Nine people have died due to the disease so far, and three have migrated out of the state.The recovery rate improved to nearly 60 per cent, with 136 more patients discharged on Saturday from various civil, district and model hospitals.Altogether 3,202 people have recovered so far.The total number of coronavirus tests conducted in the 12 laboratories of Assam has climbed to 2,73,047.A total of 35,611 people have been placed under institutional quarantine, and 88,904 under home quarantine.Meanwhile, the Assam Targeted Surveillance Program (ATSP), which aims to conduct more than 50,000 random tests in a week, continued for the fifth day on Sunday.“We aim to conduct more than 50,000 random tests in a weeks time, targeting vulnerable areas,” the minister said.Under the programme, samples of people working in locations such as parking lots for trucks, loading and unloading centres, godowns, weigh bridges, roadside eateries will be collected and sent for examination.Employees in hotels, which are currently being used as institutional quarantine centres, will also be tested under ATSP, along with frontline workers .The programme will also cover the family members and co-residents at homes of people who have been released from the institutional quarantine, he said, adding that the future course of action for containment of the pandemic shall be based on these test results.The entire exercise is expected to be over by June 27 and shall involve deputy commissioners of each district who will ensure the availability of adequate facilities for the initiative, Sarma said.As part of the efforts to facilitate sample examination without having to visit hospitals, some facilities have been identified by the health department, where swab collection will be carried out for free, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-registers-nine-covid-19-deaths-5-388-cases/story-X3Izf97jRat93wCDU9lMUL.html
21-06-2020||India||Nepalese FM radio stations start giving weather bulletins of Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura||After Nepal’s parliament endorsed the political map that shows the disputed areas of Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as part of its territory earlier this month, some Nepalese FM radio stations close to India-Nepal border in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh have started giving weather bulletins of these three areas.These FM radio stations are located in Darchula district of Nepal and can be heard in the bordering areas of Dharchula, Baluakot, Jauljibi and Kalika towns on the Indian side in Pithoragarh, according to locals.Krishna Garbiyal, a prominent leader of the Rung community in Dharchula said these Nepalese FM stations have started giving information on weather reports of Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura considering these areas as their own territories, like India, did recently with PoK.Also read: Not just India’s Galwan, China has a long list of territorial disputesIn the first week of May, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) had started including cities like Muzaffarabad and Gilgit-Baltistan in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) in its weather forecasts, stating PoK was part of India.Locals living in the bordering areas, especially in Dharchula, said that Nepalese FM channels have unleashed propaganda in between songs by including speeches of Nepali politicians and leaders regarding these areas belonging to Nepal.People in Dharchula confirmed that after India inaugurated the road till Lipulekh Pass - the traditional trading route with Tibet - Nepalese FM channels have started playing speeches in between Nepalese songs.“As Nepalese songs are listened by villagers on both sides of the border, these anti-India speeches, delivered by Nepalese leaders from time to time affect the psyche of people living on both sides of the border and are fuelling seeds of disharmony in the relations between the people on the two sides,” said Shalu Dayal, a resident of Dantu village of Dharchula.Dayal claimed that besides some of these FM stations playing anti-India speeches in between Nepalese songs, some old FM channels and websites on the Nepalese side were also highlighting reports of Kalapani being part of Nepal.Ashok Nabiyal, a social activist from Dharchula’s Vyans Valley said Indian intelligence agencies active at India-Nepal border need to take cognisance of this propaganda so as to counter these anti- India speeches in these bordering areas. “Nepalese propaganda is clearly aimed at influencing locals on this side of the border and strengthening their claims, but our authorities are yet to take any pro-active measure to counter this propaganda and misinformation,” he said.The local authorities in the district said they are yet to get information about these developments“We do not have any such information neither our intelligence units have given us any feedback on this issue,” said Preeti Priya Darshani, superintendent of police (SP) Pithoragarh.Dharchula circle officer VK Acharya said, “none of our intelligence units have given us any information regarding anti-India propaganda in Dharchula’s bordering areas recently”.Nepal claiming Indian territories in its map has disturbed traditional relations between people of Nepal and Uttarakhand in the bordering regions of the state. Locals, officials and experts have rubbished the Nepalese claim. Even as there have been good relations between the Nepalese and the people living in border areas on this side, Nepal’s recent claims have not gone well with the people.Nrip Singh Napachayal, former Uttarakhand chief secretary, who hails from Pithoragarh’s Rung community said Nepal has erroneously shown Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as their territory and was unleashing misinformation through its communication mediums.“These actions of Nepalese have disturbed the traditional relations between the people on the two sides, which have much in common linguistically and culturally. Traditionally and historically, Kalapani has always been venerated as a sacred source of Kali river, while river Mangti has always been regarded as the sacred river of the tribal community living here,” he said.The Kali River originates at Kalapani at an altitude of 3,600 metres and flows southwards. Named after Goddess Kali, whose temple is situated in Kalapani area near the Lipulekh pass at the border between India and China, the river’s upper course forms India’s continuous eastern boundary with Nepal.“Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura are part of the Indian border with China and they have no relation with Nepal border. Lipulekh Pass has served as the entrance of Indian traders and Kailash Mansarovar pilgrims, which has never been objected by any ruler of Nepal till now. These claims are surprising and can vitiate the harmony between the people on two sides of the border who have been living in this region for thousands of years in peace and harmony,” he said.Uttarakhand’s noted historian Ajay Singh Rawat said historically Indian tribal people of Vyans valley have been doing trade with Tibet from Lipulekh pass from 6th century.“There is no evidence when Nepalese traders have carried out the trade from Lipulekh pass. The Kailash Mansarovar yatra by Indian pilgrims has also been going on traditionally from the same pass from centuries without any objection from the rulers of Nepal,” said Rawat.“Even the British travellers to Tibet before independence and Indian scholars on Kailash Mansarovar have pointed out Kalapani as the origin of river Kali also called Mahakali in Nepal and Sharda in Pithoragarh. “Charles A Sheering, British traveller and administrator, who visited Tibet in 1905, has written in his book that Kalapani is considered as the original source of Kali river... there are more than half a dozen small springs which all combine and form the source of River Kali,” said Rawat.Citing historical records, Dr Rawat said that immediately after the Sugauli Treaty, landlords of Vyans valley in the present Dharchula area had moved an application in the court of the then commissioner of Kumaon in March 1817, saying that after the treaty only two villages - Tinkar and Changru - had gone to Nepal side while 6 other villages of the valley had remained within the Indian territory. “Since then, all 6 villages are within the Indian territory,” said Rawat.On June 18, Nepal’s parliament passed a constitutional amendment under which it unanimously voted to endorse the new political map issued last month that shows the disputed areas of Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as part of Nepal. The border row escalated last month after India opened an 80-kilometre-long road to Lipulekh on the border with the Tibet Autonomous Region to facilitate pilgrims going to Kailash Mansarovar. The Indian side maintains that Nepal’s shifting claims are contrary to the Treaty of Sugauli signed in 1815 by Nepal and the British.The Treaty of Sugauli between the British and Nepal was signed in December 1815 and ratified in March 1816. It defined river Kali as the western border of Nepal. India asserts that the river begins in Kalapani as this is where all its tributaries merge, but Nepal claims that the river begins from Lipulekh Pass.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepalese-fm-radio-stations-broadcast-propaganda-to-back-kathmandu-s-claim-on-lipulekh-kalapani-and-limpiyadhura/story-UCzxyZb5yY7JFe1ZAx7ybI.html
21-06-2020||India||Tug of war between Centre and Chhattisgarh; NIA says state can’t probe 2013 Jheerum Ghati attack, approaches court||An all-out war has erupted between the Centre and Chhattisgarh government over a fresh case registered by the state police last month in connection with the Jheerum Ghati ambush seven years ago. Twenty-seven people, including senior Congress leaders Nand Kumar Patel, Mahendra Karma, Dinesh Patel and VC Shukla, were killed by a group of 150 Maoists in that attack in 2013.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) wrote to Chhattisgarh police last week asking them not to proceed with the investigation in the first information report (FIR) registered by Bastar Police on May 26, saying it is already investigating the case. The ministry of home affairs (MHA) too has opined that since both the FIRs (registered on May 25, 2013, and May 26, 2020) relate to the same incident, NIA has the powers to take over the fresh FIR too. The federal anti-terror probe agency even approached a special court in Jadgalpur on June 16, saying Chhattisgarh police would be violating Section 6 of the NIA act, which specifically prohibits the state government to proceed with the investigation once the case is entrusted to it. In his letter to Bastar’s superintendent of police on June 10, NIA’s chief investigating officer in the Jheerum Ghati attack case, Amit Singh, has asked to transfer all May 26, 2020, FIR related documents and not to proceed further with the investigation as “it may lead to vexatious and avoidable litigation due to conflict of jurisdiction”. Singh said that a charge sheet has already been filed against nine accused in September 2015 in the case while searches are being carried out for arresting 25 more accused and the trial too is at an advanced stage.HT has reviewed NIA’s letter to Bastar’s SP, its petition in the court and MHA’s opinion. NIA informed the special court last week that “the contents of FIR (registered by Bastar Police on May 26, 2020) fall in the definition of a terrorist act as well as in the ambit of scheduled offence prescribed in the NIA Act, 2008” while urging it to give directions to state police not to pursue it. On the other hand, the Chhattisgarh government is in no mood to hand over the probe to the central agency. The state government has, over past couple of years, repeatedly questioned NIA’s credibility saying it didn’t probe the conspiracy angle. Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has said on numerous occasions that the Centre is not allowing a thorough probe by the state government by refusing to transfer the NIA case to it. In fact, the Baghel government moved the Supreme Court in January this year challenging the constitutionality of the NIA act saying it takes away the powers of states to investigate crimes as enshrined in the constitution.Chairman of Chhattisgarh Congress communications department – Shailesh Nitin Trivedi said – “We have been saying from day one that it was a political criminal conspiracy, which NIA has failed to unearth. We will do everything to find out what exactly happened in that in 2013 incident in which our beloved Congress leaders were brutally murdered by Naxals. Why is Centre not investigating the larger conspiracy angle?”.Trivedi said they will contest NIA’s claim in the court and before the public. NIA is currently empowered to take over any case in states without their consent. Chhattisgarh is the first state ever to challenge the entire NIA act. The NIA didn’t respond to phone calls or SMS query. “We are taking legal opinion on NIA’s plea after which a decision will be taken,” Sundarraj P, Bastar’s inspector general of police, said while speaking to HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tug-of-war-between-centre-and-chhattisgarh-nia-says-state-can-t-probe-2013-jheerum-ghati-attack-approaches-court/story-fXPA2vIF1UqKc2fR5Q0LRI.html
21-06-2020||India||After FabiFlu, Hetero’s antiviral drug Covifor gets DCGI approval to treat Covid-19 patients||India-based pharma company Hetero on Sunday announced it has received both manufacturing and marketing approval for the investigational antiviral drug Remdesivir, from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) to treat Covid-19 patients.Hetero’s generic version of Remdesivir will be sold under the brand name COVIFOR in India soon. Barely a day earlier, another India-based pharma firm Glenmark Pharmaceuticals launched antiviral drug Favipiravir, to be sold under the brand name FabiFlu, for the treatment of patients with mild to moderate Covid-19 symptoms.“In the light of increasing Covid-19 cases in India, the approval of ‘COVIFOR’ (Remdesivir) can prove to be a game-changer given its positive clinical outcomes. Backed by strong backward integration capabilities, we can ensure that the product is immediately made available to patients across the country,” Dr. B Partha Saradhi Reddy, Chairman, Hetero Group of Companies said on the DCGI nod.ALSO READ | Remdesivir, now part of Covid-19 therapy in Centre’s new health protocol documentThe drug Remdesivir has been granted approval by DCGI for the treatment of suspected or laboratory-confirmed cases of Covid-19 in adults and children, hospitalized with severe symptoms of the infectious disease. COVIFOR will be available in 100 mg vials (injectable) which needs to be administered intravenously in a hospital facility under the proper supervision of a doctor or trained healthcare worker. “We are prepared to ensure supply of enough stocks required to cater to the present need. We will continue to work closely with the government and medical community to make a difference in the fight against Covid-19. This product is made indigenously in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Make in India campaign,” Dr Reddy said.The medicine will be launched in the country under a licensing agreement with Gilead Sciences Inc. to expand access to affordable Covid-19 treatment in low and middle-income countries.ALSO READ | Glenmark launches Covid-19 drug at Rs 103 per tabletPharma company Hetero is one of India’s leading generic pharmaceutical firms and the world’s largest producer of anti-retroviral drugs. Earlier in June, the Union Health Ministry included the use of anti-viral drug Remdesivir as part of “investigational therapy” only for restricted emergency-use in its updated Clinical Management Protocol for Covid-19 patients.Off-label application of immunomodulator tocilizumab and convalescent plasma therapy for treating coronavirus patients in moderate stage of criticality, were also approved by the ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-fabiflu-hetero-s-antiviral-drug-covifor-gets-dcgi-approval-to-treat-covid-19-patients/story-jxPAprGIl47Ru5qY2Mmg7O.html
21-06-2020||India||Coronavirus’s invasion of Maharashtra Police continues, 88 new cases take tally past 4,000 cases||The number of coronavirus infections in Maharashtra police continues to rise with 88 new positive cases detected in the last 24 hours apart from one casualty due to the disease. The total number of positive cases and deaths in the state police force have now risen to 4,048 and 47 respectively, as per an official document quoted by ANI.According to an official release by the Maharashtra Police department quoted by the news agency, a total of 1,001 policemen including 118 officers and 883 other police personnel are currently suffering from the contagion. One of the 47 casualties recorded in the police department also included an officer, it says.Maharashtra is India’s worst Covid-19 affected state with 128,205 positive cases and the essential services workforce, including the policemen, are at an increased risk of contracting the disease.The state has registered several cases of assault on policemen while enforcing the guidelines in effect to contain the spread of the virus. As per the official data released on Sunday, 275 incidents of assault on cops have been recorded since March 22 2020. A total of 854 accused have been arrested for attacking cops in 275 incidents. 86 policemen have been injured during law enforcement during this period, when 62 cases of assault on health professionals were also registered.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe police force has registered a total of 133,311 cases under Sec-188 of the Indian Penal Code (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public authority), made 27,266 arrests and imposed fines worth Rs 8,32,23,711 since March 22 for all kind of violations including 1,335 cases of use of illegal transport. 83,497 vehicles have been seized in this period.The state of Maharashtra has reported the maximum number of Covid 19 cases at 1,28,205, followed by Tamil Nadu - 56,845, Delhi - 56,746, Gujarat - 26,680, Uttar Pradesh - 16,594, Rajasthan - 14,536 and West Bengal - 13,531.Also Read: Maharashtra sees record 3,827 new Covid-19 cases, state tally now over 1.24 lakhIndia has recorded a total of 13,254 deaths due to coronavirus and Maharashtra has reported a bulk of these with 5,984 fatalities, followed by 2,112 deaths in Delhi, 1,638 in Gujarat with, 704 in Tamil Nadu, 540 in Bengal, 507 in UP, and 501 in Madhya Pradesh, among the territories with more than 500 casualties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-s-invasion-of-maharashtra-police-continues-88-new-cases-take-tally-past-4-000-cases/story-xILwQ32jhsv1r2r1T7qUkN.html
21-06-2020||India||Kolkata driver who murdered girlfriend made pistol, ammunition watching internet videos||The 26-year-old driver who murdered his estranged girlfriend in south Kolkata on Saturday morning made the single-shot pistol and ammunition used in the crime watching internet videos, making the case a rare one.Rakesh Haldar alias Jayanta used a steel ball bearing as projectile and powder from firecrackers as the propellant. Prior to the murder, Haldar did not have any criminal record and used to drive taxis for a living.While it is possible to make a single-shot pistol that Haldar came up with, even criminals who make improvised firearms on a commercial scale cannot manufacture ammunition because the technology is too sophisticated, investigating officials said. The accused watched videos on the internet to make the pistol and ammunition, said Murli Dhar Sharma, joint commissioner of police (crime).Also read: Sky gazers in Kolkata gather on rooftops to witness solar eclipseThe accused stabbed the victim as he was not sure if the improvised ammunition was powerful enough to kill her, said officials probing the case.Haldar murdered 20-year-old Priyanka Purkait at her residence at Anandapally West in the Regent Park area. Haldar allegedly shot the victim and then stabbed her in the neck when she was sleeping in her bedroom.“After his arrest, Haldar said during interrogation that Priyanka wanted to get out of the relationship but Hadar, who is married, would not let her,” an investigating officer said on the condition of anonymity. “He dumped the pistol in a hydrant,” the officer added.The officers were stunned when Haldar confessed that he made the pistol and the ammunition at home by procuring commonly available components from shops and some friends. Haldar fled after the crime. The victim was declared dead on arrival at a local hospital. Her relatives told the police that Haldar had threatened to kill her around a month ago but they did not think that he was capable of committing murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-driver-who-murdered-girlfriend-made-pistol-ammunition-watching-internet-videos/story-IimNIzYVrNAjzMgnBCYEmO.html
21-06-2020||India||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain getting better, could be shifted to general ward on Monday||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, who is being treated for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in an ICU of a private hospital, is doing better and could be shifted to the general ward by Monday, hospital sources said on Sunday.The 55-year-old minister’s fever has subsided and oxygen level has improved since he was administered plasma therapy, an experimental medical procedure under which critical Covid-19 patients are treated using plasma from those who have recovered from the viral infection.Jain is under observation in the intensive care unit (ICU) of Max Hospital in Saket, the sources added.Also read: Health minister Satyendar Jain’s condition improves after plasma therapySatyendar Jain was shifted to Max Hospital from Delhi government-run Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital on Friday after his condition deteriorated. The minister was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital on Monday night after he was found to be suffering from a high fever and had low oxygen saturation.Jain, who had initially tested Covid-19 negative, was on oxygen support at the hospital intermittently.The minister, who has no comorbidities, was found to be suffering from pneumonia, a known Covid-19 complication, and also complained of breathlessness and giddiness from Friday morning.He was soon shifted to the Max Hospital and kept on oxygen support. A CT scan revealed that the pneumonic patch in his lungs had expanded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-health-minister-satyendar-jain-getting-better-could-be-shifted-to-general-ward-on-monday/story-vfL4LdjccZJuRJmdgEKEqO.html
21-06-2020||India||Indian Army helicopter makes precautionary landing in Ladakh||Indian Army’s Advanced Light Helicopter Dhruv made a precautionary landing in Eastern Ladakh area on Sunday, Army sources said. All crew and passengers are safe, they added.The landing was done after the pilot felt that there may be some issue in the chopper and took precautions to land.Further details are awaited.The incident took place amid the ongoing dispute between India and China following the violent face-off between troops of both the countries at the Galwan valley in Ladakh.At least 20 Indian Army personnel were killed in the face-off on June 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-helicopter-makes-precautionary-landing-in-ladakh/story-j1XtsUFHjgQXH6dwljRYsO.html
21-06-2020||India||477 new Covid-19 cases take Andhra Pradesh closer to the 9000-mark||Andhra Pradesh on Sunday registered 477 new Covid-19 cases and five deaths, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the state to 8,929, the state’s Covid-19 nodal officer said.With the addition of 5 fatalities in the last 24 hours, the death toll in the Telugu state has now risen to 106.Among the deaths reported in the past 24 hours -- three occurred in Krishna district, one death in Kurnool and one person succumbed to the coronavirus infection in Chittoor.There are currently a total of 4,516 active coronavirus cases in Andhra Pradesh. With 477 new Covid-19 cases detected on Sunday, the state is now approaching the 9000-mark and is likely to cross the figure on Monday. Out of new cases found, 439 are from Andhra Pradesh, 34 are recent returnees from other states and 4 are from different countries.Barely eight days after recording 3 lakh Covid-19 cases, India on Sunday crossed the four lakh-mark with the biggest single-day spike of 15,413 new infections, while the death toll rose to 13,254 with 306 new deaths due to the disease, according to Union health ministry data.Earlier, India took 64 days to cross the 1 lakh-mark from 100 cases, another fortnight to reach the grim milestone of two lakh cases and then in another ten days it went past the 3-lakh mark.The country has been registering record single-day surges for the past four days now. The jump of 15,413 cases took India’s case load to 4, 10,461.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/477-new-covid-19-cases-take-andhra-pradesh-closer-to-the-9000-mark/story-35sBII9Vdfh5R5qixwoH2J.html
21-06-2020||India||‘Ladakh face-off a turning point, India will have to change its China policy’: General VP Malik||India has the capability to fight war on two fronts with China and Pakistan, former army chief General VP Malik has said. General Malik was speaking to Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan.“We can easily fight the war at two fronts. We should not worry too much, our forces have the capability,” General Malik said. He also said that Indian Army’s skill, determination and ability to fight mountain warfare is better than China’s.The former army chief made these remarks while discussing the stand-off between Indian and Chinese forces in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed. Also Watch | Can India fight war on two fronts with China & Pakistan? Gen VP Malik answers“What happened on June 15 is a turning point. India will now have to changes its China policy, not just on the military front but economic and political fronts too,” General Malik said.When asked about the possibility of a war with China, the former army chief said, “We now have the capabilities. And if this indeed happens, we can fight. We can even take offensive action in some areas. We may have lesser weapons, our forces can efficiently defend India’s borders.”The stand-off in Galwan Valley began after a unit of Indian soldiers saw Chinese army personnel in the area in violation of the set protocols between the two countries. When the Indian side confronted the Chinese, it resulted in a skirmish and both sides attacked each other with fists and sticks, people aware of the development said.A Colonel, who was leading the patrol unit, was among those killed.Prime Minister Narendra Modi made a strong statement after the incident and said that though India is a peace-loving country, it is capable of giving befitting reply if provoked. He reiterated the firm stance while chairing an all-party meeting on the issue where the prime minister said that Indian territory is intact and that no intruder was on Indian territory across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China.Defence minister Rajnath Singh had mourned the death of the 20 soldiers, and said that the nation will nevr forget their supreme sacrifice.Both sides are engaged in the rounds of talsk to defuse the tension in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ladakh-face-off-a-turning-point-india-will-have-to-change-its-china-policy-general-vp-malik/story-2XBnOfC6TYd5C7nbJs20sN.html
21-06-2020||India||Baghjan oil field was operating without Assam pollution control board’s nod, says closure order||The Assam Pollution Control Board has issued a closure notice to Baghjan Oil field of Oil India Limited (OIL) on Friday on the grounds that the OIL has been operating Baghjan oil field activities without obtaining prior consent to establish and operate from Assam Pollution Control Board.The letter states that Baghjan Oil field in Assam’s Tinsukia district is located 500 metres to the Maguri-Motapung wetland which is part of the eco-sensitive zone of Dibru Saikhowa National Park which is severely affected by the OIL’s negligence.The OIL was required to take adequate measures to prevent spillage of hazardous wastes into water bodies through designated drains and treatment facilities. The environment clearance granted to the OIL was also on the condition that the company installs a blow out prevention system to avoid accidents during drilling. “But you have failed to do it,” the letter stated.Also read: Centre, Assam working on relief for those affected by gas well fire - PM Modi“It is observed that you have been operating your production as well as drilling installations without being equipped with proper safety and precautionary measures for which major accidents have occurred at the drilling sites,” the letter added.The pollution control board has said that the gas well blowout from gas well 5 and subsequent fire shows negligence and carelessness of M/S OIL India Limited. The board, with powers conferred to it under section 5 of the Environment Protection Act, 1986, has directed the closure of all installations of OIL in Baghjan oil field.“We have ordered complete closure because of their negligent behaviour,” said DN Das, member secretary, Assam Pollution Control Board.Also read: As fire at Assam gas well continues, studies under way to assess impact on environment“We have applied for consent to operate a number of times and even deposited fee for it with the pollution control board. The consent has come through for certain installations, rest are pending,” said Tridiv Hazarika, spokesperson, the OIL. “The PCB had mailed us on June 11 asking us for details of various permissions and data. We had asked for time to reply. It’s a 15-year-old oil field. We managed to send them a response on June 18 but got a closure notice on June 19. It’s not technically possible to close the wells immediately as it will affect reservoirs. Many industries are dependent on the OIL for their operations. We are also considering a legal option for a stay on the closure order,” said Hazarika.There are 17 oil wells and 5 gas wells in the Baghjan oil field. A preliminary report on the environmental damage caused due to the Oil India Limited’s gas well blowout found oil has leaked into the mainstream of river Lohit polluting the water and adjoining Maguri-Motapung wetland with toxic pollutants.The report by Wildlife Institute of India drafted earlier this month has recommended that the approved new wells and exploration in the area should be put on hold until the OIL has disaster handling capabilities in place.“The toxic fumes and oil coating has universally affected flora and fauna. The contaminants and oil is continuing to be released in the surrounding areas and immediate steps are needed to contain this spillover. The toxins released are known to have long-term persistence in soils and sediments, which will not only affect current life conditions but, due to sustained release over a long period, pose a serious health risk for a long term,” the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/baghjan-oil-field-was-operating-without-assam-pollution-control-board-s-nod-says-closure-order/story-Yuq8xM8lEPHj0T33EaA6rN.html
21-06-2020||India||Newlywed brides fought in battle of Haldighati, says Rajasthan textbook||Newlywed brides fought in the battle of Haldighati wearing men’s dresses as part of Mewar king Maharana Pratap’s army against Mughal emperor Akbar, according to a new history book for Class 10 students.The book – Rajasthan Ka Itihas & Sanskrati – available for download from the website of the Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE), said Haldighati was named after these women who had haldi (turmeric) on their hands as part of their wedding rituals.The particular chapter quoted from Dr Mahendra Bhanawat’s book, Ajooba Bharat, as source of this information.“Haldighati ka naam haldi rangi mitti ke karan nahi pada. Aisi mitti yahan hai bhi kahan? Lal, peeli aur kali teen rango wali mitti hai phir Haldighati naam kyo diya gaya? Iska ekmatra karan yeh hai ki yahan haldi chadhi kai nav vivahitayein purush vesh me lad marin (Haldighati didn’t get its name due to turmeric coloured soil. Where was soil of this colour? There are only three colours of soil – red, yellow and black. The only reason for this name is that newlywed women in men’s clothes who had turmeric on their hands fought and died here),” the book says on page 12 of the first chapter.Another RBSE book says Maharana Pratap “lacked the patience, control and planning which is required in a military commander during hostile circumstances”.When contacted, Dr Bhanawat said he wasn’t aware of a Board textbook quoting him. “It is true that there was a practice of women fighting wars from the time of Rana Sanga. In the Haldighati battle, when Pratap’s army was outnumbered by the Mughals, 150 women led by Pratap’s wife fought,” he said.Professor BM Sharma, former chairman of Rajasthan Public Service Commission, was convener of the textbook review committee set up by the Congress government “to remove discrepancies in school textbooks introduced by the BJP government”.He said he was coordinator of the committee but it would be better to ask the board about anything contained in the textbooks.RBSE chairman DP Jaroli said when he took charge, the committee was already working. “I am busy in the Class 10 and 12 exams. I will look into this after the exams. If there’s anything wrong, we will get it rectified,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/newlywed-brides-fought-in-battle-of-haldighati-says-rajasthan-textbook/story-4Kudctc3BABBrNv8SIYsiN.html
21-06-2020||India||Nepal’s FM radio stations beam propaganda across border, say Lipulekh theirs||Nepal’s FM radio channels close to the border with India are broadcasting propaganda to back Kathmandu’s claim on Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura, residents in India’s border villages said. Nepalese parliament recently adopted a new political map of the country showing these areas as part of its own territory, a move strongly opposed by India. “Some Nepalese FM channels have of late started playing anti-India speeches in between Nepali songs,” said Shalu Datal, a resident of Dantu village in Pithoragarh’s Dharchula sub-division. “As people on both sides of the border listen to Nepali songs, they also hear the anti-India speeches delivered by Nepalese leaders in between them,” she said. The main FM stations playing anti-India content between songs are Naya Nepal and Kalapani Radio, Datal said. “Some old channels like Mallikarjun Radio and a website named annapurna.online are also broadcasting reports depicting Kalapani as Nepalese territory,” she said. The FM stations are situated at Chabrigar near the district headquarters in Nepal’s Dharchula. The stations have a range of about three kilometers and can be heard in Dharchula, Baluakot, Jauljibi and Kalika on the Indian side of the border. These radio stations have also started giving weather reports on Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura, treating them as Nepalese territory, Krishna Garbiyal, a Rang community leader based in Dharchula said. However, the district administration and police said they have no information about any anti-India propaganda launched by Nepal through its FM radio channels. “We have no feedback from our intelligence units on the subject,” Pithoragarh Superintendent of Police Preeti Priyadarshini said. Dharchula Circle Officer V K Acharya also expressed ignorance. “Our intelligence units have not yet spoken about any such anti-India propaganda by Nepal,” he said. Ashok Nabiyal, a leader from Vyas Valley, said Indian intelligence agencies active on the border need to take cognizance of the situation to be able to counter the propaganda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-s-fm-radio-stations-beam-propaganda-across-border-say-lipulekh-theirs/story-1yr6mNAWzFpggSuIQhtQRM.html
21-06-2020||India||From Swami Ramdev to CM Trivendra Singh Rawat, International Yoga Day celebrated in Uttarakhand||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and other state ministers performed yoga at their respective houses on the occasion of International Yoga Day on Sunday. The ministers performed asanas while observing social distancing norms. Yoga guru Baba Ramdev also performed yoga at Patanjali Yogpeeth in Haridwar while practising social distancing. At Patanjali Yogpeeth, the day was celebrated with a fine presentation of Vedic culture along with chanting of mantras.Chief minister Rawat performed yoga as per the yoga practice protocol of the AYUSH department. In view of the circumstances due to Covid-19 this year, a public programme of yoga was not organised.In pics: Security personnel perform yoga in spine-chilling temperatureRawat said, “Due to the successful efforts of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the whole world is celebrating June 21 as Yoga Day. We are organising Yoga Day this time under special circumstances. It is very important for our immunity to be strong to fight the Covid-19 epidemic and through yoga, we can increase our immunity.”The chief minister also said that incorporating regular yoga in daily lifestyle for one hour will make one healthy, increase immunity and encouraged others to do the same.Madan Kaushik, state cabinet minister and spokesperson for the Uttarakhand government practised Yoga at his residence in Haridwar. “Yoga provides the ability to bring physical and mental stability. In order to overcome and emerge from the coronavirus conditions, our health must be good, our body’s immunity is strong, for which yoga is important,” he said.Rekha Arya, state minister for women and child development, celebrated International Yoga Day with Aanganwadi functionaries in limited numbers at MKP Degree College Dehradun. Aanganwadi workers have been playing a major role during the Covid-19 pandemic by spreading awareness at the village level across the state.“In the present circumstances, it is necessary to be physically healthy as well as mentally healthy. Yoga has therapeutic properties. It is beneficial mentally, physically and spiritually. Today the entire modern world is facing an epidemic with lifestyle disorders. We have to be self-aware and build our immunity to fight this epidemic and also inspire others and make them understand that Yoga can be the base of a healthy life,” said Arya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-swami-ramdev-to-cm-trivendra-singh-rawat-international-yoga-day-celebrated-in-uttarakhand/story-Im4hyRIKgFm4nEtyeGWdAP.html
21-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Rahul Gandhi calls PM ‘Surender Modi’ over India-China face-off and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.In fresh jibe at PM Modi on India-China face-off, Rahul Gandhi again accuses govt of surrendering Indian territoryCongress leader Rahul Gandhi further sharpened his attack on the government on the face-off between Indian and Chinese soldiers in Ladakh region. And in his direct line of fire is Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Read moreGoa ‘gangsters’ attack rival, end up shooting one of their own; 9 heldNine persons, including two minors, were arrested in connection with the fatal shooting of one Sonu Yadav in the wee hours of Saturday morning at Santa Cruz, a locality on the outskirts of the state’s capital Panaji. Read more88-year-old woman killed in Delhi’s Safdarjung Enclave: PoliceAn 88-year-old woman was killed with her throat slit and her husband, 94, was tied up in their house in south Delhi’s Safdarjung Enclave late on Saturday night, police said on Sunday. Kanta Chawla lived on the ground floor of a four-story residential building with her husband. Read moreJune 21 solar eclipse decade’s 23rd, one more to go this year: ReportThe solar eclipse on Sunday is the 23rd such celestial event in a decade, according to US space agency NASA’s website on eclipses. Read moreSouth Korea records 48 new Covid-19 cases, some outside SeoulSouth Korea has reported 48 new cases of Covid-19 as health authorities struggle to contain a resurgence that’s erasing some of the country’s hard-won gains against the virus. Figures released by the Korea Centres for Disease Control and Prevention on Sunday brought the national caseload to 12,421 confirmed infections including 280 deaths. Read moreHow Sachin Tendulkar’s first India captain helped him become ‘world’s best batsman’, Sivaramakrishnan explainsKris Srikkanth may have captained India in just four Tests and 13 ODIs, but he had what it takes to have been given a longer captaincy rope, feels former India leg-spinner Laxman Sivaramakrishnan. Read moreRana Daggubati’s pre-wedding celebrations begin, fiancee Miheeka Bajaj shares picBaahubali actor Rana Daggubati’s fiancee Miheeka Bajaj has shared a photo dressed in traditional finery on Instagram, fuelling the speculations that their pre-wedding celebrations have started. Read moreSolar Eclipse 2020: Images of the celestial event from around the country. They’re mesmerisingSolar Eclipse which is happening today on June 21 is very special as it’s the last one visible from India this year until it occurs again on 2022. During a solar eclipse the moon passes in front of the sun and completely blocks its light. Read moreCycling in the times of Covid-19: From freedom to fitness to distancingSoon after Partition, a group of Hindi writers — Bhisham Sahni, Nirmal Verma, Krishna Baldev Vaid, Manohar Shyam Joshi and others — set up the Cultural Forum in Delhi. For four years, writes Sahni in his memoir, Today’s Pasts (2015), they met regularly and read their works out to each other. Read moreWatch| Covid & bickering within BJP: Himachal CM Jairam Thakur faces twin battle||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-rahul-gandhi-calls-pm-surender-modi-over-india-china-face-off-and-all-the-latest-news/story-VU0euyiCqGYyYjOgseCcPJ.html
21-06-2020||India||In fresh jibe at PM Modi on India-China face-off, Rahul Gandhi again accuses govt of surrendering Indian territory||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi further sharpened his attack on the government on the face-off between Indian and Chinese soldiers in Ladakh region. And in his direct line of fire is Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“Narendra Modi is actually Surender Modi,” Gandhi tweeted on Sunday. He again attached a news article on along with his tweet which looks at India’s policy towards China. Narendra ModiIs actuallySurender Modihttps://t.co/PbQ44skm0ZHe had attacked the Prime Minister on Saturday too, accusing him of surrendering India’s territory to China. In that tweet, he had used PM Modi’s quote at the all-party meeting where he had asserted that Chinese troops did not intrude Indian territory.“PM has surrendered Indian territory to Chinese aggression. If the land was Chinese: 1. Why were our soldiers killed? 2. Where were they killed?” Gandhi had said in his tweet on Saturday. Also Watch | ‘PM Modi contradicted defence, foreign minister’: Congress on China clashUnion home minister Amit Shah hit back, advising Gandhi to rise above petty politics and stand in solidarity with national interest at a time when the entire country is united.PM Modi had called an all-party meeting on the issue where he said that no intruder was on Indian territory across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China and no Indian military post had been captured.“Because of the improved patrolling, our vigilance has gone up and the military gets to know what is happening on the borders at the right time,” Modi said at the all-party meeting, pointing out that Indian soldiers were able to intercept the Chinese forces who earlier had a free run. “If you keep on intercepting them, it is obvious that tensions will rise,” he said.But the Congress dubbed it as “a lame attempt to obfuscate the truth”.“First of all, PMO and the Government need to clearly state their position on the Galwan Valley. Is Galwan Valley not part of Indian territory? Why is Government not coming forward and strongly rebutting the Chinese claim over Galwan Valley? If Chinese troops are present there, does it not amount to intrusion into and occupation of Indian territory? Also, why is the Government silent on intrusions in the Pangong Tso area?” the Congress party said in a statement.The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) then said that PM Modi’s comments at the all-party meeting were given a “mischievous interpretation”.“Attempts are being made in some quarters to give a mischievous interpretation to remarks by the Prime Minister at the all-party meeting yesterday. The Prime Minister was clear that India would respond firmly to any attempts to transgress the LAC,” the statement said.The war of words has been going on since 20 Indian soldiers were killed in the Galwan Valley in Ladakh on June 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-fresh-jibe-at-pm-modi-on-india-china-face-off-rahul-gandhi-again-accuses-govt-of-surrendering-indian-territory/story-23lB42Fw8bVOiA9GPJcQiJ.html
21-06-2020||India||Glenmark’s Covid-19 drug to nod to Hetero and Cipla for remdesivir: Latest on coronavirus treatment||Glenmark Pharmaceuticals has said it has launched antiviral drug favipiravir, under the brand name FabiFlu, for the treatment of cases of mild to moderate Covid-19.FabiFlu, the first oral favipiravir approved medication in India for the treatment of the coronavirus disease, will be available as a 200mg tablet at a maximum retail price (MRP) of Rs 3,500 for a strip of 34 tablets, Glenmark has said.The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) granted Glenmark Pharmaceuticals the permission to manufacture and market favipiravir for “restricted emergency use” in mild to moderate cases. Also read: More than 1,000 Covid-19 patients untraceable in MumbaiFavipiravir, which has been approved in Japan since 2014 for the treatment of novel or re-emerging influenza virus infections, has shown clinical improvement of up to 88% in mild to moderate Covid-19 cases, the company has said. Also Watch | Covid update: New medicine in India; China super-spreader; $25 bn for 70 nationsGlenmark had announced in May that it is conducting another clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy of two antivirals favipiravir and umifenovir as a combination therapy in moderate hospitalised adult Covid-19 patients in India.Hetero and Cipla have been given a nod by India’s drug regulator to manufacture and market antiviral drug remdesivir for “restricted emergency use” on hospitalised Covid-19 patients.“The approval to Hetero and Cipla was given on Saturday,” news agency PTI quoted a source as saying.Written informed consent of each patient is required before the use of remdesivir and results of additional clinical trials, active post-marketing surveillance data and reporting of serious adverse events have to be submitted.The Union health ministry, in its ‘Clinical Management Protocols for COVID-19’, recommended the use of remdesivir on patients in the moderate stage of the disease that is, those on oxygen.The drug has been included as an “investigational therapy” only for restricted emergency use purposes.Also read: Scramble for beds, ambulances, confusion before order reversedCipla and Hetero Labs have already entered into non-exclusive licensing agreements with US pharma giant Gilead Sciences, which is the patent holder of remdesivir.Gilead Sciences had applied to the Indian Drug Regulatory Agency, Central Drug Control Standard Organisation (CDCSO), for import and marketing of remdesivir on May 29. After due deliberations, permission under emergency use authorisation was granted by DCGI on June 1 in the interest of patient safety and obtaining further data.Gilead had signed non-exclusive voluntary licensing agreements with five generic pharma firms -- Cipla, Jubilant Life Sciences, Hetero, BRD and Mylan to manufacture and distribute remdesivir, a potential antiviral therapy for Covid-19.Following which, Cipla, Hetero Labs, BRD, Mylan, Jubilant Life Sciences, Dr Reddy’s Labs approached India’s drug regulator to make and sell remdesivir in the country and are still awaiting permission.These applications are being processed by the CDSCO in accordance with the laid down procedures. The health ministry had earlier said that these companies are at various intermediate stages of inspection of manufacturing facilities, verification of data, stability testing, emergency laboratory testing as per protocol etc.It has said that being an injectable formulation, testing for assay, identity, impurities, bacterial endotoxin test and sterility become very critical for patient safety and this data needs to be provided by the companies.Serum Institute, the world’s largest manufacturer of vaccines by volume, is working on several candidates for coronavirus—including potentially mass-producing the AstraZeneca and Oxford university one—as well as developing its own.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/glenmark-s-covid-19-drug-to-nod-to-hetero-and-cipla-for-remdesivir-latest-on-india-s-fight-against-coronavirus/story-t2vOApAZQRpxGaKJeZCk0J.html
21-06-2020||India||In Defence minister’s meet on Ladakh face-off, top military brass told to ensure ‘strict vigil’ on China||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday held a high-level meeting with Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and three service chiefs on the situation in Ladakh.During the meeting, the top military brass was told to ensure “strict vigil” on Chinese activities around the land border, airspace and in strategic sea lanes, sources said as reported by news agency PTI. The meeting was attended by Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, Army Chief Gen MM Naravane, Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh and Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria.The Armed forces have been given full freedom to deal with any aggressive behaviour by China’s PLA along the LAC, PTI reported citing sources.  Also read: ‘Let’s hurt them economically’ - General VK Singh on India-China border rowTop military brass told to ensure strict vigil on Chinese activities around land border, airspace and in strategic sea lanes: SourcesThis comes a day after HT reported a significant change in Rules of Engagement (ROE) by the Indian Army following in the backdrop of the Galwan Valley face-off between India and China which killed 20 Indian Army soldiers on June 15.  Also Watch | Can India fight war on two fronts with China & Pakistan? Gen VP Malik answersThe amendment gives “complete freedom of action” to commanders deployed along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) to “handle situations at the tactical level,” two senior officers said on Saturday on condition of anonymity. India to adopt a different tactical approach in guarding border with China henceforth: Sources after defence minister's review meeting“With the changes in the ROE, there’s nothing that limits the ability of Indian commanders to take whatever action they deem necessary on the LAC. ROE have been amended to address the brutal tactics being employed by Chinese troops,” an officer said.During an all-party meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, PM Modi discussed the situation along the India-China border.The prime minister had said that the armed forces at the LAC border were given “full freedom for taking any appropriate action necessary,” adding that neither the Chinese troops intruded Indian border, nor were any post been taken over by China’s People’s Liberation Army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/strict-vigil-on-chinese-activities-around-land-border-airspace-defence-minister-holds-review-meet-on-ladakh-face-off/story-e1eLg6FCnJ9D4LvWpra45J.html
21-06-2020||India||Goa ‘gangsters’ attack rival, end up shooting one of their own; 9 held||Nine persons, including two minors, were arrested in connection with the fatal shooting of one Sonu Yadav in the wee hours of Saturday morning at Santa Cruz, a locality on the outskirts of the state’s capital Panaji.According to the police, a group of people attacked the house of one Imran Bepari at around 3 am on Saturday and began firing rounds from a revolver, also damaging vehicles and property belonging to Bepari.The group, however, accidentally ended up shooting their own member Yadav, who sustained a gunshot injury above the abdomen. Yadav later succumbed to his injuries. Bepari instead, survived the incident unscathed.“Police teams were formed immediately, CCTV footage in the area was probed and the details of all suspected persons in the matter was obtained. During the investigation, a total of nine persons were apprehended which included two minors,” North Goa Superintendent of Police Utkrisht Prasoon said.The accused have been identified as Marcelino Dias, 35; Ronny D’Souza, 23; Samuel D’Souza, 20; David Araujo, 26; Miguel Araujo, 19; Francisco Nadal, 23; and David D’Souza, 20. The two juveniles have not been named.The police have also recovered a revolver from Marcelino Dias.Director-General of Police Jaspal Singh has sanctioned a reward of Rs 25,000 to the investigating team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-gangsters-attack-rival-end-up-shooting-one-of-their-own-9-held/story-gQtw2Ik3gZiFsjSpwVlakJ.html
21-06-2020||India||Yoga can be solution for stress created by Covid-19: Venkaiah Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday said people should be physically and mentally healthy to put up a united fight against the novel coronavirus as humanity cannot allow the pandemic to get the better of it.  He also said that yoga can be an effective solution for the high level of stress that the pandemic has created in our lives.“Yoga is a relatively low-risk, high-yield approach to improving overall health and its full potential must be harnessed,” he said addressing an event to mark the International Day of Yoga.Expressing concern over instances of youngsters ending their lives “when unable to cope with the modern-day pressures and stress”, he said all such deaths were completely avoidable. Yoga can help in dealing effectively with problems like depression, anxiety and stress, which have become all-pervasive due to modern lifestyle, he said according to a statement.Pointing out that the pandemic was not the only health crisis that was threatening the well-being of the people, he expressed concern over the increase in lifestyle diseases. Quoting the WHO, he said it was estimated that 63 per cent of all deaths in India in 2016 were because of non-communicable diseases (NCDs).“Yoga remains an incredibly simple but powerful instrument to prevent and control lifestyle diseases,”  Naidu observed.Referring to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the physical and mental health of the people, the Vice President said the world is going through challenging times and “we simply cannot allow the pandemic to get the better of us. We have to unite and put up a stronger fight and to ensure that we are healthy, both physically and mentally.” He also urged educational institutions to include yoga as part of online learning programmes being held in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, saying it is one of the best options to improve the body’s immunity.He said yoga is a unique gift of India to the world which is successfully transforming millions of lives around the globe.He said children must be introduced to Yoga at a young age. Observing that the 5,000-year-old tradition is not a mere workout, he said, “It is a science that emphasises balance, poise, grace, equanimity, peace and harmony”. Calling for large-scale scientific experimentation to further explore the immense possibilities of yoga as a wellness solution,  Naidu said it is a mode of therapy or “yog chikitsa” that has become extremely popular.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yoga-can-be-solution-for-stress-created-by-covid-19-venkaiah-naidu/story-HV2vJ3DA1DvWvCSWrvlLvO.html
21-06-2020||India||Yoga practitioners have less chances of getting Covid-19: Shripad Naik||Yoga practitioners have less chances of getting infected by coronavirus, Union AYUSH Minister Shripad Naik said on Sunday.Talking to PTI on the occasion of the International Day of Yoga, Naik also said the propagation of yoga across the country and the world during the Narendra Modi-led regime has helped in the fight against Covid-19.“I am sure that propagation of yoga across the country and the world during the Modi-led government’s tenure has helped in a big way to fight back Covid-19. Those who are practicing yoga have less chances of getting infected with Covid-19, the minister claimed.The BJP leader, who performed yoga at his home at Ribandar village near Panaji in North Goa district, said yoga boosts immunity and strengthens the respiratory system, which helps build resistance against diseases like Covid-19.Naik said the International Yoga Day function, which was scheduled to be held in Leh on Sunday, was cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic, which has made social distancing a necessity.People were advised to practice yoga while staying at home, the Lok Sabha member from North Goa said.“We got a tremendous response. People participated by practicing yoga at home. We recommended that there should not be more than 20 people if they are performing yoga in a public place, he said.Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, who participated in a function held in his constituency Sankhalim in North Goa district, said yoga helps a person perceive things around him in a positive way.“Yoga cannot control what goes on outside. But it can control what goes on inside, transforming how a person perceives things around him in a positive way. Lets adopt a healthy way of living, Sawant tweeted.State Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said yoga has been known for enhancing mental and physical health.“This years focus is to practice yoga at home to inculcate healthier habits. This #InternationalYogaDay take a pledge to take out at least an hour for yoga every day,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yoga-practitioners-have-less-chances-of-getting-covid-19-shripad-naik/story-jZhx8SHthUqjBniAIqJUoK.html
21-06-2020||India||June 21 solar eclipse decade’s 23rd, one more to go this year: Report||The solar eclipse on Sunday is the 23rd such celestial event in a decade, according to US space agency NASA’s website on eclipses. Today’s eclipse is an annular one, meaning the moon is unable to cover the entire sun, leaving a small surface exposed which is called the “ring of fire”.According to NASA’s website, there will be 24 solar eclipses between 2011 and 2020.Click here for Solar Eclipse 2020 live updatesThe website says that the first eclipse in these 10 years was reported on January 4, 2011. It was a partial eclipse and covered geographic regions in Europe, Africa and central Asia. There were three more similar events in the same year - on June 1, July 1 and November 25. All those eclipses were partial.The year 2012 saw two solar eclipses - on May 20 and November 13. While the first one was annular, the second eclipse was total.The next five years saw two solar eclipses each. Only three of those eclipses were total, according to NASA website.There were three solar elipses each in 2018 and 2019, the website further reported.It further said that the year 2020 will witness two solar eclipses - one is today and the other one will fall on December 14. The second solar eclipse of the year will be total.Today’s solar eclipse (surya grahan in Hindi) started a little after 9 am after the sun, the moon and the earth came in a straight line.The coronavirus pandemic has had its impact on the eclipse this year. Large gatherings are banned, so special events organised at observatories and planetariums have been cancelled across the country. Those keen to experience the eclipse will have to do so from their homes.However, experts said that it is possible to do so using a pinhole camera. “Take a piece of cardboard and make a small hole in it and put the cardboard down and make see the shadow of the cardboard - you would be able to see that hole. If you lift the cardboard slowly, you would see the shape change,” Nandivada Rathnasree, director at the Nehru Memorial Museum and Library, told news agency ANI.It is the first solar eclipse of this year taking place on the summer solstice, the longest day in the Northern Hemisphere.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/june-21-solar-eclipse-decade-s-23rd-one-more-to-go-this-year-report/story-O5svUiIwf6dx6lj3Zdkq5O.html
21-06-2020||India||In pics: India witnesses ‘Ring of fire’ solar eclipse, ‘deepest’ in over a century||Various parts of India witnessed solar eclipse or ‘surya grahan’ 2020 on Sunday. This is the third eclipse even for this year after first two lunar eclipses took place in January and June.This is also the last annual solar eclipse of the decade.The solar eclipse began from around 9 am on Sunday across India as the Sun, the Moon, and the Earth came in a straight line and will be visible until 1.50 pm with maximum visibility at 12.05 pm. The country witnessed the ‘deepest’ annular solar eclipse in over a century.According to astrologers and experts, today’s was the fourth super rare hybrid eclipse which is a mix between an annular and total solar eclipse.Also read: June 21 solar eclipse decade’s 23rd, one more to go this yearDelhi, among areas like Hyderabad, Chennai, Bhubaneshwar, Kolkata, Lucknow, Mumbai, Delhi, Patna, Shillong and others witnessed a partial phase of the solar eclipse.The eclipse will continue for over three hours on Sunday covering 84 percent of Sun.The eclipse will also be visible in Asia, Africa, the Pacific, the Indian Ocean, parts of Europe and Australia.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/solar-ecipse-2020-india-witnesses-ring-of-fire-solar-eclipse-deepest-in-over-a-century/story-uNatsMwZQUruuVtwfNZ5uN.html
21-06-2020||India||In pics: Undeterred by spine-chilling temperature, security personnel perform yoga||On the occasion of International Yoga Day 2020, people across the country were seen performing yoga asanas and pranayama. While some stayed indoors and followed this year’s theme ‘Yoga at home and Yoga with family’, many others were seen performing pranayama in small groups, adhering social distancing norms at the same time. The spirit of Yoga Day was exhibited in Sikkim and Ladakh where security personnel were seen performing yoga in sub-zero temperature. Also read: In pics: India celebrates International Yoga Day 2020 amid Covid-19 pandemic Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel performed yoga at an altitude of 18,800 feet in North Sikkim on the occasion of International Yoga Day today. ITBP personnel in Ladakh also followed suit and performed yoga at an altitude of 18,000 feet in freezing weather. Visuals also came in from across the country, showing security forces taking part in yoga events. Indian Army’s Jammu Kashmir Light Infantry (JKLI) Battalion performed yoga in Rangreth of Srinagar today. In Uttarakhand, ITBP personnel were seen performing yoga at an altitude of 10,000 feet in Auli. Scored of leaders and politicians also performed pranayama in the spirit of International Day 2020 - from President Ram Nath Kovind, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, BJP president JP Nadda to Union ministers Prahlad Patel, Giriraj Singh and Prakash Javadekar, among others. Today marks the sixth edition of the International Yoga Day 2020 which saw people across the country take part in various yoga events to commemorate the day. International Yoga Day is Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s brainchild who proposed the idea in the year 2014, right after assuming charge as the prime minister during his first term.  The prime minister rallied for the observance of a day dedicated to yoga and pranayama at the global level. International Yoga Day is observed every year since 2014 on June 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-yoga-day-2020-undeterred-by-spine-chilling-sub-zero-temperature-security-personnel-perform-yoga-in-ladakh-sikkim/story-KtP1PtZGm1xIRxfy1KRJ2L.html
21-06-2020||India||Yoga gives strength to face adversity, says PM Modi||Yoga has emerged as a force for unity that does not discriminate and goes beyond race, colour, gender, faith and nations, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday.In his message on the sixth International Day of Yoga, Modi said due to the coronavirus pandemic, the world is feeling the need for yoga more than ever. The International Day of Yoga is a day of “oneness of humanness,” he said.Covid-19 specifically attacks our respiratory system which is strengthened on doing ‘pranayama’ or breathing exercise, Modi said.“If our immunity is strong, it is of great help in defeating this disease. For boosting immunity, there are several techniques in yoga, various ‘asanas’ are there,” he said.Modi said yoga was not about providing physical strength, but also mental balance and emotional stability to confidently negotiate the challenges before us.He said a yoga practitioner does not lose composure even in the most challenging circumstances. Even when the circumstances are adverse, to stay active, balanced and continue working tirelessly – yoga gives us these strengths, said Modi.“Yoga enhances our quest for a healthier planet. It has emerged as a force for unity and deepens the bonds of humanity. It does not discriminate. It goes beyond race, colour, gender, faith and nations. Anybody can embrace yoga,” the Prime Minister said.If we can fine-tune our chords of health and hope, the day is not far away when the world will witness the success of healthy and happy humanity, he said in the message.With the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic looming large, International Day of Yoga is being marked on digital media platforms sans mass gatherings. This year’s theme is ‘Yoga at Home and Yoga with Family’, Modi noted.“We are talking of solving problems and working for global welfare through yoga,” he added.The Prime Minister referred to the message of the Bhagwad Gita and said yoga was about efficiency in action.“When we move forward with Yoga, our strength increases manifold. And we have to commit today that as aware citizens we will move forward with our families and society,” he said.On December 11, 2014, the United Nations General Assembly had declared June 21 as ‘International Day of Yoga’, months after Prime Minister Modi had proposed the idea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yoga-gives-strength-to-face-adversity-says-pm-modi/story-zBrA9MOg5cU8M3uCWZC5NN.html
21-06-2020||India||Haryana becomes ninth state with over 10,000 cases as infections surge across India: Covid-19 state tally||Coronavirus cases in the country have crossed the 4 lakh-mark with states reporting a surge in daily infections. In the sharpest single-day rise, India reported 15,413 Covid-19 cases and 306 deaths. Haryana’s tally jumped beyond 10,000-mark making it the ninth state in the country with more than 10,000 cases after Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal.   India’s Covid-19 tally stands at 410,461 with 13,254 fatalities and 227,755 people who have been cured from the disease. Here’s looking at the statewise breakup of Covid-19 numbersTop 10 statesMaharashtraCovid-19 tally in Maharashtra jumped to 128,205 on Sunday. As many as 5,984 people have died of coronavirus in Maharashtra while 64,153 have recovered. Tamil NaduCovid-19 cases have jumped to 56,845 in the southern state. Seven hundred and four people have died of Covid-19 in the state, over 31,316 people have recovered. Also read: Over 15,000 Covid-19 cases take India’s infection tally to 410,461DelhiIn the national capital, the Covid-19 tally rose to 56,746 on Sunday, 31,294 patients have recovered here while 2,112 have died due to Covid-19. Gujarat PM Modi’s home state saw the Covid-19 rise to 26,680 on Sunday. The state has seen 18,694 people recover from coronavirus while 1,638 people have died.Uttar PradeshThe state has reported 16,594 cases of coronavirus so far. As many as 9,995 people have recovered in the state while the death toll stands at 507.Rajasthan Coronavirus cases in Rajasthan have jumped to 14,536. The state Covid-19 death toll stands at 337 while over 11,274 people have recovered from the deadly contagion here.  West BengalThe state Covid-19 tally zoomed to 13,531 on Sunday. West Bengal has seen 540 coronavirus deaths till date while 7,865 people have recovered here. Madhya Pradesh The state has seen its Covid-19 tally jump to 11,724 on Sunday. As many as 8,880 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh while 501 people have died.   HaryanaThe state has over 10,000 coronavirus cases and became the ninth in the country to have more than 10,000 coronavirus cases. Over 5,128 people have recovered from the deadly contagion here while 149 people have died.  KarnatakaThe southern Indian state has witnessed over 8,697 coronavirus cases till date with 132 fatalities. The number of Covid-19 patients who have recovered in the state has jumped to 5,391.Situation in other statesCovid-19 cases in Bihar stand at 7,533 while Andhra Pradesh has reported 8,452 Covid-19 cases till date. Telangana has 7,072 coronavirus cases while in Jammu and Kashmir the tally has crossed the 5,800-mark. In Odisha, cases stand at 4,856 while Assam has reported 4,904 cases till date. Punjab’s Covid-19 tally has crossed the 3,900-mark. Covid-19 cases in Kerala have crossed the 3,000-mark. States with less than 3,000 casesStates and Union territories where coronavirus cases are less than 3,000, but more than 500, include Uttarakhand, Ladakh, Jharkhand, Tripura, Manipur, Goa and Himachal Pradesh. Chandigarh, Nagaland, Puducherry, Mizoram have reported under 500 Covid-19 cases or less. Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Dadra Nagar Haveli have less than 100 Covid-19 cases. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-becomes-ninth-state-with-over-10-000-cases-as-infections-surge-across-india-covid-19-state-tally/story-8SxJck9RFkHjK7bmw4OWHN.html
21-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand govt to prepare action plan for tourism sector hit by Covid-19||The Uttarakhand government will prepare an action plan for the tourism sector, hit badly by the Covid-19 lockdown.Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Saturday instructed officials to prepare the action plan for tourism throughout the year. Rawat gave the instruction during a video conference with Ashwini Lohani, advisor to the Chardham Devasthanam Board and Subhash Goyal, general secretary of the Federation of Associations in Indian Tourism and Hospitality (FAITH).“There is a need to encourage tourism apart from the peak tourist period, especially in places located on the travel route. Suggestions of pilgrims and locals should also be obtained on the proposed master plan of Badrinath Dham,” said the chief minister.During the video conferencing, Lohani stressed on the need to develop Uttarakhand tourism as a brand. He also mentioned a that a lot of potential is there in the rich wildlife of the state.Goyal said that special attention should be paid to high end tourism in Uttarakhand. In this, cooperation of tourism industry and related institutions should also be taken.During the meeting, tourism secretary Dilip Jawalkar gave detailed information about various dimensions of tourism in Uttarakhand and the ongoing projects in the state. He apprised the chief minister and the officials about Chardham Devasthanam Board, home stay policy, adventure tourism, ropeway projects and 13 districts 13 destinations project.Jawalkar also gave a presentation on the master plan for Badrinath Dham.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-govt-to-prepare-action-plan-for-tourism-sector-hit-by-covid-19/story-Aq2OCPHB8lmqIUAzcZCsqI.html
21-06-2020||India||Over 15,000 Covid-19 cases take India’s infection tally to 410,461||India recorded 15,413 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 306 deaths as the country’s infection tally went past the 4.10 lakh-mark, according to the Union health ministry on Sunday.This is the first time 15,000 Covid-19 cases were reported in a single day, 14,516 people had contracted the infection on Saturday, taking the tally to 410,461.India added 101,468 Covid-19 cases in just eight days—there were 308,993 infections on June 13. According to data collated by HT, about 75% of the total infections in India have been reported between May 19 and June 20.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe positivity rate also rose from 4.6% for the week ending May 17 to 7.8% for the week ending June 17. It is the average rate of samples testing positive for Covid-19 across the country.According to the health ministry’s dashboard, there are 169,451 active Covid-19 cases and 227,755 or 55.48% patients of the respiratory disease have been cured so far. The number of people who have succumbed stands at 13,254, it showed.Maharashtra, Delhi and Tamil Nadu—the worst-hit states—account for nearly 60% of the total infections. According to the health ministry, Maharashtra has 128,205 Covid-19 patients in the state and 5,984 people have died so far. Also read: Record 1-day jump in Maharashtra cases for third day in a rowWhile Tamil Nadu is the second worst-hit state in the country with 56,845 Covid-19 cases and 704 fatalities, Delhi has reported 56,746 infections and 2,112 fatalities linked to the respiratory disease. Gujarat has 26,680 cases of the respiratory disease and 1,638 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-15-000-covid-19-cases-take-india-s-infection-tally-to-410-461/story-Dj6DYJnrehWUKqVCWEdHtN.html
21-06-2020||India||‘Let’s hurt them economically’: General VK Singh on India-China border row||Minister of state for road transport and highways and former Chief of Army Staff (COAS), General VK Singh said the latest transgression by China into Indian territory has created a trust deficit. He also said war is the last resort, but there are many ways, including an economic boycott that can be an apt response to China.Here are the excerpts of Singh’s conversation with HTQ: As an ex-army chief what is your reading of the ground situation?A: It is firmly in control of the Indian troops. There are no intrusions. There are transgressions, not intrusions. Where PP 14 is concerned, there is no intrusion whatsoever. Where PP 15 area is concerned, every year they have been trying to transgress and every year we push them to go back.Where Pangong Tso is concerned, this is not just a yearly feature, but happens in the summer and sometimes in the winter also. These have been happening, the only difference this time is that the transgression has involved a certain amount of stealth in the Pangong Tso area, they’ve done things which they have never done earlier.Q: Like what?A: Trying to land some troops behind Finger 4, this they did for the first time. And the aim is clear - they want to push us from Finger 4. Our people, however, will take care of that.Also read: ‘No restrictions on using firearms’ - India gives soldiers freedom along LACQ: Is that what the negotiation and talks were about? A: The talks were about wherever there have been transgression - like at PP 14 where they said the LAC is not this way but is a different way. They have been told that we’ve been sitting here on this for decades now, where is the doubt. Same is true for other regions including Chumar. They try and come to the Heights opposite the DBO. All this is very old it’s not new. What is new is as the infrastructure becomes better they try to overawe us by more strength or vehicles. Also Watch | Can India fight war on two fronts with China & Pakistan? Gen VP Malik answersQ: There are questions about why there was ambiguity about the Chinese being on our territory and now them claiming the Galwan.A: They are not on our territory. The LAC is an interpretation from a map given in 1959 and the Chinese keep advancing some claim or the other. The LAC is not marked on the ground, there is no agreement on it. There is a certain amount of flexibility that exists out there. But there are places where both sides know their sides and ensure these are protected. Where there is no man’s land, which comes up because of these perceptional differences, is where these patrol face-offs take place.Q: What details do we have of the casualties on the Chinese side? Did we detain any PLA soldiers and how many?A: In the 1962 war, they never told anybody how many casualties they suffered. It was sometime in the 2000s when they said we suffered a few hundred (casualties), but people who fought know exactly how much they had suffered. They are good at deception because they don’t want the people to get anti-government or raise objections.I’m quite sure they must be disposing of the dead also in a manner that others don’t come to know. There was talk of 43 persons in the beginning, in the media. I would say whoever put out that figure, based on what the troops had said, is the minimum. There may be more.Since we did not cross the Line of Actual Control, they were on one side of the river near PP 14. So, most of the things were on each side, it was not something that was on our side. What happened was that people got separated. In the melee, where there are over 600 people just jostling, scuffling, pushing and hitting each other and in a dark night some people got separated; their people on our side and our people on their side. But in the morning they were exchanged. I was told that one of their chaps said we have treated your people well and our chaps said we have also treated your people well. Matter ended there with no brouhaha about it.Q: Do we have a number? A: As per my information we had some people.Q: On Friday, Congress president Sonia Gandhi at the all-party meeting asked if this was an intelligence failure.A: I am not in a position to respond because intelligence is a domain that is looked after by the R&AW. What I can refute is that it is a military intelligence failure, because they have been debarred from looking across the LoC and the LAC. This happened in 2012 and Sonia Gandhi should have known about it. Q: There are questions about the policy of using arms at LAC too.A: In the dark of the night… you are among 600 people carrying weapons, you don’t know where your people are. What happens if somebody fires breaking the agreement? These agreements have been there and both sides are adhering to it, if one side breaks it then the other side will also break it.So far, we haven’t had any problems. That is why this pushing and jostling took place, otherwise firing would’ve taken place. Just like what happened on the Line of Control that we don’t have an agreement of a similar nature but other agreements. There are protocols that have come into being over a period of time after negotiations of the border peace and treaty agreement and unfortunately, you have to follow them. [If] You want to break them, then somebody should take a decision. If Congress is so concerned about it, they should have broken it and not gotten into it. As a military man, I can say, I don’t think the military wanted it and I don’t think the military was even consulted on it. Q: What has changed after Monday’s conflict? A: The only thing that has changed is that we knew they were deceitful but they will engineer such a big deceit on us... it leads to loss of confidence. And we will think 10 times before believing them that they will do a particular thing. We will be more prepared for any eventuality that will follow.Q: You also said China did this to deflect attention. Would you explain?A: Why would China try to do things at the border, it is there any reason? In China nothing happens at the local level, it all comes from the top and who is the head of the military commission, Xi Jinping. So this is not like India where broad instructions are there and commanders do their own things. What is it that they want to divert attention from? They are in the firing line of all the countries in the world because of Covid-19, they are having problems in Hong Kong, they have problems in the South China Sea, they have trade problems with the United States, everybody is blaming them for everything. It means they want to divert attention from something.Q: The PM said the sacrifice of our soldiers will not go in vain. What do you think will be an apt response to China?A: If you’re going to tell about the response now then the response is of no use whatsoever. I am sure the required people have been tasked to think of what can be done, what cannot be done and what all measures have to be taken. The first thing that has been given out is to boycott Chinese goods, let’s start with this. Let’s hurt them economically other things will follow. War and use of force is the last resort always and every time. When all other means fail then you resort to this. There are many means available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/war-is-the-last-resort-let-s-hurt-them-economically-general-vk-singh-on-india-china-border-row/story-0abNH3yfPoE979VtbmQdJN.html
21-06-2020||India||Domestic pharma giants-- Cipla, Hetero got DCGI’s nod to manufacture, sell anti-viral Remdesivir drug to fight Covid-19||In a significant development, India’s top drug regulator has given nod to two domestic pharmaceutical companies--Cipla and Hetero for marketing authorization of anti-viral drug Remdesivir only for “restricted emergency use” on Covid-19 patients with moderate disease (those on oxygen), a senior government official told ANI.With this development, India is soon to begin the domestic production of anti-viral drug remdesivir which would have efficacy, stability, safety for “restricted emergency use” on Covid-19 patients, official added.Earlier, this month ANI had reported that the Central Drug Control Standard Organisation (CDCSO) office of DCGI had granted its permission to US based Gilead Sciences for marketing authorization of its anti-viral drug Remdesivir in India for “restricted emergency use” on hospitalized Covid-19 patients in the wake of virus pandemic.On Saturday, ANI reported reported that DCGI granted domestic firm Glenmark Pharmaceuticals the permission to manufacture and market anti- viral drug favipiravir.Gilead had signed non-exclusive voluntary licensing agreements with five generic pharma firms -- Cipla, Jubilant Life Sciences, Hetero, BRD and Mylan to manufacture and distribute remdesivir, a potential antiviral therapy for Covid-19.Following which, the six domestic pharma giants--Cipla, Hetero Labs, BRD, Mylan, Jubilant Life Sciences, Dr. Reddy’s Labs approached to the India’s drug regulator to make and sell remdesivir in the country.“Two pharma giants--Cipla and Hetero were ahead among the other applications. Some of the companies are at various intermediate stages of inspection of manufacturing facilities, verification of data, stability testing, emergency laboratory testing as per protocol etc,” said official.“Being an injectable formulation, testing for assay, identity, impurities, bacterial endotoxin test and sterility become very critical for patient safety and this data need to be provided by the companies.CDSCO is awaiting the data and is providing complete support to these companies,” said the official.Apart from this, pharma companies have been directed to take written informed consent of each and every patient, results of additional clinical trials to be submitted, active surveillance data of all treated patients to be submitted, risk management plan along with active post marketing surveillance and reporting of serious adverse events also to be submitted, said the official.It has already waived off the requirement of local clinical trials for these companies by invoking emergency provisions. The regulatory processes are being facilitated and expedited by CDSCO, official said.The union health ministry’s recent issued clinical management guidelines for Covid-19. In the latest protocol, the health ministry has described the use of Remdesivir drug as investigational therapy on coronavirus patient.“Patient can be administered with 200 mg IV on day 1 followed by 100 mg IV daily for 5 days. The drug cannot be administered to a pregnant or lactating mother and children below age of 12years. The drug is not recommended to patient with liver problems and renal complications,” stated the clinical management protocol on Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-pharma-giants-cipla-hetero-got-dcgi-s-nod-to-manufacture-sell-anti-viral-remdesivir-drug-to-fight-covid-19/story-d0SO89nj6xi7fLG7C29SWM.html
21-06-2020||India||From President Kovind to CM Kejriwal: How leaders, politicians celebrated International Yoga Day 2020||Prime Minister Narendra Modi underscored the significance of yoga and pranayama on the sixth edition of International Yoga Day 2020 on Sunday. He urged everyone to make yoga and pranayama part of their routine. Although the Covid-19 crisis could not let the recreation of large public events to commemorate the day like those during the previous years, the spirit was not dampened by the pandemic. People adhered to social distancing and preventive guidelines while performing yoga and pranayama in small groups. Keeping the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic in mind, this year’s theme is ‘Yoga at home and Yoga with family’. Scores of leaders and politicians took to the comfort of their homes to break into asanas or perform breathing exercises.In pics: India celebrates Yoga Day 2020 amid Covid-19 crisisPresident Ram Nath Kovind tweeted out pictures of him performing yoga.Greetings on #InternationalYogaDay. The ancient science of Yoga is India’s great gift to the world. Glad to see more and more people adopting it. Amid stress and strife, especially with #Covid19, practicing Yoga can help keep the body fit and mind serene. pic.twitter.com/1ZGqsTnn4AVice President M Venkaiah Naidu and his spouse performed yoga at the lawns of Uparashtrapati Bhawan today.  On #InternationalYogaDay, the Vice President of India, Shri M Venkaiah Naidu and his spouse Smt. Ushamma performed yoga on the lawns of Uparashtrapati Bhawan today, following the theme for the Yoga Day this year- 'Yoga at home and Yoga with family' . pic.twitter.com/gXBSrUYs9PDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal stayed at his residence and performed yoga to commemorate the day. Hon'ble CM Shri Arvind Kejriwal practicing yoga at his residence on the #InternationalYogaDay. Wish everyone good health on this special occasion. pic.twitter.com/Sn43m3J7n2Bharatiya Janata Party national president JP Nadda was seen performing a host of yoga asanas in a small group at his residence. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla also performed yoga at his residence. Delhi: Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla performs yoga at his residence on #InternationalYogaDay today. pic.twitter.com/yr03xcf9m0International Yoga Day, PM Modi’s brainchild, came into existence in the year 2014 when the prime minister rallied for the international observance of a day dedicated to yoga every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-president-kovind-to-cm-kejriwal-how-leaders-politicians-celebrated-international-yoga-day-2020/story-AuYSyat4aVn7UG07F2Q6ZO.html
21-06-2020||India||First 1 lakh cases in 78 days, latest in just 8: Tracking Covid-19 spike in India||The number of coronavirus cases in India is very close to 4,00,000 mark. The country nears this grim milestone as a result of the spike in the number of cases in the last few days.In fact, the latest 1,00,000 infections in the country have been recorded in just eight days. This is lower than the 10 days it took for the previous 1,00,000 infections and 15 days for the 1,00,000 cases before that mark.The milestone of first one lakh cases was crossed in 78 days, after India imposed a lockdown to check the spread of the coronavirus disease. Experts say that India was able to control the early spike because of the lockdown, which was imposed in March when the country had just over 600 confirmed Covid-19 cases.An analysis of the spread of the disease done by Hindustan Times shows that about 75 per cent of the total infections in India have been reported between May 19 and June 20.The Union health ministry dashboard shows the number of cases in the country are 3,95,048. The number of active cases are 1,68,269 and 2,13,830 patients have been cured or discharged.If we compare the infection data of last one month, the rate of samples testing positive has gone up from 4.6 per cent for the week ending May 17 to 7.8 per cent till June 17. The nodal agency for testing the samples in the country is the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) which has said that 6.3 per cent samples of the over 6.6 million samples have tested positive.Also read | 8 week lockdown led to India pushing coronavirus peak to November: StudyOut of these, 1,89,869 tests were conducted in the previous 24-hour period, ICMR said on Saturday morning.The increase in the testing capacity, coupled with the rise in the number of patients being diagnosed for Covid-19, is an indication of the virus’ prevalence in India, experts say.“It is only natural that if you test more, more people will test positive... India is currently at the ascending limb of the epidemic. We have not reached the peak [of infections] yet, and in this situation, this is what will happen (more people will test positive),” said Dr Lalit Kant, the former head of epidemiology and communicable disease at ICMR.Covid-19 has crippled economies across the globe and countries have put in place strick lockdowns to slow its spread. The disease originated in China’s Wuhan late last year and has so far infected over 8.8 million people and claimed 4,64,294 lives globally.Experts say the pandemic is now in its third surge of the outbreak - the first being in China, second in Europe and the US, and the latest thriving in Latin American countries such as Brazil, Peru and Chile along with India, Mexico and Russia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-1-lakh-cases-in-78-days-latest-in-just-8-tracking-covid-19-spike-in-india/story-kwYotHZwLFL98GuVQNw1BL.html
21-06-2020||India||Yoga is about doing our duties well: PM Modi on International Yoga Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said yoga not only gives us the physical strength but also the mental balance and emotional stability to “confidently negotiate the challenges before us”.The Prime Minister, in his address to the nation on the sixth edition of the International Yoga Day, recited shlokas from the Gita to talk about what yoga means. “Friends, if we can fine-tune our codes of health and hope, the day is not far away when the world will witness the success of healthy and happy humanity. Yoga can definitely help us make this happen,” the PM said.He also talked about karma yoga, saying if we do our jobs with discipline and carry our responsibilities well, even that is yoga.“In the Gita, Lord Krishna while explaining yoga has said: ‘Yoga: Karmasu Kaushalam’ which means that the efficiency in action is yoga. This mantra always teaches that if we practice yoga, we can make ourselves better in our lives,” he said.“There is a saying here that yuktāhāravihārasya yuktaceṣṭasya karmasu, yuktasvapnāvabodhasya yogo bhavati duḥkhahā. It means eating the right food, exercising in the right way, following right habits of sleeping and waking up, and doing our work and our duties correctly is yoga,” he added.Karma yoga helps us find a solution to all our pains and problems, he said.“The meaning of yoga is samtvam yoga uchayate. That is remaining steadfast in every situation: adversity and hostility, success and failure, happiness and crisis is yoga,” PM Modi said.This is the first time since June 21, 2015, the International Yoga Day is being observed digitally amid the coronavirus pandemic.This year’s theme is ‘Yoga at Home and Yoga with Family’.PM Modi had urged people, in a video message on Thursday, to observe the day from their homes due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yoga-is-about-doing-our-duties-well-pm-modi-on-international-yoga-day/story-m3JHBjmfZM4eY4V2Wrw1mI.html
21-06-2020||India||3 terrorists gunned down in encounter in J-K’s Srinagar||Three local terrorists were killed by security forces in Zadibal area of Jammu and Kashmir’s Srinagar in a gun battle, the second in the just over a month in the city, officials said on Sunday.Vijay Kumar, inspector general of police in Kashmir, said they were involved in the killing of two personnel of the Border Security Force (BSF) near Pandach Chowk on May 20 during Ramzan.The encounter between terrorists and security forces had erupted after a cordon and search operation was launched in the morning in Zadibal and Zoonimar Pozwalpora localities following inputs about their presence in the areas.Police said parents of the trapped terrorists were brought to the encounter site and asked to surrender but they refused to do so.“Through our sources, we go to know of their identity and called their parents who appealed to them to surrender. But they didn’t relent,” Vijay Kumar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI earlier in the day.“Two of them are active since 2019. One was involved in attack on two BSF (Border Security Force) jawans last month,” Kumar added.In May, security forces had gunned two terrorists of the Hizbul Mujahideen, including the son of a Kashmiri separatist leader, after an hours-long gunbattle on in Nawa Kadal locality of Srinagar.More than a dozen houses were also damaged in the blaze that erupted after several blasts and exchange of fire between terrorists and security forces during a 12-hour encounter in Nawa Kadal area on May 19. The gunbattle had started the previous day. Three personnel of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and a policeman were also injured during the encounter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-forces-launch-search-operation-in-srinagar-to-trace-terrorists/story-pKQvLBcCybcbA7W4pXblIP.html
21-06-2020||India||Solar eclipse today: India timings, locations and other details||Skywatchers along a narrow band from west Africa to the Arabian Peninsula, India and southern China will witness on Sunday a dramatic “ring of fire” solar eclipse.The partial phase of the eclipse will begin at 9.16 am. The annular phase will start at 10.19 am and end at 2.02 pm. The partial phase of the eclipse will end at 3.04 pm, the Ministry of Earth Sciences said.“Close to noon, for a small belt in north India the eclipse will turn into a beautiful annular (ring-shaped) one since the Moon is not close enough to cover the Sun completely,” the Astronomical Society of India said on Saturday.Follow Solar Eclipse LIVE updates here“Places like Delhi will be dark for 5-7 minutes from 11 to 11.30 am,” said Arvind Paranjpye, the Director of the Nehru Planetarium in Mumbai. Also Watch | Solar Eclipse 2020: Watch captivating images of the ‘ring of fire’ from across the countryThe parts of northern India where the annular phase (ring of fire) of the eclipse will be visible are Dehradun, Kurukshetra, Chamoli, Joshimath, Sirsa, Suratgarh. From the rest of the country, it will be visible as partial solar eclipse.A solar eclipse occurs when the moon, earth and sun come in a straight line, with the moon between the earth and the sun.However, unlike a full solar eclipse when the sun is entirely covered by the moon for a brief period, during the annular eclipse, the angular diameter of the moon falls short of that of the sun and it fails to cover up the latter completely. As a result a ring of the sun’s disk remains visible around the moon. Hence, an annular solar eclipse is popularly known as ‘ring of fire’.The next annular eclipse will be seen from South America in December 2020. Another annular eclipse will occur in 2022, but that it will be hardly visible from India, news agency PTI quoted N Rathnashree, Director of Nehru Planetarium in Delhi, as saying.Today’s celestial event will is coinciding with the summer solstice which is the longest day in the Northern Hemisphere. Here are the tips issued by the government for those who want to watch the eclipse: • Do not use sunglasses, goggles, exposed X-ray sheet or lampblack over a glass. They are not safe. Nor is viewing the Sun’s image on the surface of the water. Only Welders glass number13 or number 14 can be used to see the Sun directly with naked eyes.• You can make a pinhole in a card sheet and hold it under the Sun. At some distance, keep a screen of white paper. The Sun’s image can be seen on this sheet. By adjusting the gap between the sheet and the screen, the image can be made larger.• Look at the shadow of a bush or a tree. With the gaps between the leaves acting like a pinhole, numerous images of the eclipsed Sun can be seen on the ground.• You can use a strainer for making pinhole images.• Cover the ‘compact’ makeup kit mirror with black paper, with a small hole at the centre. Reflect the image of the Sun on a distant wall in shadow. You can get a projected image of the eclipsed Sun.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/solar-eclipse-today-india-timings-locations-and-other-details/story-GbT7vP2ljjh8WS8CLaF4fM.html
21-06-2020||India||In pics: India celebrates International Yoga Day 2020 amid Covid-19 pandemic||The sixth edition of the International Yoga Day 2020 kicked off on Sunday with people across the globe taking part in various yoga events to commemorate the day. International Yoga Day was Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s brainchild who proposed the idea in the year 2014, right after assuming charge as the prime minister during his first term.On the occasion, PM Modi addressed the nation and underscored the importance of yoga, meditation and pranayama. “The world is taking the need to practise yoga more seriously in the wake of Covid-19. Yoga has many asanas to boost our immunity. These asanas strengthen our muscles and metabolism. Coronavirus attacks our respiratory system, and pranayama (breathing exercise) is the best exercise to keep ourselves safe,” the Prime Minister said.Also read: ‘Yoga brings people together’ - PM Modi on International Yoga DayThis year’s Yoga Day is being observed differently amid the Covid-19 pandemic as most of the world is amid a lockdown and large social gathering are a strict no-no amid the crisis.Here’s taking a look at how Yoga Day is being observed across the country.President Ram Nath Kovind took to Twitter and shared pictures of him performing yoga on the occasion.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal also performed yoga at his residence on Sunday. “Yoga enhances our quest for a healthier planet. It does not discriminate, goes beyond colour, race, faith and nations. Anyone can embrace yoga - all you need is some time and space,” PM Modi said in his address on Sunday.Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel in Ladakh were seen performing yoga at an altitude of 18,000 feet, in sub-zero temperatures today.Yoga guru Baba Ramdev performed yoga at Patanjali Yogpeeth in Haridwar, Uttarakhand.People in India’s financial capital were also seen performing yoga on at the Worli sea face in Mumbai.Social distancing norms were followed as people came together in small groups, keeping the guidelines in mind, and performed asanas and pranayama together. Many took the event virtual and connected with others to perform yoga and pranayama in online sessions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-pics-world-celebrates-international-yoga-day-2020-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-kmBJOZHFehNysVhi1iHWJL.html
21-06-2020||India||Kerala Cong chief’s remarks against health minister anti-women: CM Vijayan||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday came down heavily against state Congress president Mullappally Ramachandran for calling health minister KK Shailaja ‘Covid Rani’ and ‘Nipah Rajkumari’. The CM said the remarks were “anti-women”. He also questioned Congress party’s silence over the remarks.“His remarks were anti-women. They were intended to target her personally. Sad, he is stooped to such a low. What is surprising is the continued silence of the party leadership,” the CM said. Though his remarks triggered a controversy and invited criticism from many sections, the PCC chief has, however, refused to apologise on the issue, saying his a section of the media had twisted his words. Ramachandran said ‘Rani’ and ‘Rajkumari’ were not derogatory terms and there was no need to apologise over them. He had made these remarks on Friday while Inaugurating the one-day fast of opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala before state secretariat demanding withdrawal of a government circular insisting on Covid-free certificates for expatriates returning to the state. He said he used these epithets with good intention to expose the state’s failure on Covid-19 and there was no need to apologise. “I stick to what I said. Queen and Rajkumari are not derogatory terms either. I always hold women in high esteem. Recently a UK paper (The Guardian) had called the minister a ‘rock star,” he said on Saturday. But chief minister Vijayan said the Congress leader’s justification exposes the decay that has gripped the party. “The minister was targeted to sabotage the ongoing fight against the pandemic. We have no idea why some good words about the state is making Congress leaders so nervous,” the CM said, adding the government will not allow the party to attack her personally. Meanwhile, the total number of coronavirus cases crossed 3,000 in Kerala on Satruday with the state recording 127 infections - its highest single-day spike so far. . Out of 3039 cases, 1,566 have recovered and 1,450 are active cases. Out of 127 fresh cases on Saturday, 87 are expatriates and 36 came from other states, the CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cong-chief-s-remarks-against-health-minister-anti-women-cm-vijayan/story-rBu2pGD3fWXa17WJlgm2xM.html
21-06-2020||India||Trump says US trying to ‘help’ India, China sort ‘big problem’||US President Donald Trump made yet another foray into the India-China conflict saying the Asian neighbours are dealing with a “big problem” and the United States will try to “help them out”.The American leader did not repeat his earlier offer of mediation, which has been firmly turned down by both India and China. But he did say the United States is “talking” to them.The president did not take sides in the short observation on the conflict made in response to a reporter’s question before departing the White House for his election rally in Tulsa, Oklahoma, later in the evening on Saturday.“It’s a very tough situation,” Trump said when asked for his assessment of the situation. “We’re talking to India. We’re talking to China.”Also read: ‘No restrictions on using firearms’: India gives soldiers freedom along LAC in extraordinary timesHe added: “They’ve got a big problem there. They’ve come to blows, and we’ll see what happens. We’ll try and help them out.”The US president had on May 28 made an explicit offer of mediation and had gone on to misleadingly claim he had discussed the situation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. They hadn’t till then, but did later in a June 2 call. But Trump did not pursue his offer after being turned down.Trump has been keen to intercede in this part of Asia one way or another for months now. He first offered to mediate in the India-Pakistan tensions last summer in the aftermath of the Pulwama terrorist attacks. Though the first offer, elicited from him by the visiting Pakistani prime minister Imran Khan, was swiftly rejected by New Delhi, the president had persisted, using a range of synonyms.Now, the India-China conflict.. But even as he offers to help, he has been careful to not take sides, unlike his secretary of state Michael Pompeo, who has been very clear who he thinks is to blame.A timeline: India-China’s deadliest border clash since 1975 explained“The PLA has escalated border tensions - we see it today in India, the world’s most popular - populous democracy,” Pompeo said referring to the Chinese military in a virtual conference of the Copenhagen Democracy Summit on Friday.He had gone on to call China a “rogue actor” not only to its Asian neighbourhood but far beyond to the rest of the world.The top American diplomat has conveyed his condolences on the death of 20 Indian soldiers in deadly June 15 clashes, that marked the first fatalities on the India-China border in 45 years. He made no mention of the Chinese casualties. The Chinese have not declared their fatalities but they are estimated to have lost more than 40 according to Indian officials.US lawmakers have also been very clear about their view of the conflicts that have been on no for weeks now in fits and bursts. “I am extremely concerned by the ongoing Chinese aggression along the Line of Actual Control on the India-China border,” Eliot Engel, Democrat who heads the powerful House foreign affairs committee, said in a statement earlier in the month. “China is demonstrating once again that it is willing to bully its neighbors rather than resolve conflicts according to international law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trump-says-us-trying-to-help-india-china-sort-big-problem/story-cm3XYh9MQ59QzgtG7U5V6J.html
21-06-2020||India||On International Yoga Day, PM Modi stresses on pranayama||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on International Yoga Day on Sunday focussed on the importance of one of the techniques of controlling the breath in yoga and its benefits to fight the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which has affected and killed millions across the world.As the Prime Minister delivered his message to the nation on the International Yoga Day, he said the coronavirus disease specifically attacks our respiratory system and pranayama is one asana which will help us the most in strengthening it.PM Modi said the anulom-vilom pranayama is more popular and is also very effective. But, he said there are many types of pranayama—sheetali, kapalbhati, bhramari, bhastrika.“All these forms and techniques of yoga help a lot in strengthening both our respiratory system and immune system. Therefore, my special request to you is that you must include pranayama in your daily practice, and along with the Anulom-Viloma, also learn many pranayama techniques,” he said. “A large number of Covid-19 patients are experiencing the benefits of these methods of yoga all over the world today. The strength of yoga is helping them to defeat this disease,” he added.He said anybody can embrace yoga as all one needs is some time and empty space.“If we can fine-tune our chords of health and hope, the day is not far away when the world will witness the success of healthy and happy humanity. Yoga can definitely help us make this happen,” the PM said.This is the sixth edition of the International Yoga Day and it is being observed digitally for the first time since June 21, 2015. This year’s theme is “Yoga at Home and Yoga with Family”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-international-yoga-day-pm-modi-stresses-on-pranayama/story-UY0SPEQ9UHglwuozgBg54H.html
21-06-2020||India||‘Yoga brings people together’: PM Modi on International Yoga Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday addressed the nation on the sixth International Yoga Day where he said this is the day of unity as yoga binds everyone together. “It is a day of universal brotherhood.”Watch: Pranayam key in fighting Covid-19, says PM Modi on International Yoga Day  “The theme of International Day of Yoga this year is ‘Yoga at home, Yoga with family’. Today, we will stay away from all social gatherings and do yoga with our family. When family members come together in practising the yoga, it spreads energy in the entire house,” said PM Modi.Also read: On International Yoga Day, PM Modi stresses on pranayama“The world is taking the need to practice yoga more seriously in the wake of Covid-19. Yoga has many asanas (poses) to boost our immunity. These asanas strengthens our muscles and metabolism. Coronavirus attacks our respiratory system, and pranayama (breathing exercise) is the best exercise to keep ourselves safe,” the Prime Minister said, urging people to include pranayama in their daily routine.He also said that yoga teaches us never to give up and lead a balanced life.“Yoga enhances our quest for a healthier planet. It does not discriminate, goes beyond colour, race, faith and nations. Anyone can embrace yoga - all you need is some time and space,” PM Modi said.In pics: India celebrates International Yoga Day 2020 amid Covid-19 pandemicHe ended the address with Sankrit verse: Lokah samastah sukhino bhavantu (may all beings be happy and free).For the first time since June 21, 2015, Yoga Day is being celebrated digitally. This year’s theme is ‘Yoga at Home and Yoga with Family’.On December 11, 2014, the United Nations General Assembly had declared June 21 as ‘International Day of Yoga’, months after PM Modi had proposed the idea.PM Modi had urged people, in a video message on Thursday, to observe the day from the confines of their homes due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yoga-brings-people-together-pm-modi-on-international-yoga-day/story-aFl0rryQxPHTdi6fRyviaJ.html
21-06-2020||India||PM Modi addresses nation on International Yoga Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation on the occasion of International Yoga Day 2020. Following his address, demonstration of a 45-minute Common Yoga Protocol (CYP) by a team from Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga took place.Yoga, a set of physical exercises that calm the mind and benefit the body, originated in ancient India. The United Nations General Assembly recognised June 21 as International Yoga Day in 2014. People acknowledge the physical and spiritual benefits of Yoga and observe this day across countries since June 2015.Watch PM Modi’s address:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-live-pm-modi-addresses-nation-on-international-yoga-day-2020/story-AmexJh0h2WkfqxXPU52YjP.html
21-06-2020||India||Over 96k trained as Yoga instructors, trainers under skilling initiatives: Govt||On the eve of International Yoga Day, the government on Saturday said about 96,196 candidates have been trained as yoga instructors and trainers through various skilling initiatives like the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana.The government’s other programmes on skilling include Recognition of Prior Learning, Short Term Training and Special Projects.The states with the highest number of skilled candidates are Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Kerala, West Bengal, the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship said. “Yoga is an invaluable gift to the world from India that has roots in our ancient Vedic traditions. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also stated that yoga has emerged as one of the biggest mass movements in the quest for good health and well-being across the globe in the last few years. “Aligned with his vision, we have been working closely with Beauty & Wellness Sector Skill Council to build awareness regarding various career prospects in the field of yoga and encourage youth to embrace yoga for a promising future,” Minister of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Mahendra Nath Pandey said.In the post COVID-19 era, Pandey said he foresees an urgent need of skill sets enhancement of the potential workforce with a surge in demand for certified yoga instructors and trainers. “We are committed towards our vision to make yoga truly global and empower youth across the country to explore lucrative career opportunities in the field of yoga,” the minister said. There are three specific courses for yoga - Yoga Instructor (NSQF 4), Yoga Trainer (level 5) and Senior Yoga Trainer (level 6). Beauty & Wellness Sector Skill Council also has vocational education courses in Yoga for CBSE schools. Starting from class XI from academic year 2020-2021, B&WSSC’s Yoga job roles will also be available in all the Samagra Shiksha schools across all the states for its Higher Secondary Sections.Sri Sri Ravi Shankar, Founder, Art of living, said the significance of yoga has become all the more crucial in the current time, as people across the globe are dealing with the various challenges posed by the outbreak of the novel coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-96k-trained-as-yoga-instructors-trainers-under-skilling-initiatives-govt/story-lMJeGzPZhGLP5Ip3rLx7DJ.html
21-06-2020||India||100 days of Covid-19: Learning to parent through a pandemic||‘More alcohol’. That was the most succinct response we got to the question, how have you changed as a parent in the lockdown. It was a joke. But humour’s been one of the things that have helped families stay sane through the past 100 days.Much of the humour is dark and / or rooted in the ongoing tragedy. Like the viral tweet about the little boy who wouldn’t stop crying because he’d been promised a treat that hadn’t materialised. When did we promise this, his dad asked. Trying to say ‘in the morning’, but confused by his now-garbled sense of time, all he could manage was ‘A long time ago today’.In Mumbai, the parents of six-year-old Lyra recently asked what she was building with her Lego blocks and were told, very seriously, that they were hospitals. It’s all she builds now.“That’s when we realised what a toll this was taking,” says her mother. To try and help take her mind off things, they’ve been letting her go to the pet store in their building, to pet the dogs.Innovation, empathy and patience are key tools parents have been deploying in the lockdown, to make it work for the family, amid constraints of space, money, privacy and peer company.“Living the idea that parenting is not just expecting your kids to step up, but also walking a mile in their shoes… that’s been a lesson for me,” says Dhanashri Bhosale, 43, an architect and mother of two teens. “I’ve also realised that I need to upgrade myself if I want to understand their world. So I’m spending a bit more time online. I have let my guard down a lot more. I want them to know they can communicate with me.”As a byproduct of the lockdown, the performative element of parenting in middle- and upper-middle-class urban India has declined. There’s less pressure on children, because there are just fewer goals available. This means parents are seeing their children differently; seeing them for who they are, as one put it, rather than as an amalgam of the various children they’ve been.“At this point, I feel I need not focus only on career and achievements. The humanitarian aspects have taken precedence,” adds Bhosale. “For instance, I was pleasantly surprised when I was worrying about my son’s school not yet starting online classes, and he said, ‘Not everyone might have the facility at home. It’s okay to wait, ma’.”There’s a back-to-the-basics clarity about the role of the parent. Keep the child safe, keep them fed, keep them occupied and calm, and talk, talk, talk. In most cases, parents have seen children reciprocate in kind, whether they’re 6 or 16. “We’ve discovered a capacity for working as a team and managing with limited resources — whether for recreation or recipes or company,” says Ekta Pillai, 41, homemaker and mother of Aahiel, 12. Family time has made a roaring comeback. All meals are eaten together; chores are done together. In some cases the TV and laptop are shared. This has placed a certain amount of pressure on sibling relationships, but even more on the marriage — as one mother put it, it’s hard to parent, and especially hard to discipline, under the constant watch of someone who would typically take a different approach (and was usually away at work for this bit).“Juggling parenting styles while also having to juggle the roles of teacher, guide, counsellor, friend and parent, plus work and housework, has been a common pain point,” says Kamna Chhibber, head of mental health and behavioural sciences at Fortis Healthcare, Gurugram, which has been offering counselling through the lockdown via voice and video calls.It’s been a double adaptation for some. The generation gap was large to begin with, between some of today’s parents and children. “The way society and community were changing, conversations around gender and sexuality, religion, tech, politics, all of it had been a challenge. There was near-constant adapting. Covid-19 has made this even more daunting,” Chhibber says.The lockdown has also been particularly hard on parents of children with special needs, and parents of toddlers. Vaccine cycles have been disrupted, routine checks have become nerve-wracking, and there’s the added burden of childcare with no help.The loss of the offline social network has been very keenly felt. “These parents are having to work doubly hard in the absence of their network,” says developmental paediatrician Samir Dalwai, founder of the New Horizons Health and Research Foundation. “For certain kinds of special-needs children, online learning can also be harder. For some, outdoor activity is almost a prescription. Here, parents have been resorting to staircase space, a therapy ball, even an old truck tyre. And all these are good ideas, and have been working.”In addition to age — teens tend to get restless more easily; younger children are more able to entertain themselves for longer periods, and suffer less anxiety about what comes next — type of schooling has proved pivotal.The more rigidly structured courses have instituted virtual attendance, tests and worksheets. One dad had to rush around trying to buy a printer, the day the lockdown was enforced. Juggling work, housework, classes and homework has pushed others to the brink.One mom was so exhausted by the sheets and sheets of algebra fractions that she said she felt like pulling her hair out, at which point her daughter responded curtly, ‘Keep your hair on, mom’ — which has since become the lockdown anthem in their home.“Younger children are typically more resilient by design. Their lack of knowledge and understanding of the scale of things, helps,” Chhibber says.What happens next is a question that’s plaguing children, and parents too — not just with regard to the courses / exams / jobs situation, but also, what is the likely long-term impact of this lockdown on my child?Counsellors say they can’t answer that one; it’s too soon to know. But the fact that everyone has been stuck in the same situation should alleviate some of the long-term effects.In terms of being stuck in the same situation, parents say it’s also been helpful to discover that there is no correct number of children for a lockdown. One is too few; any more is an endless roundabout of cooking, washing up, arguing over space / toys / rules / chores, and elaborate disputes redressal systems.For some children, this has been the first time in their lives that they’ve gone this long with nothing new, no special outings, parties or vacations.“Parents are learning to spend less money. What was, for many, a cycle of heedless consumerism has been broken. There is no hankering for the next big thing,” says family counsellor Gouri Dange. “Children are being taught to manage with what they have.”Instead of things, innovation and effort have reclaimed their place at the heart of special occasions. Like the ‘flight experience’ that Rachana Adalja created for her six-year-old daughter and a friend, in their living room. She put luggage tags on two suitcases, fixed screens to the backs of chairs and offered an ‘in-flight’ meal of Maggi and soup.Pallavi Singh, 38, a homemaker from Indore, celebrated her daughter Kimaya’s fifth birthday by transforming part of their living room into a ‘fairyland’, with the help of some toys, Barbie props and balloons. “She had a Zoom party with friends and cousins. They played games and laughed a lot,” Pallavi says.Rec time and celebrations have also encompassed joint cooking or baking projects, question hour and quiz games, dress-up and dance parties.So, will lockdown change how we parent for good? How much of the old styles of parenting will return — less democracy, less conversation, less quality time, fewer family meals? “The ability to have more conversations will remain, I hope,” says Chhibber.“In the long term, parents will learn to depend on themselves,” Dalwai adds. “They will have greater trust in their child’s ability to cope. And will realise, hopefully, that children don’t need that many things and lists. Sometimes all they need is time and patience and a say in how things are done.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-days-of-covid-19-learning-to-parent-through-a-pandemic/story-SNDQli9oHCkZ0doYIvi1OO.html
21-06-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||June 20. There’s no breaking it gently; things are getting worse around the world in terms of the spread of the coronavirus disease.Sure, the disease isn’t the mystery it once was; every passing day increases our knowledge of the Sars-CoV-2 virus and the Covid-19 disease, and while we may still not have a cure, we have a fairly good idea of which medicines and lines of treatment work and which don’t (and there’s new information almost every other day). There’s a general agreement around the world that doctors have become better at saving lives.Also read: India’s Covid-19 count crosses 4 lakh, deaths reach 13,000-markBut the disease is raging though the world.Numbers from three different sources tell the same story.According to data on worldometers.info, 42% of the current cases in the world (close to 8.7 million on June 19) have been recorded in the past month (since May 20).According to The New York Times database, 177,225 new cases (a record high) were registered around the world on June 19.According to the dashboard maintained by the Johns Hopkins University, the five-day moving average is trending upward in eight of the 10 countries that are currently seeing the most number of cases. These are: Brazil, US, India, Mexico, Peru, Chile, Pakistan, and Iran. The two where it isn’t are Russia and the UK. Five-day moving averages even out kinks caused by events such as countries suddenly deciding to change the way they report cases or spikes caused by back-dated reporting. (That’s another thing that has changed from the past — we have all taught ourselves how to read scientific papers and renewed our acquaintance with statistics).India isn’t bucking the trend (as clear by its presence among the eight countries whose five-day moving average is trending north).India added 14,677 new cases on June 19, the highest to date (this column is being written on Saturday morning) in a 24-hour period. The country has added 72% of its total cases (till June 19) in the month since May 20. That is almost three of every four cases. With positivity rates continuing to rise, or, at best, staying the same in many states, India’s numbers are certain to increase with more widespread testing (which probably explains why some states are going slow on tests in a display of extremely misplaced priorities).Also read: Scramble for beds, ambulances, confusion before order reversedGlobally, too, the consensus is that the number of cases will continue to rise as countries open up, or the virus shows up in hitherto uninfected or less-infected parts. The New York Times reports that four American states, Arizona, Florida, Oklahoma, and South Carolina touched their highest daily counts (of new cases) this week.This can be tiring.For almost 68 days until June 1, India was locked down. While many restrictions have been eased since, suburban trains, metros, and buses (in some states) remain off the roads; many people continue working from home; parks are open only for a few hours; and shopping for most people involves a mask-gloves-shower-wipe routine that is as time consuming as it is wearying. Restaurants are open, and going to one poses a definite risk, as does visiting a mall (and these are also open), but people are bored of eating at home (or ordering out). And Zoom parties, once the rage — as a Delhi resident, especially, I can understand why; it’s easier to get people to leave — are now as interesting as the weekly business review.So, bored, tired, lonely perhaps, and physically, mentally, and emotionally weary, we let things slip. And the virus wins.The really sick and the old (and the infirm) may need medical care to beat the virus; the rest of us just need stamina to outlast it.As John L Parker JR wrote in the best book about running that’s ever been written: “You don’t become a runner by winning a morning workout.”That fragment is from a longer paragraph that ends with the phrases: “The Trial of Miles; Miles of Trials.”That’s how it feels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-S5R873CPT2LzQKkbxx8zEJ.html
21-06-2020||India||Millions in India could be targeted by phishing attacks soon: Govt||Millions of Indians could be targeted by fake emails, social media posts or texts messages related to Covid-19 in order to steal their credentials or compromise their computers, India’s official cybersecurity agency Cert-IN said in an advisory uploaded on Friday, citing a report from independent researchers who said the attack is being planned by North Korea-based cyber criminals.The alert is the latest in a series of warnings from cybersecurity firms across the world about hackers exploiting interest in the coronavirus disease pandemic to lure people into clicking on fake login pages or downloading malicious files that could create a backdoor in their computers.“The phishing campaign is expected to impersonate government agencies, departments and trade associations tasked to oversee the disbursement of the government fiscal aid,” the advisory by Cert-IN (Indian Computer Emergency Response Team) said, citing a report by Singapore-based cybersecurity firm Cyfirma.Such campaigns usually have a financial motive since access to a person’s email account or their computers in entirety could allow the cybercriminals to break into people’s bank accounts.The potential for damage “is immeasurable”, Cyfirma’s CEO Kumar Ritesh said in response to questions over email. “When PII (personally identifiable information) is stolen, impersonation will take place where hackers can use your identity to commit all sort of crimes, or infiltrate corporate systems. For this particular phishing campaign, hackers are looking personal details / PAN no / communication address / health conditions,” he added.According to Cyfirma’s report, the attack is yet to begin and could involve two million email addresses that the cyber actor – identified as the well-known Lazarus group -- seem to have. The hackers, in particular, plan to capitalise on announcements of financial aid “to lure vulnerable individuals and companies into falling for the phishing attacks,” it said.Some of the other emails may pretend to be from authorities and offer people to sign-up for free Covid-19 testing.“As of time of reporting (18 Jun), we have not seen the phishing or impersonated sites defined in the email templates. But our research shows the hackers were planning to set that up in the next 24 hours,” the report said.It was unclear how the email addresses of the Indian targets were compromised. “But it is fairly easy to scrape and steal email address from social media and other platforms. Compromised email addresses can also be found on sale in dark web marketplaces,” Ritesh said.The campaign was also planning to target people in US, UK, Japan, Singapore and South Korea, it added.The analysis carried purported screenshots of some of the phishing emails, which showed the text appeared to be signed by government officials. The mails could be sent through spoofed addresses – one of the addresses it could be from is ncov@gov.in – and could include links or files that can deliver malicious code.In recent months, agencies have warned of hacking attempts involving Covid-19 – with one notable instance being fake Aarogya Setu applications that were being spread. These fake apps could allow a victim’s device to be turned into a spying tool, giving access to phone data, camera and the microphone.Some of these attacks involve state-based actors, and cyber threat analysts have highlighted the risks Indian citizens face due to inadequate data protection safeguards. “Knowing the work of state actors who are well-funded and highly resourceful, we cannot rule out further cyber activities that could arise from the phishing campaign,” said Ritesh..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-warn-against-phishing-attacks/story-duW9NWzajDNUekmUrsyjNJ.html
21-06-2020||India||India-China face-off: After clash, experiment in engagement will stop||Over the past seven years, Xi Jinping has repeatedly told Indian leaders he wants a different and better relationship with India. New Delhi was baffled that events on the ground seemed to belie the Chinese leader’s pronouncements. It is assumed Galwan Valley marks the end of any belief Beijing genuinely seeks a “new paradigm” in the bilateral relationship.Xi first signalled his interest in 2013 when he met then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh at the BRICS summit in South Africa. Next year, he told the incoming Indian ambassador Ashok Kantha, he saw improving ties as a “historic mission” and saw the two working together on global issues. Says Kantha, “Unusually, Xi personally took charge of the India policy. When the foreign minister visited India he was given the additional title of Xi’s special emissary.” Also read: Trump says US trying to ‘help’ India, China sort ‘big problem’The Chinese leader asked to become the first foreign leader to meet the newly elected Narendra Modi. A military confrontation in Ladakh took place the day the visit began. Xi told Modi he had no knowledge of the event. Beijing, through various channels, later sent word rogue elements in the military were to blame. This was not impossible. Xi was in the midst of a brutal purge of the People’s Liberation Army officer corps. The local commander in Ladakh was subsequently removed.The honeymoon of possibility continued through 2015. Even though “relations took a dip in 2016-17” says Kantha, Xi never changed his tune about the relationship. He spoke of changing relations in over a dozen meetings with Modi, ranging from the G-20 summit in Germany to the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation meeting in Kazakhstan. A message of a glorious future together was echoed at diplomatic levels and even at Sino-Indian track two events.However, evidence of Xi’s rhetoric translating into action on the ground was scanty. China opened the door to SCO membership, but blocked India joining the Nuclear Suppliers Group. The two sparred for influence in Sri Lanka and the Maldives. Yet, Xi kept expressing a desire for what another ex-Indian ambassador to China, Gautam Bambawale, called the “new paradigm” in relations. Whether relations were half full or half empty was not always easy to determine given the underlying rivalry between the two countries. The Doklam border crisis nearly shuttered the attempts at rapprochement. But there was room for interpretation. China’s incursion was into Bhutanese territory and not covered by existing Sino-Indian border agreements. Had they miscalculated? After the incident, the local PLA commander simply disappeared.Also read| ‘No restrictions on using firearms’: India gives soldiers freedom along LAC in extraordinary timesWhy did India persist for so long? New Delhi wanted to build on the “peace and tranquillity” agreements that stretched back to 1993. “We were hoping for a kind of calm in the relationship that would keep the border quiet and allow the rest of it, economics, tourism and so on, to flourish,” says Bambawale. A stable China relationship would have been an enormous diplomatic gain for India, a prize well worth many efforts. False starts and dead ends are common in diplomacy. There was also a concern problems between the two countries were “accumulating”, says Kantha. “Problems were building up,” agrees Bambawale. And then there was Xi and his repeated assurances. There were elements in the Chinese system, notably the military and intelligence services, known to be deeply hostile to India. Senior Indian officials say New Delhi hypothesized Xi was receiving negative inputs from them. After all, India had led the campaign against the Belt Road Initiative, the Quad had been revived and there was always Pakistan. Seeking an out-of-the-box solution, India came up with the idea of an informal summit. Don’t seek quick fixes for the intractable, like the border and trade issues. Instead, let Modi and Xi meet for several hours and, importantly, without bureaucratic filters. There was no question of being friends, but at least an attempt could be made to build trust at the highest level. “Bonhomie at the top sends signals down the system and things tend to go more smoothly down below,” said Bambawale. The blood shed in Galwan Valley has effectively ended this experiment in engagement. Multiple intrusions ranging across the entire Himalayan frontier would require the PLA’s western theatre command to have been involved. Say Indian officials these are senior officers who would have not moved without Xi’s okay. It may never be known whether Xi was genuine about changing the relationship and changed tack later or whether he simply was spinning a web of illusion from the start. Either way, a new paradigm in Sino-Indian relations has begun but not of the variety New Delhi had hoped for.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-face-off-after-clash-experiment-in-engagement-will-stop/story-9UlRwRkJD99uMml1QMl0MM.html
21-06-2020||India||Tahawwur Rana Rana re-arrested, faces extradition||Tahawwur Rana, a Pakistani-origin Canadian sent to a US jail for his role in planning the 2008 Mumbai attacks, has been arrested after being freed from prison in order to face extradition to India.Rana, 59, a close associate of David Coleman Headley, one of the main conspirators behind the attacks on India’s financial hub that killed 166 people, was serving a 14-year sentence in a Los Angeles federal prison when he was granted early release last week because of poor health and being infected by the coronavirus. However, he never left the prison as he was arrested to face extradition to India, US prosecutors told The Associated Press. Indian officials said they learnt Rana was rearrested on June 10.Officials familiar with developments said a US attorney informed the district judge in Los Angeles about India’s standing request for the extradition of Rana, wanted in India for terror charges. A senior National Investigation Agency (NIA) officer, who didn’t want to be named, said: “It’s a positive development after over 11 years. This means his extradition hearings will now take place.”Former home secretary GK Pillai, who played a key role in the investigation of the Mumbai attacks and coordinated with the US, said there was a pending Indian extradition request for Rana. “There is a standing Indian extradition request for Rana and that will still be applicable,” he told HT. A person in the government, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the US authorities acted as there was a request for Rana’s preliminary arrest. The person noted that arrest signalled the start of the extradition process.An NIA team that visited the US in late 2018 was informed by the department of justice it was convinced by India’s charges against Rana. Earlier, the “double jeopardy” clause in US law, according to which a person can’t be punished twice for the same crime, was hindering efforts to extradite Rana, but NIA made a fresh request in 2016 .India levelled the charges of forgery and criminal breach of trust as Rana used his firm for making documents for Headley during his surveillance missions in Mumbai. These charges were accepted by US prosecutors and the FBI, and they are inclined to honour India’s request. FBI arrested Rana on October 18, 2009 for providing material support for the conspiracy to commit terrorist acts outside the US.The former Pakistan Army physician-turned-businessman, was convicted in 2011 for providing material support to the Lashkar-e-Taiba for the Mumbai attacks, and for backing a planned attack on a Danish newspaper that printed caricatures of Prophet Mohammed in 2005. Headley was convicted during the same trial.At the time, US reports had said American prosecutors had failed to prove Rana supported the Mumbai attacks and he was cleared of this more serious charge by the jury at the trial. His legal team claimed he had been misled by Headley, who was a friend from school. Rana had been accused of allowing Headley to open a branch of his Chicago-based immigration law firm in Mumbai to act as a front for his surveillance activities in Mumbai ahead of the attacks that also injured hundreds. He was accused of allowing Headley to pose as a representative of the same firm when he went to Denmark for surveillance ahead of the planned attack.At the time, US prosecutors had said Rana knew Headley had trained with the LeT and that Headley had shared information of his surveillance activities in Mumbai and of the Taj Mahal Palace hotel, where LeT members later killed dozens of people.Headley was sentenced to 35 years in prison but can’t be extradited to India under a plea deal. Pakistani authorities had arrested seven men, including LeT operations commander Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi, for the Mumbai attacks though their trial in an anti-terrorism court never made headway. Lakhvi was released on bail and his current whereabouts aren’t known.In Mumbai, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said,“Rana’s role had come to the fore during Headley’s testimony after the latter admitted that he was working as an agent for him. We are discussing the developments at top level and the government will take a decision about Rana’s extradition. We will speak to the Centre in this respect,” Deshmukh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tahawwur-rana-rana-re-arrested-faces-extradition/story-54ArxGBpMpB4nPxJYMDfYM.html
21-06-2020||India||Opposition parties in Sikkim question government’s handling of Covid-19 crisis||Covid-19 data that is being released by the Sikkim government on a daily basis is not only ‘confusing’ but also full of ‘discrepancies’, opposition parties in the Himalayan state have alleged.Sikkim, a small Himalayan state sharing borders with China, Bhutan and Nepal, reported 70 Covid-19 cases till Friday, out of which 21 patients have been discharged from hospitals, data provided by the state government shows. There have been no fatalities so far.But, a closer look at the data released over the past few days reveals that there has been some discrepancies. On June 11, the official data released by the state’s health department, claimed that at least 6,618 swab samples were tested. However, on June 12 the number of tests done was found to be 5,157.Bharat Basnet, president of the Pradesh Congress Committee of Sikkim said, “There are discrepancies in the Covid-19 data provided by the state. The situation could have improved had the state government called an all-party meeting before putting in place the combat techniques.” Sikkim was the first among the states to ban the entry of outsiders and migrant labourers. International borders with China, Nepal and Bhutan were also sealed. The state, however, witnessed a sharp spike after Sikkimese people returned when the nationwide lockdown was relaxed. Alleged discrepancies have also surfaced in the number of recoveries. While on June 16, the official data stated that five people had recovered, the number of people discharged from hospitals dropped to four the next day on June 17.Senior officials of the state government, however, have refuted the charges.“The official data provided on the morning of June 12 on total number of tests carried out did not reflect the number of tests carried out at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) in Siliguri, West Bengal,” said Kaden Zangmu, the nodal officer for Covid-19 in Sikkim.She further said, “Since June 12, the format of the health bulletin changed and 1,711 tests which were carried out at the NBMCH were not reflected in the bulletin.”The last sample sent to the NBMCH was on May 28. After that date, all the samples are being tested in the state’s own lab. “So far 8,894 samples including 1,711 sent to the NBMCH have been tested,” she said.“The total number of recovered cases on both June 16 and June 17 was 4. The portal where the data is updated is handled by the state home department.”Opposition parties including the Sikkim Democratic Front (SDF) and Congress said the data made available proved that the government is not serious about the figures.MK Subba, SDF spokesperson said, “There is total confusion in the handling of the Covid-19 crisis and data by the state government. The Sikkim government made a mistake by studying the Covid-19 impact and implemented mitigation measures very late. It has failed to follow the laid down reporting protocol and guidelines of the ICMR.” Pempa Tshering Bhutia, director general cum secretary of the state health and family welfare department said, “We have been sending total data including the tests carried out at NBMCH to the Centre on a daily basis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-parties-in-sikkim-question-government-s-handling-of-covid-19-crisis/story-mVABesS0jZpayk9g6CA6ON.html
21-06-2020||India||Another elephant carcass found in Odisha, fifth in last eight days||In another case of suspected poaching, the carcass of an elephant aged between 20 and 25 years was found in the forests of Odisha’s Angul district on Saturday, forest officials said.Forest department officials said the elephant was sighted roaming in the Chhendipada area of Angul Friday evening where it created panic before running into the Chhendipada Gudimara reserve forest. The elephant had earlier killed 2 people in last two months.Angul’s District Forest Officer V Kartik said the carcass was buried after post-mortem. “We suspect that the animal died of anthrax,” he said. However, wildlife activist Biswajit Mohanty said anthrax does not kill an elephant quickly. “Once infected by Anthrax, the elephant would show erratic behaviour for a week before succumbing to the disease. Nothing of that sort happened in this case. We suspect, the elephant came in contact with livewire trap set up by poachers to kill wild boars. A proper inquiry should be conducted to find out how it died,” he said.This is the fifth elephant to die in Odisha in the last eight days. Three days ago the bullet-ridden carcass of a 3-year-old male elephant was found in Boudh district. However, its tusks were intact. On June 12 and June 14 - a male, a female and a calf- died in Odisha after coming in contact with livewire set up by poachers to trap wild boars in Keonjhar and Sundargarh districts. A probe by the officials revealed that poachers had left livewire connected to 11 kv transmission lines for wild boars that left the three elephants dead.Wildlife officials said in last two-and-half months of lockdown, at least 15 elephants have died in Odisha, of which only died of natural causes. The deaths have been attributed to poaching, electrocution and other reasons. Four elephants died in Keonjhar division, 3 in Angul while Keonjhar (WL), Athagarh, Subarnapur, Bamra (WL), Khurda, Balasore, Sundargarh and Boudh reported one death each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-elephant-carcass-found-in-odisha-fifth-death-in-last-8-days/story-1gw9ysCsDWoZzoozxuemgM.html
21-06-2020||India||China looks for superspreader link in latest surge||BeijingA Covid-19 superspreader could have contributed in the rapid spread of more than 200 infections linked to a food market in Beijing, experts have said, as the Chinese capital scrambles to contain a fresh outbreak that has raised fears of a second wave of infections in the country, which has largely managed to control the contagion.New infections linked to the Xinfadi food market in Fengtai district of Beijing indicate the sign of a superspreader, Yang Zhanqiu, deputy director of the pathogen biology department at the Wuhan University, told the state media on Friday.Speculation about the presence of a superspreader — or a Covid-19 patient who has infected several others — comes in the backdrop of 22 new cases being reported in Beijing on Friday. The city has recorded 205 new cases since June 11. A new case related to the outbreak in neighbouring province Hebei was also reported on Friday.Michael Ryan, the World Health Organization’s (WHO) emergencies chief, said a superspreading event could have amplified the spread of the fresh outbreak in Beijing. “You get a few cases occurring and it then is a superspreading event or something happening where there’s a large amplification of the disease. And when that happens, you want to avoid that first amplification turning back into community transmission,” he said in London on Friday. In line with Chinese researchers’ claims, Ryan confirmed that China has shared the genome sequence of the virus strain from its latest outbreak with the global community and said that it appears the virus was imported to Beijing from strains circulating in Europe.He noted that “strains and viruses have moved around the world” throughout the pandemic. Ryan said a detailed investigation into the recent Beijing outbreak was needed to find out how the imported cases sparked such a large cluster. The WHO official added that Beijing has done well to control the new outbreak from spreading.Authorities have scaled up efforts to stem the transmission of the disease in the capital, testing more than 2 million in the city of 20 million since June 13. Thousands of courier and food delivery personnel, and taxi drivers are also being tested in an effort to rein in the new outbreak.“Currently, the city has the ability to sample an average of 500,000 people per day. As of 6am on Saturday, a total of 2,297,000 people have finished sampling,” Zhang Qiang, a member of Beijing’s epidemic control office said at a press conference on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-looks-for-superspreader-link-in-latest-surge/story-p8WD94T8UqL8iZhrIxAAlL.html
21-06-2020||India||PMO says PM’s comments interpreted mischievously||The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said on Saturday that PM Narendra Modi’s remarks at an all-party meeting the previous day that no intruder was on Indian territory across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China and that no Indian military post had been captured were being given a “mischievous interpretation”. The PMO’s statement was a riposte to a Congress attack that Modi surrendered Indian territory in the face of Chinese aggression across the LAC and that his comments flew in the face of previous claims by defence minister Rajnath Singh and external affairs minister S Jaishankar.“Attempts are being made in some quarters to give a mischievous interpretation to remarks by the Prime Minister at the all-party meeting yesterday. The Prime Minister was clear that India would respond firmly to any attempts to transgress the LAC,” the statement said.The PMO said that PM Modi specifically emphasised that in contrast to the past neglect of such challenges, Indian forces now decisively counter any violations of the LAC (“unhe rokte hain, unhe tokte hain”).“Because of the improved patrolling, our vigilance has gone up and the military gets to know what is happening on the borders at the right time,” Modi said at the all-party meeting, pointing out that Indian soldiers were able to intercept the Chinese forces who earlier had a free run. “If you keep on intercepting them, it is obvious that tensions will rise,” he said.The all-party meeting on Friday was called to discuss the situation along the LAC following the brutal June 15 brawl between Indian and Chinese troops in the Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh, in which 20 Indian personnel were killed. It was the first time since 1975 that India suffered combat fatalities in a skirmish with Chinese troops. Ten Indian soldiers detained by the Chinese side were later released after intense negotiations through diplomatic and military channels. China has so far not acknowledged any casualties among its troops. Following the PMO’s statements, the Congress party on Saturday termed it “a lame attempt to obfuscate the truth”. “First of all, PMO and the Government need to clearly state their position on the Galwan Valley. Is Galwan Valley not part of Indian territory? Why is Government not coming forward and strongly rebutting the Chinese claim over Galwan Valley? If Chinese troops are present there, does it not amount to intrusion into and occupation of Indian territory? Also, why is the Government silent on intrusions in the Pangong Tso area?” the Congress party said in a statement.Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi alleged that the Prime Minister had surrendered Indian territory to Chinese aggression. “If the land was Chinese: 1.Why were our soldiers killed? 2. Where were they killed?” he tweeted.The opposition party said that the PM’s statement belittled the gravity of the situation on the LAC.The government rebutted the claims and said that the all-party meeting was informed that this time “Chinese forces have come in much larger strength to the LAC” and that the Indian response was commensurate.“As regards transgression at the LAC, it was clearly stated that the violence in Galwan on June 15 arose because Chinese side was seeking to erect structures just across the LAC and refused to desist from such actions,” the PMO said in the statement.It also went on to add that the PM’s observation that there was no Chinese presence on the Indian side of the LAC pertained to the situation consequent to the bravery of the armed forces. “The sacrifices of the soldiers of the 16 Bihar Regiment foiled the attempt of the Chinese side to erect structures and also cleared the attempted transgression at this point of the LAC on that day,” it said.“Those who tried to transgress our land were taught a befitting lesson by our brave sons of soil,” the Prime Minister said, according to the PMO statement. And these words “succinctly summed up the ethos and the values of our armed forces”, the statement said.The government said an unnecessary controversy was being created to lower the morale of the soldiers for defending the borders. “What is Indian territory is clear from the map of India. This government is strongly and resolutely committed to that,” it added.Any unilateral change of the LAC will not be allowed, the government added.The government said all parties extended support to the government and the armed forces at Friday’s meeting. “The predominant sentiment at the meeting was of unequivocal support to the government and the armed forces at a time of national crisis. We are confident that the unity of the Indian people will not be undermined by motivated propaganda,” said the government.The PM assured opposition parties at the meeting that whether it was deployment, action or counter-action, Indian forces — be it on land, in the air or on the ocean — were doing everything to protect India’s borders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmo-says-pm-s-comments-interpreted-mischievously/story-zZwCzJsjPVEK7egL54jltJ.html
21-06-2020||India||Order on institutional isolation for all Covid-19 patients in Delhi scrapped||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Saturday rolled back its controversial order to mandatorily quarantine even asymptomatic and mild coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases at institutional facilities for five days, in a move that was welcomed by the Delhi government and experts, who said the directive would have overwhelmed the Capital’s health care infrastructure.Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, who heads DDMA, issued the order on Saturday, with experts saying that thousands of additional patients at hospitals would strain the Capital’s health infrastructure, result in a shortage of health care workers, militate against people getting tested, and throw Delhi’s long-term strategy out of gear.“Regarding institutional isolation, only those COVID positive cases which do not require hospitalisation on clinical assessment & do not have adequate facilities for home isolation would be required to undergo institutional isolation,” Baijal tweeted on Saturday, about 24 hours after ordering the change in the guidelines. The LG, however, said that all Covid-19 patients will have to be referred to Covid Care Centres (CCCs) for assessment of their clinical conditions, severity of illness and presence of co-morbidities.In another tweet, he said DDMA approved the recommendations of a high-level expert committee for fixing subsidised rates for Covid-19 treatment at private hospitals of Delhi. Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said 100% Covid-19 beds in private hospitals will be subsidised up to an upper limit of 60% of the total hospital capacity.Asymptomatic and mild Covid-19 cases in Delhi are lodged in home isolation after surveillance officers assess the homes of such patients and institute a monitoring mechanism. As of Saturday night, 12,611 Covid-19 patients were in home isolation, according to the official bulletin.On Saturday morning, Delhi’s ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) said that a move to scrap home isolation for all cases would mean that the Capital needed 90,000 Covid-19-designated beds by June 30. The previous prediction was that Delhi needed 15,000 beds by June 30, the AAP’s national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said. “People in my assembly called me and told me that we will not get tested now. People are that scared… From where will we get these (additional) beds?” he said, hours before the order was rolled back.Later in the day, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal opposed Baijal’s order, asking why a separate rule was being applied for the city, according to people aware of the developments.A senior government official present at the meeting said the chief minister, through video-conferencing, told the LG that if institutional quarantine was made mandatory for all, there would be chaos in the city and the focus would shift from treating serious Covid-19 patients to finding additional facilities for asymptomatic ones, since they make up a high number.While a meeting of DDMA could not arrive at a consensus on the fate of the order earlier in the day, another round of discussions in the evening resulted in the home isolation strategy being restored.At the second meeting, the LG stated that since the government began intensive community-based rapid antigen testing, it was possible that individuals who were positive may have moderate to severe illness, necessitating hospitalisation, which can be missed if they remain under home isolation.Baijal said that if adequate facility for home isolation is found available with Covid-19 patients, and the people on clinical assessment do not require hospitalisation, then they would also be offered either a stay at CCCs or at paid isolation facilities such as hotels.“Those who are in home isolation should follow home isolation guidelines laid down by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and should stay in touch with health care providers so that if their condition deteriorates, they can be moved to the COVID hospitals. The earlier orders would be amended accordingly,” the LG office said.“To prevent this from happening, all individuals who are positive will be referred to the Covid Care Centers for assessment of clinical conditions, severity of illness and presence of co-morbidities. Simultaneously, physical assessment will also be done whether adequate facilities for home isolation like minimum two rooms and separate toilet exists so that the family members and neighbors are protected and a cluster of cases does not develop in that locality,” a statement by the LG’s office said.After the evening meeting, Sisodia tweeted: “The reservations of LG over home isolation were resolved in the SDMA meeting and the home isolation system will continue. We thank LG for this. Under the leadership of our Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, we will not let Delhi people have any inconvenience.”In a statement, the Delhi government said: “CM Kejriwal explained the Delhi government’s position to the LG and clarified all the doubts which the LG had about home isolation. We are thankful to the LG for amending his earlier order after considering all our points. A private agency was managing the home isolation programme of the Delhi government via tele-consultation in a professional manner. They were taking care of on-boarding the patient followed by their home-isolation training, medical counselling of patient and family and day-to-day tracking of symptoms. An emergency phone number was given to all patients in case of any escalation of symptoms. If the patients’ symptoms were severe, they were immediately shifted to a hospital. The LG has now asked the health department to make a detailed presentation and submit a concrete proposal to the DDMA on managing the entire process in-house or any other plans for the same before 12pm on Monday. Till then, the service of the said agency has been restored.” The DDMA order on Friday discontinued the services of the company hired to manage the home quarantine, Portea Medical, which contacted individuals through phone calls.According to the government’s June 20 bulletin, 6,285 of its 12,208 Covid-19 hospital beds were vacant, and 4,965 beds were available (out of 6,249) in Covid care and health centres.While issuing the original order, which was called arbitrary by the Delhi government, DDMA said that it feared “home isolation without physical contact to monitor the patients may be a reason for the increase in the spread of Covid-19 infections in Delhi”. Total infections reached 56,746 on Saturday.Home quarantine for patients has been approved by the Union government as an effective way to preserve health care infrastructure for future challenges, under certain guidelines.To be eligible for it, a Covid-19 patient must fulfil seven criteria, according to a Union health ministry circular issued on May 10. One, they should be clinically declared as mild or pre-symptomatic by a treating medical officer; two, they should have requisite facility at home to be self-isolated and for quarantining family contacts; three, a caregiver should be available for 24x7 care and should be in direct contact with a hospital; four, the caregiver and other family contacts should take hydroxychloroquine as a prophylaxis; five, the patient should download the Aarogya Setu app and keep it active at all times; six, they should monitor their health and regularly inform the status to designated surveillance officers; and seven, give a written undertaking that all these guidelines will be followed.On June 19, the health ministry reiterated these guidelines while writing to all states asking for their strict adherence and saying that some states were not following them in “letter and spirit”.The Delhi government’s home isolation management system was launched on May 8. The first 5,000 patients were onboarded in Delhi government’s home isolation system on May 26.According to experts, hospital beds should be kept aside only for serious patients needing specialised care. Most countries in the world recommend home isolation for mild cases. Experts also point to the risks of infections from crowded quarantine facilities.Experts also said that if all cases were to be admitted to institutional facilities in the Capital, the authorities would have to find additional doctors, nurses and health workers. HT reported on Wednesday that the plan to add 23,800 beds this month for Covid-19 patients will require roughly 2,000 doctors and 3,000 nursing staff. To add to the shortfall, several health care workers testing positive are going into quarantine on coming in direct contact with Covid-19 patients.On Friday, the announcement by the central government was criticised as “arbitrary” by the state government, which pointed out its success in running a home quarantine programme and the challenges that will come with adding “thousands of quarantine rooms and finding additional doctors and nurses and health workers” to manage these facilities.Saturday’s move was welcomed by residents and experts.Iqbal Singh Chahal, commissioner of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), said: “A rollback was expected because in cities such as Mumbai and Delhi you need to have solutions that are localised… For the middle and upper middle class people, we give them choices of either opting for paid quarantine or observing home isolation. So, a one-size-fits-all rule cannot be enforced on the ground in reality.”Rajiv Kakria, member of the GK-I Residents’ Welfare Association, said that it was a welcome step. “I would still say that instead of mass open quarantine centres, the government must use facilities like hostels, dharamshalas or state guest houses, which have separate rooms and toilets for people to help them keep safe from exposure to severe infection… We have also written to the government regarding this,” said Kakria, also convener of the Save City Group, a collective of Delhi-NCR RWAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/order-on-institutional-isolation-for-all-covid-patients-scrapped/story-Q4xUXj18H0Vds3EMUagwVL.html
21-06-2020||India||Light rain in Delhi-NCR likely for next 3-4 days: IMD||Pre-monsoon showers brought relief from heat to many parts of Delhi-NCR on Saturday. It is likely to rain intermittently for the next three to four days following which monsoon is likely to arrive around June 24 or 25, India Meteorological Department said.The maximum temperature in Delhi today was 38 degree C compared to 41 degree C on FridayConditions are becoming favourable for advance of southwest monsoon into many parts of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh and some parts of Uttarakhand during June 22 and 23 and into entire Western Himalayan region, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, most parts of Punjab, remaining parts of Arabian Sea, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and some parts of Rajasthan during June 24 and 25, IMD said in its Saturday bulletin.The northern limit of monsoon (northern-most boundary up to which monsoon rains have advanced) continues to pass through Kandla, Ahmedabad in Gujarat; Indore, Raisen, Khajuraho in Madhya Pradesh and Fatehpur, Bahraich in Uttar Pradesh. There was a pause in monsoon advancement since June 16 but its likely to advance towards west UP now.“There is a western disturbance and there is a trough of low pressure running from central Pakistan to east central Bay of Bengal. There will be rain for the next few days in Delhi due to these two systems,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre, adding that monsoon arrival in Delhi can be announced when there is rain in all places (spatial continuity of rain).A trough at mean sea level is running from central Pakistan to eastcentral Bay of Bengal across south Punjab, Haryana, south Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, north coastal Odisha and northwest Bay of Bengal. There is also a cyclonic circulation over southeast Uttar Pradesh. Under the influence of these systems, widespread rainfall with heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely to continue over east and northeast India during next 4-5 days.Rainfall activity over plains of northwest India is likely to increase from June 23, IMD said. “There will be rain and cloudy skies over many parts of Delhi NCR for next 4 to 5 days,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.Monsoon rains over the country are at 28% excess; 7% excess in northeast; 6% excess in northwest India; 74% excess in central India and 11% excess in peninsular India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/light-rain-in-delhi-ncr-likely-for-next-3-4-days-imd/story-TLnBBHmRQTzi3ca0G5iBbP.html
21-06-2020||India||China-made drone from Pakistan carrying arms shot down in J-K||A China-made drone sent from Pakistan with arms and ammunition was shot down by the Border Security Force (BSF) along the International Border in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kathua district on Saturday, officials said. Troops were put on high alert after the BSF intelligence branch received inputs about the possible use of drone for ferrying arms and ammunition from Pakistan into the Indian side, according to officials.“At 5.10am, BSF shot down a China-made drone from Pakistan near Kathua and recovered, among others, M-4 US-made semi-automatic rifle, 60 rounds in two magazines and seven M67 grenades,” said NS Jamwal, inspector general, BSF Jammu Frontier.The drone (8 ft × 6.2 ft) having four batteries weighed around 17.5 kilograms and the consignment around five to six kilograms, Jamwal said. “Surely, it was an attempt to deliver the arms and ammunition to someone here on this side. Who was he, remains a matter of investigation,” he said.He added that the drone came from Thakurpora post in Narowal–Shakargarh sector in Pakistan. A senior police officer who did not want to be named said the delivery was for some “Ali Bhai” as the payload was carrying his name. Jamwal said the payload was for carrying out a big terror attack and “we feel that the contact was probably waiting on Indian side...”“This is the biggest achievement and averted a major incident… We are alert to the situation and keeping an eye on ‘aakash’ (sky), ‘zameen’ (land) and ‘paataal’ (subterranean) activities,” Jamwal, who rushed to the Hiranagar sector, told reporters. “It is a big challenge, but security forces are ready for it. We have had inputs that such hexacopters can be used for dropping arms and ammunition. Our jawans were already on alert and that’s why they shot it down immediately,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drone-from-pak-carrying-arms-shot-down/story-dCmWavDJVEhFc676Xb9JBN.html
21-06-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi says PM Modi surrendered Galwan Valley, Shah hits back||The war of words between the opposition and the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the border standoff with China in the Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh escalated on Saturday with former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi alleging that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had surrendered Indian territory to Chinese aggression.Union Home Minister Amit Shah soon hit back at Gandhi, advising him to rise above “petty politics” and stand in solidarity with national interest at a time when the whole nation is united.Gandhi’s remarks came a day after the Prime Minister stated that no intruder remained in India’s territory nor had any of its posts been captured.“PM has surrendered Indian territory to Chinese aggression. If the land was Chinese: 1.Why were our soldiers killed? 2. Where were they killed?” he tweeted.Gandhi also tagged the Prime Minister’s remarks, made at Friday’s all-party meeting called to discuss the situation at the India-China border following violent clashes between troops of the two countries on June 15 in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed.It was the first time since 1975 that India suffered combat fatalities in a skirmish with Chinese troops. Ten Indian soldiers detained by the Chinese side during the violent brawl of June 15 were later released after intense negotiations through diplomatic and military channels. China has so far not acknowledged any casualties among its troops.Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday hit back at former Congress president Rahul Gandhi over his statement on face-off between Indian and Chinese soldiers in Galwan Valley in Ladakh and advised him to rise above “petty politics”.Putting a video of the father of an injured army man on his Twitter account, Shah said, Gandhi should stand in solidarity with national interest by shunning his politics over the issue at a time when the whole nation is united.“A brave armyman’s father speaks and he has a very clear message for Mr Gandhi. At a time when the entire nation is united, Mr Rahul Gandhi should also rise above petty politics and stand in solidarity with national interest,” Shah tweeted.Later in the day, senior Congress leader and former finance minister P Chidambaram asked the government to clarify its position on China’s claim on the entire Galwan Valley in Ladakh.“The Prime Minister’s remark that no outsider was inside Indian territory in Ladakh had practically left everyone baffled and bewildered,” he said.Addressing a virtual news conference, Chidambaram said the Prime Minister’s remarks contradicted the earlier statements of army chief General MM Naravane, defence minister Rajnath Singh and external affairs minister S Jaishankar.He said even after the Prime Minister’s statement on Friday, China had blamed India for the June 15 clashes and had re-asserted its claim to the entire Galwan Valley.“What is the government’s answer to this claim? Now that China is claiming the entire Galwan Valley, will the government of India reject this claim? If it does not reject the Chinese claim today, it can have terrible consequences,” the Congress leader said.“Let the government of India answer China’s claim today and not wait till tomorrow,” he added.A day after India rejected the Chinese army’s claim of sovereignty over the Galwan Valley and asked Beijing to confine its activities to its side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), China’s foreign ministry on Friday claimed that the Galwan Valley was on the Chinese side of the LAC.Asked whether the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government was drawing a parallel between India’s China policy in 1962, the year the neighbours fought a war over the border dispute, and now, Chidambaram said, “We must focus on the present and not talk about the past.”Chidambaram also reiterated Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s statement at the all-party meeting, insisting that the party stood by India’s defence forces and was prepared to make any sacrifice to ensure they are battle-ready.He said if the Prime Minister’s statement reflects the correct position, the Congress would like to ask the government a few questions.“If no Chinese troops had crossed the LAC and are in Indian territory, what was the face-off on May 5-6, 2020? Between May 5 and June 6, what was the issue on which local Indian commanders were talking to their Chinese counterparts {about} ? What was the subject matter of the negotiations between the Corps Commanders of the two countries on June 6?” asked Chidambaram.“We would also like to ask, if no Chinese troops were inside Indian territory, where did the clashes take place on June 15-16? Where were 20 Indian soldiers killed and 85 injured?” he further asked.Chidambaram also said, “If no Chinese troops are in Indian territory, why did the foreign minister’s statement and other statements of MEA demand the restoration of status quo ante? What was the meaning of status quo ante? What was the meaning of the disengagement that the government said was underway?”If no Chinese forces were inside Indian territory in Ladakh, why did 20 soldiers have to sacrifice their lives, he asked.“When the Prime Minister said a few days ago that the sacrifice of our soldiers will not go in vain, what did he have in mind?” asked the Congress leader.“Why and where did the soldiers sacrifice their lives, and how will the government ensure that the sacrifice will not be in vain?” he asked.Chidambaram said the defence of the nation and its territorial integrity were dear to the heart of every Indian. “We, therefore, seek answers to the questions with a view to re-double our commitment and present a picture of unity and solidarity,” he added.On the call to boycott Chinese products, Chidambaram said that will not hurt China’s economy as Chinese trade with India was only a fraction of its world trade.“We must become self-reliant as much as possible but we can’t decouple with the rest of the world. India must continue to be part of the global supply chain and not boycott Chinese goods. What part of Chinese trade with India is China’s world trade? It’s a fraction,” he said.BJP chief JP Nadda also hit out at the Congress, alleging that its leaders were demoralising the Indian army.“When we are fighting in Galwan, a leader is damaging the morale of forces with his tweets. He is showing his limited intellect,” he said, addressing a virtual rally in Rajasthan.“(He is asking) why have our forces gone unarmed. Don’t you know international treaties? And they didn’t go unarmed. Why are you exposing your limited intellect?” Nadda asked.He said India’s defence forces were capable of protecting its borders everywhere -- ocean, land or sky.Samajwadi Party president and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav said while the nation stands with the government the people must be told the truth about the Galwan Valley clash.“The nation stands with the govt against Chinese incursions. But was the incident in which our soldiers were martyred an incursion? If not then why did MEA ask for status quo ante? Is the Galwan Valley Indian or not? We do not need clarifications. We need the truth,” he tweeted.In a tweet in Hindi earlier in the day, Yadav said, “Confused by Prime Minister ji’s statement on India-China LAC, people are asking if China had not intruded into our territory then under what circumstances did our soldiers die? Is China being given a clean chit?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-says-pm-surrendered-galwan-valley-shah-hits-back/story-tkfG5sd6nTFlgGgp6TeQfO.html
21-06-2020||India||India rejects China’s Galwan Valley claim||New Delhi: India again rejected on Saturday China’s claim on Galwan Valley in Ladakh and reiterated the violent clash of June 15 was triggered by Chinese efforts to build structures on the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC).The external affairs ministry dismissed claims made by China’s foreign ministry in a statement issued late on Friday night regarding both sovereignty over Galwan Valley and the genesis of the clash on Monday night that left 20 Indian soldiers dead.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said the position with regard to Galwan Valley was “historically clear”. He added, “Attempts by the Chinese side to now advance exaggerated and untenable claims with regard to Line of Actual Control (LAC) there are not acceptable. They are not in accordance with China’s own position in the past.”Srivastava further said that the brawl of June 15 was the result of “violent actions” by Chinese troops after they were prevented by Indian soldiers from building structures on the Indian side of the LAC. He noted senior military commanders of the two sides had agreed during a meeting on June 6 on a process for de-escalation and disengagement along the LAC that “involved reciprocal actions”.“Both sides had agreed to respect and abide by the LAC and not undertake any activity to alter the status quo. However, the Chinese side departed from these understandings in respect of the LAC in the Galwan Valley area and sought to erect structures just across the LAC. When this attempt was foiled, Chinese troops took violent actions on June 15, 2020 that directly resulted in casualties,” he said.People familiar with developments said the term “just across the LAC” meant an intrusion into the Indian side of the disputed border but not at great depth.During his phone conversation with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on June 17, external affairs minister S Jaishankar had conveyed India’s strong protest on “the events leading up to and on the violent face-off” on June 15. “He firmly rejected the unfounded allegations made by the Chinese side and the misrepresentation of the understandings reached between the senior [military] commanders. [Jaishankar] also underlined that it was for China to reassess its actions and take corrective steps,” Srivastava said.The two ministers agreed the overall situation would be “handled in a responsible manner” and both sides would “sincerely” implement the disengagement understanding of June 6.Srivastava said the two sides are in regular touch and early meetings of military and diplomatic mechanisms are currently being discussed. “We expect that the Chinese side will sincerely follow the understanding reached between the foreign ministers to ensure peace and tranquillity in the border areas, which is so essential for the overall development of our bilateral relations,” he added.The spokesperson reiterated that Indian troops scrupulously abide by the alignment of the LAC in all sectors, including in Galwan Valley, and the Indian side has “never undertaken any actions across the LAC”. He added Indian troops “have been patrolling” Galwan Valley for a long time without any incident and all infrastructure built by the Indian side is on its side of the LAC.However, Srivastava said that since early May, the Chinese side had hindered India’s normal and traditional patrolling pattern in Galwan Valley and this resulted in a face-off that was addressed by ground commanders in line with bilateral agreements and protocols. “We do not accept the contention that India was unilaterally changing the status quo. On the contrary, we were maintaining it,” he said.In mid-May, the Chinese side “attempted to transgress the LAC in other areas of the Western Sector” of border areas and these attempts were “invariably met with an appropriate response” from the Indian side. The two sides then engaged in discussions through diplomatic and military channels to address the situation.Late on Friday, China claimed Galwan Valley was on the Chinese side of the LAC and had been patrolled by its troops for “many years”. The claim was made in what was described as a “step by step account of the Galwan clash” by Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian.China’s People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) western command had in a statement issued on Tuesday initially claimed the region, saying: “The sovereignty of the Galwan River Valley has always been ours.”On Thursday, Srivastava had dismissed the PLA’s claim as “exaggerated and untenable”.The so-called “step by step account” by Zhao had further claimed that since April, Indian troops had “unilaterally and continuously built roads, bridges and other facilities at the LAC in the Galwan Valley”. He added that “India has gone even further to cross the LAC and make provocations”.Zhao claimed that on June 15, Indian troops “once again crossed the Line of Actual Control for deliberate provocation…and even violently attacked the Chinese officers and soldiers who went there for negotiation, thus triggering fierce physical conflicts and causing casualties”.Air Vice Marshal (retired) Manmohan Bahadur, additional director general of the Centre for Air Power Studies and a helicopter pilot with extensive experience of operations along the LAC, said: “When I first flew in that area in 1978, the maps clearly showed the Galwan Valley as Indian territory. The LAC was well east of the confluence of the Shyok and Galwan rivers.“There was never any question about the Galwan Valley and China’s claim on this region is untenable. There was no Chinese activity in the area, or we would have been briefed accordingly. It was well inside our side of the LAC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rejects-china-s-galwan-valley-claim/story-VofgMqtd74btXuHB2OGTWI.html
21-06-2020||India||Plea in SC against Rath Yatra order||Janardhan Pattajoshi Mohapatra, the hereditary chief servitor of Lord Jagannatha of the Jagannatha Temple in Puri, moved the Supreme Court on Friday seeking the recall of the top court’s June 18 order which had barred the holding of the annual Hindu festival of Rath Yatra this year in view of the threat posed by the Covid-19 pandemic.Mohapatra submitted that the Rath Yatra is an unbroken tradition and an essential practice of the Jagannatha temple, which the temple administrators should mandatorily observe in all circumstances.“Any interruption in the observance of this mandatory religious practice affects the very sanctity of the temple and all its future rituals, as well as the faith of millions of devotees across the world who understand and revere the significance of the Rath Yatra,” the application stated.Mohapatra, therefore, suggested that instead of imposing a blanket ban on the Rath Yatra, and the festival and rituals associated with it, they could hold the festival without public participation by imposing a curfew in the city of Puri and closing its borders.“If a curfew is imposed on the day of Rath Yatra and the Rathas are pulled with the help of earth movers, the entire journey of Lord Jagannatha from the Shri Jagannath Temple to Gundicha mandir of around 2.8 km can be completed in less than one hour. An absolute bar on the performance of such an essential ritual is not necessary to protect public health,” the application filed through advocate Suvidutt Sundaram stated.The Rath Yatra is a festival associated with Lord Jagannatha. It was scheduled to commence this year on June 23. The festival lasts for 10 to 12 days and involves a procession of chariots containing the statues of the deity Lord Jagannatha, his brother Lord Balabhadra and sister Devi Subhadra.The Supreme Court had ordered a stay on the festival and all activities associated with it this year stating that allowing the same would lead to a congregation of more than 10 lakh devotees in violation of social distancing norms which could compromise public health and safety.This order was passed in a petition filed by an NGO, Odisha Vikas Parishad which had moved the top court pointing out the public health risk involved if the annual event took place.The NGO referred to the Tablighi Jamaat incident, a Muslim religious congregation held in mid-March in Nizamuddin, New Delhi, which resulted in a spurt of Covid-189 cases across the country after people from various parts of India and even foreign countries attended the event.“Of about 4,400 Covid-19 positive cases in India as on April 7, nearly one-third were related to the religious gathering at the Markaz, Delhi. Thus, in order to avoid any similar instances of outbreak of Covid-19 cases, a religious gathering in the nature of Rath Yatra festival ought to be avoided,” the petition had read.“Regarding the danger presented by such a large gathering of people for the Rath Yatra, we consider it appropriate in the interests of public health and safety of citizens who are devotees to restrain the respondents (state and district authorities and managing committee of Jagannatha temple) from holding the Rath Yatra this year,” the bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde had ordered.The court had also directed that no such Rath Yatra should be allowed in any other part of Odisha.Mohapatra pointed out that the Rath Yatra has been conducted in all circumstances, including during the Spanish Flu pandemic in 1918.“The Rath Yatra is an essential, mandatory, integral and indispensable religious practice which has scriptural sanction. Non-conduct of the Rath Yatra has consequences not only for the sanctity of the temple but also for the society in general,” his application read.He, therefore, suggested that the state government may announce that the Rath Yatra will be conducted with absolutely nil participation from the public and strict penal consequences will follow if any attempt is made to enter Puri during the Rath Yatra.“Arrangements for the live broadcast of the Rath Yatra may be allowed like every year to enable crores of devotees across the world, including the residents of Puri, to have darshan of the three Deities”, the plea read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-sc-against-rath-yatra-order/story-AWanHxPjw22OIuIylSsq4L.html
21-06-2020||India||Soldiers exchanged after melee: Singh||Former chief of army staff VK Singh, minister of state for road transport and highways in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government, says the latest transgression by China across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) into Indian territory has created a trust deficit between the two Asian giants, but cautions that war should be the last resort. Asked what would be an apt response to the Chinese aggression, which led to a violent brawl on June 15 in the Gwalan valley in eastern Ladakh that left 20 Indian soldiers dead, Singh said in an interview: “If you’re going to tell about the response now, then the response is of no use whatsoever. I am sure the required people have been tasked to think of what can be done, what cannot be done and what all measures have to be taken.” “In the melee where there are over 600 people just jostling, scuffling, pushing and hitting each other and in a dark night some people got separated; their people on our side and our people on their side. But in the morning they were exchanged.” Singh added: “The first thing that has been given out is to boycott Chinese goods, let’s start with this. Let’s hurt them economically, other things will follow. War and use of force is the last resort always and every time. When all other means fail then you resort to this. There are many means available.” Singh’s comments come in the backdrop of outrage over the June 15 skirmish, in which Chinese troops armed with nail-studded rods and clubs attacked Indian troops. The 20 Indians who died were the first fatalities in a confrontation with Chinese troops in 45 years. The former army chief said the situation was firmly in control of Indian troops. “There are no intrusions. There are transgressions, not intrusions,” he said.On the May confrontation in Pangong Tso, he said: “ ... this is not just a yearly feature, but happens in the summer and sometimes in the winter also. These have been happening, the only difference this time is that the transgression has involved a certain amount of stealth in the Pangong Tso area, they’ve done things which they have never done earlier.”Singh said subsequent negotiations centred on wherever there have been transgressions such as Patrol Point 14 where “they said LAC is not this way but is a different way.”“They have been told that we been sitting here on this for decades now, where is the doubt?. Same is true for other regions including Chumar. They try and come to the heights opposite the DBO [Daulat Begh Oldi]. All this is very old, it’s not something which is new. What is new is as the infrastructure becomes better they try to overawe us by more strength or vehicles.”Singh said the Chinese were not on Indian territory across the LAC, asked about China laying claim to Galwan.“The LAC is an interpretation from a map given in 1959 and Chinese keep advancing some claim or the other. The LAC is not marked on the ground, there is no agreement on it. There is a certain amount of flexibility that exists out there. But there are places where both sides know their own sides and ensure these are protected. Where there is no-man’s land, which comes up because of these perceptional differences, is where these patrol face-offs take place,” he added.Asked about Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s question at the all-party meeting with the PM on Friday if here had been an intelligence failure, Singh said::”I am not in a position to respond because intelligence is a domain that is looked after by the RA&W {Research and Analysis Wing}. What I can refute is that it is a military intelligence failure...” Singh said the Chinese aggression across the LAC may be an attempt to deflect attention from other issues.“Why would China try to do things on the border, it is there any reason? In China nothing happens at the local level, it all comes from the top and who is the head of the military commission, {President} Xi Jinping. So this is not like India where broad instructions are there and commanders do their own things. What is it that they want to divert attention from? They are in the firing line of all the countries in the world because of Covid, they are having problems in Hong Kong, they hav problems in the South China Sea, they have trade problems with the United States, everybody is blaming them for everything. It means they want to divert attention from something.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soldiers-exchanged-after-melee-singh/story-paLMC5nLvV33MIHYJO50YP.html
21-06-2020||India||T’gana reimposes restrictions in govt offices amid spike||With the Covid-19 situation in Telangana turning from bad to worse, affecting state government employees, politicians and even bureaucrats, the state government on Saturday issued fresh guidelines, tightening restrictions in workplaces.According to a circular issued by chief secretary Somesh Kumar, the state secretariat and all the other state-level government offices will function with reduced manpower, comprising those who would attend to their duties on a staggered basis.While 50% of office subordinates, data entry operators and other Class-IV employees will come to work every alternate week, only 50% of the clerical staff and their superiors, including assistant section officers and section officers, will come to their respective offices on alternate days.However, officers with separate chambers will continue to work regularly. “All the employees, right from Class IV employees to section officers, who are not on duty on a particular day, must remain at the headquarters and should be available to return to the office on a short notice,” the circular said.Officers and staff members with vulnerabilities, such as pregnancy, or comorbidities have been advised to stay at home. They have to duly take the appropriate leave, including casual leave, earned leave or half-day leave, based on medical certification. They should remain available at the headquarters and attend to any urgent duties in case of an emergency.Further, no visitor will be permitted into the government offices without the authorisation of the official concerned or appointment. The office premises and vehicles will be regularly disinfected.All infection prevention protocols, including regular hand washing, sanitisation, wearing masks and other guidelines, should be strictly followed. Not more than three persons in addition to the lift operator should be allowed in the lift.While all officers have been advised to refrain from using air conditioners and ensuring adequate ventilation in their respective rooms, drivers have been instructed not to gather in the parking and instead, sit in their respective offices. “The orders which will come into effect commencing from Monday, will remain in force up to July 4,” the circular said.Telangana reported 499 positive cases in 24 hours (ending Friday night), which is the single largest surge in cases in a day. The overall number of positive cases reportedly mounted to 6,526, of which 3,352 patients have recovered till date.There were also three fatalities, taking the death toll in the state to 198.The state capital of Hyderabad continues to witness an alarming rise in cases, with 329 positive cases in a single day on Friday. The neighbouring district of Rangareddy too saw an escalation in the number of cases with 129 samples testing positive for Covid-19.On Friday, as many as three IPS officers in the Hyderabad Police Commissionerate tested positive for Covid-19. Besides, 18 police personnel in the special branch wing of the state police also tested positive.An IAS officer from GHMC tested positive and is in isolation, a GHMC official said.On Saturday, a security personnel attached to the Bharatiya Janata Party MLA T Raja Singh tested positive, forcing the lawmaker to go into self-quarantine. Similarly, the driver of TRS MLA Bajireddy Goverdhan also turned out to be positive, after the MLA and his wife also tested positive and got admitted to a private hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/t-gana-reimposes-restrictions-in-govt-offices-amid-spike/story-E8WO4pHFCx8IhJ1I7WU9TJ.html
21-06-2020||India||School principal arrested in Delhi violence case gets bail||A Delhi court on Saturday granted bail to Faisal Farooq, principal of Rajdhani Public School, who was earlier charged with hatching a conspiracy to precipitate and aggravate riots in and around his school. The court observed that the CCTV footage did not show Farooq’s presence at the place where the riots had broken out. Duty Judge Vinod Yadav said that the statement of one of the witnesses, Roop Singh, on March 8 had claimed that he had seen Farooq on the spot . He had also claimed to have heard Farooq asking the school guard to permit some people inside the school.However, later in his statement recorded before the magistrate on March 11, he did not say a word about having seen the accused at the scene or having heard him saying anything to the school guard.The court, while granting bail, said that to “cover up” the deficiency in statement of the witness, the Investigating Officer (IO) recorded a supplementary statement of Singh claiming that he had got scared before magistrate which is why he could not state the correct facts. The IO had moved an application before the court for getting this new fact added to his statement. However, it was dismissed by the judge, the court noted in its order.“It is clearly apparent that there are contradictions in the various statements of this witness about applicant,” the court said. It also noted that Farooq kept calling the police to report the damage to his school (Rajdhani Public School) from February 24, but FIR in his case was not recorded and it was ultimately recorded on March 5.The court also said that another witness, Geeta, who was Roop Singh’s wife, also did not say a word about having seen the accused on the spot on the date of the incident. It said that another witness Manoj, who was admittedly the guard at the Rajdhani school, has merely stated that Farooq had come to the main gate and had spoken to some people outside.“From the aforesaid statements, it is prima-facie not established that the applicant was present at the spot at the time of incident. It is an admitted position that several CCTV cameras were lying installed at Rajdhani Public School at various places, the footages whereof have been thoroughly scrutinized by the Investigating Agency but the presence of the applicant therein is not there. If the applicant (Farooq) was not present at the scene of occurrence then his involvement in the offences cannot be made out,” the judge in his order.The court also noted that “except bald allegation,” there is no material to substantiate that Farooq had spoken to several people related to communal riots.“When the IO was confronted in this regard then he stated that further investigation on the aspect of terror funding is under way.....,” the court said.The court, while stating that the accused had made a good case for bail, also noted, “It is made clear that nothing in this order shall be construed an expression on the merits of evidence to be adduced in the matter.”The police also charge sheeted 18 people in connection with the riots that broke out at Rajdhani Public School, while naming its principal, Farooq ,for hatching a conspiracy to precipitate and aggravate riots, in and around the school. According to the police, it was on Farooq’s directions that the adjacent and rival convent school, two parking lots run by the other party and the building of one Anil Sweets were systematically destroyed by the mob.Police said in the charge sheet that the call detail analysis of Farooq’s phone suggested that the he had links with prominent members of Popular Front of India, Pinjra Tod group, Jamia Coordination Committee, Hazrat Nizamuddin Markaz and some other fundamental muslim clerics, including Deoband, which indicated the depth of the conspiracy.Police in a charge sheet have said that the rioters had camped inside and fired bullets from the terrace of Rajdhani School. They also threw petrol bombs, acid, bricks, stones and other missiles using an improvised large iron catapult, specially installed for the purpose, from the terrace of the school. HT contacted police crime branch chief Praveer Ranjan and police spokesperson Mandeep Randhawa but despite many calls and text message, there was no response. Confirming the order, Farooq’s lawyer Gaurav Kochar said he had contended that there was no material on record about the physical presence of the applicant at the spot at the time of riots. He also told the court that there was a delay of 11 days in the registration of FIR in the matter which was unexplained and pointed towards concoction of the false implication in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/school-principal-arrested-in-delhi-violence-case-gets-bail/story-BUADUKjsLzfSpilDYd4gBJ.html
21-06-2020||India||DU admissions begin, over 19k register online on Day 1||New Delhi: Over 19,500 applicants had registered for admissions to Delhi University’s various undergraduate courses in just about four hours as the admissions began on Saturday. While 19,543 applicants had registered online for the undergraduate courses, 5,889 registered for postgraduate courses and 457 registered for PhD, university officials said. DU on Saturday started the online registration process for admission to its various undergraduate, postgraduate, Mphil, and PhD courses. Applicants will get a two-week window ending on July 4 to register for the courses.The Bulletin of Information, which contains guidelines on university’s admission procedure, was uploaded on the DU website at around 5pm and the registration portal was also made operational for applicants.In 2019, applicants got an over three-week window from May 30 to June 22 to register for admissions and the first cut-off list was announced on June 28. This year, however, the Covid-19 pandemic has delayed the admission schedule. The dates of the first cut-off are yet to be decided as the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) is yet to conduct its twelve main class 12 papers. The exams are due to be held between July 1 and 15. (Multiple papers were pending for CBSE. But on April 1 CBSE said it would conduct the remaining exams in only major subjects for class 12 including Business Studies and Computer Studies.)Dean (admissions) Shobha Bagai said on Satuday that the admission process this time will be “contact-less” and completely online. “We have a link with the CBSE portal to directly verify the marksheets online. This time, we have also written to all educational boards across the country to share the link of the portal where their results will be announced so that colleges can easily verify the marksheets,” she said at a press conference. “The University had been planning the complete online admission for quite some time but the Covid-19 pandemic catalyzed the process,” she added.Applicants in previous years could visit the university and colleges to clarify their doubts or follow the admission procedures through Open Day events. This year, DU will instead conduct webinars in the coming days to clear up any doubts applicants have. “We will have dedicated helpline numbers where students can post in their queries. We will also be conducting webinars guiding students through the process,” Bagai said.Unlike last year, candidates opting for Bachelor of Arts courses will not undergo a percentage deduction if they switch from science or commerce streams. No additional eligibility criteria will be set by the colleges besides the ones stipulated in the Bulletin of Information, the document read.This is also the first time that trials for sports and extracurricular activities(ECA) will not be held due to the pandemic. While students will get admission under the sports category on the basis of their certificates, for ECA, only NSS and NCC certificates will be considered instead of 14 activities such as music, dance and debate among others listed till last year.While the bulletin mentions that there will be five cut-offs for students, the admissions committee is yet to release the tentative schedule for the first cut-off. Bagai explained that this is due to the uncertainty over CBSE results. “Earlier we were told that the CBSE results were likely to come around August 15 after they conducted their pending class 12 exams. Since the Supreme Court has asked CBSE to look for other alternatives, there is a possibility that the results might be declared sooner. We will release our tentative schedule by the second or third week of July when things are clearer,” she said.The National Testing Agency (NTA) will be conducting the entrance tests to undergraduate and postgraduate courses in DU in 20 cities across India and the schedule will be released in the coming days.Hours after it went live, some students faced issues in accessing the website. “On the very first day of admissions, the website for UG admissions wasn’t working. DU is planning on holding its first ever online open book examination after 10 days. But it has failed terribly in making an efficient and secure online infrastructure for even filling admission forms,” said Akshay Lakra, president of the Delhi unit of National Students’ Union of India (NSUI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/du-admissions-begin-over-19k-register-online-on-day-1/story-lArm85psEbgQ8kErV6XhWN.html
21-06-2020||India||Chinese app pulls down India’s posts on conflict||BeijingChinese social media app, WeChat, has removed posts of the Embassy of India (EoI) regarding the India-China border conflict.It has cited “endangering national security” and “divulging state secrets” as the reasons for the removal of the posts.The EoI posts included Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s remarks on the India-China border situation, details of a phone call between the Indian and Chinese foreign ministers held on Thursday and a statement by the external affairs ministry (MEA) spokesperson.For two of the posts, a pop-up window said that the posts were “deleted by the author”. For the third post, which was a statement by the MEA spokesperson, the pop-up message read: “Unable to view this content because it violates regulations”. “This content was reported and confirmed by the platform of the following…Suspected of violating relevant laws, regulations and policies,” the message added.The regulations included: “endangers national security, divulges state secrets, subverts state power, or undermines national unity, inciting hatred, disseminating false information, inciting illegal assembly, demonstration or gathering of people to disturb public order”. This has come a day after a similar statement by the MEA spokesperson was deleted from the Embassy’s Weibo account. The Embassy had then issued a clarification saying that the post wasn’t removed by it, and re-published a screen-shot of the statement in Chinese.Weibo is a Chinese microblogging website.While the statements on WeChat were issued in English and Mandarin, the EoI’s Weibo account uploaded the MEA’s version of the events at the border in eastern Ladakh, in Chinese.WeChat is yet to respond to queries from HT on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-app-pulls-down-india-s-posts-on-conflict/story-hONzMbOLQOEMp8lPGCb61H.html
21-06-2020||India||Fully prepared for any contingency, says air force chief||Hyderabad India is not expecting a war with China on the border issue, but it is fully prepared to meet any contingency arising out of the conflict on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria said in Hyderabad on Saturday.The Indian Air Force (IAF) chief said India will always be prepared to defend its territories. His remarks came against the backdrop of the biggest confrontation with China in over five decades in which 20 soldiers, including a colonel, were killed in the Galwan valley on June 15.“It should be very clear that we are well-prepared and suitably deployed to respond to any contingency. I assure the nation that we are determined to deliver and will never let the sacrifice of our braves of Galwan go in vain,” he said, addressing 123 newly graduated IAF cadets, including 19 women cadets, at the Air Force Academy at Dundigal on the outskirts of Hyderabad.He also interacted with reporters after reviewing the combined graduation parade. Bhadauria said the air force, for tactical reasons, cannot disclose where and how the deployments will be made. “We shall do and we are doing it as per the requirements,” he said. “We know what their (Chinese) fields are. We know what their air fields are, where they are deployed, what are the operational bases,” he added.Replying to a query on his assessment of the LAC situation in the wake of his visit to the airbases in Leh and Srinagar over the last two days, the Air Chief Marshal said the army was in full control of the situation at Galwan valley. “We are aware of the full situation. Be at LAC (Line of Actual Control), be it deployments beyond LAC,” Bhadauria said. When asked if India is at war with China, Bhadauria said: “You are aware of the talks that are happening at the military level...but we are prepared for any contingency.”Answering another question, Bhadauria admitted that the air force was yet to acquire full capacity in indigenous production of fighter aircraft. “However, we are developing the ecosystem for indigenous manufacturing. We hope to produce 300 plus aircraft in the next 15 years,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fully-prepared-for-any-contingency-says-air-force-chief/story-HtxQL7IE83v71IpmC6E5iP.html
21-06-2020||India||Glenmark plans to launch antiviral drug for Covid-19 in next few days||Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Limited plans to launch its anti-viral drug Favipiravir, which produced improvement of up to 88% in mild to moderate coronavirus disease cases during clinical trials, across India by early next week, the company said on Saturday, making it the first oral antiviral available under emergency use authorisation to treat Covid-19 patients in the country.The drug, marketed under the brand name FabiFlu, will be marketed in some north Indian states by Saturday evening. Available in a pack of 34 oral tables of 200mg each for Rs 3,500, the cost of the 14-day treatment will be around Rs 14,000.The dosage regimen is 3,600 mg on day one, and 1,600 mg from day two onwards for a maximum 14 days.Emergency use means every patient must give his or her informed consent before starting treatment.“The company has already started production of the drug. In some states that are closer to our manufacturing unit in Baddi (Himachal) the drug will be rolled out by this (Saturday) evening, and across India we should be able to supply by early next week,” said Sujesh Vasudevan, president, India formulations, Middle East and Africa, at Glenmark.On Friday, the company had announced it received approval from India’s central drugs regulator for manufacturing and marketing FabiFlu as an oral antiviral drug to treat mild to moderate Covid-19 cases in India.The drug that has been indigenously manufactured will be available for sale both in hospitals and retail pharmacies, and is to be given under strict medical supervision. It is not an over-the-counter drug, and its sale will only be allowed on possession of a valid medical prescription. “The antiviral offers broad spectrum RNA virus coverage with clinical improvement noted across age groups 20 to >90 years. Favipiravir can be used in Covid-19 patients with comorbid conditions such as diabetes and heart disease with mild to moderate Covid-19 symptoms. It offers rapid reduction in viral load within four days, and provides faster symptomatic and radiological improvement. Of most importance, Favipiravir has shown clinical improvement of up to 88% in Covid-19 mild to moderate cases,” the company said in a presentation at a press briefing.The drug needs to be started early for it to show maximum benefits. “Antivirals work the best when they are started early, same is the case with Favipiravir. The evidence shows it will prevent patients from progressing to severe disease, and turning critical if the drug is administered in early stages of the disease when flu-like symptoms appear in mild cases, or when lung infection sets in in moderate cases,” said Monika Tandon, vice president and head, clinical development, Glenmark Pharmaceuticals.Randomised clinical trials in India have been conducted in 150 covid-19 patients at 11 hospitals, who were diagnosed positive through a reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test. Of them, 90 were mild cases and 60 were moderately sick patients.“The Indian study as well as the other global studies point to the fact that the drug leads to rapid reduction in viral load, faster fever reduction, faster resolution of chest CT changes and faster clinical recovery,” said Tandon.The medicine, however, is not recommended for people suffering from severe kidney or liver disease, pregnant and lactating women, and also those sensitive to Favipiravir.The company’s priority is the Indian market, but it is also exploring the possibility of exporting the drug.“Our priority remains India and later other markets. Exports will depend on regulatory requirements in those countries. There is a possibility for export in Middle Eastern countries but it’s too early to say anything conclusively right now,” said Vasudevan.Currently, the injectible antiviral Remdesivir and immunosuppressant Tocilizumab are part of India’s treatment protocol, under restricted and off-label use, for Covid-19 patients.Experts in the field find the study results promising, “The initial data looks promising, and we will get to see how well it works once we start using it,” said a senior doctor treating Covid-19 patients in a private hospital on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/glenmark-plans-to-launch-antiviral-drug-for-covid-19-in-next-few-days/story-dgpWTQkhb5kgoZoqDTIkhL.html
21-06-2020||India||Pompeo says China ‘rogue actor’ in region||Washington: US Secretary of State Michael Pompeo has blamed China for escalating tensions along the border with India and called it a “rogue actor” in the neighbourhood, and indicated he may have raised the dispute and other such flashpoints in his meeting with his Chinese counterpart, Yang Jiechi, earlier in the week.“The PLA has escalated border tensions – we see it today in India, the world’s most popular – populous democracy,” Pompeo said referring to the People’s Liberation Army, the Chinese military. “And we watch as it militarises the South China Sea and illegally claims more territory there, threatening vital sea lanes, a promise they broke again”“But the CCP isn’t just a rogue actor in its own neighbourhood,” he added, referring this time to the Chinese Communist Party by its initials. “If it was, we might think differently about it. It impacts us all. “The top US diplomat was participating in a virtual conference of the Copenhagen Democracy Summit on Friday.Pompeo went on to say, in response to a question about his meeting with Yang, “What I spent a good deal of my time speaking with Yang Jiechi about was the fundamental idea that we’re just watching actions. It’s no longer enough to listen to what the Chinese Communist Party is saying. We can see their actions. I ticked through a few of them: Hong Kong, Tibet, Xinjiang, what they’re doing in India, what they’ve done in the economic zones along the Philippines and Malaysia and Indonesia and Vietnam, the coercion on Australia – when they had the audacity to demand that there would be an investigation of how this virus got from Wuhan to Milan, how this virus got from Wuhan to Tehran, how this virus got from Wuhan to Oklahoma City, and to Belgium and to Spain, and decimating the global economy.”The readout issued of the meeting by the state department had did not have such granular details. But, again, it was not explicit from Pompeo’s remarks at the virtual conference if he did indeed bring up the India-China border clashes specifically or in a general way, covering all of China’s aggressive actions.Tensions between the United States and China have escalated significantly after the Covid-19 outbreak,. The Trump administration has sought to tie to China accusing it of not alerting the rest of the world on time and then by providing incorrect and misleading information about it. Pompeo calls it the Wuhan Virus, after the city where it started. And President Donald Trump had called the “Chinese Virus”, “plague” and “gift” from China.There is very little patience for China in the United States, which made very clear its support for India in the ongoing border dispute with India form the early days. In May, Alice Wells, the former top diplomat for South and Central Asia had said the border flare-ups “were reminder that Chinese aggression is not always just rhetorical. We continue to see provocations and disturbing behaviour by China that raises questions about how China wants to use its rising power”.President Trump had offered to mediate subsequently, late May, but was turned down by both India and China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pompeo-says-china-rogue-actor-in-region/story-hmLkWo9F3UIvVI5qLrC3kO.html
21-06-2020||India||Cancer care takes a hit during lockdown||Cancer treatment took a massive hit in April and May, when roughly 70% of patients could not access life-saving surgery and treatment, according to data from some of India’s largest super-speciality hospitals.Cancer surgeries in April and May in the aftermath of the lockdown enforced from March 25 to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease pandemic were one-fifth the surgeries performed in the corresponding period in 2019. Cancer services declined by 50% in April and May compared to the same period last year, shows data from leading private hospitals for cancer across India.Even after the lockdown was relaxed gradually, the fear of Covid-19 infection is keeping some cancer patients away from hospitals. Those who seek treatment don’t get it because of health systems prioritising coronavirus disease treatment over all else, leading to life-threatening delays in diagnosis and treatment.In February, a 52-year-old man who requested anonymity developed a small swelling on the left side of his neck, but it took six hospital visits and two-and-a-half months for him to be diagnosed with cancer. By the time his treatment began at Max Super Specialty Hospital at Saket in New Delhi in June, his tumour was oozing blood and he had lost 10kg, which brought his weight down to 61kg. “Most hospitals turned us away saying they did not have beds free. Two hospitals said no to dressing my wound because by the end of May, I had developed fever before I was diagnosed with lymphoma,” the patient said after undergoing a second round of chemotherapy at the hospital on June 18.At least 51,100 live-saving cancer surgeries were cancelled in India from the end of March to the end of May, estimated CovidSurg Collaborative, a research network of surgeons and anaesthetists in 77 countries, including India, which published its findings in the British Journal of Surgery in May.“Cancer patients are among the most vulnerable as they need early diagnosis and uninterrupted and often hospital-centric treatment for good outcomes to prevent high morbidity and mortality. He arrived here with a more than 10cm lymphoma, which is cancer in infection-fighting cells of the immune system. A colleague’s father was diagnosed with lung cancer on March 20, but missed treatment for two-and-a-half months. Now his lung cancer is at an advanced stage,” said Dr Harit Chaturvedi, chairman, cancer care, and director and chief surgical oncologist at Max Healthcare.One out of eight men and one in nine women in India has probability of developing cancer in their lifetime (0-74 years), according to the Indian Council of Medical Research-National Centre for Disease Informatics and Research (ICMR-NCDIR), Bangaluru, which implements India’s national cancer registry programme through 36 population-based registries and 236 hospital-based registries across states. It estimated there were 1.45 million new cases of cancer diagnosed in 2016, which will double in the next 20 years.Cancer killed 813,000 people in 2016 and accounted for 8.3% of total deaths in India that year, according to the ICMR-led India State-level Disease Burden Initiative study on cancer published in the journal The Lancet Oncology in 2018.“There is preliminary evidence that cancer surgeries and treatment have reduced post lockdown, but the national registry will have mature date on the impact of this disruption on cancer outcomes after a year, where we can analyse data systematically to say whether delays in treatment have increased death,” said Dr Prashant Mathur, director, ICMR-NCDIR.Children with cancer are particularly vulnerable. “Early results suggest that of the 10 children who would normally be expected to be diagnosed and treated for their cancer, six are no longer reaching that stage and hence missing on critical treatment, which will lead to significantly increased loss of life,” said Dr Ramandeep Singh Arora, paedicatric oncologist and principal investigator of an ongoing national study on the effect of Covid-19 on childhood cancers in India.Studies show that if patients get timely treatment, outcomes don’t get affected even in patients who develop cancer and Covid-19. A study published in The Lancet last week that analysed data from patients with Covid-19 and cancer in the UK and the US found the new coronavirus infection does not affect cancer treatment outcomes. The UK Coronavirus Cancer Monitoring Project prospectively collected data on 800 patients and found “no interaction between anticancer treatments within four weeks before testing positive for Sars-CoV-2, and Covid-19 morbidity or mortality was found”. The US Covid-19 and Cancer Consortium analysed prospectively collected data from 928 patients and found no increase in 30-day mortality associated with anti-cancer therapy.“In the beginning of the pandemic, all our resources were understandably directed there, but now there is an urgent need to strategise with a calm head. The government must not just restore all services for urgent treatments, emergency care and cancer, dialysis etc, but must also strengthen policies and communicate its initiatives to restore public confidence. We must deploy 50% of health care resources to Covid, and the rest to non-Covid {cases},” said Dr Chaturvedi.“Delayed treatment is likely to lead to cancer progression to late stages, so we need resume services as much as possible and also scale up remote access healthcare by using digital tools and WhatsApp video-calling to connect the provider and patients to decongest tertiary hospitals,” said Dr Mathur.Creating safe areas with no overcrowding and other safeguards will help reduce patient hesitancy. “To prevent any spread of infection have these buildings, hospitals blocks completely segregated. My fear is that if we do not take steps, we will see many times over loss of lives due to non-Covid reasons,” said Dr Chaturvedi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cancer-care-takes-a-hit-during-lockdown/story-9yIR9C2F6ZhRmyodjFdGRO.html
21-06-2020||India||Delhi’s Covid-19 tally gallops to over 56K after highest spike||Yet another massive surge of 3,630 new cases – the highest yet – took Delhi’s Covid-19 tally to 56,746 on Saturday.According to the Delhi health department, 77 casualties in the day took the death toll to 2,112.The national capital now has 23,340 active cases while 31,294 patients have been cured or discharged including 7,725 on Saturday.A total of 17,533 tests were carried out on Saturday. So far, 3,51,909 tests have been carried out in Delhi with the rate of testing now at 18,521 people per million of population.Earlier in the day, Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal withdrew his controversial order of mandatory five-day institutional quarantine for every Covid-19 case in the capital after stiff opposition from the AAP government which maintained that the mandatory institutional quarantine will seriously harm the city as its facilities will not be able to take the burden of the rising number of casesAs Covid-19 cases soared, the Delhi government directed all hospitals and medical institutions under it to recall their employees, who are currently on leave, and report for duty immediately. Leave of any kind would only be granted under “most compelling circumstances”.Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Singh who is in an intensive care unit in a private hospital after testing positive for Covid-19, was administered plasma therapy on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-covid-19-tally-gallops-to-over-56k-after-highest-spike/story-Nqq0GDzrVbfqBhGGJOUgVN.html
21-06-2020||India||‘International flights to depend on demand’: Hardeep Singh Puri||A decision on the resumption of international passenger flights will depend on demand and other countries being open to receiving flights amid the Covid-19 pandemic, civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Saturday, and overseas operations to North America where demand is higher may be the first to restart, according to a senior official. At the same time, Puri was hopeful that domestic flights would reach full capacity by the end of the year.“Any suggestion that international air traffic has opened up in other countries and we are the only ones not to open up needs a reality check. The exact time we resume international flights depends on other countries being open to receive flights,” Puri said at a press conference on Saturday.India has suspended international passenger flights since March 22 in a bid to contain the spread of Covid-19.International flight movement in countries such as the United States, United Kingdom, Australia, Germany, China, Singapore and the United Arab Emirates now varies between 3% and 18% of their earlier flight capacity, Puri said.The minister said that international flight operations depend on airspaces being open and acceptance by destinations.“Many countries decided that they were not going to allow nationals from other countries except their own. We also went with the same position,” Puri said.He added that entry to the US, UK, France, China, UAE and Singapore was conditional. “We cannot have normal civil aviation operations under such conditions. We are left with no option but to continue with evacuation and repatriation flights under controlled conditions. We are constantly trying to expand both domestic and Vande Bharat flights {to bring back Indians stranded abroad} and eventually resuming flights to pre-Covid operational capacities,” he added.The minister added that nearly 275,000 stranded Indians have been brought back so far, adding that 109,000 Indians were brought back via Air India alone. During Phase 3 and Phase 4 of the Vande Bharat mission, private domestic airlines have been mandated to operate 750 international flights along with 300 Air India flights that will be added in the coming days, Puri said.India may resume international flights on routes with relatively higher demand first, other officials said. “Both ends have to be ready and there has to be traffic if international operations are to begin. There is a significant amount of traffic between India and the North American continent. We may think of opening flights on a case-to-case basis,” civil aviation secretary Pradeep Singh Kharola said.Puri said the government was ready to expand the capacity on domestic routes from 33% (at present) to 45% depending on the states.“At present we have allowed only 33% flights to operate. Flights are not operating with full capacity even now. We will open more routes when there is more demand. We are ready to take it to up to even 40-45% capacity,” Puri added.The limits on airfares imposed on domestic flights may also be extended beyond August 24, officials said.“Depending on how the situation turns out, the fare band may have to adjusted beyond that (August 24) also. But right now, it is only for three months,” Kharola said.The Centre capped airfares of domestic flights that resumed from May 25 with fixed lower and upper limits.Discussing the divestment plans for national carrier Air India, Puri said he was confident about the government’s plan of selling all its stake in the airline. “I have never been as hopeful and confident about Air India, divestment or disinvestment whatever you choose, as I am now. Air India is a first-class asset. Whether it is for evacuation of people from Wuhan or elsewhere, Air India has been at the heart of it,” the civil aviation minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/int-l-flights-to-depend-on-demand-puri/story-JEQ6xyNgqh3JkZGPRw17NO.html
21-06-2020||India||‘Surge in Covid-19 cases in Himachal but not at the pace as in other states’: CM||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jairam Thakur is facing the twin challenges of battling the Covid-19 pandemic and bickering within the state unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). In an interview with Chetan Chauhan, Thakur spoke about how the state has kept the Covid-19 numbers low and his plans to revive the economy. He also said an alleged fraud in the purchase of medical equipment, which prompted Himachal BJP president Rajeev Bindal to resign in May, had been dealt with sternly. Edited excerpts: How has Himachal dealt with Covid-19?A: In Himachal, corona has increased but not at the pace as in other states. In Himachal, we continued with curfew to explain to people in simple terms that they don’t have to go out. Lockdown, for some people, meant that they can go out. Strict implementation helped as it did not allow spread of Covid till Tablighi Jamaat attendees returned from {a religious congregation in} New Delhi in April first week. Despite that, management within the state was so good that we didn’t allow the cases to increase. We decided to chase the virus and not allowed the virus to chase us. We formed a team of 16,000 personnel, who went to all 70 lakh homes, and took health details of all. We now have a health profile off every home in the state.So why has the number of cases increased to about 615? A. When Himachalis from other states start returning in May, cases increased. On May 1, we had one Covid positive case. When the PM held a video conference with all CMs, he told all of us to ensure that migrants are able to return home safely. We brought back people from across India and students from Kota{coaching schools} also came back. Now there are 615 cases. We have a mechanism to ensure every returnee is kept in institutional quarantine and is tested. The village committees are vigilant and report if someone fails to report his or her return.  Watch | Covid & bickering within BJP: Himachal CM Jairam Thakur faces twin battlePM has spoken about unlock norms. In Himachal, tourism and horticulture are two important cogs of the state’s economy. How do you plan to revive them?A. Tourism in Himachal and the entire world is badly affected. Nowhere are people eager to travel and I don’t see a quick tourism revival. Although we are getting calls that people want to come to Himachal, we have not given a relaxation in unlock norms, as Covid cases are still high outside Himachal. We decided to wait. In coming times, we would be developing Himachal Pradesh as a safe wellness destination for tourists. I foresee, a lot of changes in the tourism sector as Covid is not going to disappear one fine day. Our people have suffered as 55,000 people are directly employed and lakhs are indirectly employed {in tourism}. Home stay is a big income source, which is gone. The situation is worrisome.What are your plans for horticulture?A. Horticulture sector has been affected. Cherry season went well; we planned marketing and farmers did not lose much. Apple season, which is ₹4,000 to 4,500 crore economy, has three important components --- packaging material, marketing and labour. We have started factories and are arranging for 2.5 crore apple packaging boxes. For selling, there can be an issue if Azadpur market (in New Delhi) closes because of Covid. We have raised the issue with the PM and are working on the alternatives. Third is labour, most of which comes from Nepal. Nepalese workers go back to their homes in November-December, and return to Himachal in April-May. This year, many have not come back because of the lockdown. Now, we have border issues with Nepal, and China (the military standoff at the Line of Actual Control) has also happened. I have written to the external affairs and home ministry to allow Nepalese labour to come {back}. As an alternative, we are getting workers from Haryana, UP and Bihar. On the positive side, we are expecting a good market for apples, as there would be less imports of apples from China and the US this year.Former BJP state president Rajeev Bindal had to resign because of the alleged scam in purchase of personal protection equipment kits, which is said to be a result of internal bickering.A. It is not a big scam. We are trying to save every person and people have suffered because of Covid. In this, if someone tries to steal, there cannot be a bigger sin than that. Party president (Bindal) is not directly involved in the scam (of purchase of PPE kits). The issue was that the director of health, who seemed to be seeking money (for award of PPE kit contracts) is considered close to him. When the opposition raised the issue, he (Bindal) resigned on moral grounds. The day the audio (of a conversation between the health director and a company functionary) went viral, we arrested the director and his accomplice has also been arrested. Although they are on bail now, we have taken immediate action and suspended the director, health. I have been in the Vidhan Sabha for 25 years and we have been raising several such issues when Congress was in power but no one was arrested, no action was taken and there was only a promise of an inquiry. We have conducted and inquiry and have taken the best possible action. I don’t want to go into corruption of crore of rupees during the Congress rule.There are three vacant positions in your Cabinet. When do you plan to fill them?A. That keeps on happening in several states. Three positions are vacant and the government is running well. We have asked the party high command to tell us the appropriate time to fill these posts. When we get the permission, we will fill them. It is not a big issue.How does Himachal plan to implement the Unlock phase?A. Finances of many states are in a bad shape. Himachal finances depend totally on the Centre’s assistance. In Unlock Phase 1, we have {offered some} relaxations and started public transport, whose occupancy is increasing. Markets have opened, but only 30% of the business is happening. Industries have resumed operations at about 60%. Pharma sector is running at 70-80% and companies are providing hydorocholoroquine and other medicines for Covid warriors across India and abroad. To revive the state’s economy, we have reduced expenditure especially by cutting down on food subsidy to income tax payees for a year. We will use Rs 12,000 crore unspent funds of departments for carrying out development activities such as building roads, ensuring water supply and other works. We have not cut salaries of employees and I expect revenue to improve in the coming months.EOM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surge-in-cases-in-himachal-but-not-at-the-pace-as-in-other-states-cm/story-X1lIQi4PE7saaw3wQPltMJ.html
21-06-2020||India||PM launches Rs 50,000-crore jobs scheme to help migrants||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday launched a Rs. 50,000 crore rural jobs programme, the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan aimed at creating livelihoods for thousands of jobless migrant workers who moved back from the cities to their home villages during the lockdown imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) The make-work scheme, which will utilise existing rural infrastructure programmes, will offer 125 days of employment in 116 districts across six states that have witnessed large-scale reverse migration of workers from the cities, triggering a livelihood crisis. India’s jobless rate rose to over 20% during the lockdown in which period, according to data from the Centre for Monitoring of the Indian Economy. The new scheme will fund 25 categories of public infrastructure facilities, such as laying fibre optic cable for rural internet, railway work, sanitation, waste management, poultry and farm ponds: Krishi Vigyan Kendras will train the workers in horticulture.Twelve ministries or departments—rural development, panchayati raj, transport, mines, drinking water, environment, railways, petroleum, new and renewable energy, border roads, telecom and agriculture—will participate in the programme.“Today is historic day as a massive campaign has kick-started for the welfare of the poor, for their employment,” the prime minister said, launching the scheme via video conference. “It is our endeavour that through this campaign, workers are given work near their homes.”The programme, which was launched from Telihar village of Bihar’s Khagaria district, will cover 116 districts across Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand and Odisha.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said on Thursday that the scheme will not involve new budgetary allocation. The 25 schemes will be “front-loaded” or funded from current budgetary allocations, she had said. Although there is no official data on the reverse migration sparked by the pandemic shutdowns, the finance minister had on May 14 allocated Rs 3,500 crore for food aid to an estimated 80 million migrant workers. This is the only official estimate available for the number of workers affected by the pandemic. According to chief minister Nitish Kumar, nearly three million migrant workers have returned to Bihar alone since the Covid-19 pandemic prompted the Centre to order a lockdown with effect from March 25. During the launch, the prime minister interacted with several people who came back home to Bihar from places including Delhi, Gurugram (Haryana) and Rajasthan. Union minister of rural development Narendra Singh Tomar, Bihar chief minister Kumar and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath were among those who were present.“It is of great necessity that high speed and cheap internet be provided in every rural household to help the youth and children,” Modi said. “That is why this is the first time that the rural areas are using more internet than the urban areas. Hence the laying of fibre optic cable and provision of internet are also made a part of the Abhiyan.”“Migrants will be provided jobs near their homes. So far, you were using your talent for the progress of the cities. Now you will help in the development of your villages, your neighbourhoods,” PM Modi said.Sitharaman had said that in 125 days, nearly 25 schemes will be brought together to reach saturation and will include the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna, Jal Jeevan Yojna and PM Gram Sadak Yojna, among others.Analysts say while an expansion of rural make-work projects is necessary to deal with the crisis, there are challenges in creating avenues for productive work. “I don’t think funding for such projects will be a challenge and they will be accounted for when revised estimates are presented. However, finding useful projects that are productive enough and add value to the larger rural economy may be a challenge,” said Siraj Hussain, former Union agriculture secretary and a current visiting senior fellow with the think-tank ICRIER||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-launches-50k-cr-jobs-scheme-to-help-migrants/story-ZUAkf8v9MLjVHVj2PRtnUI.html
21-06-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 count crosses 4 lakh, deaths reach 13,000-mark||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in India exceeded 400,000 on Saturday, including at least 13,000 deaths, with the country reporting a record number of daily new cases and becoming only the fourth nation after the US, Brazil and Russia to cross the grim milestone.On Saturday, 15,813 people were diagnosed with Covid-19, in the country’s highest single-day spike that took the total tally to 411,500 cases. The pandemic appears to be accelerating in India at a time when most lockdown restrictions have been lifted to mitigate the economic impact of the restrictions that brought to a standstill most economic activity in the country. The latest 100,000 infections in the country have been recorded in just eight days – lower than the 10 days it took for the previous 100,000 infections and 15 days for the 100,000 cases before that mark.It took the country 78 days to cross the first 100,000 cases, a development experts attribute to the early imposition of the lockdown in India, when the country had just over 600 confirmed Covid-19 cases.About 75% of the total infections in India have been reported between May 19 and June 20, according to data collated by HT. Additionally, the positivity rate, or the average rate of samples testing positive for Covid-19 across the country, rose from 4.6% for the week ending May 17 to 7.8% for the week ending June 17.In absolute terms, 6.2% of the over 6.6 million samples have tested positive for the disease, according to latest data by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Out of these, 189,869 tests were conducted in the previous 24-hour period, ICMR said on Saturday morning.The increase in the testing capacity, coupled with the rise in the number of patients being diagnosed for Covid-19, is an indication of the virus’ prevalence in India, experts say. “It is only natural that if you test more, more people will test positive... India is currently at the ascending limb of the epidemic. We have not reached the peak [of infections] yet, and in this situation, this is what will happen [more people will test positive],” said Dr Lalit Kant, the former head of epidemiology and communicable disease at ICMR. The spread of the disease, which originated in China late last year, crippled economies world over as countries put in place strict lockdowns and enforced social distancing norms to slow the infection’s rampage. The pathogen, named Sars-CoV-2 for its similarity to the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome disease, has infected over 8.8 million people and claimed 464,294 lives globally.While most European countries are easing restrictions to return to a new normal, one that includes face masks and one-metre distancing in public areas, there are little signs of the virus abating in the new hot spots, signalling its ability to find a foothold in lesser-affected areas.Experts say the pandemic is now in its third surge of the outbreak – the first being in China, second in Europe and the US, and the latest thriving in Latin American countries such as Brazil, Peru and Chile along with India, Mexico and Russia.In India, the three worst-hit states Maharashtra, Delhi and Tamil Nadu account for nearly 60% of the total infections, with the contagion largely establishing a strong foothold in urban hot spots such as Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai.According to figures by state health departments, Maharashtra saw 128,205 Covid-19 patients in the state and 5,984 deaths till Saturday. At 56,845 cases, Tamil Nadu — the second worst-hit state in the country — has less than half of Maharashtra’s tally, and 704 mortalities. New Delhi reported 56,746 positive patients and 2,112 fatalities linked to the disease. On Saturday, the total fatalities across the country stood at 13,278, reflecting a case fatality rate – defined as the proportion of deaths to the total infected patients – of 3.2%, much lower than the global rate of around 5.2%. Data also showed that 228,145 patients or 55.4% of those infected so far have recovered from the respiratory illness in India.According to public health experts, controlling the number of deaths due to the disease – that particularly affects the elderly and those with existing medical ailments — is key to controlling the outbreak and will determine if the health infrastructure in the country will withstand the disease burden or buckle under it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-count-crosses-4l-deaths-reach-13k-mark/story-dSsjdbguN6J5CTvXQjmA6N.html
