24-06-2020||India||Ram Madhav flies to Imphal amid crisis in Manipur govt, CBI questions former CM||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday dispatched its national general secretary Ram Madhav to Imphal in another firefighting operation to save the BJP-led coalition government that has been reduced to a minority following a spate of resignations by MLAs. Madhav landed a day after Assam health minister and the BJP’s main trouble shooter in the Northeast Himanta Biswa Sarma and Meghalaya Chief Minister and National People’s Party (NPP) president Conard Sangma left Imphal along with four NPP MLAs of Manipur to meet central leaders in New Delhi, Responding to the question on threat to the state’s BJP-led coalition Madhav said, “We’re being asked about stability since one year. It has been stable .It has been winning elections. We’ll be stable until 2022.”Madhav also attended a function to felicitate newly-elected Rajya Sabha MP Leishemba Sanajaoba. On Tuesday, Himanta Biswa Sarma,convenor of North-East Democratic Alliance (NEDA) and NPP national chief Sangma left Imphal on a chartered flight to New Delhi.Before their departure, Sarma told reporters that they wanted to bring an amicable solution to end misunderstanding among the lawmakers in the state by resolving all the differences and concentrate on “development and elections.”In another development, a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team recorded the statement of Congress leader and former Chief Minister O Ibobi Singh in Imphal in connection with its probe into alleged misappropriation of funds when he headed the government, sources said.It is alleged that the former chief minister while he was chairman of Manipur Development Society (MDS) from June 30, 2009 to July 6, 2017, misappropriated the government funds worth Rs 332 crores along with others.Apart from him, others named in the case are former chief secretaries of the state DS Poonia, PC Lawmuknga, O Nabakishore Singh, Y Ningthem, former MDS project director, and S Ranjit Singh, its administrative officer.Ibobi SIngh clarified that his tenure as chairman of MDS was barely one year’s period (July 2013 to August 2014) only.Welcoming the investigation, he said that he was never involved in the transaction activities other than chairing the annual meeting of MDS as the rule authorized its project director for the purpose. “I never signed on any cheques for sanction etc. I will extend my full cooperation in the investigation,” he said.Ibobi Singh had staked claim to for the next government Chief Minister N Biren Singh’s administration plunged into crisis last week after nine MLAs, including four ministers from the NPP withdrew support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-madhav-flies-to-imphal-amid-crisis-in-manipur-govt-cbi-questions-former-cm/story-kzocIuK8jhsfhGKCdTJUtO.html
24-06-2020||India||Nishank asks UGC to revisit exam guidelines||New Delhi: Union Human Resource Development (HRD) minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on Wednesday asked the University Grants Commission (UGC) to revisit its guidelines on conducting exams and the next academic calendar amid rising Covid-19 cases. The suggestion came even as the R C Kuhad panel set up to look into the issues related to examinations and the academic calendar in view of the pandemic has recommended that the exams be cancelled. The panel has suggested that the students be allotted marks according to an appropriate “averaging” formula.“I have advised the @ugc_india to revisit the guidelines issued earlier for intermediate and Terminal Semester examinations and academic calendar. The foundation for revisited guidelines shall be health and safety students, teachers and staff,” Nishank tweeted.UGC officials said a final decision on the cancellation of exams is yet to be taken. Officials said they will have to come up with alternative criteria for allotting marks and grades if the exams are cancelled. There is a possibility that a group of students may feel that the criteria chosen are disadvantageous to them, they added.UGC, the higher education regulator, in April issued the guidelines on the basis of the panel’s report on the next academic session. As per the guidelines, fresh admissions were to be completed in August and classes were scheduled to begin in September. The guidelines allowed universities to choose their modes of examinations.Students and teachers, including those from the Delhi University, opposed the guidelines. The Delhi University Teachers Association urged vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi to cancel the open book exams the university plans to conduct. Nishank’s tweet came a day after the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Tuesday told the Supreme Court that deliberations for cancelling remaining Class 10 and 12 board exams are at an advanced stage and a final decision in this regard was likely to get finalised by Wednesday. The court last week asked CBSE, which is scheduled to conduct the exams from July 1 to 15, to consider scrapping the exams in response to a plea from a group of parents.Officials said the ministry feels conducting exams is not very conducive given the rising number of Covid-19 cases.Several state governments have expressed concerns about holding board exams. The Maharashtra government on Wednesday told the Bombay High Court that the Indian School Certificate Examination board cannot be permitted to conduct its pending exams in July.CBSE will inform the Supreme Court about its decision on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nishank-asks-ugc-to-revisit-exam-guidelines/story-2oOUIGN2FoB7xxXc81qmlI.html
24-06-2020||India||Congress, Left to join forces against TMC, BJP in run-up to Bengal polls||The Congress and the Left parties in West Bengal have decided to carry out joint agitations against the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Bharariya Janata Party (BJP), projecting both as their common enemy, in the run-up to the coming civic and Assembly elections. The decision was taken at a meeting on Wednesday night.While the civic polls have been postponed because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the assembly polls will be held in 2021. The Left Front has 23 seats in the 294-member Bengal assembly. The BJP had managed to win three seats in the 2016 polls but has since increased its tally to 16 because of defections. The ruling TMC’s strength has gone up to 224 from 211.The Congress and Left Front partners will hold their first agitation in Kolkata on June 29, protesting the hike in petrol and diesel prices. It will be held at Red Road located in the heart of the city. Also Read: West Bengal extends coronavirus lockdown till July 31“The next agitation will be against the alleged irregularities in distribution of relief materials and compensation in districts affected by Cyclone Amphan on May 20. The schedule will be decided later,” said Somen Mitra, president of the state Congress. “This will be followed by another agitation against the plight of migrant workers,” Mitra added.“At Wednesday’s meeting, we only discussed joint agitations. The issue of sharing seats during the coming polls was not raised as it is too early,” said Manoj Bhattacharya, state secretary of the Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP). The meeting was held at the office of the RSP mouthpiece. For Coronavirus Live Updates“Future will decide who will win the Assembly polls. But the outcome of recent polls and large turnout at our agitations clearly show that the BJP is the only party fighting for the people,” Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh told the media in reaction to the joint agitations announced by the Left and the Congress. “No amount of agitation can change the ground reality. People know that only TMC serves the people,” said Firhad Hakim, urban development minister and Kolkata mayor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-left-to-join-forces-against-tmc-bjp-in-run-up-to-bengal-polls/story-1SuhAYhKAL452OPwBig5yL.html
24-06-2020||India||Minor set ablaze after failed rape attempt in Chhattisgarh, a minor among accused||Chhattisgarh police on Wednesday booked two people including a minor for allegedly setting a 14-year-old girl on fire after a failed rape attempt in state’s Bemetara district on Monday.The minor girl sustained 95 per cent burnt injuries and died in a government hospital in the state capital on Tuesday night.“We have registered a case under sections of murder and rape and under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act on the basis of the last statement of the girl. The two accused have been identified as Sharad Jaiswal (22) and a minor. One of the accused was arrested by Bemetara police on Wednesday,” said Raipur, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Arif Sheikh.The SSP further said that the girl was rearing goats in Bemetara when the two accused first tried to rape her and then set her ablaze when they failed.The victim in her last statement told the police that both the accused were known to her.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesIn another incident in Korba district, a 21-year-old woman was allegedly abducted and raped by a 32-year-old man. The main accused Bhaiyalal and two of his accomplices, who helped him abduct the woman, have been arrested by Korba police.The victim was abducted on the night of June 19 after she stepped out of her house to attend nature’s call in a village under Pasaan police station limits, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minor-set-ablaze-after-failed-rape-attempt-in-chhattisgarh-a-minor-among-accused/story-zTlos1PrslNeh74JXlLXjL.html
24-06-2020||India||As Covid-19 cases rise in Goa, churches in no hurry to resume services||Two weeks after the central government permitted the reopening of religious places, Church authorities in Goa have announced that they will proceed with a ‘gradual reopening’ with only those places of worship being allowed to open if they can demonstrate that they have put in place measures for social distancing. According to a circular sent by the Archbishop of Goa, each priest in charge of a church will have to write seeking special permission to restart services after he is satisfied that he is able to meet with the requirements of the SOPs issued by the Central Government as well as guidelines issued by church authorities. “The Priest responsible for the place of worship, after careful and deliberate preparation, considers that he is able to meet with the requirements of the SOPs, the Diocesan Authority will send his delegate for an on-site inspection and will grant the requested permission only if he is satisfied that the church or chapel shrine can in fact comply with all the requirements,” the Archbishop of Goa and Daman, Filipe Neri Ferrao said in a circular sent to all priests. “The places of worship should not be opened before this permission is granted in writing. The time required to comply with the safety protocols may vary from place to place,” he said. Among the requirements that churches will be mandated to put in place before they can apply for permission include arrangements to ensure that people sit at least six feet apart, the place is well ventilated, as well as contactless thermometers, sanitizer dispensers, signages, etc. Under Unlock 1 announced by the Centre, places of worship were allowed to open from June 8. The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had issued Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for places of worship to contain the spread of Covid-19. However, church authorities in Goa chose to defer the opening after a critical evaluation of the situation that arose due to the sudden surge of Covid-19 cases.Among the guidelines issued, persons above 65 years of age, people with comorbidities and pregnant women and children below 10 years of age, those with symptoms, those having family members under quarantine will not be allowed to participate in services.“All of us need to realize the seriousness of the present situation and proceed with prudence and discernment, exercising responsibility for our own safety and that of others. Ultimately, however, it will be the personal responsibility of each individual faithful to decide if and when he/she should attend the religious services in the current situation,” the Archbishop said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-19-cases-rise-in-goa-churches-in-no-hurry-to-resume-services/story-ULIYGW1tsV0LMOpZ1QprGN.html
24-06-2020||India||Uddhav Thackeray writes to PM Modi with request to postpone PG Medical final exams||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has requested PM Narendra Modi’s intervention for the postponement of post graduation examination for medical students enrolled in MD (Doctor of Medicine) and MS (Master of Surgery) courses in the state till December 2020. Uddhav said the services of final year medical students were needed for clinical management of coronavirus cases in India’s worst-affected state.The letter from Maharashtra CM’s office requests PM Modi to direct the Medical Council of India (MCI) to postpone the tests organised by Maharashtra University of Health Sciences, Nashik.“The final year (senior resident-3) resident doctors who are required to take these examinations are presently working on the frontline in all Government of Maharashtra and Municipal Medical Colleges assisting the clinical management of Covid-19 patients. In the event these examinations are held as per schedule, there would be a serious shortage of trained doctors during this very crucial period,” the letter says.Maharashtra is close to registering 1.5 lakh Covid-19 cases with 3,890 fresh coronavirus infections recorded on Wednesday. The tally of Covid-19 infections in the state has reached 1,42,900 including 6,739 fatalities.Also Read: Covid-19 update: Maharashtra a step closer to 1.5 lakh cases mark, Mumbai nears 70,000Uddhav’s letter gives a glimpse of the challenges the state may have to face if the final year medical students enrolled in the post graduate courses suddenly become unavailable to help in state’s containment efforts due to the examination, which has been proposed to be held from July 15.The dates have been set pursuant to an advisory by the board of governors of the Medical Council of India.“Pursuant to the above advisory, Maharashtra University of Health Sciences, Nashik, has proposed to the government of Maharashtra that these exams should be conducted from July 15, 2020 onwards,” the letter says explaining the dilemma.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesUddhav’s letter comes amid criticism of his government’s handling of the coronavirus crisis. BJP leader and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has been pointing out alleged shortcomings in the state government’s response from time to time.Uddhav’s letter requests that not only the MD/MS examinations, but also the entrance examinations for super speciality courses—the DM/MCh, are postponed too.“I would request your intervention to direct the Medical Council of India to postpone the MD/MS examination till December 2020. So also I would request for the postponement of the Entrance Examination of the Super-speciality (DM/MCh) to a date subsequent to December 2020 i.e, after the conclusion of the final year MD/MS exams,” says the letter.The letter comes on a day when the Maharashtra government told the Bombay High Court that it cannot permit the conduct of standard X and XII exams of the Indian School Certificate Examination (ICSE) board, scheduled in July due to the current Covid-19 situation. The government said it has also decided not to conduct its own university exams for final year students in the state in the wake of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uddhav-thackeray-writes-to-pm-modi-with-request-to-postpone-pg-medical-final-exams/story-frgPjuKCgjJrpWD5P0dHSJ.html
24-06-2020||India||Kerala activist booked for posting video of kids painting on her body||The Kerala police on Wednesday booked the controversial activist Rehana Fathima for posting a video on social media in which two minor children were seen painting on her semi-naked body. After the post triggered outrage the activist said both were her children and it was a work of art.The case was filed after a woman BJP leader in Kottayam filed a complaint saying these posts come under child pornography and provisions of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO). Police in Pathanamthitta booked her under Section 67 of the IT Act (electronically transmitting sexually explicit material) and Section 75 of the Juvenile Justice Act. They said they will also examine whether provisions of POCSO can be applied in the case.Initially Fathima had posted the video clip on Facebook and later she uploaded it on YouTube. She justified her act saying her kids did the painting while she was resting and it was a beautiful art work. “Just as beauty is in the eyes of the beholder, so is porn in the eyes of the beholder,” she wrote in the post.Fathima, who was working as a junior technician with BSNL in Ernakulam, was dismissed from the service two months ago after a string of complaints. Last year she was arrested on a complaint filed by a rightwing activist claiming she hurt religious feelings of the Hindu community by posting an objectionable picture on social media. She was in jail for two months.In October 2018, she sparked outrage by attempting to trek to Sabarimala temple along with a Hyderabad-based woman digital journalist. She was excommunicated by the Muslim Jamaath Council and her house was later vandalised by protestors as the news spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-activist-booked-for-posting-video-of-kids-painting-on-her-body/story-UxVdYFThSafLexepvVtIsN.html
24-06-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh to launch ‘Kill Corona campaign’ from July 1 to screen entire population||Madhya Pradesh government will launch a ‘Kill Corona campaign’ from July 1 to screen entire population of the state in a fortnight, said government officials.This was decided at a meeting chaired by chief minister Shviraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday evening.“The campaign will start from Bhopal. In this important campaign of controlling virus and to generate health awareness, the government and society will work together in all districts of the state. Kill Corona campaign will cover each family. Teams are being formed in this regard. Covid mitra will also be made, who will work voluntarily for this campaign”, said an official communiqué.As per the communiqué, CM issued instructions commissioners and collectors across the state to start necessary preparations for this campaign immediately. “A meaningful message will be conveyed by this unique and major campaign to other states too,” he added.Chouhan said, “Now, the task of identifying the suspected patients quickly and treatment to them will become easier through door to door survey in the state. The speed of the campaign should be accelerated with the support of members of crisis management groups of the districts and all. The growth rate and number of corona active cases is less in Madhya Pradesh. The state stood at the second position in the country with recovery rate of 76.1%.”He made an appeal to people to cooperate with the survey teams in providing information to them. “The survey teams will comprise female and male health workers, Asha Workers and Aaganbadi Workers. Citizens will be able to get necessary consultation and treatment if symptoms of cough and cold besides dengue, malaria and diarrhoea are found. Entry of this information will be registered by using Sarthak App. Total 10,000 survey teams will function and at an estimate they will visit 10 lakh houses every day. One team will cover about 100 houses”, said the CM.Additional chief secretary, health department Mohd Suleman said, “Population of Madhya Pradesh is around 8 crore now. The entire population will be covered in a fortnight during this door to door campaign. Hence, there will be equal emphasis on urban as well as rural areas. During the survey the teams will gather information about vector borne diseases too so that people could be treated immediately for such diseases too.”As per the health department’s bulletin released on Wednesday evening the state has registered so far as many as 12,448 Covid-19 patients out of whom 9473 have recovered from the disease and discharged from hospitals and 534 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-to-launch-kill-corona-campaign-from-july-1-to-screen-entire-population/story-e6NWrfWDxvLy3Wq7nLibTK.html
24-06-2020||India||Kerala scraps demand for Covid-free certificate for expats returning home||The Kerala government on Wednesday scrapped its demand for Covid-free certificates for expatriates returning home from West Asian countries after the Centre said tests are not feasible in Indian missions but insisted that passengers will have to wear personal protection equipment (PPE) during the flights.For two weeks, the state government had crossed swords with the Centre over Covid-free certificates for expatriates even as the number of people from Kerala dying in Persian Gulf countries crossed 300. Despite a massive outrage after it made Covid-free certificates mandatory, the Kerala government stood its ground. The state government finally relented after the Centre made it clear that evacuation will be difficult if it puts such “unreasonable conditions”.But Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan maintained that the state’s position was consistent and it took such a decision to avert a “super spreading” of Covid-19. The government has now made personal protection equipment (PPE) mandatory for returning expatriates but many medical experts said in long-duration flights full PPE kits will pose many problems.“It will be difficult in long-duration flights. Once passengers wear them, they won’t be able to go to washrooms. We hope someone will inform them about this,” said Indian Medical Association Kerala chapter president Abraham Verghese.The CM said there was a concerted move to array expatriates against the government “but they will realise these follies”. A Malayalam newspaper ‘Madhyamam’ on Wednesday carried photos of more than 300 people who died in the Persian Gulf countries with a banner headline asking“ How many more will have to die for the government to open its eyes?” The CM said this was a well-planned and calculated move to turn expatriates against the government.“We never blocked any flights. We took such a decision to check super spreaders and community spreading. More than 90 per cent of the cases in the state are people who came from abroad or other states. We insisted for certificates because of this,” he said. The Congress-led opposition criticised the government move saying it was more interested in its records, not welfare of stranded people.At least 18 lakh people from the state are working in Gulf countries and out of which four lakh have registered to return on a government website which began after lockdown norms were eased. As on Tuesday 88,000 expatriates have returned in ‘Vandhe Bharat’ and chartered flights. At least 149 Vande Bharat and 171 chartered flights are being planned in the next two weeks.Meanwhile, the state reported more than 100 cases for the sixth consecutive day on Wednesday with 152 fresh cases. Kerala’s Covid-19 tally now stands at 3,603. Out of these, 1,888 people have recovered while 1,692 are active cases. The Covid-19 death toll in Kerala is 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-scraps-demand-for-covid-free-certificate-for-expats-returning-home/story-iwRr1sQeLwiQKzdJPPhWYM.html
24-06-2020||India||Noida gets a Rainbow station to recognise transgenders’ place in society||Noida’s sector-50 metro station has been named Rainbow station on Wednesday in recognition of the transgender community by the Noida Metro Rail Cooperation (NMRC). The station has been dedicated to transgender community in an attempt to empower it with respect and to trigger a change in how it is perceived by other sections of the society, said officials.“NMRC had received a number of suggestions from individuals and NGOs regarding a suitable name for the station which would correctly signify and represent the essence of this community. Keeping these suggestions in mind, NMRC has decided to name the station as ‘Rainbow’ station,” an official NMRC release signed by its managing director Ritu Maheshwari said. Noida sector 50 netro station is on the Aqua line that connects the twin cities of Noida and Greater Noida. For Coronavirus Live UpdatesMaheshwari had earlier this month announced the intention to name the station after the trangender community stating that it would give them a chance to connect with the mainstream. She had clarified that the dedication to the community didn’t mean that the station was being reserved solely for their use. It will be open for use by the general public, she had clarified.NMRC also proposes to provide employment to the members from the transgender community.“This initiative has been taken to uplift and provide employment to the transgender community. Under this initiative, they will be employed for some activities such as ticketing counter and housekeeping,” Maheshwari had said on June 22.Also Read: Noida Police clocks second-best response time to distress calls in UPSector-50 metro station will be upgraded to include toilet facilities and some other features to reflect its special status. The process of upgrading the station is likely to be completed in a month’s time. NMRC had earlier dedicated two of its other stations as pink stations in honour of women.Metro services in Noida and other parts of NCR remain suspended due to coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/noida-gets-a-rainbow-station-to-recognise-transgenders-place-in-society/story-jJ6vq136a0lqfrzTR4BzfJ.html
24-06-2020||India||Andhra, Telangana in tussle over restoration of inter-state bus services||The restoration of inter-state bus services between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh has run into rough weather following a dispute between the transport authorities of both the states over the number of buses to be operated.The discussions between the officials of the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) and AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) to be held in Hyderabad on Wednesday were cancelled due to lack of understanding between the two corporations over operation of bus services.Earlier, too, the talks between the two corporations held in Vijayawada on June 18 ended up in a deadlock. “There was an agreement between the two states to restore the RTC bus services between the two states in four phases. But the talks remained inconclusive due to a disagreement over the number of bus services to be operated,” a senior official of the TSRTC familiar with the development said.The inter-state bus services were suspended in the last week of March following the imposition of nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19.Though the inter-state travel restrictions were lifted by Telangana in the first week of June, Andhra Pradesh is yet to open up its borders for Telangana and is allowing private travellers into the state only after conducting tests on the inter-state borders. The RTC bus services are being operated within the states, but the inter-state services have not yet been restored.The RTC official said before the bifurcation of the combined Andhra Pradesh state in June 2014, most of the buses were being operated from the depots in Andhra and Rayalaseema regions to Telangana.“While nearly 2,500-3,000 RTC buses were being operated from Vijayawada, Guntur, Visakhapatnam, Rajahmundry, Kurnool and Anantapur to Hyderabad and a few other important cities in Telangana, less than 1,000 buses used to be operated from Telangana depots to Andhra and Rayalaseema,” he said.The trend continued in the post-bifurcation period as well, as the APSRTC started making profits by continuing to run more buses to Telangana, while TSRTC ended up in losses. While APSRTC buses had been running for more than 3 lakh kilometres a day in Telangana till recently, the TSRTC buses had not operated even up to 1.50 lakh kilometres in AP.“That is precisely why the TSRTC authorities are insisting on a level-playing field in the post-lockdown period. If APSRTC runs 100 buses in Telangana, the TSRTC also should be allowed to run the same number in Andhra, so that they can earn equal revenue. That is the main reason for deadlock in talks,” the Telangana RTC official said.The talks are likely to resume in the first week of July, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-telangana-in-tussle-over-restoration-of-inter-state-bus-services/story-jt4lsMy4oqBQDFY6pOFTsK.html
24-06-2020||India||B S Yediyurappa to decide on fresh lockdown as Karnataka’s Covid-19 tally crosses 10K||Karnataka on Wednesday registered 397 new Covid-19 cases taking its tally to 10,118 cases which includes164 deaths and 6,151 discharges, the government said. The state capital Bengaluru has 1,170 of the 3,799 active cases in the state.Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, home minister Basvaraj Bommai said that Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa will discuss with experts and take a call shortly on whether a city or statewide lockdown should again be imposed to contain the spread of the disease.“The CM is discussing both with senior administration officials and medical experts on whether and when a lockdown needs to be imposed. But we will have to consider the economic costs of such a move too,” Bommai said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.On Tuesday JD (S) leader and former CM H D Kumaraswamy had demanded that the government impose a 20-day lockdown across the state to prevent the rapid spread of the virus.On Wednesday, Kumaraswamy took to Twitter and directly appealed to the people of the state to impose a self-declared curfew and stay at home asserting that the economy was not more important than life.Accusing the state government of complete failure in preventing the spread of the virus as well as treating those infected, he said that the medical services were fully stretched to treat even the 3,000-4,000 active cases and claimed that there was a shortage of hospital beds and ventilators.He said that even after the government capped prices of treatment at private hospitals it was unaffordable for the vast majority of the population.Meanwhile, health and family welfare minister B Sriramulu said workers, traders and people across 15 different categories need to be tested to check whether community transmission has set in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/b-s-yediyurappa-to-decide-on-fresh-lockdown-as-karnataka-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-10k/story-0PU3nfCw60OiDNmiEGJ2uI.html
24-06-2020||India||Jagan govt delays ex-Andhra poll officer’s reappointment, he moves court||Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar, who was removed by the Jagan reddy government under controversial circumstances, on Wednesday filed a contempt of court petition in the Andhra Pradesh high court against the state government for not reinstating him as the State Election Commissioner (SEC) despite the court orders.In his contempt petition, Ramesh Kumar charged the state government with not allowing him to resume his duties as State Election Commissioner, even after the orders of the high court, which the Supreme Court had refused to stay. The high court admitted the petition for hearing.The former SEC alleged that the state government had wilfully and deliberately violated the May 29 directions of the high court. He contended that since the Supreme Court had refused to stay the high court order, it would automatically be construed that he would continue as the SEC.“In total disobedience of the high court order, I am not being permitted to be restored to my earlier position as SEC and discharge the duties, as the election notification (for local bodies) continues to be in force,” he said in his petition.He further said Justice Kanagaraju, retired Madras high court judge, who was appointed in his place in April, was still being treated as the SEC.Making the government chief secretary, panchayat raj department secretary and SEC secretary the respondents, Ramesh Kumar appealed to the court to punish them under Sections 10 and 12 of the Contempt of Courts Act.It may be recalled that the Jagan government had removed Ramesh Kumar from the post of SEC on April 10 by promulgating an ordinance seeking to amend AP Panchayat Raj Act, after the latter postponed the local body elections stating Covid-19 as the reason.Subsequently, Ramesh Kumar challenged the ordinance in the high court, which was struck down on May 29. The Jagan government moved the Supreme Court, seeking a stay on high court order, but the SC did not grant the same while posting the case to a later date for further hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-govt-delays-ex-andhra-poll-officer-s-reappointment-he-moves-court/story-L1kGuzPQihRROS9vhQ0FYM.html
24-06-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Maharashtra a step closer to 1.5 lakh cases mark, Mumbai nears 70,000||India’s worst affected state, Maharashtra, is inching towards registering 1.5 lakh Covid-19 cases with 3,890 fresh coronavirus infections recorded on Wednesday, taking the disease tally to 1,42,900. The state also recorded 208 new fatalities in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative death toll to 6,739.Mumbai on Wednesday recorded 1,118 new Covid cases after reporting less than a thousand cases on Tuesday, which had raised hopes that the growth of the contagion in the metropolitan city could be slowing down. The total number of coronavirus cases in Mumbai—69529-- is now less than five hundred cases away from the 70,000-mark. The city also recorded 82 deaths in the last 24 hours.Also Read: Mumbai sees a dip in new Covid cases; experts say too early to predict worst is overOut of Maharashtra’s 208 deaths recorded on Wednesday, 72 occurred in the last 48 hours and the remaining 136 are reconciliations from the past. The state’s case fatality rate stands at 4,72%, as per the data released by the state health department.The recovery rate in the state has reached 51.64% with the discharge of around 4,161 cured patients. It should be noted that the number of recoveries in the state was more than the number of fresh cases. A total of 73,792 patients have been cured and discharged from different Coved-19 treatment and isolation facilities in the state.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe state has also conducted around 8,23,775 Covid tests so far that have resulted in 1,42,900 positive results translating into a 17.34% infection rate.As of Wednesday, the state has 62,354 active cases. Mumbai (69,528), Thane (27,880) and Pune (17,445) are the top three worst affected cities in Maharashtra, followed by Palghar (4,028), Aurangabad (3,867), Nashik (3,104) and Raigad (2,889).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-maharashtra-a-step-closer-to-1-5-lakh-cases-mark-mumbai-nears-70-000/story-Dn9lsKHsLYouT4zhoG41FM.html
24-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Devendra Fadnavis steps in to contain damage after BJP MLC likens Sharad Pawar to coronavirus and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Devendra Fadnavis steps in to contain damage after BJP MLC likens Sharad Pawar to coronavirusFormer Maharashtra chief minister and senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis has stepped in an attempt to douse the political fire over party colleague and MLC Gopichand Padalkar’s alleged unsavoury remarks likening veteran politician and NCP supremo Sharad Pawar to coronavirus disease on Wednesday, according to PTI. Read moreCoronil runs into further trouble, Uttarakhand to issue notice to Ramdev’s firmIn another blow to Patanjali’s Coronil, an Ayurvedic medicine developed by Yoga guru Ramdev’s firm with alleged capacity to treat coronavirus disease, the Uttarakhand government has claimed on Wednesday that the license, issued to the Ayurveda products manufacturing company on June 12, pertained to the development of immunity boosters and not a medicinal cure for coronavirus. Read moreMore than 10,000 cases in three days take Delhi’s Covid-19 tally past 70KAnother surge of 3,788 new cases on Wednesday took Delhi’s Covid-19 tally past 70,000, the Delhi government’s health department said in its bulletin. Read moreUS Covid-19 cases surging, officials say it could worsenAs new coronavirus cases surged to a new two-month high of Tuesday mostly reported from more than two dozen western and southern states, top public health officials told US lawmakers they were concerned these could worsen. Read moreThe real reason Sushant Singh Rajput was forced to drop out of Half Girlfriend, replaced by Arjun KapoorAn old tweet by author Chetan Bhagat, in which he’d announced Sushant Singh Rajput’s casting in the film adaptation of his novel, Half Girlfriend, has been unearthed. Sushant dropped out of the film, and was replaced by Arjun Kapoor. Read moreFacebook-Reliance Jio deal gets a clean chit from CCIThe Facebook-Reliance Jio deal that was announced back in April this year has received a clean chit from the Competition Commission of India (CCI). Facebook invested $5.7 billion, or ₹43,574 crore, in Jio Platforms earlier this year for a 9.99% stake in the company. This made the social media giant the biggest minority shareholder in Jio Platforms. Read moreMinimalism meets eclectic prints: Rajesh Pratap Singh announced Creative Director of Satya PaulThe collaboration between designer Rajesh Pratap Singh and iconic saree brand Satya Paul is one for the ages. Singh, well-known for his love of minimalism, has been named as the Chief Creative Director for the brand that is synonymous with indigenous prints and the iconic ‘cocktail’ sarees.  Read more‘We should give resistance’: What Kapil Dev said after India were bowled out for 183 in 1983 World Cup finalThe 1983 World Cup final between India and West Indies saw Indian team on the back foot after getting bundled out for 183. Being asked to bat first, West Indies bowling attack comprising of Andy Roberts, Joel Garner, Malcolm Marshall and Michael Holding ran through India’s batting line-up. Read moreWatch: Congress warns Modi govt about Chinese incursions in Arunachal PradeshAmid the tension in Ladakh between India and China, Congress has now warned the Modi government over PLA incursions in Arunachal Pradesh. Congress leader Manish Tewari cited remarks made by BJP MP Tapir Gao in an interview and on the floor of the house where he had spoken about Chinese Army occupying Indian territory in Arunachal Pradesh. Watch the full video for all the details.Abhishek Upmanyu shares Khichdi recipe, says main ingredient is ‘bhookh’. WatchDuring all this time at home, there were many who discovered their talent of cooking. However, there were also those, who despite being forced to cook for themselves, missed out on the chance to hone their culinary skills. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-uttarakhand-govt-issues-notice-to-patanjali-s-divya-pharmacy-over-covid-19-medicine-and-all-the-latest-news/story-sRhGMPipgg9g90J0kDHJtK.html
24-06-2020||India||Fadnavis steps in to contain damage after BJP MLC likens Sharad Pawar to coronavirus||Former Maharashtra chief minister and senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis has stepped in an attempt to douse the political fire over party colleague and MLC Gopichand Padalkar’s alleged unsavoury remarks likening veteran politician and NCP supremo Sharad Pawar to coronavirus disease on Wednesday, according to PTI.Fadnavis said that Padalkar’s alleged remarks were inappropriate and a result of an “emotional outburst”. He added that he had spoken to the leader from the Dhangar community and told him that Pawar may be a political opponent but he was not an “enemy”.“I had a word with Padalkar. I told him that though Pawar saheb is our political opponent he is not our enemy. I told him, forget Pawar saheb, making such remarks against any senior leader is not appropriate,” Fadnavis was quoted as saying by PTI.A leader from the Dhnagar community, Padalkar had made the remarks in a press conference while dwelling on the alleged hardships faced by the marginalized communities over the years in Maharashtra.“Sharad Pawar is coronavirus for Maharashtra. He has been leading the state for many years but he has only oppressed Bahujan people. I am sure that he will continue this in the future too,” Padalkar was quoted as saying by ANI.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesHis remarks led to an outrage among the NCP workers in the state, who held demonstrations and raised slogans against Padalkar in Mumbai, Pune, Nashik, and in Beed, reported a news agency. The party has also announced a protest in Pune on Thursday on the issue.Jitendra Awhad, NCP leader and housing minister in Maharashtra government, jointly run by the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress in a coalition, alleged that Padalkar was a political turncoat.“The man who was begging to join the NCP, and was abusing (PM) Narendra Modi later, went and got a ticket from the BJP, so what is his locus-standi to attack Pawar in such derogatory terms,” Awhad asked.Also Read: Elgar Parishad case: HC asks Centre, NIA to respond after plea claims probe transfer was politically motivatedFadnavis said that any expression of opinion should be done using appropriate words. The leader of opposition in the state assembly further added that Padalkar had accepted that his statement was an emotional outburst against Pawar and that he will offer a clarification soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fadnavis-steps-in-contain-damage-after-bjp-mlc-likens-sharad-pawar-to-coronavirus/story-3biDtmHlEY9jjqEp0N7aQM.html
24-06-2020||India||8 lakh man-days of employment for migrants over 125 days, says railways||The railways says it aims to generate eight lakh man-days of employment for migrant workers in infrastructure projects worth Rs 1,800 crore over the next 125 days, till October 31, under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan.The Centre has identified 116 districts with a large concentration of returnee migrant workers in six states - Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand and Odisha - for the government’s ambitious employment-cum-rural public works campaign launched by PM Narendra Modi on June 20. The Prime Minister had announced that an amount of Rs 50,000 crore would be spent for building durable rural infrastructure under the Abhiyaan.A review meeting for the programme was held by the railway board chairman with all zonal officers and railway PSUs on Wednesday. Railways will appoint nodal officers in all the 116 districts and at the state level, the ministry said.“Zonal railways have been instructed to expedite execution of all ongoing infrastructure works in these identified districts. Around 160 infrastructure works have been identified which are to be expedited. These would engage thousands of workers and roughly generate eight lakh man-days of employment by the end of October. Approximately, Rs 1,800 crore would be spent in these districts,” the ministry said.A number of railway works have also been identified which can be executed through the MGNREGS, the ministry said. Hindustan Times on June 12 had reported the ministry of railways is considering generating employment under the government’s flagship rural job guarantee scheme, a move aimed at helping migrants who have returned home in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown imposed to slow its spread. At present, the national carrier mostly employs skilled labourers though private contractors for its construction work.“The works are related to construction and maintenance of approach roads for level crossings, development and cleaning of silted waterways, trenches and drains along the track, construction and maintenance of approach road to railway stations, repair and widening of existing railway embankments/ cuttings, plantation of trees at extreme boundary of railway land and protection works of existing embankments/cuttings/bridges,” the ministry said.Zonal Railways have also been instructed to get sanction for proposed works under the MGNREGS. The ministry’s move comes even as the Centre and the states have begun the process of undertaking a comprehensive skill mapping exercise of migrant workers as part of an attempt to find them work closer home.“The Abhiyaan will be a convergent effort between various ministries/departments of Government Of India to expedite implementation of various public infrastructure works and works relating to augmentation of livelihood opportunities,” the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-lakh-man-days-of-employment-for-migrants-over-125-days-says-railways/story-t2yrHTxZeYIsw9qZIyZ8WL.html
24-06-2020||India||Woman killed while trying to save daughter from alleged molesters||A 52-year-old woman in south Bengal’s Howrah was killed Tuesday night after she was pushed off the stairs when she tried to stop two men from molesting her college-going daughter, police said.Police have arrested the prime accused Kush Bera. He is the husband of a local Trinamool Congress panchayat leader and was known to the girl and her family. The girl used to call him ‘uncle’.Following the incident, two Bharatiya Janata Party MPs, Locket Chatterjee and Soumitra Khan rushed to the spot. Villagers also blocked the road. According to the complaint lodged by the girl’s father, she had gone to the terrace of their one-storey house around midnight on Tuesday to play games on her mobile phone. When she heard her mother climbing up the stairs she tried to hurriedly go down.“According to the girl, the duo was hiding there. They might have climbed a tree to access the terrace. One of then caught her leg and another tried to gag her from behind. She, however, managed to raise an alarm. When her mother rushed to the terrace hearing her scream one of the two pushed her and she fell down the stairs,” said a police officer.The woman was rushed to the hospital where doctors declared her dead. The accused’s wife Rama Bera, said her husband has been falsely implicated. “The TMC has nothing to do with this. The law will take its own course. Police have already taken action,” Arup Roy, minister and a MLA from Howrah district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-killed-while-trying-to-save-daughter-from-alleged-molesters/story-WwMpCq4yVtFnKh3ueIn7gL.html
24-06-2020||India||DGCA asks airlines to come up with SOP for handling unruly passengers||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has asked airlines to define standard operating procedures (SOP) for on-board handling of unruly passengers in Covid-19 environment.It said cabin crews should be made aware of new issues which may be encountered on board including, “passengers refusing to continue wearing masks, increase in disputes between passengers according to their ethnicity of country of residence and increased stress on passengers through airport processes and overall travel experience which may trigger exceptional response inflight to disputes or requests for compliance.”The DGCA also cautioned that the “impact of distancing and health screening may slow the passenger transit and increase the likelihood of missed connections.”It also said that fear of infections may cause more disputes between passengers due to non-compliance or poor hygiene etiquette,or the presence of symptoms similar to those associated with Covid-19.“The handling of on-board unruly passenger should include reiteration of the enforcement mechanism of the operator,” the DGCA said.“Operator should develop inflight cabin crew training procedures to ensure passengers adhere to health and safety guidelines such as wearing mask/protective gear at all times on board and maintain high levels of hygiene.”The DGCA advised operators to communicate their policy of handling unruly passengers as widely as possible including but not limited to publishing in their website, during ticket purchase and check-in process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgca-asks-airlines-to-come-up-with-sop-for-handling-unruly-passengers/story-eE6WzMG06EXs06aiQfydII.html
24-06-2020||India||Happy to be back on sets: Reem Sheikh||Best known for her portrayal of Malala Yousafzai in the film ‘Gul Makai,’ actor Reem Sheikh is more than glad to be back on sets. “Of course, who doesn’t want to get back to work. We actors were desperately waiting for the shoot to resume; in fact each one of us, be it the technicians or other crew members, wanted work to resume. Though it came with guidelines and rules, still it is a big reason to be cheerful in these gloomy times.”Reem began her career as a child artiste. “I was six when I did my first show‘Neer Bhare Tere Naina Devi’. It was then I faced the camera for the first time, so you can say I have learnt acting on sets with real teachers. Then I did a number of shows including, ‘Na Aana Is Des Laado,’‘Me Aajji Aur Sahib,’ ‘Diya Aur Baat Hum,’ and many more till I got a role in the movie ‘Wazir’ which was with biggies like Amitabh (Bachchan) sir and Farhan Akhtar. It was really a learning experience for a beginner like me. So you can say that’s how I have learnt the craft of acting,” she said during her online interaction.Sharing her experience of playing the Pakistani teenager, girl-education activist and Nobel Peace Prize winner Malala Yousafzai, she says, “It was a beautiful yet a challenging character to play. The confidence the makers had in me made me give my best to the project. Playing someone whose journey has been so inspiring for thousands of people was never an easy job but deep understanding of the character did help me a lot. The film was wholeheartedly accepted everywhere in the world. I am glad to get such a great debut in the beginning of my film career.”At present Reem is busy with her ongoing show where she plays a central role. “We started ‘Tujhse Hai Raabta’ back in 2016 and we were moving ahead with the plot when the Covid crisis happened and all the work was stopped. Thankfully, we are back on the sets to take the show ahead. Soon lockdown episodes will be aired which we actors shot at our homes and then new episodes will begin.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/happy-to-be-back-on-sets-reem-sheikh/story-2KNJR9UpMVocEydiIe3pWN.html
24-06-2020||India||Odisha to conduct Covid-19 tests for 5,000 people associated with Rath Yatra||The Odisha government on Wednesday said it has launched a drive to test around 5,000 people associated with Lord Jagannath’s Rath Yatra for Covid-19, including servitors, police personnel and municipality staff.The Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) said it will set up an exclusive health care centre for the families of servitors.Ahead of the Rath Yatra, a massive sample collection exercise was conducted on Monday night and one servitor had tested positive, Chief Secretary A K Tripathy said.He said a total of 16 people, including his family members, were identified during contact tracing.“Only one of the over 2,000 servitors, whose samples had been collected, tested positive for Covid-19 on June 22. He has been kept away from the rituals, and admitted to a special hospital,” a health department official said.The samples of those he came in contact with have been collected and sent for tests.“We are expecting test reports of 14 of the 16 people by Wednesday night,” another health department official told PTI.Deputy Chairperson of Shree Jagannath Temple Managing Committee, S C Mohapatra, said about 2,500 servitors will undergo a second round of Covid-19 tests and the process will be completed by June 28 before Lord Jagannath and his celestial siblings’ chariots make a move for returning to the temple, the ritual known as ‘Bahuda Jatra’.“Only those servitors who test negative will be allowed to participate in the ‘Bahuda Jatra’ scheduled on July 1,” he said.SJTA Chief Administrator Krishna Kumar said it has placed orders for 5,000 face masks to be distributed among the servitors. Hand sanitisers will also be provided to their families, he said.According to health department sources, Puri district which remained a green zone till May has witnessed a spike in Covid-19 cases, which now stand at 224 including a fatality.The district has 71 active cases, including the servitor, they said.Meanwhile, senior temple servitor Bauribandhu Dasmohapatra, who sustained head injuries after falling from a chariot during the Rath Yatra on Tuesday, has been admitted to a private hospital.“He is being treated in the ICU, and his condition is stable,” said deputy chairperson of the State Planning Board, Sanjay Dasburma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-conduct-covid-19-tests-for-5-000-people-associated-with-rath-yatra/story-2zvLXYMdXrA4rJ9PEP93EM.html
24-06-2020||India||Plea in SC seeks probe into Congress-China MoU of 2008||The memorandum of understanding (MoU) entered into between the Congress party and the Communist Party of China in 2008 raises concerns regarding national security and should be investigated by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for offences under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) or the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), a petition filed before the Supreme Court on Wednesday prayed.The petitioners, Shahshak Shekhar Jha, a Delhi based advocate and Savio Rodrigues, the editor of Goa based online news portal, Goa Chronicle alleged that despite India having ‘hostile’ relations with China, the Congress party had signed the MoU when it was leading a coalition government at the centre and it also failed to disclose the facts and details of the agreement to the public.“Petitioner No. 2 (Savio Rodrigues) had demanded the respondents to make the said MoU public, however, no heed was shown in that respect which shows the malafide intention of the Respondents (Congress party and its leaders)”, the petition stated.Both Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi have also been made party to the case apart from the Congress party.“Issue an order directing NIA to investigate the said agreement under UAPA”, it was prayed by the petitioners.The UAPA is a law aimed at punishing those involved in terrorist activities and activities intended to bring about secession of any part of the country from the union of India.In the alternative, Jha and Rodrigues sought a court-monitored probe by CBI. After the recent faceoff between Indian and Chinese armies at Ladakh, the Congress party has stepped up its attack on the Narendra Modi government alleging it failed on diplomatic and military fronts.The ruling BJP, on the other hand, countered by referring to the MoU signed by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on behalf of the Congress party with the Chinese Communist Party. The MoU was signed at Beijing in the presence of Sonia Gandhi who was then the chairperson of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) headed by the Congress.Placing reliance on media reports, the petitioners submitted that at least 600 incursions happened from Chinese side into Indian territory between 2008 and 2013. “The Congress party brought the Right to Information Act during its rule, yet it failed to be transparent in this matter which is of national importance”, the petition said.Jha had earlier approached the top court seeking CBI probe into the lynching of Hindu seers in Palghar district of Maharashtra. The court, on May 1, sought a status report from Maharashtra government regarding the same. That case is expected to be heard again in the second week of July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-sc-seeks-probe-into-congress-china-mou-of-2008/story-5YQJca6V2RLep7siiSJGQK.html
24-06-2020||India||SC dismisses review petitions challenging 2018 verdict on adultery||The Supreme Court has held that its historic decision stubbing out the 158-year old archaic law on adultery from the criminal statute book does not require any reconsideration. The decision passed by the Court nearly 20 months ago was challenged in two review petitions. A five-judge Constitution bench heard the matter in chambers and dismissed the same last month. The order passed on May 28 was recently uploaded on the Supreme Court website.An organization called All Religious Affinity Movement and an individual Ravi Kumar filed separate review pleas seeking recall of the Court’s verdict as it was against the concept of family. A bench of Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, Justices RF Nariman, AM Khanwilkar, DY Chandrachud and Indu Malhotra said, “We have carefully gone through the Review Petitions and the connected papers filed therewith. We do not find any ground, whatsoever, to entertain the same. The Review Petitions are, accordingly, dismissed.”It was on September 27, 2018 the apex court took a bold decision to scrap Section 497 of the Indian Penal Code that punished adultery. This provision was treated as a relic of the Victorian era as it allowed a husband to prosecute any man who engaged in a consensual sexual relationship with his wife.The law was challenged by Joseph Shine, an Indian settled abroad, who found it to be archaic, discriminatory and arbitrary. He wondered that if the purpose of the law is to protect the sanctity of family and marriage, the choice should be given to both husband and wife to prosecute their cheating spouse. On the contrary, the provision allowed only the husband to lodge a case of adultery against the other man in his wife’s life. Further, Shine pointed out that provision worked on the concept of husband’s consent. If a husband consents to his wife having sex with a stranger, regardless of the woman’s consent, no case under this section will be made out.Speaking to HT after the rejection of the review petitions, advocate Kaleeswaram Raj who had argued for Joseph Shine in the Supreme Court, said, “The dismissal of the review petitions is a big boost for the libertarian movement of individual rights across the world. This judgment fenced the State from interfering in individual behaviour that was not criminal in nature.” The then CJI Dipak Misra had said that adultery at best could be a civil or moral wrong that could be a ground to seek divorce. Treating it as an offence would tantamount to the State entering into a private realm, he had said.Except for former CJI Dipak Misra who has since retired, the remaining four judges who delivered the landmark ruling were part of the bench that heard the review petitions.Adultery has ceased to be a crime in China, Japan, Brazil, New Zealand, Australia, Scotland, the Netherlands, Denmark, France, Germany, Austria, the Republic of Ireland, Barbados, Bermuda, Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago, and Seychelles. It continues to be a crime in countries such as Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Indonesia, Iran, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, Philippines, United Arab Emirates, some states of the United States of America, Algeria, Democratic Republic of Congo, Egypt, Morocco, and some parts of Nigeria.The five-judge bench was unanimous in its view that the 158-year old law does not square with the Constitutional law of the present times. It was also seen to deprive a woman of her dignity, sexual autonomy as the law treated her to be a property of her husband.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-dismisses-review-petitions-challenging-2018-verdict-on-adultery/story-YVUQcqGfDXP8wZMxrHr0XI.html
24-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand govt issues notice to Patanjali’s Divya Pharmacy over Covid-19 ‘medicine’||A day after yoga guru Ramdev promoted Patanjali Ayurved launched a new Ayurvedic product claiming it can cure Covid-19, the state government on Wednesday issued a notice to Patanjali’s Divya Pharmacy stressing that the license issued by the government was for producing immunity boosters and not COVID-19 ayurvedic medicine. Divya Pharmacy has been asked to reply within seven days.Confirming the development, Dr YS Rawat, joint director state licensing authority (Ayush), said: “We didn’t issue any license to them for COVID medicine. They had applied for license for immunity booster kits made from herb extracts from medicinal plants like Giloi, Ashwagandha and Tulsi.”Rawat added that Divya Pharmacy, promoted by Ramdev’s Patanjali Ayurved has been given a week’s time to respond and a failure to submit a satisfactory reply will lead to cancellation of the license.“We have now issued a notice to Divya Pharmacy seeking its explanation within seven days over the claims made regarding finding COVID-19 cure. If we do not get a satisfactory response from them, then their license will be cancelled,” Dr YS Rawat said.Anand Swaroop, director of directorate of Ayurved and Unani services in the state, said the authorities were checking if Patanjali’s claims are in violation of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 and Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act, 1954.Also Read: Complaint filed in Bihar court against Baba Ramdev over Covid-19 medicine claimThe AYUSH ministry, in a statement on Tuesday, asked the licensing authority of the Uttarakhand government to provide copies of the license and product approval details of the Ayurvedic medicines being claimed for the treatment of Covid-19.Dilip Jawalkar, secretary AYUSH department Uttarakhand said that the state government has sent all the relevant documents regarding issuing of license to Patanjali to the Central government for verification.“We have sent all the relevant documents related to the license issued to Patanjali, as asked by the ministry of AYUSH, for verification. We are waiting to hear from the ministry, after which, we will take a decision on further action in the matter,” said Jawalkar.According to AYUSH guidelines, AYUSH registered practitioner/expert should be part of the traditional medicine study/research team at each site and the research should be conducted in line with ministry or ICMR guidelines for clinical research.The research must also comply with relevant regulations for bio-medical and health research and good clinical practice and national ethical guidelines. Among other conditions, the proposal/research should be approved by their scientific advisory bodies and institutional ethics committee.On Tuesday, Baba Ramdev had launched “Coronil” and “Swasari” as a cure for Covid-19, stressing that they “conducted a clinical case study and clinical controlled trial, and found that 69 percent patients recovered in three days and 100 % patients recovered in seven days” on administration of the two Ayurvedic products mentioned above.Following these claims, the union AYUSH ministry demanded a clarification from Patanjali Ayurved and instructed it to stop advertising the product till the claim is verified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-govt-issues-notice-to-patanjali-s-divya-pharmacy-over-covid-19-medicine/story-B6j599c7tUkS7yNM7j2RYP.html
24-06-2020||India||India notifies 24.04 lakh Tuberculosis cases, 79,144 deaths in 2019, says report||India notified the highest number of 24.04 lakh tuberculosis cases last year as against an estimated 26.9 lakh cases by WHO, indicating that around three lakh patients missed out from the national TB programme, according to an annual report on the disease released on Wednesday.The India TB Report 2020 stated that 79,144 deaths due to tuberculosis were reported in 2019, which is much lower than the WHO estimate of 4.4 lakh fatalities, officials said.According to them, the “missing cases” -- the gap between estimated incidences and notified cases -- has drastically reduced from over 10 lakh in 2017 to 2.9 lakh in 2019 through greater engagement with private healthcare sector along with other initiatives.Around 24.04 lakh TB patients were notified in 2019, registering 14 per cent increase over the previous year while the private sector saw an increase of around 35 per cent with 6.78 lakh tuberculosis patients notified, officials said.Launching the annual report, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan commended the collective efforts of all involved in the task, and said the government was committed to eliminating tuberculosis from the country by 2025, five years ahead of the global target. To align with the ambitious goal, the programme has been renamed from Revised National Tuberculosis Control Programme (RNTCP) to National Tuberculosis Elimination Programme (NTEP), he said.On the basis of the score in State TB Index, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh were the top three best-performing states for tuberculosis control under the category of states with 50 lakh population.Tripura and Nagaland were best-performing in the category of states having less than 50 lakh population. Dadra and Nagar Haveli, and Daman and Diu were selected as the best performing Union Territories.“The ranking will surely encourage all states and UTs to improve their performance to attain their targets. Early accurate diagnosis followed by prompt appropriate treatment is vital for ending TB. The National TB Elimination Programme has expanded both the laboratory network as well as diagnostic facilities to cover the entire country,” Vardhan said.About the stigma attached to TB patients in the country, which is hampering the fight against the disease, Vardhan said, “We as a nation, need to come together to fight tuberculosis and the stigma surrounding it so that every TB patient can seek care with dignity and without discrimination. The community must act as a wellspring of support and comfort for a patient.” He underscored the crucial contribution the private sector can make to the national TB programme by mandatory tuberculosis notification and providing quality care.The salient feature of this year is that for the first time Central TB Division (CTD) introduced a quarterly ranking on TB elimination efforts by all the states and UTs. Treatment linkage of drug-resistant TB patients, HIV testing of tuberculosis patients, nutritional assistance to in the form of NIKSHAY Poshan Yojana (DBT), Universal Drug Susceptibility Testing (UDST) coverage among notified patients, TB Preventive Therapy (TPT) coverage and financial expenditure are included in the assessment criteria, the Union health minister said.According to the report, similar to the previous year’s trends over half of the total TB cases were notified from five states -- Uttar Pradesh 20 per cent, Maharashtra nine per cent, Madhya Pradesh eight per cent, Rajasthan and Bihar both seven per cent. Due to easy availability of molecular diagnostics, the proportion of children diagnosed with TB increased to eight per cent in 2019 compared to six per cent in 2018, the ministry said in a statement.Also, the provision of HIV testing for all notified TB patients increased from 67 per cent in 2018 to 81 per cent in 2019, it said.Expansion of treatment services has resulted in a 12 per cent improvement in the treatment success rate of notified patients. For 2019, it is 81 per cent compared to 69 per cent the previous year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-notifies-24-04-lakh-tuberculosis-cases-79-144-deaths-in-2019-says-report/story-O3XBHO2AtaZLRmrgFdbjtM.html
24-06-2020||India||More than 10,000 cases in three days take Delhi’s Covid-19 tally past 70K||Another surge of 3,788 new cases on Wednesday took Delhi’s Covid-19 tally past 70,000, the Delhi government’s health department said in its bulletin.Out of Delhi’s tally of 70,390 the number of active cases now stands at 26,588 while 41,437 people have recovered from the virus.Delhi has now added more than 10,000 new cases of Covid-19 since June 21.Sixty four Covid-19 patients succumbed on Wednesday, taking the toll of casualties in the national capital to 2.365.As Covid-19 cases continue to spiral in Delhi, the Delhi government has unveiled an eight-point ‘Revised Covid Response Plan’ in line with the recommendations of the Dr VK Paul committee.Also Watch l Manish Sisodia asks Amit Shah to intervene, asks to scrap new covid SOPs The plan includes conducting sero-survey of 20,000 people across Delhi’s districts and house-to-house screening by July 6, among other measures.Earlier in the day, Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said he has written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, urging him to roll-back the order, issued by Lieutenant Govenor Anil Baijal, which requires every Covid-19 Covid-19 patient, who had tested positive through the real-time reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test, must be taken to a Covid-19 Care Centre (CCC) for a clinical diagnosis of the infection.Sisodia now holds the additional charge of the health portfolio after incumbent minister Satyendra Jain tested Covid-19 positive, said the government wants to ensure minimum inconvenience to the public and not to overburden the administrative machinery fighting against the pandemic.The Delhi government says the new protocol requires special ambulances and more medical staff and puts strain on existing facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-10-000-cases-in-three-days-take-delhi-s-covid-19-tally-past-70k/story-0DQc1PfyuFz2B7sTYYW8QI.html
24-06-2020||India||Coronil runs into further trouble, Uttarakhand to issue notice to Ramdev’s firm||In another blow to Patanjali’s Coronil, an Ayurvedic medicine developed by Yoga guru Ramdev’s firm with alleged capacity to treat coronavirus disease, the Uttarakhand government has claimed on Wednesday that the license, issued to the Ayurveda products manufacturing company on June 12, pertained to the development of immunity boosters and not a medicinal cure for coronavirus.The state government’s directorate of Ayurved and Unani services has said that it intends to issue a notice to Patanjali Ayurved over the issue, said officials.“We are checking the violation in the context of the claims in the light of The Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 and Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act, 1954. We will check what sorts of violations have happened and accordingly issue a notice. If the violations are found true, then their license will be cancelled,” said Anand Swaroop, Director, directorate of Ayurved and Unani services, Uttarakhand. Also Read: The scientific process that Baba Ramdev’s potential Covid-19 medicine has to followHe added that the state government had sent all the documents related to the issuance of license to Patanjali Ayurved to the Union ministry of AYUSH, as requested. The AYUSH ministry, in a statement on Tuesday, asked the licensing authority of the Uttarakhand government to provide copies of the license and product approval details of the Ayurvedic medicines being projected as the treatment for Covid-19.Dr YS Rawat, joint director state medicinal licensing authority Uttarakhand said they will issue notice to Divya Pharmacy likely by Wednesday evening.“We didn’t issue any license to them for developing a Covid medicine. They had applied for a license for immunity booster kits. If we do not get a satisfactory response from them, then their license will be cancelled soon.”Also Read: Complaint filed in Bihar court against Baba Ramdev over Covid-19 medicine claimYesterday, Acharya Balkrishna, managing director of Patanjali Ayurved Ltd and co-founder of Patanjali Yogpeeth, Haridwar had claimed to have furnished all necessary documents to the Centre pertaining to license and clinical trials of Coronil. He claimed that the “communication gap” over this issue had been resolved.Earlier yesterday, Ramdev had launched Coronil and Swasari as Ayurvedic cure for Covid-19, stressing that the medicines had been tested in “a clinical case study and clinical controlled trial”, which found that “69 percent patients recovered in three days and 100 % patients recovered within seven days” of the treatment.Following the claim, the Union AYUSH ministry demanded clarification from Patanjali Ayurved, the company promoted by Baba Ramdev and asked it to stop advertising the product till the claim is verified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronil-runs-into-further-trouble-uttarakhand-to-issue-notice-to-ramdev-s-firm/story-xI8YD6xwkMvlfRM8B5X61J.html
24-06-2020||India||At 4-hr long India-China border talks, focus on de-escalation and disengagement||India and China on Wednesday decided to “sincerely implement” the understanding on disengagement and de-escalation reached by senior military commanders on June 6 to resolve the stand-off at four points in eastern Ladakh. The stand-off escalated into a violent face-off at one of the four locations earlier this month, leading to a spike in tension between the two countries.“The two delegations agreed that implementation of this understanding expeditiously, in accordance with the bilateral agreements and protocols, would help ensure peace and tranquillity in border areas and the development of broader relationship between the two countries,” a statement issued after the meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China border affairs (WMCC) said.Also Read: India deploys specialised mountain forces to check China’s LAC transgressionsThe two sides also agreed to maintain communication both at diplomatic and military level including under the framework of WMCC to resolve the existing situation peacefully.The WMCC dialogue, held via video conference, continued for more than four hours, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times.Also Watch l ‘Need to respect international law..’: Jaishankar in a meet with China, Russia Both sides started from the very basis of the boundary differences with treaties and maps to back them. The Chinese side continued to be belligerent, blaming India for the June 15 flare up. The Indian side responded in kind, but both wanted the dialogue to continue and supplement the conversations being held at the senior military commander levelIt is understood that the Chinese belligerence at the meeting - also reflected in the shrill statements from Beijing through the day -is partly due to the unexpected response they got from the 16 Bihar Regiment led by Colonel Santosh Babu at Galwan sector on June 15 evening. Also Read: India deploys specialised mountain forces to check China’s LAC transgressions“Both sides will continue the WMCC dialogue to iron out their differences on the border diplomatically and work towards removing any friction between the two armies. The process is going to be long drawn out and hence, we have to be patient for a peaceful outcome,” a senior official told Hindustan Times.The situation on the ground remains tense with both armies closely watching each other’s moves at the four stand-off points. There has been no force accretion on the Chinese side since the June 22 senior military commanders’ meeting.Also Read: Ladakh vs Doklam standoff: Same military commander, different tacticsAlthough the Chinese psy-ops is in full swing, claiming more incursions by the People’s Liberation Army, senior Indian military commanders dismissed such tall claims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-border-talks-positive-on-de-escalation-disengagement-along-lac/story-WebZehXmpo3tQAlXdBeNKJ.html
24-06-2020||India||China continues military build-up along LAC near Eastern Ladakh: Report||Even as India and China continue to talk, the Chinese have continued the build-up all along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) including the Finger area where they have strengthened themselves with more positions and constructions.The Chinese Army started its build up along the LAC in Eastern Ladakh sector from May 4 and deployed more than 10,000 troops along with heavy artillery, armoured regiments and defence batteries.“In the Finger area along the Pangong Tso lake, the Chinese have continued to indulge in heightened military activities like deployment of troops and construction,” a source told ANI.The Indian side claims the areas up to Finger 8 but the Chinese Army during the recent face-offs have been blocking Army patrols from going beyond Finger 4.Also read: India, China hold diplomatic meeting on border stand-off in LadakhThe Chinese side has been aggressively trying to bring newer areas under its control in the Finger area, the sources said.In the Galwan river area, where the violent face-off took place between the two armies resulting in a high number of deaths on both sides, the Chinese have built some of their structures after the clash, the sources said.An observation post-like structure of the Chinese removed by the Indian Army troops on June 15-16 night has also come up again near the Patrolling Point 14, they said.The build up on the Indian positions PP-15, PP-17 and PP-17A also continues to exist as the Chinese have been using a road, which moves close to Indian patrolling points from its side, to send both men and equipment urgently to the Indian side.In areas opposite the Daulat Beg Oldie sector, the Chinese are trying to create troubles for the Indian patrols near PP-10 to PP-13.In the rear positions also at its air bases including Hotan and Gar Gunsa, the Chinese Army’s Air Force has brought in its strategic bombers and the number of fighter aircraft numbers have gone up including their own Russian-made Su-30s.Security agencies suggest that the Chinese have also rushed in long-range air defence systems acquired from Russians opposite the Indian territory.Also read: In visit to forward areas in eastern Ladakh, Army chief commends troops for high moraleIndia and China have held two rounds of Corps commander-level talks after which they have agreed to disengage.However, the disengagement process supposed to start after the June 6 talks did not yield much result and there was also a violent face-off in which both sides suffered major casualties.On June 22 also, the two sides met at Moldo after which there has been a consensus for mutual disengagement but it has not yet shown any change in ground positions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-continues-military-build-up-along-lac-near-eastern-ladakh-report/story-q5zQCQmi7LpUA3nYNvVxVO.html
24-06-2020||India||Hackers siphon off over Rs 17 lakh in 200 transactions from Uttarakhand farmer’s account||Cyber hackers allegedly managed to siphon off Rs 17.24-lakh through around 200 transactions in last 11 months from a farmer’s account in Khatima of US Nagar in Uttarakhand. Ironically, neither the farmer nor the bank knew about the alleged fraudulent transactions, an official said.The farmer and the bank came to know about the fraud when the farmer approached the bank for the entry of transactions into his passbook, officials said.Fifty-seven-year-old Gursharan Singh, a farmer living in Pratappur village under police station Khatima in US Nagar has a saving account in the Oriental Bank of Commerce (OBC) since 2003.“Since I have accounts in other banks also, I hardly operated the OBC account,” Singh said.Also read: Uttarakhand govt to start two English medium schools in every block“I had gone to the bank on June 18 for the entry of transactions into my passbook. I had made only 5-6 transactions in the last one year. But to my surprise, bank officials handed over three additional passbooks with a large number of entries,” said Singh.He said, “When I went through the passbook, I learnt that around 200 transactions had been made since August 2019, which were not done by me. Over 4 to 5 transactions of Rs 7,900 each were made by me. Total Rs 17,24,565 had been withdrawn from my account.”“The farmer has lodged a complaint with us claiming fraudulent transactions made in his account. I have informed about these transactions to our Fraud Monitoring Cell (FMC), Gurugram, as well as a police cyber cell in Rudrapur,” Bhuwan Joshi, branch manager, OBC, Khatima said.Also read: Neena Gupta shares stunning views from her Uttarakhand home, fans ask her to adopt them“The farmer’s ATM card has been seized/blocked after his complaint. Those behind these transactions will be known after the investigation of FMC and police cyber cell are done. I can’t say anything further at this stage,” he addedSingh said he didn’t even receive any message of transactions on his mobile from the bank that could have alerted him. Transactions were made regularly without any alert message or OTP alerts (one-time password), he added.“I have received messages of the transactions made by me in last months on my mobile, but surprisingly, I didn’t get any message or OTP alerts for these fraudulent transactions. I have handed over my complaints to Khatima police as well as the police cyber cell and am I am waiting for their response,” Singh said.Himanshu Pant, in-charge, police cyber cell, Udham Singh Nagar said, “We have received complaints from the farmer and have started investigating the case.““The transactions have been made through mobile, not by the ATM. Since transactions were made for a long time, it will take some time to investigate this matter,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hackers-siphon-off-over-rs-17-lakh-in-200-transactions-from-uttarakhand-farmer-s-account/story-QJ8o9yubJfLfxQcQeFWXZO.html
24-06-2020||India||Great news, says PM Modi as Centre upgrades Kushinagar airport||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the decision to designate Kushinagar airport in Uttar Pradesh as an international one was “great news” and will provide better opportunities for the local people.“Great news for Uttar Pradesh, tourism and those inspired by the noble thoughts of Lord Buddha! Kushinagar Airport will now be an international airport. Connectivity will improve significantly. More tourists and pilgrims will also mean better opportunities for local population,” Modi tweeted after the Union Cabinet in its meeting gave its approval to declare Kushinagar airport as an international airport.Kushinagar airport is located in the vicinity of several Buddhist cultural Sites like Sravasti, Kapilvastu and Lumbini.Kushinagar itself is a Buddhist cultural site and declaration as an “international airport” will offer improved connectivity, wider choice of competitive costs to the air-travellers. It will result in boosting of domestic/international tourism and economic development of the regions. It will be an important strategic location with the international border close by, the government said in a statement.Kushinagar is located in the north-eastern part of Uttar Pradesh about 50 km east of Gorakhpur and is one of the important Buddhist pilgrimage sites.The government said Kushinagar draws around 200-300 devotees from Thailand, Cambodia, Japan, Myanmar, etc who come to offer prayers on any given day. The “Buddhist Circuit” is a key pilgrimage destination for 530 million practising Buddhists across the globe, the statement noted.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath thanked the Prime Minister for the decision to upgrade the Kushinagar airport.“I thank PM Narendra Modi and the Union Cabinet for declaring Kushinagar Airport as an international airport. The move will help boost tourism in Uttar Pradesh due to the airport’s proximity to Shravasti, Lumbini, Kapilvastu, Sarnath and Gaya tourist places,” ANI quoted Adityanath as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/great-news-says-pm-modi-as-centre-upgrades-kushinagar-airport/story-SUPxeaNkb3j2Ii0zWJKRlO.html
24-06-2020||India||Day after declaring ‘war’ on Nitish’s JD(U), RJD plays down mass defections||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav on Wednesday tried to play down the setback received due to the defection of five RJD MLCs to Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United, JD(U) days before the elections to nine seats of State legislative council on July 6 and a few months ahead of the crucial general assembly elections in October.“During election people come and go. Name one election where people had not come and gone. This is election season and the government is trying to keep their governance safe...A few days back JD(U) MLC had come to us, so these things go on,” Tejashwi Yadav was quoted as saying by ANI.Tejashwi, however, didn’t forget to take a dig at chief minister Nitish Kumar suggesting his party had a hand in the defections. “Best wishes to those who left. Nitish ji has done constructive work but that constructive work can benefit only him. Yesterday’s incident can bring him personal benefit but nothing to the people of Bihar,” he added.Also Read: Sushil Modi requests Amit Shah for extension of free food grain scheme for poorTejashwi’s mixed comments come a day after his party colleague and RJD state president Jagdanand Singh declared a ‘virtual war’ against JD(U) and warned Nitish Kumar of a “befitting reply” to defections . “Nitish Kumar has lured legislators through money. The war has started. He will get a befitting reply,” Singh had said.Radha Charan Shah, Sanjay Prasad, Dilip Rai, Md Kamar Alam and Ranvijay Kumar Singh defected to JD(U) yesterday without inviting the anti-defection law by virtue of their numbers—more than two-third of the total number of RJD MLC party.The RJD is now reduced to only three MLCs in the council, while the JD(U)’s strength has increased to 21 MLCs in the 75-member council. The council’s present strength is 46 since 29 seats are vacant. The BJP has 16 MLCs in the council and also has the support of an independent MLC.RJD on Wednesday announced the names of three candidates for the legislative council polls. BISCOMAUN Chairman Sunil Singh, BN College Professor Ram Bali Chandravanshi and Mumbai businessman Farukh Shaikh have been named party candidates, said PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-declaring-war-on-nitish-s-jd-u-rjd-plays-down-mass-defections/story-9E17xwFoF2DRBlEwsJg6kI.html
24-06-2020||India||Uncertainty looms over cross border trade amid India-Nepal tension, traders say 80% of business under threat||Amid ongoing tension between India and Nepal over the border issue, traders at the bordering areas are staring at an uncertain future for their business - which largely depends on Nepal. Banbasa, a town located at the India-Nepal border is about 330 kilometres away from Dehradun and is an entry point for those going to Nepal from Champawat after crossing the bridge over Sharda river.There are about 550 traders in Banbasa who have traditional trade relations with their counterparts in Kanchanpur, Nepal across the border. After the tensions in India-Nepal relations, Indian traders are majorly concerned about their business which largely depends on their customers from Nepal. “We have trade relations for years and almost 80 percent of our business depends on our customers from Nepal while the remaining 20 percent on the local market. First, the lockdown affected it and now the tensions between the two countries,” said Shankar Lal Verma, a Banbasa based trader and state secretary of Uttarakhand Vyapar Mandal, a state-based traders body. Also read: China could set up border outposts in encroached territories - Nepal govt documentVerma said the “unfortunate developments have already affected their trade as it has come down drastically.” “The traders from Nepal used to buy our vegetables, ration items, hardware, cloth and cosmetics. But now, the business is almost over as not even 5 percent is left. For many traders, their entire business depends on trade with Nepal,” said Verma adding, “many traders who are staying here on rent and doing their business in rented shops are planning to leave the town due to losses.”Another local trader Sanjay Agrawal, who is also the vice-president of the local trade body, said, “Not only losses, but many traders are also worried about the huge payment which is due to be paid by the Nepalese trade partners”.“Payment of at least Rs 1 crore is due which is to be paid by the Nepalese traders for the goods they purchased from us. Now, whenever we ask them for the payment over the phone, they are dilly-dallying and asking us to first send more goods after which they will release the payment. We are now stuck and helpless,” said Agrawal. Also read: Nepal’s FM radio stations beam propaganda across border, say Lipulekh theirsHe added, “A few days ago, representatives of the traders’ body wrote to the district administration to allow a group of traders to cross the border and take their payments but we are yet to get any reply”.Expressing concern over the prevailing situation, a local social activist Vinod Kala said, “If the situation prevails, it would prove disastrous for the traders as their businesses will be destroyed. Their livelihood would be endangered in this crisis”.However, if the Nepalese traders are to be believed, there is not much effect on their businesses because of the prevailing situations. Madhav Prasad Joshi, a trader in Kanchanpur town of Nepal near Banbasa, and member of Sudur Paschim Pradesh Vyapar Mandal, Nepal, said, “The business is hardly affected on the Nepalese side as compared to the Indian side. 90 percent of the customers are Nepalese and only 10 percent are Indian.”“In our trade relations, it was majorly the Nepalese people who used to visit Banbasa town to buy things and not the other way round. That’s why we are not much affected. Also, only people have been stopped from visiting the two places while trucks carrying goods from there are coming here after passing through customs. This has maintained our supply with no issues as such,” said Joshi. On the concerns of payment due with the Nepalese traders, Joshi said, “All payment will be made to the Indian traders with no fraud at all”.“I want to assure our Indian partners that their money will be paid if the trade was legal. If the payment was of any illegal trade, then we can’t give any assurance on that. Else, we will make sure the payment is made under proper norms and regulations,” he said. Joshi, however, affirmed that the ongoing tension between India and Nepal will “hardly affect the people-to-people relations between the sides”.“It is completely a political issue and will not affect our friendly relations. We believe that the two governments will soon resolve it politically and our relations will be intact like before,” said Joshi. Meanwhile, the Uttarakhand government said that they are aware of the issues faced by the traders of Banbasa but the solution would be brought at the ‘international level.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uncertainty-looms-over-cross-border-trade-amid-india-nepal-tension-traders-say-80-of-business-under-threat/story-c1RnEoBw5EVMkeVkNY82LI.html
24-06-2020||India||Sheena Bora murder: Indrani Mukerjea seeks bail citing coronavirus scare||Indrani Mukerjea, the prime accused in the Sheena Bora murder case, has filed a plea in a special CBI court here seeking interim bail citing the risk of contracting coronavirus.She is currently lodged in the Byculla women’s prison in central Mumbai.The court had earlier rejected her four regular bail applications filed on medical grounds, while another one moved on the merits of the case is still pending.In her latest plea filed on Tuesday, Mukerjea sought temporary bail for 45 days citing the coronavirus outbreak and her medical history.The application claimed that given the increasing numbers of COVID-19 positive cases in the state there is no certainty when the trial or hearingfor bail (merits) will begin.It added that she has been in judicial custody ever since her arrest inAugust 2015 and she has been suffering from chronic ischemic changes in her brain arteries.The application also said that she has suffered from blackouts time and again and has been on medication.Thus, considering her medical history and the guidelines issued by the high-powered committee, thecourt should grant interim bail to her, the application said.During the hearing on the plea, the special court on Wednesday asked the investigating agency to file its reply on June 26.Meanwhile, the special court also rejected the interim bail plea of Indrani’s former husband Sanjeev Khanna, who is a co-accused in the case.Khanna had also sought temporary release in view of the coronavirus outbreak.Sheena (24) was allegedly strangled in a car by her mother Indrani, her driver Shyamvar Rai and Khanna in April 2012. Her body was burnt in a forest in neighbouring Raigad district. Former media baron Peter Mukerjea was later arrested for allegedly being part of the conspiracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sheena-bora-murder-indrani-mukerjea-seeks-bail-citing-coronavirus-scare/story-CuuWJk1oSxv4wYR8obX5CL.html
24-06-2020||India||YSR Congress Party MP asked to explain comments against party leadership||The YSR Congress Party on Wednesday served a show-cause notice on party MP Kanumuri Raghurama Krishnam Raju, asking him to explain within seven days his comments against the party leadership or face action.In a two-page show-cause notice, YSRCP general secretary and parliamentary party leader V Vijay Sai Reddy asked Raju, who represents Narasarpuram parliamentary constituency in West Godavari district, why action should not be taken against him for allegedly violating the party discipline.“In the event of default to respond, further follow-up action would be initiated by the party and parliamentary party in accordance with the law,” Sai Reddy said.The party’s Lok Sabha member, alleged Sai, has been showing disinclination in being a primary member of the party. Sai cited various statements the MP has made against the programmes taken up by the party and the state government.Citing one example, Reddy said the MP had criticised the Jagan Reddy government’s decision to introduce English medium in the government schools and formation of three capitals for decentralisation of administration.“You have also alleged that the YSRCP MLAs were resorting to looting of sand in the state without any corroborating evidence. You have remarked that you do not owe your electoral victory to party or chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy and that you would have won elections from any other party,” he said.“Your comments against the party leadership were not only derogatory but also indicated your resolve to move away from the party. They also provide irrefutable evidence that you have voluntarily given up the membership of the party,” the show-cause notice said.It may be mentioned that last week, the Narasapuram MP wrote a letter to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla requesting that he be provided additional armed security from central police forces in the wake of threat to his life from his own party MLAs and leaders in his constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ysr-congress-party-mp-asked-to-explain-comments-against-party-leadership/story-3fOm8wcsyM8nmNGmjbSxBI.html
24-06-2020||India||Sushil Modi requests Amit Shah for extension of free food grain scheme for poor||Bihar deputy chief minister Sushil Modi Tuesday requested Union minister of home affairs Amit Shah to extend Centre’s free food grain scheme by another three months in the state till September this year to provide cover to the poor, hit hard by the impact of the coronavirus outbreak.During a telephonic conversation with Shah, Sushil Modi said that the poor people were yet to emerge from the economic blow suffered during the lockdown.“As the impact of Covid-19 pandemic has failed to subside, many (economically poor class) have not been able to manage a source of income and need food grains to sustain. So the free distribution of food grains among the poor should be continued from July to September,” Modi said.Sushil Modi said that a total of 8.71 crore poor people were given five kilogram rice every month from April to June in a relief measure worth ₹5,057.30 crore. He added that 1.68 crore families were also given one kilogram of lentils worth ₹two crore during the same period.Also Read: ITC among four industrial houses keen to invest in BiharThe deputy CM said that a large number of migrant labourers and non-ration card holders, who returned to the state during the lockdown period, were also provided assistance by the state government.“Over 86 lakh people among them were provided five-kilogram rice and two-kilogram gram worth ₹337.15 crore in May and June, free of cost,” he said and added that relief material worth ₹6,024.45 crore was distributed among the poor during the lockdown period.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Modi said that the state government had endeavoured to ensure no poor family in the state is deprived of relief measures offered during the lockdown.“Despite all the economic activities being on hold, there has been no report of any starvation death in the state during this period,” he said.Bihar goes to assembly polls in October-November this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushil-modi-requests-amit-shah-for-extension-of-free-food-grain-scheme-for-poor/story-rh45g0b2ofyJoBLN0EGiWO.html
24-06-2020||India||Snake bite, contract killer, car accident – options Amit Agarwal explored to kill wife||From snake bite to hiring a contract killer to staging a car accident - Amit Agarwal - the 42-year-old chartered accountant, had explored various options to kill his wife for the past six months, the Kolkata Police said Wednesday after going through a 67-page suicide note that he left behind.Agarwal finally killed his wife Shilpi allegedly by strangling her in her Bengaluru flat on Sunday and then flew down to Kolkata on Monday with this 10-year-old son. He called a friend to the Kolkata airport and asked him to take his son to his elder brother’ house in the city’s north.In the evening, Agarwal went to his in-laws place and shot his 65-year-old mother-in-law Lalita Dhandania before turning the gun on himself. His father-in-law Subhash Dhandania, 70, managed to rush out of the flat to save his life.“The 67-page suicide note, of which 66 pages are typed, was titled ‘Mahabharat of my life’,” said a senior official of the Kolkata Police’s detective department.Investigators have come to know from the note that Agarwal, used to stay in a separate flat in Bengaluru, as a divorce suit was going on over the past two years. From Bengaluru he had had gone to Bihar to explore the option of hiring a contract killer and to Tamil Nadu to look for snakes before the lockdown started.“In the suicide note he has mentioned how he had explored various options from snake bites to car accident to kill his wife. He had even thought of contracting a supari killer. But later he thought of doing the job himself as he could not trust anyone,” said a police officer.“From whatever we have gathered so far, Agarwal seems to have planned the murder more than six months back. We think he had purchased the pistol during his earlier visit to Kolkata. He had come to Kolkata at least thrice this year before the lockdown,” said a senior officer.Police have come to know that after taking a cab from the airport he got down at a place, which was around 500m from his in-laws’ place.“He had a second flat very close to his in-laws. After getting down from the cab he first went to that flat before walking up to his in-laws’ flat. So it seems that he might have purchased the weapon during oen of his earlier visits and hid it in his flat,” said a senior official.Police suspect that Agarwal had plans to kill all his in-laws including his father-in-law and brother-in-law. He had even called his brother-in-law Vineet Dhandania, who stays in Gurugram, to come down to Kolkata. Vineet, however, failed to turn up.“Bengaluru police have already found Shilpi’s body from her flat. She was probably strangulated. There were signs of scuffle in the Mahadevapura flat. Preliminary investigation suggests that Agarwal first kept his ten-year-old son in the apartment’s guest room and went up to his wife’s flat. When his wife opened the door he forced his way and killed her. Later he spent the night in the guest room.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/snake-bite-contract-killer-car-accident-options-amit-agarwal-explored-to-kill-wife/story-cPEeWYLHOE3WguqSodGHIP.html
24-06-2020||India||‘Another step towards making India self-reliant’: PM Modi lauds govt’s ‘historic’ move in space sector||The government’s approval to reforms in the space sector is another step towards making India “self-reliant and technologically advanced”, prime minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday after the cabinet approved the creation of Indian National Space promotion and Authorization Centre (IN-SPACE).“The reform trajectory continues. The reforms will boost private sector participation as well,” the prime minister tweeted on Wednesday.  The reform trajectory continues. The Union Cabinet’s approval to reforms in the space sector is yet another step towards making our nation self-reliant and technologically advanced. The reforms will boost private sector participation as well. https://t.co/oqYZFt3Pr4The institution (IN-SPACE) will guide the private industries in space activities through encouraging policies in a friendly regulatory environment, Minister of State for Atomic Energy and Space, Jitendra Singh said on Wednesday.Singh said that IN-SPACE’s role has been extended into ISRO. “This is a new turn in the arena of space. They will supplement each other’s work they will not work at cross purposes,” he said.“ISRO is the basic organisation - what activities or projects or missions will be carried out, it will play a major role in deciding that. But this new facility has been introduced to fill the gap and fulfil demand mode,” he added. Known for out-of-box, bold and futuristic decisions, only PM @narendramodi could have made it possible. The decision will go a long way in preventing India's Space talent Brain Drain and simultaneously help India establish itself as a frontline world nation. https://t.co/3nndojJChQIn a tweet on Wednesday, Singh said that only under PM Modi’s leadership could this be taken for the country’s progress.“Known for out-of-box, bold and futuristic decisions, only PM @narendramodi could have made it possible. The decision will go a long way in preventing India’s Space talent Brain Drain and simultaneously help India establish itself as a frontline world nation,” Singh tweetedIN-SPACe will provide a level-playing field for private companies to use Indian space infrastructure, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said in a release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-step-towards-making-india-self-reliant-pm-modi-lauds-govt-s-historic-move-in-space-sector/story-0z4O4gU0NnSz4DJMK16ChI.html
24-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘Will unlock India’s potential in space’, says Minister as govt opens sector and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Will unlock India’s potential in space’: Minister as govt opens sectorThe Union cabinet on Wednesday approved the creation of Indian National Space promotion and Authorization Centre (IN-SPACE) to provide level playing field for private companies to use space infrastructure, in a decision which it calls “historic”. Read moreGalwan clash: China levels fresh blame against India, says New Delhi provoked clashChina on Wednesday launched a twin diplomatic tirade against India with its foreign and defence ministries blaming New Delhi for the Galwan Valley clash on June 15 and alleging that the external affairs ministry (MEA) and Indian media were spreading false information about the incident. Read moreHouse-to-house screening by July 6 in Delhi govt’s 8-point revised plan to tackle Covid-19In a bid to fight the coronavirus challenge in the national capital, the Delhi government has come up with an eight-point ‘Revised Covid Response Plan’ in line with the recommendations from Dr VK Paul committee. Read moreBotched Virgin Mary painting restoration brings back memories of ‘Potato Jesus’ artworkSpain is infamous for botched restorations of prized artworks. Who can forget the terrible restoration of the fresco painting of the Ecce Homo by the Spanish painter Elías García Martínez in 2012 that went viral? Read moreWatch: Indian tri-service contingent participates in Victory Parade in MoscowA tri-services contingent of the Indian Armed Forces participated in the Victory Parade 2020 event at Red Square in Moscow. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh was also present at the event. Military contingents from about 11 other countries, including China participated at the event. Read moreMeet Honey, Maya and Whiskey the newest members of Mumbai Police dog squadEven though we are going through some difficult times, there are some beautiful and heart-warming stories happening just around us which are able to make one smile ear-to-ear. Read moreBulbbul movie review: Pretty but problematic, Anushka Sharma’s Netflix film is a flawed fairytaleFrom debutante director Anvita Dutt (whose track record as dialogue writer includes the runaway hit Queen but also Shaandaar, Kambakkht Ishq and Housefull), Netflix’s Bulbbul is the second streaming film this month, after Amazon’s Gulabo Sitabo, that is set inside a foreboding mansion. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-will-unlock-india-s-potential-in-space-says-minister-as-govt-opens-sector-and-all-the-latest-news/story-4nViPnARhXxy7i7Otbd8rL.html
24-06-2020||India||Government opens up space sector and assets to private sector to ‘enhance’ capacity||The Central government has approved the opening of the key space sector for private participation in a cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday. The government said the move will free up India’s premier space agency Isro (Indian Space Research Organisation) to focus on research and development while providing opportunities to expand India’s space exploration and technology through private participation.These reforms can be compared to the reforms in the power sector carried out during the rule of Atal Bihari Vajpayee government, Union minister Javadekar said at the cabinet press briefing in New Delhi.“We have built up really good space assets, these assets are now opening up for everyone’s use,” Javadekar said. He recalled that a group of Indian students, who had developed a satellite indigenously, had to launch from a facility outside India due to regulatory limitations. He said, such a situation won’t arrive in the future with the new reforms in the space sector.Space minister Jitendra Singh said a new organization named Indian National Space Promotion and Authorization Centre (In-SPACe) has been floated to guide private enterprise participation in space activities and the use of country’s space infrastructure.“Newly created Indian National Space Promotion and Authorization Centre (IN-SPACe) to provide a level playing field for private companies to use Indian space infrastructure. It will also hand-hold, promote and guide the private industries in space activities,” said Singh.He called it a “historic decision” and a departure from the past practice since Independence. He credited Prime Minister Narendra Modi for piloting the “far-sighted” reform.“PM Modi is known for taking decisions that are bold, unorthodox, and futuristic; which is whythe decision for hosting the private sector participation in space sector activities has been taken. There was a history and tradition of keeping the space activities shrouded under secrecy,” Singh said, explaining the background for the decision.He added that the reform will allow Isro to focus more on research and development activities and also help in preventing the brain drain of Indian talent while enhancing the socio economic use of space assets and activities including approved access to existing space assets at facilities. “In the last 2-3 years, PM Modi has given a special boost to exploration of space through enhancing our launching activities and exploration of space through extra-launching activities,” Singh said. Singh added that India was now using space technology in every sphere of activity and the space tech has reached every household. He said the time has come to enhance India’s capacity in the sector by providing a level playing field.In other important decisions, the Union cabinet has approved a scheme for interest subvention of 2% to Shishu loan category borrowers under Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana, outstanding as on 31st March 2020, for a period of 12 months to eligible borrowers.The government also announced that it had cleared the development of an international airport at Uttar Pradesh’s Kushinagar. Javadekar said that a three-kilometer-long air strip has already been constructed there to facilitate the landing of big aircrafts like the airbus. This is being done for the benefit of tourists travelling on the Buddhist circuit. The work on the upgrade of infrastructure of the Airport has been ongoing and it will further pick up pace, he added.He also announced that ONGC will invest an additional Rs 909 crore in two gas blocks in Myanmar, namely A1 and A3. Exploration of these blocks will begin with the allocation. India is already invested in Myanmar gas blocks in partnership with South Korea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-opens-up-space-sector-and-assets-to-private-sector-to-enhance-capacity/story-hCn1tdDWhJTlRaZ0e4OeoN.html
24-06-2020||India||Ola to provide protective screens, fumigation for partner autorickshaws||Ride hailing app Ola said that auto rickshaws on its platform will undergo mandatory fumigation in every 48 hours and protective screens would be installed between driver and passenger sections as safeguards against Covid-19. All Autos on the Ola platform will undergo mandatory fumigation every 48 hours at more than 100 fumigation centres across the country. In Delhi, there are 15 such centres and the number will go up in coming days, Ola said in a statement. Under the RideSafeIndia initiative, no extra charge would be levied on partner autos, it said. “With these added safety measures for Ola Auto, both driver-partners and passengers are assured of a comfortable and safe ride,” the company said. “All Ola Autos on the platform will be fitted with a protective partition screen between the driver-partner and passenger section as an additional layer of protection to ensure physical separation,” it said. Ola is committed to investing in this category and ensuring the hygiene protocols and screens are being used across more than 120 cities where Ola Autos operate, it said. As part of its RideSafeIndia initiative, Ola has enhanced cleanliness protocols, implemented vehicle sanitisation practices and incorporated technological advancements, for Ola Autos at no extra charge, said the statement.  Ola’s proprietary selfie authentication technology will also ensure that driver-partners are wearing masks while serving on the platform. Ola Autos also enable drivers to follow social distancing as they do not have to come in proximity to crowds at demand hotspots or auto-stands, it said. All Ola Auto drivers are equipped with hygiene kits consisting of masks, sanitisers and cleaning equipment. To ensure highest standards of hygiene and safety on every ride, all autos are fumigated thrice a week, it said. A flexible cancellation policy has also been introduced to allow either party to cancel the ride if the other is not adhering to the guidelines, it said. Complying with state government regulations, Ola Autos operate with no more than one driver and two passengers, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ola-to-provide-protective-screens-fumigation-for-partner-autorickshaws/story-uiZALq1MiSCyOJATNk14qJ.html
24-06-2020||India||Electricity bill worth Rs 50,000! Post-lockdown power bills shock consumers in Madhya Pradesh||Post-lockdown power bills have come as a shock to consumers in Madhya Pradesh prompting the state government to announce setting up of camps in every assembly constituency to redress the grievances of consumers. The government has also announced relief to those enjoying subsidised power under its scheme, as per energy department officials and complaints from people.According to officials, the power bills have affected every section of society. A state BJP office-bearer in Bhopal who usually used to receive a bill of about Rs 15,000 per month against his domestic connection got a bill of more than Rs 50,000 in June.Surendra Singh, a retired government official in Gwalior, used to receive bills of about Rs 2,000-2,500 during winters and Rs 3,500-4,500 during summers. He was jolted with a bill that amounted to Rs 19,000 this month. In Sagar, a shopkeeper - whose shop was closed for nearly two months amid the Covid-19 lockdown - got a bill of more than Rs 4,800.Also read: Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s jab at Rahul Gandhi includes reminder of BJP’s role in oppositionAnshul Bhargava, the shopkeeper in Sagar said, “I have got a bill of Rs 4,818. I regularly checked for bills online too but didn’t get any. Otherwise, my shop was closed for two months. Then how is this bill justified?”The BJP office-bearer who didn’t want to be named said, “I understand that June’s bill covered two months but this amount is mind-boggling. How come this comes to Rs 50,000? Since it’s BJP which is in power, I can’t lodge any protest in public on the issue.” In districts like Jabalpur, Seoni, Ashok Nagar, Rajgarh, Ratlam, Gwalior, among others, people have protested on the matter in the past week or so.As per government officials, during the lockdown period, the consumers received electricity bills, amounting to the usual figure, in April and May. The bills were based on the power consumption in March. The officials added that as more people were indoors during the lockdown in April and May, people ended up consuming more electricity and the power units were charged as per the higher slab of the tariff in June.This calculation of the power distribution companies also affected those who enjoyed subsidised power under various government schemes. This was due to the change in the government in March and changes in the scheme too.A government official said, “The previous BJP government headed by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had announced Sambal scheme for subsidised power to unorganised sector labourers, vendors and farmers with a smallholding of land at Rs 200 per month subject to the consumption of power up to 1 kW, ahead of 2018 assembly elections. More than 80 lakh consumers got themselves registered.”He said, “When the Congress formed its government in December 2018, it replaced Sambal with Indira Jyoti Yojna under which a power consumer was supposed to pay Rs 100 for 100 units of electricity if he didn’t consume more than 100 units of power in a month. If a consumer’s meter reading didn’t show more than 150 units of power in a month, he was supposed to pay Rs 100 for the first 100 units and normal rates for the next 50 units. It was around Rs 400 per month. But if a consumer consumed more than 150 units of power in a month, all units were charged as per the higher slab of the tariff. It was about Rs 6.30 per unit from 151 to 300 units and Rs 6.50 per unit for units above 300.”The official said that since the present government had dumped Indira Jyoti Yojna and replaced it with the Sambal scheme, the software was to be updated for the Sambal scheme beneficiaries by mid-June but it couldn’t be done. Hence, the power units of these beneficiaries too were charged as per normal rates. Hence, those who used to get the bill of about Rs 400 per month have now got the bill amounting to Rs 1,000-2,000.On Monday, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced a relief to Sambal scheme beneficiaries provided they had bills of up to Rs 400 in April.“The decision about the remaining bills will be subject to scrutiny”, said the CM while interacting with consumers from different regions.Given the complaints regarding the power bills from across the state, the cabinet decided on Tuesday to hold camps in every assembly constituency to rectify the bills against complaints as told by home minister Narottam Mishra.State Congress president’s media coordinator Narendra Saluja said, “Hefty electricity bills have given a shock to all sections of society. By dumping Indira Jyoti Yojna, the government has fleeced people belonging to the weaker section. The CM announced relief only because of the ensuing bypolls to 24 assembly constituencies. But it is misleading as it is full of ifs and buts and in effect, no one is going to get benefit from the same.”Principal secretary, state energy department Sanjay Dubey said, “We are looking into complaints of power bills. Fact remains that during the lockdown the power consumption grew in homes. However, if anyone comes with a complaint that he has been charged extra, I will take immediate action on this.” (With inputs from Anupam Pateriya in Sagar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/electricity-bill-worth-rs-50-000-post-lockdown-power-bills-shock-consumers-in-madhya-pradesh/story-ML28dKfR5AOZfaXaVBczrO.html
24-06-2020||India||‘BNA built my base as an actor’||The journey of actor Nalneesh Neel, who was seen in ‘Fukrey’ and ‘Chichhorey’, to Mumbai has been a long one. Coming from a small village near Bisalpur in Pilibhit, Neel, who was last seen, as the speech impaired servant of Big B, in ‘Gulabo Sitabo’, recalled he was interested in performing arts since the beginning.“I started doing theatre in Shahjahanpur before joining the Bhartendu Natya Academy (BNA) in Lucknow. I have realized that if I would have not gone to BNA I would have not survived in Mumbai. It built my base as an actor,” he said over phone.“I come from a small village and grew up in the rural belt of Shahjahanpur at my maternal grandmother’s home. I dabbled in many things since beginning. I learnt martial arts and to dance too. I also sang at ‘jagrans’, handled rented VCRs in nights and did videography in marriages as well for a living,” he recalled. Neel said that he had shifted to Shahjahanpur to learn nuances of acting from actor Rajpal Yadav’s mentor Dalip Anand of Coronation Art Theatre. He remembers Dalip telling him that ‘not everyone can become Rajpal Yadav!’ “But, I was determined. I started doing ‘nukkad nataks’ (street corner plays), did ‘Godan’ and other plays in Shahjahanpur, Bareilly and Pilibhit,” he recalled.Neel wanted to go to National School of Drama (NSD) but got selected in Lucknow’s Bhartendu Natya Academy (BNA) instead. That was in 2008-10. “I learnt under Suryamohan Kulshresthaji, Jugal Kishor sir, Urmilji (Thalpliyal) and others. I started doing plays and then came to Mumbai with Rs 18,000 that I had borrowed from someone,” he said.Recalling his role in Gulabo Sitabo, a film whose story is based in Lucknow, and in which he played the role of a speech impaired servant, he said, “To act with dialogues is easier but to express without words is very tough. Shoojit da (Sircar) had hired a sign language trainer too so that we get it right. Actually, I had also played a mute character in ‘The Smoking Barrels,’ a short film,” he said.He bagged the role in Gulabo Sitabo after Sircar watched him in the upcoming flick ‘Bhor’.“I am among the three main leads in the film Bhor which has already been to many film festivals and would soon release on OTT. Shoojit da was impressed with my role and called me for the audition. Initially, my character had dialogues though later it was decided that the character would play the role of a speech impaired servant,” he said.Gulabo Sitabo is his second project with Big B. He had done an advertisement with him earlier. Neel has also done an international film ‘The White Tiger’ which is scheduled for release by the year end on OTT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bna-built-my-base-as-an-actor/story-ATda6DYaT6d3z7rRir5T5H.html
24-06-2020||India||1500 cooperative banks with nearly Rs 5 lakh crore assets brought under RBI supervision||The Union government on Wednesday announced approval to a decision to bring 1,540 cooperative banks that hold close to Rs 5 lakh crore worth of deposits from 8 crore lakh account holders, under the purview of Reserve Bank of India (RBI). These banks will be supervised by the RBI in the same fashion as the scheduled banks, offering protection to depositors and reducing the space for mismanagement.“All urban cooperatives and multistate cooperative banks are being brought under the supervision of the Reserve bank of India. There are 1,540 such banks that hold close to Rs 5 lakh crore worth of deposits from over 8 crore lakh account holders. The move to bring them under the RBI will give depositors the assurance that their savings are safe in these banks,” Javadekar said.Earlier this year in February, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced the government’s intention to bring the cooperative banks under RBI’s supervision and said that it will be done through an amendment to the Banking regulation act. Javadekar said the government had issued an ordinance in this respect on Wednesday.According to the new dispensation, the appointment of CEOs in such cooperative banks will now require prior approval from the regulatory authority- the RBI.The government had earlier said that there was a need to enhance accountability of these banks which hold public money and are often riddled in controversies around mismanagement and corruption.The government moves follows several instances of fraud and cheating in banks through cooking of books, mismanagement of loans etc, resulting in a threat to deposits and stability of the country’s financial system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1500-cooperative-banks-with-nearly-rs-5-lakh-crore-assets-brought-under-rbi-supervision/story-ofxwrlScgV3AtcBDpmPCiM.html
24-06-2020||India||Andhra’s Covid-19 tally crosses 10,000, Telangana expects same numbers soon||The number of Covid-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh crossed 10,000 on Wednesday with 497 more cases being reported in the last 24 days.Among the 497 people testing positive in the last 24 hours, 37 had come from other states and 12 from other countries. “The total number of positive cases registered in the state till now has now gone up to 10,331, of which 5,423 are still active cases and 4,779 patients were discharged,” the state health department said in a bulletin.The state also reported 10 more Covid-19 casualties on Wednesday, taking the death toll to 129. Four of the deaths were reported from Kurnool, three from Krishna, two from Guntur and one from Srikakulam.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.While Kurnool accounts for the maximum number of 1,483 positive cases, Krishna follows it with 1,132 cases and Anantapur comes next with 1028 cases.According to the bulletin, as many as 36,047 samples were tested in the last 24 hours – an unprecedented record in the entire country, taking the total number of tests conducted in the state so far to 7,50,234.Meanwhile, neighbouring Telangana, too, is all set to cross 10,000-mark in the Covid-19 positive cases by Wednesday night. As on Tuesday night, the state reported 9,553 positive cases.Overall, 63,249 tests have been conducted in the state since the outbreak of the pandemic, of which 53,696 people tested negative.A total of 879 Covid-19 positive cases including 652 from areas under Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), and three fatalities were reported in Telangana on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-10-000-telangana-expects-same-numbers-soon/story-wL5OZH2gAxxiSVKPXuEfpL.html
24-06-2020||India||Galwan clash: China levels fresh blame against India, says New Delhi provoked clash||China on Wednesday launched a twin diplomatic tirade against India with its foreign and defence ministries blaming New Delhi for the Galwan Valley clash on June 15 and alleging that the external affairs ministry (MEA) and Indian media were spreading false information about the incident.A day after referring to the military commander-level talks of June 22 as an effort to “lower the temperature” and “properly handle differences”, the two ministries separately castigated New Delhi for violating bilateral agreements, international rules and provoking the clash.The mention of “international rules” by the Chinese foreign ministry could have been in the context of external affairs minister, S Jaishankar mentioning the importance of following international rules during the Russia, India, China foreign ministers’ meet.Also read: How the Galwan Valley tragedy can transform Himalayan geopoliticsThe deadly brawl left 20 Indian army soldiers dead and caused unspecified number of casualties to the People’s Liberation Army (PLA).When asked why the Chinese foreign ministry was repeating the points of contention – New Delhi has summarily dismissed Beijing’s one-sided version of the incident – despite renewed talks of peace and tranquility at border, spokesperson, Zhao Lijian had this to say at today’s ministry briefing: “What I have just said, my statement just now is meant to clarify the whole situation, tell the truth to everyone. We made the statement because the MEA in India and also Indian media have made some false reports.”ALSO WATCH | ‘Need to respect international law..’: Jaishankar in a meet with China, Russia On Tuesday, Zhao had dismissed as “fake news” a statement by Indian minister VK Singh that the PLA could have suffered double the number of casualties compared to the Indian army.In the statement he read out after the ministry briefing was over, Zhao said that early morning on May 6, “…India’s border troops under the guise of darkness, trespassed into China’s territory and provoked the incident. China’s troops had to take necessary measures to strengthen their response and their management of the border areas.”Also read: The Galwan Valley face-off explained through 17 news reports“Secondly, it is the Indian side that went against bilateral agreement and provoked first. Because of our diplomatic and military representations, the Indian side at first agreed to withdraw personnel from Galwan Valley and so it did, and it dismantled its facilities as requested by the Chinese side,” Zhao added.Zhao then continued to give the so-called step-by-step account of the incident.“During the first Commanders’ meeting on June 6, the Indian side committed no trespassing of the Galwan Valley for patrol and for building. The two sides agreed to set up observatory posts at the two sides of the Galwan river estuary, but the Indian side went against these agreements and asked China to dismantle China’s posts and also it crossed the Line to provoke which led to the clash,” he said.There was no immediate reaction from the Indian side to the claims levelled by Zhao. Zhao continued: In the evening of June 15, India’s frontline troops went against the agreement reached at the Commander-level meeting, crossed the LAC and sabotaged the tents Chinese side set up.”“When China’s border troops went to negotiate as per protocol, the Indian side suddenly attacked Chinese personnel violently, which led to fierce physical clashes and casualties. This risky behaviour by the Indian side greatly violated the agreement between the two countries and the basic norms guiding international relation. It’s very serious, with very severe consequences.” On the June 22 talks, he said: “We hope this time the Indian side will strictly follow the agreement and work with China to take concrete actions and resume peace and stability in the border areas”.Separately, the Chinese defence ministry too took aim at India on Wednesday, repeating nearly word-for-word earlier Chinese statements.Speaking at online interaction with selected media, defence ministry spokesperson, Wu Qian said: “But what is shocking is that on the evening of June 15th, the Indian front-line frontier troops openly violated the consensus reached by the two sides, turned their backs, and once again crossed the actual control line to deliberately provoke China”.“While negotiating on the spot, Chinese officers and soldiers were suddenly violently attacked by the Indian side. This triggered intense physical clashes between officers and soldiers on both sides, resulting in casualties.”India has already rejected twice China’s claims on the skirmish. India on June 20, for the second time, rejected China’s claim on Galwan Valley in Ladakh and reiterated that the violent clash of June 15 was triggered by Chinese efforts to build structures on the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC).The external affairs ministry dismissed claims made by China’s foreign ministry in a statement issued regarding both sovereignty over Galwan Valley and the genesis of the clash on Monday night that left 20 Indian soldiers dead.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava had said the position with regard to Galwan Valley was “historically clear”. He added, “Attempts by the Chinese side to now advance exaggerated and untenable claims with regard to Line of Actual Control (LAC) there are not acceptable. They are not in accordance with China’s own position in the past.”Srivastava further said the brawl of June 15 was the result of “violent actions” by Chinese troops after they were prevented by Indian soldiers from building structures on the Indian side of the LAC. He noted senior military commanders of the two sides had agreed during a meeting on June 6 on a process for de-escalation and disengagement along the LAC that “involved reciprocal actions”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/galwan-clash-china-levels-fresh-blame-against-india-says-new-delhi-provoked-clash/story-sz6W2lOTXGRRQpOZaLuofJ.html
24-06-2020||India||Govt ‘unlocks’ space sector, says will promote and guide private players||The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved the creation of Indian National Space promotion and Authorization Centre (IN-SPACE) to provide level playing field for private companies to use space infrastructure, in a decision which it calls “historic”. The decision taken is in line with the long-term vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi of transforming India and making the country self-reliant and technologically advanced.The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) will continue to play its role, the government emphasised, adding that the new organization will supplement it.“It’ll guide the private industries in space activities through encouraging policies in a friendly regulatory environment,” said Jitendra Singh, minister of state for atomic energy & space.The Public Sector Enterprise ‘New Space India Limited (NSIL)’ will endeavour to re-orient space activities from a ‘supply driven’ model to a ‘demand driven’ model, thereby ensuring optimum utilisation of space assets.The minister added that the move will “unlock India’s potential in space sector”. The government underscored that it will also hand-hold, promote and guide the private industries in space activities.These reforms, the government anticipates, will allow ISRO to focus more on research and development activities, new technologies, exploration missions and human spaceflight programme. Some of the planetary exploration missions will also be opened up to private sector through an ‘announcement of opportunity’ mechanism, the government added.India is among a handful of countries with advanced capabilities in the space sector. With these reforms, the government hopes the sector will receive new energy and dynamism, to help the country leapfrog to the next stages of space activities.The government is of the view that the space sector can play a major catalytic role in the technological advancement and expansion of the country’s industrial base. The proposed reforms will enhance the socio-economic use of space assets and activities, including through improved access to space assets, data and facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-unlock-india-s-potential-in-space-minister-as-govt-opens-sector/story-VWewqMQMMf09AO0esDOhLJ.html
24-06-2020||India||AAP MLA Prakash Jarwal arrested in connection with doctor’s suicide gets bail||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday granted bail to Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Prakash Jarwal in connection with a doctor’s alleged suicide case, ANI reported. He will be released on bail on furnishing a personal bond of Rs 25,000.Jarwal and his aide, Kapil Nagar, were arrested on May 9 for alleged extortion and abetment to suicide of a 52-year-old doctor in April. The case was registered against the two after the doctor’s son blamed them for his father’s death on April 18. The doctor also supplied water tankers to the Delhi Jal Board. The family had accused Jarwal of extortion which he has denied.The two men were arrested after they failed to join the investigation even after the police sent them notices. Jarwal had also applied for anticipatory bail. The doctor’s son had claimed that his father killed himself hours after Kapil Nagar had paid a visit. The family had complained that the doctor who was also into the business of supplying water tankers to the Delhi Jal Board since 2007, had been upset for the past few months as he was suffering monetary loss because Jarwal had demanded money from him and when he failed to pay on time, the MLA allegedly got his payments from the DJB stalled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-mla-prakash-jarwal-arrested-in-connection-with-doctor-s-suicide-gets-bail/story-wjVwcqGO9TkAui9CtqGHFM.html
24-06-2020||India||Black rice from Uttar Pradesh’s Chandauli to be exported to Australia and New Zealand||Produced by a group of farmers in Uttar Pradesh’s Chandauli district - known as the rice bowl of eastern UP - black rice will now be exported to the foreign countries.The Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) has already started planning for the same, divisional commissioner Deepak Agarwal said.At a function chaired by Agarwal in Chandauli recently, an exporter purchased around 90 metric tonnes of the raw black rice (black paddy) at the rate of ₹85 per kilogram.Agarwal has appealed to the farmers to grow black paddy because that way the farmers will get a very good price of their produce. Also read: Black rice grown successfully for first time in PrayagrajAssistant general manager of APEDA, CB Singh, said 900 quintals (90 metric tonnes) of black paddy, which has anti-diabetic qualities, had been produced by a group of around 300 farmers in Chandauli district. Per kilogram price of paddy is Rs 85 and after processing, it comes for Rs 160.He said there is a plan to export this rice. In the beginning, it will be exported to Australia and New Zealand and later to other countries. A formal meeting between the exporter and farmers was organized in the district so that the farmers sell the produce to the exporters.Singh said the APEDA was motivating more farmers to grow black rice because of the soil of Chandauli district was very favourable for paddy farming. With the support of APEDA, green chilly, vegetables and recently Banarasi Langda mangoes have been exported to Dubai and London.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/black-rice-from-uttar-pradesh-s-chandauli-to-be-exported-to-australia-and-new-zealand/story-COOIOM1trNLHPNr0BjJBnL.html
24-06-2020||India||CBI court rejects Sanjeev Khanna’s bail plea in Sheena Bora murder case||A special CBI court on Wednesday rejected the interim plea of Sanjeev Khanna, one of the alleged killers of Sheena Bora.Khanna, former husband of Sheena’s mother Indrani Mukerjea had approached the special court for interim bail on May 14 citing the spread of Covid 19 in the Arthur Road jail in Mumbai where he is lodged. In his application, he pleaded that an accused booked for murder does not fall under the category of prisoners who cannot be released from jail as recommended by the high power committee of the Bombay High Court.The CBI in its objection on Friday said that though the minutes of high power committee did not include murder charges, in the list of charges for which the bail cannot be granted, the court has to decide the plea on the merits. The agency claimed that the prosecution has submitted enough evidence against Khanna to prove his role in the alleged murder of Sheena and subsequent act of destruction of her body and other evidence.After considering arguments from both sides, the court refused to grant any relief to Khanna. The detailed order would be made available to lawyers later.Meanwhile, Indran Mukerjea, approached the special CBI court for bail for the sixth time. While her previous bail plea is still pending for arguments by CBI, the fresh plea has been filed on the ground of the spread of Covid 19 in Mumbai’s Byculla jail. She has claimed that she is vulnerable to infection from the virus. The special court has asked the CBI to respond to the plea by Friday and scheduled arguments on the plea by July 1.Sheena Bora disappeared on April 24, 2012. On May 23 that year, police found a decomposed body in Pen, Raigad district which turned out to be Sheena’s.Indrani Mukherjea was arrested by the Mumbai Police on August 25, 2015 after a three-year probe. Indrani’s ex-husband Sanjeev Khanna was arrested in Kolkata the next day.On September 18, 2015, the Maharashtra government transferred the case to the CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-court-rejects-sanjeev-khanna-s-bail-plea-in-sheena-bora-murder-case/story-qs36ugVluebrQEON2t39PN.html
24-06-2020||India||‘No guests, no music’: When a cruise ship turned into a ferry service||A cruise, Celebrity Infinity, from Miami in the United States was the first such ship to dock at the Goa’s Mormugao port last week in more than three months and did so only as a ferry to bring back 1,450 seafarers from the state who were stranded in different ports of the world. Capt Rajat Sharma, a marine pilot, has steered hundreds of cruise ships, but nothing could prepare him for the ‘surreal’ experience of piloting the Celebrity Infinity, a 11,788 DWT nearly 300m long cruise ship that sailed into Goa’s Mormugao Port on June 18. “It was hard to believe it’s the same world we are living in... no guests, no music, no people, in the hall,” said Capt Sharma.The once vibrant global cruise tourism industry has been forced to drop anchor, with thousands of seafarers finding that their contracts have been abruptly cancelled. While some cruise tourism companies have been chartering flights to ensure their staff can return home, others have decided to convert ships into ferries as repatriation flights have been difficult to access. “Having piloted more than 100 cruise ships in Goa port, the experience was very different. The handshakes were replaced with sanitisers, broad smiles were replaced with masked people. The warmth I used to get from ship staff is replaced with a sense of fear,” Capt Sharma recounted. “And the scene on the way to the bridge was not very pleasant. Some cabins were taped with yellow ribbons. Some cabins had food packets kept at the door. Not sure whether they were quarantined or the ship staff is following company SOP. It was like someone took the life out of that cruise ship. Now she’s just a ferry going from point A to B,” he added. Tourism has been the hardest hit sector due to the coronavirus pandemic sweeping across the globe. Goa, which majorly depends on tourism, has been feeling the effect. The state has lost out on at least 15 cruise ships that were scheduled to make a port call at Mormugao before the season ended with the start of the monsoon. Cruise passenger tourists have jumped from a mere 1,500 at the turn of the century in 2001-02 to nearly 1-lakh last year as vessels have got bigger and better and safer. The launch of regular cruise service between Goa and Mumbai and Mauritius helped the cause.Goa was expecting in excess of 50 cruise ship arrivals, but only 38 arrived before the season was cut short. However, cruise companies are confident of a post pandemic revival. “The tourism industry is the most affected sector. The industry is suffering significant disruption which has largely impacted every sector of tourism, including the airline, hotel, travel, and cruise among others. In the past too we have grappled with many uncertainties we have managed to recover. This is because the travel industry is resilient and we are confident in making strong headwinds on our return,” Jurgen Bailom, President and CEO, Jalesh Cruises that runs a regular cruise service with Goa as one of the stops, said. “Tourism globally is at a halt and will be for a while. However, in the coming future, if not international travel, domestic tourism will resume, as cruise tourism will be one of the first,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-guests-no-music-when-a-cruise-ship-turned-into-a-ferry-service/story-fXud230Hxr2lQOFCRBCXgM.html
24-06-2020||India||India, China hold diplomatic meeting on border stand-off in Ladakh||India and China on Wednesday discussed ways for easing the border tensions and possible future diplomatic contacts during the first formal diplomatic meeting since the June 15 clash in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley during which 20 Indian Army soldiers were killed.The meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on border affairs (WMCC), the second since June 5, was held through video conference.WMCC, set up in 2012, is headed by Naveen Srivastava, the joint secretary (East Asia), and Wu Jianghao, director general in the Chinese foreign ministry.Also read: Diplomatic border talks to spell out steps to India-China disengagementThe next level after WMCC is the Special Representatives mechanism but there was no indication whether the two sides intend to convene its meeting any time soon.ALSO WATCH | Army chief meets soldiers at Ladakh hospital amid China tensionWednesday’s meeting is a followup to one of the corps commanders of the Indian and Chinese armies on Monday at Moldo on the Chinese side of the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) during which both the sides had agreed on measures to de-escalate the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-hold-diplomatic-meeting-on-border-stand-off-in-ladakh/story-wrnl1LQZ1UTOdItWRJrMvL.html
24-06-2020||India||Got your house or car sanitised yet? Here’s a new service in demand||Covered in PPE kits and armed with gloves and disinfection equipment, volunteers from Delhi-based Right to Safety Foundation are going around south Delhi, offering sanitisation services at minimal prices. For the last two months, the organisation has had their hands full. “Government has tried their best to sanitise outdoor areas but the problem goes beyond that. So we decided to help people out with indoor sanitisation,” says Aamir Ayyub, who founded the organisation to be able to give back to the society. The group volunteers to disinfect homes, offices and shops at a nominal cost. “We charge ₹100 per room in which bathroom, kitchen, and balcony are also covered, and so far people have been very welcoming of the subsidised services. We also educate people on different sanitisation measures,’’ adds Ayyub. His foundation has so far covered around 500 houses. They have even disinfected a few places of worship, police stations and even fire stations, for free. But safety doesn’t end at one’s house or workplace. People are also investing in sanitisation of their vehicles as they resume commuting on the roads. A mobile vehicle disinfection stand established by Rajesh Kumar in south Delhi’s Lado Sarai, is one such example. A former graphic designer, Kumar says he thought of helping people stay safe during the pandemic via on-road sanitisation services. “We are slowly expanding to different parts of the Capital via mobile stands. Our prices are subsidised and we ensure that we comply with all safety measures,” adds Kumar, sharing that the footfall has been slow but steady. “Hopefully more people will understand the need of disinfecting exposed surfaces in the coming days,” says Kumar. And Sweety Asthana, a resident of RK Puram, emphasises on the idea of mobile disinfection services, saying, “Indoor and on-road sanitisation are great ideas. I was informed of these services by a relative in south Delhi, who got her car sanitised while travelling to work. I’ve elderly parents, and the disinfection process ensures that they are protected from getting the virus.’’ There are also some private players who have expanded their basic services to cover the needs that arose during the pandemic. Once such service provider even used its germ-shield technology to sanitise the Gurugram Police control room. Sandeep Aggarwal, head of the online motorplace, says, “We have extended our servicing beyond automobiles to societies and offices as well; wherein they require us to sanitise high footfall places like elevators and ATMs. The demand with individuals has also risen exponentially and we will be expanding, as preventing surface to surface transmission is the primary way to counter coronavirus.”Author Tweets @Bhagat_MallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/got-your-house-or-car-sanitised-yet-here-s-a-new-service-in-demand/story-zXdzIV8mzoIV7VDikYzglO.html
24-06-2020||India||House-to-house screening by July 6 in Delhi govt’s 8-point revised plan to tackle Covid-19||In a bid to fight the coronavirus challenge in the national capital, the Delhi government has come up with an eight-point ‘Revised Covid Response Plan’ in line with the recommendations from Dr VK Paul committee. The plan includes conducting sero-survey of 20,000 people across districts in the national capital and house-to-house screening by July 6, among other measures.Earlier in the day, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said he has written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, urging him to roll-back the order, issued by Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal. Also read: Sisodia writes to Amit Shah, seeks scrapping of new Covid-19 SOPsDelhi govt prepares eight-point 'Revised COVID Response Plan' in line with recommendations of Dr VK Paul committee. The plan includes conducting sero-survey of 20,000 people across districts and house-to-house screening by July 6, among other measures.The order requires Covid-19 patient - who had tested positive through the real-time reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test - to be taken to a Covid-19 Care Centre (CCC) for a clinical diagnosis of the viral infection symptoms.“It’s not a matter of Amit Shah model versus Arvind Kejriwal model of fighting Covid-19. It’s about ensuring minimum inconvenience to the public and also the administrative machinery fighting against the pandemic is not overburdened,” Sisodia said during a virtual briefing today.ALSO WATCH |Manish Sisodia asks Amit Shah to intervene, asks to scrap new covid SOPs On Monday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that all those under home-isolation will be provided with pulse oximeters to measure oxygen levels every few hours.“Once you are well, you can return it to the government,” the Delhi CM said adding that the Covid-19 situation, as of now, seems to be stabilizing.“Patients under home-isolation can monitor their oxygen level and in case of drop, they can call on a number that we will provide and our team will immediately visit and administer oxygen to the patient. The patient will be rushed to the hospital if there is a requirement,’ he stated. The situation in the national capital paints a grim picture as the Covid-19 cases here have now crossed the 66,000-mark. On Wednesday, national capital’s Covid-19 tally stood at 66,602. So far, Delhi has reported 2,301 coronavirus fatalities while 39,313 patients have beaten the deadly contagion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-to-house-screening-by-july-6-in-delhi-govt-s-8-point-revised-plan-to-tackle-covid-19/story-cBj9o65IsIFFLAtRTZoF0K.html
24-06-2020||India||Over 73.5 lakh samples tested for Covid-19 in India till June 23: ICMR||Over 73.5 lakh samples have been tested for Covid-19 till June 23, of which 2.15 lakh were examined on Tuesday, the highest in a day since the beginning of the pandemic, ICMR officials said on Wednesday.The apex health research body on Tuesday validated the 1,000th testing laboratory, ramping up the capacity for detection of Covid-19 in the country. Currently, three lakh samples can be tested per day, an official said.“A cumulative total of 73,52,911 samples have been tested up to June 23, with 2,15,195 samples being tested on Tuesday,” the ICMR said.Of the 1,000 Covid-19 testing laboratories, 730 are in government setups while 270 are in the private sector. This includes RT-PCR labs (557), TrueNat Labs (363) and CBNAAT Labs (80).  “However, in spite of these developments, access to testing still remains a huge challenge in a large country like India. There is a definite need to increase the outreach of testing by introducing rapid point of care diagnostic tests,” the ICMR noted in its advisory issued on Tuesday.Also, there is value in conducting serosurvey with IgG-based antibody tests in certain situations, it said.In view of this, it is now suggested to include additional testing methods to improve access and availability of testing in various parts of the country, the health research body said.The real-time RT-PCR is the gold standard test for detecting cases of Covid-19 and the average time taken is around 4-5 hours from receipt of sample to getting the result.“The advantage of this platform lies in its accuracy of detection as well as ability to run up to 90 samples in a single run. In view of the requirement of a specialised laboratory setup, this test cannot be performed at every district-level lab which does not have molecular virology facilities,” the ICMR said.The TrueNat and the CBNAAT systems have also been deployed for diagnosis of Covid-19 in view of availability of customised cartridges.These platforms have widespread availability even at district and primary health centre levels as these are widely used for diagnosis of tuberculosis and other infectious diseases. These platforms have a quick turnaround time (30-60 minutes) but only one-four samples can be tested in one run, limiting the maximum number that can be tested to 24-48 samples per day only, the ICMR said.The ICMR recently also approved the use of rapid-antigen test for coronavirus infection that gives results in 30 minutes.It has recommended deployment of rapid antigen detection test for Covid-19  in combination with the RT-PCR test in all containment zones, central and state government medical colleges and government hospitals, private hospitals approved by the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare (NABH), and all NABL-accredited and ICMR-approved private labs for Covid-19 testing.It has also advised that the rapid antibody test for Covid-19 should be performed only for surveillance purposes, and not diagnosis, to help allay fears and anxiety of healthcare workers and employees.The IgG antibodies generally start appearing after two weeks of onset of the infection once the individual has recovered, and these last for several months.It can be used to conduct serosurvey to understand the proportion of the population exposed to infection with SARS-CoV-2, including asymptomatic individuals, and to carry out survey in high-risk or vulnerable populations (healthcare workers, frontline workers, immunocompromised individuals, individuals in containment zones etc) to know who had been infected in the past and has now recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-73-5-lakh-samples-tested-for-covid-19-in-india-till-june-23-icmr/story-qqw13nQ1SHaBNSDfooYQ6N.html
24-06-2020||India||Nothing should threaten safety, dignity of bank employees: Nirmala Sitharaman on banker assault||A day after an assault on a female staff within bank premises in Surat, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday said nothing should threaten the safety and dignity of bank employees and that she will closely follow the matter.Taking to twitter, Sitharaman said her office has spoken to Commissioner of Police, Surat City, R B Brahmbhatt, who has assured her that the accused constable shall be suspended immediately. A short video went viral on Twitter on Tuesday which showed a person manhandling a female banker, following which #ShameSuratPolice started trending on the social media platform. “Will be closely following this matter. Wish to assure that the safety of all members of staff in banks is of importance for us. Amid challenges, banks are extending all services to our people. Nothing should threaten their safety and dignity,” Sitharaman said. She further said that she has spoken to Surat Collector Dhaval Patel on the incident. “Although currently on leave, he assured me that timely action will be taken on the FIR filed late night,” she said. “My office spoke to the Commissioner of Police... He has assured us that he himself will visit the branch and assure the staff of their safety. Also he assured that the accused constable shall be suspended immediately,” Sitharaman added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nothing-should-threaten-safety-dignity-of-bank-employees-nirmala-sitharaman-on-banker-assault/story-eNOVFkrJnpWESIHFhMhsKI.html
24-06-2020||India||Tripura opposition leader demands judicial inquiry into unnatural deaths in police lock-ups and jails||Manik Sarkar, leader of opposition in the Tripura legislative assembly and former state chief minister, has demanded that the Biplab Kumar Deb-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) coalition government conduct a judicial inquiry into four unnatural deaths in police lock-ups and jails that have occurred in the past nine months.He also demanded the state government to provide government jobs to the families of all those who died in police lock-ups and jails since October 31, 2019.Sarkar wrote to CM Deb on June 21 and expressed concern and anguish over these incidents. The letter was made available to media persons on Tuesday evening. He had cited the deaths of Sajaio Mog at Amarpur Jail on June 17; Sushanta Ghosh at West Agartala police lock-up on January 12; Sandip Sarkar at Central Jail on January 28; and Mangal Das at Radha Kishorepur police lock-up on October 31, 2019. Sarkar stated that the police and jail authorities need to be more alert to prevent occurrence of such incidents in the future.The chief minister’s office (CMO), however, declined to comment on Sarkar’s letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-opposition-leader-demands-judicial-inquiry-into-unnatural-deaths-in-police-lock-ups-and-jails/story-vN7Wxx8UfMHat0ukh3sIXK.html
24-06-2020||India||‘Proud to see Indian Army’s contingent participate’: Rajnath attends Victory Day Parade in Moscow||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday attended the Victory Day Parade at Red Square in Moscow, Russia on the occasion of the 75th anniversary of the Soviet victory over Nazi Germany.“Attending the Victory Day Parade at Red Square in Moscow today to commemorate the 75th Anniversary of Victory of the Soviet People in the Great Patriotic War of 1941-1945,” Singh tweeted, adding that he feels proud on the participation of Indian Army’s Tri-Service contingent in the parade. Attending the Victory Day Parade at Red Square in Moscow today to commemorate the 75th Anniversary of Victory of the Soviet People in the great Patriotic War of 1941-1945. I am proud that a Tri-Service contingent of the Indian Armed Forces is also participating in this parade. pic.twitter.com/0zBiaKH5r1The Victory Day parade, which was originally supposed to take place on May 9, was postponed amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “Impressive turnout of the Tri-Service contingent of the Indian Armed Forces at the Victory Day Parade in Moscow is indeed an extremely proud and happy moment for me,” Singh tweeted. The Indian contingent is participating in the parade along with the armed forces personnel from at least 11 countries, including China. Also read: Diplomatic border talks today to spell out steps to India-China disengagement#WATCH Russia: A Tri-Service contingent of Indian Armed Forces participates in the Victory Parade at Red Square in Moscow, that marks the 75th anniversary of Russia's victory in the 1941-1945 Great Patriotic War. pic.twitter.com/jamcyb6C9mThe defence minister is in Russia on a three-day visit and arrived in Moscow on Tuesday on the invitation of the Russian Ministry of Defence to attend the Parade. I can say with confidence that the traditional friendship between India & Russia remain strong. Our mutual interests are solid and we look to future cooperation in the spirit of our special friendship.On Tuesday, Singh tweeted about his visit to Moscow and described it as the “first foreign visit from India of an official delegation during the COVID pandemic”.“This is a sign of our special friendship. Despite all the difficulties of the pandemic, our bilateral relations are keeping good contacts at the various levels,” Singh had tweeted. The defence minister said that India looks forward to welcoming the Russian President at the invitation of PM Modi later this year.On Tuesday, Singh held talks with Russia’s Deputy Prime Minister Yury Borisov and said the discussions were “very positive and productive”. “I have been assured that ongoing contracts will be maintained and not just maintained, in a number of cases will be taken forward in a shorter time,” he stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/proud-to-see-indian-army-s-tri-service-contingent-participate-rajnath-singh-attends-victory-day-parade-in-moscow/story-cfsQvEPtxgJkVArzEC2i5H.html
24-06-2020||India||‘Rajasthan facing locust attack from new swarms’, say authorities||Rajasthan is facing an attack from fresh swarms of locusts, the state agriculture department has said.“Locust attack has been going on since one-and-half-months. Rajasthan is one of the most affected states as some districts - Jodhpur, Jaisalmer, Barmer, Ganganagar - share border with Pakistan from where locusts are entering other districts,” BR Kadwa, deputy director of Rajasthan agriculture department, was quoted by news agency ANI as saying.“Operations are on to control them. Issue is, we had killed older swarms but new swarms are coming now. Government of India has said that Navy helicopter will also be used to control it,” he added.Locusts have made border areas near Pakistan their breeding centres from where they’re coming here, said Kadwa.The onset of monsoon in Rajasthan is likely to occur on June 24 or 25 and authorities at Jodhpur-based Locust Warning Organisation (LWO) are preparing to control the population of locusts that are hovering in the desert areas between India and neighbouring Pakistan and also possible local breeding of these insects.Aerial spraying of insecticides is being done by drones in Barmer, Jaisalmer, Bikaner, Nagore and Jodhpur districts for locust control, Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare had said on Tuesday.“Under Make in India initiative in locust control, trials of prototype vehicle mounted ULV sprayer has been successfully conducted in Ajmer and Bikaner; approvals required for commercial launch are underway,” the ministry said.United Nation’s Food and Agriculture Organization has appreciated that India is the first country in the world which is controlling Desert Locust through Drones, it added.Emphasising the need of exploring aerial spray for locust control, the ministry said that the ground control vehicles with sprayers used for locust control can spray up to a height of 25-30 feet only. The tractor mounted sprayers also have a limitation in reaching inaccessible areas and tall trees.Locust is a crop-threatening migratory pest that has entered the country through the India-Pakistan border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-facing-locust-attack-from-new-swarms-say-authorities/story-9AHvsnbKtrtO4KiKACofcP.html
24-06-2020||India||Govt relaxes manufacturing norms for PPE makers||The government has relaxed norms of having in-house testing for three kinds of Personal Protective Equipments (PPEs) to promote the supply of quality gears during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, according to an official order. The norms have been relaxed for filter half masks, surgical face masks and eye protectors by the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS). Earlier, license to manufacture these products was given to those having in-house testing facilities. This norm has been relaxed and manufacturers are now required to test the samples for specified requirements in labs of BIS licensees who have in-house testing facilities, or in BIS recognised or empanelled private or government labs, it added. “This has been done to enable more manufacturers to be brought in the ambit of BIS product certification scheme, which will in turn result in greater quantity of BIS certified PPEs being made available to the users,” the BIS said. BIS is a national standards body that functions under the Consumer Affairs Ministry. It has framed more than 25,000 quality standards for different products/services. Based on the data obtained from 81 mask manufacturers, BIS said it has been found that their current installed annual 2ply/3 ply surgical masks production capacities are 295 crore. Currently, masks and hand sanitizers have been declared as essential items till June. Its prices are fixed by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-relaxes-manufacturing-norms-for-ppe-makers/story-sX0YDA4tVLaVB8El63VW0M.html
24-06-2020||India||‘Modi govt ‘unlocked’ Covid-19 epidemic, petrol-diesel rates’: Rahul Gandhi||Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday took a swipe at the Modi government’s Unlock 1 move, a three-phase plan aimed at lifting stringent restrictions imposed over two months ago to stop the spread of the coronavirus, by drawing attention to how it has ‘unlocked’ the petrol and diesel prices and resulted in a sharp increase in the coronavirus caseload. “The Modi government has “unlocked” the Corona epidemic and petrol-diesel prices,” tweeted Gandhi this morning, with a graph chart detailing the northward spike in both Covid-19 cases and the fuel prices.  मोदी सरकार ने कोरोना महामारी और पेट्रोल-डीज़ल की क़ीमतें "अन्लॉक" कर दी हैं। pic.twitter.com/ty4aeZVTxqSome commentators are of the view that India went into lockdown early. Other countries, they say, lifted their lockdown when their disease curve had started to deflate, but here the restrictions are being eased as the curve is going up exponentially.Earlier today, the country reported 15,968 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease and 465 deaths, in the highest single-day jump so far, taking the infection tally to 456,183, the Union health ministry data showed. The country has seen record rise in cases over the past week. In another development, the price of diesel was hiked for the 18th day in a row today, making it costlier than petrol in Delhi. On each of the 17 days leading up to Wednesday, both petrol and diesel had become costlier, but only diesel prices were hiked today.The Congress leader, who has been attacking the Centre over the China standoff, today changed tracks and shone a light on the spiralling Covid-19 cases in the country and the steady rise in fuel prices.Through a graph, titled ‘Coronavirus is not the only rising curve’, Gandhi tried to show how diesel and petrol prices as well as daily Covid cases have seen a steady climb since June 1, when the Unlock phase 1 began. Explaining the Covid-19 numbers, the health ministry, citing a report by the World Health Organization (WHO), said on Tuesday that India has one of the lowest deaths per lakh population in the world. It said India’s cases of death per lakh population is 1.00 while the global average is more than its six times, at 6.04.Most of India’s Covid-19 cases come from Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat, which have seen a steady rise in the number of infections and deaths.The increase in fuel rates started on June 7 this year as oil companies resumed daily revision in prices in line with costs after ending an 82-day gap during the Covid-19 lockdown. It has taken diesel prices to fresh highs and petrol price too is at a two-year high.The government has been facing Opposition’s ire over the daily increase in fuel prices. The Congress said on Tuesday that it will launch a ‘Jan Andolan’ (people’s movement) across the country soon against the hike.The Trinamool Congress said it is “disgraceful to unleash a planned disaster” on the common people at a time when the country is in the throes of a pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-govt-unlocked-covid-19-epidemic-petrol-diesel-rates-rahul-gandhi/story-rjtdxQgeL22mRxLSOJfQjP.html
24-06-2020||India||15 jawans of BSF found Covid-19 positive in Chhattisgarh; total tally at 26||Fifteen personnel of Border Security Force (BSF) tested positive for cornavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday in Kanker district of Bastar division in Chhattisgarh, officials said.Total 26 jawans of BSF have been found Covid-19 positive till now in the state. Six of them have been discharged from hospital after recovery.“On Tuesday, first one jawan was detected positive and later at around 11 pm 14 more jawans of tested positive,” district Collector KL Chauhan told Hindustan Times.Out of these 15 jawans, total 10 BSF personnel were deployed in Bande Camp in Koyilibeda block, while five are posted in a camp in Antagarh. All these jawans have recently returned from leave from various parts of the country like West Bengal, Odisha, Bihar and Jharkhand.“The department is finding out the contact details of these jawans and more tests could follow. All these jawans are kept in the quarantine centres of Bande and Antagarh will be shifted to Jagdalpur hospital,” the Collector added.Inspector General of BSF, JS Prasad, told HT that all the protocols of testing and quarantining of jawans coming back from leave have been followed.“About 170 personnel are sent in containment zone after 14 of our jawans detected yesterday. All these jawans came from different parts of the country,” said Prasad.It is worth mentioning that in May, state health secretary Niharika Barik Singh had written to senior officials of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), Border Security Force (BSF), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and Services Selection Board (SSB) to ensure compliance with quarantine protocols.Officials said that directions have been issued that whenever these personnel return to Chhattisgarh from other states, authorities must ensure they are compulsorily quarantined for 14 days. Information about them should be given to district collectors and health tests must be conducted on them.Till Tuesday, the state’s over Covid-19 count was 2,385, though the active cases were 846, as 1,527 people have been discharged after recovery while 12 others have died so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-jawans-of-bsf-found-covid-19-positive-in-chhattisgarh-total-tally-at-26/story-1O68KyqwComiR1OrARKrcK.html
24-06-2020||India||With 78.15% Covid-19 recovery rate, Rajasthan tops state chart||Rajasthan’s recovery rate of the patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at 78.15% is better than the national average, according to data released by the Union health ministry.The health ministry said on Wednesday that the desert state has seen 15,627 infections so far and out of which 12,213 people have been cured.India Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 56.70% after 258,684 patients were cured till date, the Union health ministry data showed. Follow latest updates on coronavirus hereThere were 10,495 people who were discharged from hospitals across the country in the last 24 hours, according to the health ministry’s Covid-19 dashboard.Here is a list of the top 10 states in terms of recovery rate:Rajasthan: The desert state, with a recovery rate of 78.15% has emerged as an example for the rest of the country. Of the 15,627 recorded cases, 12,213 have recovered. Madhya Pradesh: The central state has seen 9,335 or 76.13% of Covid-19 patients recover so far. Madhya Pradesh has reported 12,261 infections till date.Bihar: There have been 8,153 cases of the coronavirus disease and 6,104 patients have been cured in Bihar. The recovery rate is 74.86% in this state. Odisha: The recovery rate of Odisha is 72% as out of 5,470 patients in the state 3,988 people have been discharged from hospitals. Gujarat: With 20,513 patients sent home from hospitals, Gujarat has seen a recovery rate of 72.30%. The western state has seen 28,371 infectious so far.Jharkhand: The eastern state has seen 2,185 infections and 1,520 patients or 69.56% have recovered.Punjab: In Punjab, 3,047 patients have beat the respiratory disease out of the 4,397 who contracted it. The state’s recovery stands at 69.29%.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Chhattisgarh: The number of people who have been cured of Covid-19 is 1,553 or 65.74%. There are 2,362 infections until Wednesday morning.Assam: The northeastern state has reported 3,762 Covid-19 patients or 64.51% out of the 5,831 have recovered.Uttar Pradesh: India’s most populous state has recorded 18,893 infections and said 12,116 people have been cured of the highly-contagious disease. Uttar Pradesh’s recovery rate is 64.12%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-78-15-covid-19-recovery-rate-rajasthan-tops-state-chart/story-4lS7A3JrYgIbeMoMq4j9kI.html
24-06-2020||India||Despite Covid-19 risk, women in Kanpur nurse their infected children in hospital||Carrying her three-year-old son and gently patting him on the back, she appears like any other mother, till you learn the toddler has been found Covid-19 positive, though the woman is fine in health.Her health and also her life are at risk but she comfortably shares the bed with her son in Covid-19 ward on the first floor of the neurology department at LLR hospital in Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur.At present, three mothers are inside this dangerous and infectious zone with their children who are recovering from the virus they contracted. Before them, two women left the facility with fully recovered children after spending more than two weeks in the ward.“I salute these mothers who despite being at severe risk are taking care of their children in the Covid-19 ward. None of them was infected but no one knows how their children got this virus. We are treating them and hopefully they will be cured and go home like the others,” said a doctor.The children, aged between three and four years, are the morale boosters for the other 50 patients admitted to the ward. Their activities and frolic keep the patients entertained and those sitting in the central control room watching the CCTV feed can’t stop smiling.“During the day, they play a lot and their mothers keep running after them. They feed them, put them to sleep and ensure they are given medicines on time,” said the doctor posted at the control room in the deputy principal’s office.According to health officials, there is no rule or a guideline that says a non-infected person cannot stay with a Covid-19 patient in the hospital.A woman, whose daughter was admitted to the hospital in May with Covid-19, said her child was so young that she could not have left her with the health workers in the hospital. “Nothing is more important than my daughter. I immediately volunteered to take care of her even it meant putting my life at stake. With the blessings of God nothing happened. I was tested twice and each time I came out negative,” she said.Deputy principal of GSVM medical college and superintendent in chief of LLR hospital, Dr Richa Giri, said indeed there was provision of very young Covid-19 infected children staying with their mother in the ward but at times one faced issues having no immediate solution in sight.“We do not have enough people to take care of such small children but we keep a close watch and ensure the mothers are protected and wear masks all the time,” she said, adding work was on for new arrangements so mothers would not have to put up with the infected children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/despite-covid-19-risk-women-in-kanpur-nurse-their-infected-children-in-hospital/story-hsq4PPfyykScou0V4Avi9N.html
24-06-2020||India||Covid testing should be widely available to all symptomatic individuals: ICMR||Expanding the testing criterion for coronavirus, the Indian Council of Medical Research has said it should be made widely available to all symptomatic individuals across the country. “Since ‘test, track and treat’ is the only way to prevent spread of infection and save lives, it is imperative that testing should be made widely available to all symptomatic individuals in every part of the country and contact tracing mechanisms for containment of infection are further strengthened,” it said in an advisory on ‘Newer Additional Strategies for Covid-19 Testing’ on Tuesday. In its revised testing strategy for Covid-19 issued on May 18, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had advised testing for all symptomatic Influenza-like illness (ILI) among returnees and migrants within seven days of illness. All hospitalised patients who develop ILI symptoms, symptomatic individuals living within hotspots or containment zones and healthcare and frontline workers involved in containment and mitigation of coronavirus were also advised testing. The apex health research body has also advised authorities to enable all government and private hospitals, offices and public sector units to perform antibody-based Covid-19 testing for surveillance to help allay fears and anxiety of healthcare workers and office employees. The earlier advisories on rapid antibody testing advisories had focused on areas reporting clusters (containment zones), large migration gatherings/evacuees centers and testing of symptomatic ILI individuals at facility level. Besides, the ICMR on Tuesday also recommended deployment of rapid antigen detection tests for Covid-19 in combination with RT-PCR tests in all containment zones, all central and state government medical colleges and government hospitals, all private hospitals approved by the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare (NABH), all NABL-accredited and ICMR approved private labs, for Covid-19 testing.All hospitals, laboratories and state governments intending to perform the point-of-care antigen tests need to register with ICMR to obtain the login credentials for data entry.“ICMR advises all state governments, public and private institutions concerned to take required steps to scale up testing for Covid-19 by deploying combination of various tests as advised,” the advisory added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-testing-should-be-widely-available-to-all-symptomatic-individuals-icmr/story-PtTK7v1lVmGDHzSuCjD8UK.html
24-06-2020||India||In visit to forward areas in eastern Ladakh, Army chief commends troops for high morale||Chief of the Army Staff General MM Naravane on Wednesday visited forward areas in eastern Ladakh and reviewed the operational situation on the ground. General Naravane commended the troops for their high morale and encouraged them to continue working with zeal and enthusiasm. The Army chief also awarded commendation cards to the soldiers who fought with Chinese troops in the face-offs in eastern Ladakh sector. General Naravane is on a two-day visit to Ladakh and on the first day, visited the forward locations in the eastern Ladakh area today.  Also read: Diplomatic border talks today to spell out steps to India-China disengagementGeneral MM Naravane #COAS visited forward areas in Eastern #Ladakh and reviewed operational situation on the ground. #COAS commended the troops for their high morale and exhorted them to continue working with zeal and enthusiasm.#NationFirst pic.twitter.com/gc0rmw69FsThis comes a week after 20 Indian Army soldiers were killed in a brutal face-off with the Chinese army on June 15 in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley. ALSO WATCH | Army chief meets soldiers at Ladakh hospital amid China tension General Naravane’s visit comes on the sidelines of a crucial meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China border affairs (WMCC) that will take place today. Also read: Latest updates on India-China border face-offArmy Chief Gen MM Naravane today awarded commendation cards to the soldiers who fought with Chinese troops in face-offs in Eastern Ladakh sector. Indian&Chinese troops have been engaged in violent face-offs in Pangong Tso lake, Finger area & Galwan river valley: Army Sources pic.twitter.com/SQlhUAnVVfIndia and China are expected to have a candid conversation on ways to resolve the stand-off at four points in East Ladakh in today’s meeting.A “mutual consensus to disengage” was reached after a marathon meeting of military commanders of both sides was conducted on June 22.The meeting saw senior Indian and Chinese commanders in attendance at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC on Monday. “Modalities for disengagement from all friction areas in eastern Ladakh were discussed and will be taken forward by both the sides,” said an official privy to the matter. The two officers of corps commander rank earlier met on June 6, when the two sides reached an understanding to implement a de-escalation plan to ease rising tensions along the contested border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-visit-to-forward-areas-in-eastern-ladakh-army-chief-commends-troops-for-high-morale/story-IzxtOlMnXUQ91JtMxYDOuI.html
24-06-2020||India||Covid-19 impact: UP govt likely to defer panchayat polls for six months||With the Uttar Pradesh government busy mobilising resources to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, the three-tier panchayat polls that are due in November-December in the state are most likely to be put on hold.People aware of the development said that the state government is likely to defer panchayat polls for six months and, as permitted under the law, appoint administrators in place of pradhans (village chiefs) before their five-year term ends on December 25.“Considering the fact that multi-stage activities that normally start six months prior to the polls are not even being talked of at the government level or in the panchayati raj department, clearly indicates that the government is not in the mood to hold panchayat polls,” said a senior panchayati raj department official requesting anonymity.Panchayati raj minister Bhupendra Chaudhary, however, said the government would make efforts to hold rural polls on time. “While any deferment of polls will be a policy decision and I cannot comment on that at this juncture, all that I can say we still have sufficient time to make preparations and hold elections on time,” he said.According to sources, the ball for the panchayat polls always starts rolling after the state government issued the notification with regard to delimitation of village panchayats and of territorial constituencies (wards) within panchayats.“This is only after delimitation notification that the state election commission (SEC) starts revision of voter lists. Before elections, the state government also has to carry out a protracted exercise of reservation of posts of pradhans etc,” they said. Additional commissioner, state election commission, VP Verma, said though it was running out of time the commission could still endeavour to manage holding polls on time by compressing the timelines provided in the government issued.“Our work begins only after the delimitation notification and we are waiting for the government to issue the same,” he said.People cited above said the state government did start the delimitation exercise that was left mid-way after the coronavirus made its appearance followed by over two-month lockdown in the state.“Though it has already made a budgetary allocation of around Rs 500 crore for the panchayat polls, the government now wants to mobilse funds and manpower to fight the coronavirus preferring to postpone elections for six months,” they said.The UP Panchayati Raj Act, 1947 empowers the state government to defer rural polls and appoint administrative committees or administrators for period not more than six months in case constitution of a village panchayat before expiry of its term is not possible for unavoidable circumstances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-impact-up-govt-likely-to-defer-panchayat-polls-for-six-months/story-5ub5yN6JUrDr0SvflS2LlL.html
24-06-2020||India||Assam police personnel in line of Covid-19 fire; 12 tested positive so far, 180 quarantined earlier||Several Assam Police personnel has contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as part of the frontline workers trying to rein in the raging pandemic.In Guwahati, 12 Assam Police personnel has tested Covid-19 positive so far, while around 180 were earlier quarantined in the north-eastern state’s biggest city. The viral outbreak cases have been reported from the districts in the region’s most populous state, where police personnel has been quarantined after they came in contact with Covid-19 positive patients. “In Guwahati, 12 police personnel had tested Covid-19 positive and some of them have recovered from the viral infection. Earlier, around 180 police personnel was in quarantine. But, later many tested Covid-19 negative,” said MP Gupta, commissioner of police, Guwahati.Recently, 12 police personnel from the Hatigaon police station in Guwahati was put under quarantine after a thief, who was arrested for stealing a liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) cylinder, tested Covid-19 positive.In the past few days, four traffic police personnel, two from police battalions within the city, a security officer of an Indian Police Service (IPS) officer and two policemen posted at police stations in Guwahati have been found positive.In Nagaon district, 11 police personnel from the Haibargaon police station was placed in quarantine after a girl (15), who was allegedly abducted and later rescued, tested Covid-19 positive.“The girl was rescued on June 16, and she tested Covid-19 positive five days later. The 11 police personnel involved in the operation have been put in isolation and their swab samples have been sent for tests. Their reports are pending,” said Gaurav Abhijit Dilip, superintendent of police (SP), Nagaon.Police personnel has been urged to be more cautious while dealing with the public and criminals.Besides, random checking of swab samples has also started in Guwahati to keep a check on Covid-19 positive cases.“Besides the usual precautionary measures, police stations and vehicles are being sanitised. General health check-up of the police personnel is also being done frequently,” said Gupta.“However, our work takes us to all kinds of public spaces. Many police personnel runs the high risk of coming in contact with Covid-19 patients because of our public exposure on a daily basis,” he added.Earlier on Tuesday, Assam’s Covid-19 tally crossed 6,000 after 203 new cases were reported. So far, the state has recorded nine Covid-19 related death and 3,762 people have recovered from the viral infection.Also on Tuesday night 11 wards, under Guwahati Municipal Corporation, have been placed under lockdown after 100 Covid-19 positive cases were detected that didn’t have any recent travel history or came in contact with infected people.The state government is conducting 50,000 Covid-19 tests within the civic body’s jurisdiction till June 30 to ascertain the spread of the viral outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-police-personnel-in-line-of-covid-19-fire-12-tested-positive-so-far-180-quarantined-earlier/story-n7aVv5GysUPB0hEnMIoZZP.html
24-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi-NCR receive first rainfall three days in advance and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi-NCR receive monsoon’s first rainfallDelhi-national capital region (NCR) received monsoon’s first rainfall on Wednesday late morning -- three days in advance -- said the authorities at the regional weather forecasting centre of India Meteorological Department (IMD). Read moreArvind Kejriwal urges Centre to restore old system of checking Covid-19 patientsDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal once again urged the Centre and Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal to restore the old system of assessing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients at their residence. Read more4 men die inside septic tank in Chhattisgarh’s MungeliFour people, including three from the same family, died after inhaling poisonous gas inside a septic tank in Mungeli district of Chhattisgarh on Tuesday evening, police said. Read moreBrazil tests Covid shot, without deal to use it if it worksBrazil is testing an experimental coronavirus vaccine, but interim Health Minister Eduardo Pazuello acknowledged Tuesday that the government has yet to strike a deal to get it if it works. Read moreDidn’t get enough runs on the board to put India under pressure: Tim PaineIt’s been over two years since Tim Paine became Australia captain in middle of the Cape Town Test and was left to handle the raw wounds of what became notorious as the ‘Sandpapergate’ scandal. Read moreApple iOS 14 developer beta shows 60fps limiting feature, hints 120Hz displays for iPhone 12Apple is known to keep things hidden until the last moment before they actually reveal the product. But like it or not, tipsters and analysts are often able to reveal some of them before. Read moreUnlock wedding shopping: Bridal wear deals and discounts aplenty at Delhi-NCR marketsThe quintessential Delhi bride is making the most of Unlock 1.0 by bagging some amazing discounts and deals on wedding shopping amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Read more‘Witchcraft, Jedi Luke or sorcery’: Video of ‘floating’ helicopter sparks varied reactions among peopleIn an incident, which may seem surreal to many, an incredible moment was captured on camera where it appeared that a helicopter is floating in the air without moving its rotor blades. Read moreWatch| Covid-19: Oxford study on Dexamethasone, trials for inhaled version of Remdesivir||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-ncr-receive-first-rainfall-three-days-in-advance-and-all-the-latest-news/story-3ZTuOCj8KZ96rWmjdY0IOJ.html
24-06-2020||India||Private FM radio operators ask Centre for help, point to how Canada has done it||The Association of Radio Operators for India this week reminded the government about its long-pending request for a package to survive the huge loss of revenue over the last several months. In a fresh SOS message to the information and broadcasting ministry, the industry body of private FM channels that are fighting for their survival suggested that the radio industry elsewhere was also in crisis. And they were getting help.In Canada, the AROI said in a letter to the I&B ministry, the Canadian government had agreed to waive the licence fee for broadcasters for the financial year 2020-21 that would save 100 radio and television stations over $ 30 million. The Canadian government has already committed a $30 million spending on federal ad spending for newspapers, magazines, radio and television on a Covid-19 awareness campaign.Back home in India, private FM radio operators have been struggling to stay afloat. In its multiple representations to the government, the AROI has underscored that the radio industry was on a ventilator and may have trouble surviving if it does not receive help from the government.AROI has been asking the government for a one-year waiver on all licence fees and charges by the government and Prasar Bharti, restoration of government advertising on radio, besides clearing payments from the government’s publicity department.In response, the government had given the industry a three-month extension of license fee payments without interest. The ministry has been prodding the government to do more.“We trust that the government is reviewing our request in interest of survival of this critical media , which is also in interest of the nation, as radio contributes annually almost Rs 800 crore a year (other than one time entry fee) to the government for every year of its license period and extensions thereof,” the AROI said in a communication to the government..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-fm-radio-operators-ask-centre-for-help-point-to-how-canada-has-done-it/story-gYnrljJxsgvJuO0C5DDVIM.html
24-06-2020||India||Delhi-NCR receive monsoon’s first rainfall||Delhi-national capital region (NCR) received monsoon’s first rainfall on Wednesday late morning -- three days in advance -- said the authorities at the regional weather forecasting centre of India Meteorological Department (IMD).The monsoon has not been officially declared, as there was no rain in Delhi-NCR till 8.30 am on Wednesday.It will be officially declared on Thursday morning based on the rainfall received between 8:30 am Wednesday and 24 hours later on Thursday.Intense rains are expected to bring relief from the heat, scientists said.“These are monsoon rains that have reached Delhi-NCR. Monsoon has already covered several parts of western Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday night. We will officially declare monsoon over Delhi on Thursday,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, RWFC.“We are expecting very good rains over north-west India this monsoon. Monsoon is setting in, but it can be declared on Thursday after collating the 24-hour rainfall data,” said Dr Mrutunjay Mohapatra, director general, IMD.IMD in its long-range monsoon forecast has predicted good rains in north-west India this monsoon at 107% of the long-period average (LPA).LPA is the average of rainfall received in the area over a 50-year period between 1951 and 2000.A cyclonic circulation lies over interior Odisha, which is very likely to move north-westwards during the next two days and become less marked thereafter. A trough of low pressure is also running from north-western Rajasthan to the north-western Bay of Bengal. These conditions are making it favourable for further advancement of monsoon, IMD said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-ncr-receive-monsoon-s-first-rainfall/story-xEklj4FtIJ5Ln1PPi6rK2J.html
24-06-2020||India||Kerala govt tones down demand for Covid-free certificates for returning expats||Kerala government has toned down its demand for Covid-free certificates for expatriates coming from the West Asian countries after the Centre refused to conduct Covid-19 tests in embassies for returning expatriates from Gulf countries. The state government has now made PPE kits mandatory for returning expats, medical experts say full PPE kits are not practical for long journeys as after wearing the kit it gets difficult to go to the washroom. Passengers will have to be trained to use them, experts reasoned. Kerala’s demand for Covid-free certificate has affected many flights and has outraged expatriates. Many said the state was only interested in maintaining its Covid-19 record and not the welfare of its people stranded in the Middle East.An estimated 18 lakh people from Kerala work in the Gulf. The government is expecting at least 4 lakh to return amid the Covid-19 crisis while at least 85,000 have returned so far.“We are in talks with the Centre for testing people who are returning to the state. Some of the embassies have informed us about their readiness. We hope this will be sorted out soon,” chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had said, adding the state was firm on its decision to make carrying Covid-19 free certificates mandatory for expats. Earlier, the state had said certificates will be mandatory from June 20 but later it was extended by five more days.As confusion over expatriates’ return continues, Kerala reported 141 coronavirus cases, the highest single-day number since the outbreak began in January, on Tuesday. On Wednesday, the state Covid-19 tally rose to 3,451 with 22 fatalities while 1,809 people have recovered from the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-govt-tones-down-demand-for-covid-free-certificates-for-returning-expats/story-wBuXZKBFfAfplMsJTf2tCN.html
24-06-2020||India||4 men die inside septic tank in Chhattisgarh’s Mungeli||Four people, including three from the same family, died after inhaling poisonous gas inside a septic tank in Mungeli district of Chhattisgarh on Tuesday evening, police said.Police said the deaths took place at around 6pm in Marrakona village under Sargaon Nagar Panchayat area of the district.“The bodies were taken out from the tank late on Tuesday evening and an investigation is going on. A case has also been registered,” Sanjeev Thakur, Sargaon police station in-charge, said while speaking to reporters.Police said Akhileshwar Kaushik, 40, Gaurishankar Kaushik, 28, and Ramkhilawan Kaushik, 45, residents of Marrakona village, died inside the tank. Subhas Dagure, 45, a Nagar Panchayat Sagaon employee also died in the accident.“A member of the Kaushik family went inside the tank and went unconsciousness. Subsequently, two more members of his family entered the tank and did not come up,” a senior official said adding all died inside the tank.“Later, a Nagar Panchayat employee went inside and he also went unconscious. When all these did not come out the villagers informed the police,” the official added.Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and leader of opposition in legislative assembly Dharmlal Kaushik expressed grief over the deaths. Baghel instructed the administration to provide all possible assistance to the families of the victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-men-die-inside-septic-tank-in-chhattisgarh-s-mungeli/story-Y3PZoZ3vKchwSuILGU6h0O.html
24-06-2020||India||Andhra Pradesh becomes 10th state with more than 10,000 cases, over 66,000 patients in Delhi: Covid-19 state tally||India’s Covid-19 tally rose to 456,183 on Wednesday with nearly fresh 16,000 fresh infections reported in the last 24 hours. So far, over 2.58 people have recovered from the disease across India while over 14,000 have succumbed to death. Andhra Pradesh reported fresh infections after which the state tally jumped beyond 10,000, making it the tenth state in the country with over 10,000 Covid-19 cases after Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, West Bengal and Haryana.   Here’s a look at the statewise breakup of coronavirus situation across the country.  The big fiveMaharashtraThe state Covid-19 tally jumped to 139,010 on Wednesday. Over 69,631 people have recovered from coronavirus in Maharashtra while 6,531 have died. Mumbai continues to be the worst affected city with over 66,000 cases.  DelhiThe national capital is the second worst-hit in India with coronavirus cases jumping to 66,602 on Wednesday. As many as 39,313 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in Delhi while 2,301 have succumbed to death. Also read: ‘Working well’ - Kejriwal asks Centre to restore home isolation for Covid-19Tamil Nadu The state stands third on the tally with 64,603 coronavirus cases. Tamil Nadu has seen eight-hundred and thirty-three coronavirus fatalities while 35,339 patients have recovered. GujaratPM Modi’s home state has seen Covid-19 cases rise to 28,371 on Wednesday. The state has seen 20,513 people recover from coronavirus while 1,710 people have died.Uttar PradeshThe Covid-19 tally here has jumped to 18,893 while the number of recoveries has touched 12,116. The state’s death toll stands at 588.Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana have over 10,000 coronavirus cases but less than 20,000. States with under 10,000 casesThe southern Indian state of Karnataka has witnessed over 9,000 coronavirus cases till date. Covid-19 cases in Bihar stand at 8,153. Telangana has 9,553 coronavirus cases while the Covid-19 tally in Jammu and Kashmir stands at 6,236. In Odisha, cases have jumped to 5,470 while Assam has reported 5,831 cases till date. Punjab’s Covid-19 tally has crossed the 4,000-mark. Covid-19 cases in Kerala are more than 3,000. States with less than 3,000 casesUttarakhand, Ladakh, Jharkhand, Tripura, Manipur, Goa and Himachal Pradesh are states where coronavirus cases are less than 3,000, but more than 500. Mizoram, Chandigarh, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Puducherry have reported under 500 Covid-19 cases or less. In states like Meghalaya, Sikkim, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Dadra Nagar Haveli have less than 100 Covid-19 cases. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-becomes-10th-state-with-more-than-10-000-cases-over-66-000-patients-in-delhi-covid-19-state-tally/story-w7PDuKpqDrnz5VN6yFjT3O.html
24-06-2020||India||Trump’s visa suspension ‘mildly negative’ for Indian IT firms, says rating agency ICRA||US president Donald Trump signed an executive order suspending the various categories of visas for immigrants till the end of this year. But the move, a domestic rating agency said, is a “mildly negative” development for the Indian IT companies.“The temporary suspension of issuance of fresh H-1B visas and L-1 visas (inter-company transfer) till December 2020 in view of the impact of Covid-19 pandemic on the US economy and employment will be mildly negative for the Indian IT services sector,” ratings agency Investment and Credit Rating Agency (ICRA) said.The agency said that the petitions of India-based companies saw a 63 per cent decline in approval last year, compared to 2015. It said that only 6,855 H1-B visa applications were approved.The agency attributed the decline sponsor employer’s inability to establish that the position is a specialty occupation, inability to substantiate a valid employer-employee relationship and lack of evidence of specific assignment at third party sites for the entire visa durations requested.As a result, companies are relying less on such visas and building up domestic workforce in the United States, the ICRA said. “Cloud computing, digital services and automation are being used to reduce the reliance on manpower.”However, the ICRA said, Trump’s decision will hamper execution of projects in the pipeline and new projects, and also dent margins because of higher local hiring activity.Trump has directed his officials to separately overhaul the H-1B programme to turn it merit-based by prioritising highest paid applicants.The suspended work visas included H-1B, H-2B for low skill workers, some categories of J visas for cultural and education workers and L-1 for intra-company transfers. They were intended to ensure Americans had the first shot at jobs in the aftermath of record job losses caused by Covid-19 related lockdowns, and are expected to free up 5,25,000 jobs.The decision came as Trump od seeking re-election in the presidential election scheduled for November this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trump-s-visa-suspension-mildly-negative-for-indian-it-firms-says-rating-agency-icra/story-7FoM1KFVbnq2np3dnMfuEL.html
24-06-2020||India||From joint secretary-level meet to Indian Army chief’s visit to Ladakh: Latest updates on India-China border face-off||The tension between India and China after the deadliest border clash in more than half a century, which left 20 Indian Army soldiers dead in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh last week, is still simmering.Both the countries have held several meetings to resolve the confrontation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Another meeting will take place on Wednesday.Here are the latest updates on the border row:* Members of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China border affairs (WMCC) will meet and attempt to resolve the stand-off at four points in east Ladakh.* During the joint secretary-level WMCC meeting, the Indian side will have maps and charts ready and revoke to old treaties to make their point about how the claim by the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on the border is wrong and why the status quo ante must be restored for a strong bilateral relationship.* Indian Army chief General MM Naravane, who is on a two-day visit to Ladakh, will go to forward locations in the eastern Ladakh area on Wednesday, according to news agency ANI. Gen Naravane will also interact with troops on the ground there, ANI reported.* ANI has also reported, citing US intelligence assessment, that a senior Chinese general authorised his forces to attack Indian troops in the Galwan River valley last week, resulting in a brutal skirmish that killed dozens and dramatically escalated tensions between the two neighbours. * Before Wednesday’s talks, an 11-hour meeting between top commanders at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC was held on Monday to cool tensions and thin the military build-up on both sides of the border. Indian and Chinese military commanders reached a “mutual consensus to disengage” from all “friction areas” along the contested LAC.* Experts have said that the restoration of status quo in the Finger Area on the north bank of Ladakh’s Pangong Tso will determine the success of efforts to cool tensions along the contested border. * PLA has set up permanent bunkers, pillboxes and observation posts between Fingers Four and Eight and getting it to pull down those structures and move back to their original positions at Finger Eight will be the toughest part of the disengagement process, said an official asking not to be named. The Finger Area refers to a set of eight cliffs jutting out of the Sirijap range that overlooks the Pangong Lake.* India has increased technical drone surveillance of the area and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) has inducted more battalions into the sector to support army along the LAC.* India has also deployed its specialised high-altitude forces along LAC to repel any transgression in the western, middle or eastern sectors, officials have said.* The violent face-off in the Galwan Valley resulted in 20 deaths on the Indian side and the PLA suffered 43 casualties, according to Indian officials, but Beijing has not confirmed the fatalities. A Chinese spokesperson on Tuesday dismissed such reports as “fake news”.* China had deployed up to 10,000 troops in these areas with the military buildup including fighter jets, helicopters, tanks, artillery guns, missile systems and air defence radars. India has matched the neighbour’s military moves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-joint-secretary-level-meet-to-indian-army-chief-s-visit-to-ladakh-latest-updates-on-india-china-border-face-off/story-0PIFjcQaOBnZEMQ44TADLI.html
24-06-2020||India||Not enough being done for stranded marine life: Environmentalists on trapped olive ridley turtles||Videos of local fishermen rescuing four adult olive ridley turtles trapped in a single fishing net at a beach in south Goa have gone viral and have been lauded by Chief Minister Pramod Sawant while raising ecological concerns about the fragile marine lives in the coastal state.The incident has put the spotlight on how olive ridley turtles – a Schedule I species under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 – routinely get caught in abandoned fishing nets floating in the Arabian Sea.Five other olive ridley turtles either got badly injured or died after they were stranded on beaches close to where the viral videos were shot.“These are not one-off incidents,” said Puja Mitra, co-founder, Marine Wildlife Stranding Network, Ocean Watch, which was set up in 2017.The organisation enjoys the support of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), uses Goa’s extensive network of lifeguards and beach cleaners to rescue stranded and injured turtles and cetaceans such as whales, dolphins, and porpoises.It also keeps an annual record of the number of such incidents are reported in the state, known for its 105-kilometre coastline.For instance, on Monday, lifeguards, who man Goa’s beaches, found two sea turtles trapped in an abandoned fishing net – one dead and the other badly injured.Data, shared by Ocean Watch, showed 340 stranding incidents have been reported from the state over the last three years.A sea turtle has been washing up every three days on an average over the last three years and the frequency of such incidents increases when the sea is choppy.Earlier on Sunday, CM Sawant had tweeted the pictures of the viral videos showing the rescue of the four adult olive ridley turtles and praised the “kind gesture”. “Grateful for the kind gesture of my Goan brothers, making our state a better place to live by respecting the ecosystem,” the CM had tweeted.However, conservationists have criticised the state government for paying lip-service to the ecological cause and posting videos on social media to attract popular attention.“Many of the recommendations made to the state government, especially to the forest department, are still a paper tiger. Goa doesn’t have the capacity to handle the high volume of strandings,” Mitra said.Ocean Watch has urged the state government to set up a sea turtle treatment clinic.“A quick release with no follow-up action often leads to the death of a turtle,” Mitra said.Ocean Watch had also proposed to the state government about the recycling of abandoned fishing nets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-enough-being-done-for-stranded-marine-life-environmentalists-on-trapped-olive-ridley-turtles/story-VOIFzbznguccjo7g9OWRwK.html
24-06-2020||India||The scientific process that Baba Ramdev’s potential Covid-19 medicine has to follow||Yoga guru Baba Ramdev created a sensation when he announced on Tuesday that his company Patanjali Ayurved has found a medicine for coronavirus disease Covid-19.It led to a flurry of activities as people logged on to their computers to find out how Coronil - the medicine or Ayurvedic kit announced by Ramdev - could treat a disease which has killed millions across the world. Ramdev said it has been prepared after a clinical controlled study.Patanjali soon tweeted a photo of the newly-announced medicine and said that active components of herbs like Ashwaganda, Giloy and Tulsi have been used to prepare it. The company further said that Coronil will also help a user develop immunity against the respiratory disease and prescribed dosage too.This is when the government sprung into action. The ministry of Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy (AYUSH) ordered Patanjali to stop misleading advertisement of the product. It also said that results are still to be verified.Scientific methods talk about putting a potential drug through clinical trials to assess its efficacy. An Indian study indicates that hydroxychloroquine (derived from a tree), an inexpensive malaria medicine, is a prophylactic. A US study indicates that Gilead’s Remdesivir seems to work well on moderately ill Covid-19 patients if given early.A few studies on steroid dexamethasone also say that the steroid works well on critically ill Covid-19 patients who are on ventilator or oxygen support.Drugs like these need to follow the protocols set by India’s drug regulator, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), and the Union and state health ministries.The government has sought details from Patanjali like the composition of Coronil, the sites and hospitals where the research and study was conducted, sample size and other things.Patanjali’s CEO Acharya Balakrishna, meanwhile, said on Twitter that the Centre has been provided with all the necessary details of the clinical trials. He also claimed that 100 per cent parametres laid down for controlled trial of the Ayurvedic product have been followed.Patanjali said that it has partnered with privately-owned National Institute of Medical Science in Jaipur to make Coronil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-scientific-process-that-baba-ramdev-s-potential-covid-19-medicine-has-to-follow/story-hoISecbEFm8nxOvox3yF4L.html
24-06-2020||India||TMC MLA Tamonash Ghosh dies after testing positive for coronavirus||Kolkata: Trinamool Congress lawmaker Tamonash Ghosh (60), who had tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive and was undergoing treatment, died on Wednesday.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar have condoled his death. Ghosh was a three-time MLA from Falta in South 24 Parganas district and the party treasurer since 1998.“Very, very sad. Tamonash Ghosh, three-time MLA (member of legislative assembly) from Falta and the party treasurer since 1998 had to leave us today. Been with us for over 35 years, he was dedicated to the cause of the people and the party. He contributed much through his social work,” Banerjee tweeted on Wednesday morning.Ghosh is survived by his wife and two daughters.“Sad at the demise of three-time Falta MLA Tamonash Ghosh. He was an experienced leader with promising prospects in times to come. Pray to the Almighty to bestow eternal peace on the departed soul. Heartfelt Condolences to his wife, two daughters, friends, and well-wishers,” Governor Dhankhar tweeted.The pandemic has claimed 580 lives in the state till Tuesday. While, 14, 728 people have tested Covid-19 positive in Bengal to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-mla-tamonash-ghosh-dies-after-testing-positive-for-coronavirus/story-3n45Aaguakeu6aAenSsMNO.html
24-06-2020||India||Patanjali’s Covid-19 drug a good thing but there are rules: AYUSH minister Shripad Naik||Patanjali Ayurved Ltd’s drug for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will be given a go-ahead only after the government looks into the report sent by the company promoted by yoga guru Ramdev, AYUSH minister Shripad Naik said on Wednesday.The ministry of Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy (AYUSH) has asked Patanjali to provide details of the medicines, Coronil and Swasari, launched by it on Tuesday as an alleged treatment for Covid-19 patients.The ministry has also ordered Patanjali to stop advertising the products and warned the company to stop misleading advertising until the results are verified.“It’s a good thing that Baba Ramdev has given a new medicine to the country but as per rule, it has to come to AYUSH ministry first,” Shripad Naik said, according to news agency ANI.“They even said that they have sent a report. We’ll look into it and permission will be given after seeing the report,” Naik added.The ministry has asked Patanjali to submit details of the name, composition, sample size, sites and hospitals where the research study was conducted and also for the Institutional Ethics Committee clearance.After the ministry’s order, Ramdev’s associate Acharya Balakrishna tweeted to say that the “communication gap” has been filled and claimed that 100% parameters laid down for controlled trial of the Ayurvedic product have been followed.“This government encourages Ayurveda and works for its glory, the communication gap has been filled and we have given the AYUSH ministry all the information regarding the 100% fulfilment of all the standard parameters of Randomized Placebo Controlled Clinical Trials,” Balakrishna tweeted in Hindi.Ramdev launched Coronil and Swasari on Tuesday claiming that it has successfully cured scores of under-trial Covid-19 patients with 100% results except for those on life support systems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/patanjali-s-covid-19-drug-a-good-thing-but-there-are-rules-ayush-minister-shripad-naik/story-cO79M3mOShnv27CmAtpcZL.html
24-06-2020||India||From Chinese anti-Covid-19 shots, latest on remdesivir to Patanjali’s coronavirus drugs: Top updates||Coronavirus cases across the globe are inching towards the 10 million mark and in India, the tally has touched another grim milestone on Wednesday. With 15,968 fresh cases in the last 24 hours, India’s Covid-19 tally went up to 456,183 today with 14,476 fatalities and 258,684 people who have recovered from the deadly contagion. On Tuesday Patanjali Ayurved Ltd, launched medicines which it touted as a 100 percent effective treatment for Covid-19 patients. Meanwhile, American biopharmaceutical company Gilead Sciences has said it will soon start clinical trials for an inhaled formulation of its antiviral drug remdesivir used for the treatment of Covid-19. Here is the latest on Covid-19 from India and across the world.Covid-19 latest developments:• The ministry of Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy (AYUSH) has ordered Patanjali to stop advertising the products—Coronil and Swasari. “Facts of the claim and details of the stated scientific study are not known to the Ministry…,” the ministry said in a statement on Tuesday.• Gilead Sciences’ investigational antiviral medicine Remdesivir will soon try out the inhaled formulation in clinical trials through a nebulizer. It “could potentially allow for easier administration outside the hospital at early stages of the disease,” Gilead Sciences said in a statement.• Delhi government has said that the old system of assessing coronavirus disease patients at their residence to determine if they are fit for home isolation must be brought back.• A Chinese state-owned vaccine developer has secured regulatory approval to test its coronavirus shots in the United Arab Emirates, thereby receiving the greenlight for the final stage of human trials, Bloomberg reported. •UN chief has criticised lack of global cooperation on Covid-19. “What needs to be done is to make countries understand that by acting in isolation they are creating the situation that is getting out of control. Global coordination is key, said UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said in an interview with news agency AP.•According to a New York Times report, European Union countries are set to bar entry to Americans owing to the United States’ failure to control the coronavirus pandemic. •The worst of the Covid-19 pandemic is yet to come in South Africa, warned top epidemiologist Salim Abdool Karim in wake of the country’s coronavirus tally crossing the 1 lakh-mark and death toll nearing 2,000.• Croatian Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic said he would not self-isolate following his brief encounter with ace tennis player Novak Djokovic who tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday.• South Africa will roll out the continent’s first coronavirus vaccine trial this week, the university leading the pilot said Tuesday, as the country grapples with the highest number of cases in Africa, news agency AFP reported.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-chinese-anti-covid-19-shots-latest-on-remdesivir-to-patanjali-s-coronavirus-drugs-top-updates/story-CAXmHVEZA4Qusiubmhv4PK.html
24-06-2020||India||Diplomatic border talks to spell out steps to India-China disengagement||The crucial meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China border affairs (WMCC) will take place on Wednesday where the two sides are expected to have a candid conversation on how to resolve the stand-off at four points in East Ladakh.The Indian Army, after the marathon meeting of military commanders on June 22 had informally characterised it as “mutual consensus” to disengage but did not go deeper on whose terms. The Chinese spokesperson, in his stiff style, called the situation “cool” as if both the armies were hanging out with each other.While the marathon meeting is still being analysed, it is now emerging that both the generals forcefully put out claims of their respective armies along the 1,587 km Line of Actual Control (LAC) in East Ladakh.“There is consensus between both sides to mutually disengage after deliberating on each contested point. The process may take a couple of weeks as the ground commanders will have to verify the disengagement and the thinning out in the depth on a daily basis. It is true that both Chinese and Indian army did force accretion after the June 15 Galwan flare up. There has been no addition of forces since the June 22 military commanders’ meeting,” a senior military commander told Hindustan Times.Also Read: India deploys specialised mountain forces to check China’s LAC transgressionsThe fact is that the situation on the border continues to remain grim with both armies deployed and dug in till such time a clear-cut breakthrough is achieved. The Joint Secretary-level WMCC will now take the military dialogue further with the Indian side using maps, charts and old treaties to make the China counterpart understand how the People’s Liberation Army, or PLA, claim on the border is wrong and why the status quo ante must be restored for a strong bilateral relationship.“Till such time the PLA does not withdraw and restore status quo ante, it is an obfuscation exercise,” said a senior official, very concerned about how the entire dialogue was taking under public glare and pressure.It is quite evident from the tenor of the dialogue that both sides are holding positions on patrolling points 14, 15, 17 and Pangong Tso, waiting for the other side to blink. “It is a long haul, a battle of nerves. One has to be prepared for all contingencies and at no time lower the guard,” said an official.Also Read: India increases tech surveillance on Ladakh LAC with Israeli Heron dronesSince June 17, 2002, when the Chinese side backed out of exchanging western sector maps at the 12th meeting of the designated Expert Level Group, India is quite clear that Beijing does not want to settle the boundary on the western and eastern sector. Without exchanging the maps in 2002, India saw 12 areas of differences between the two countries in western sector. The PLA, under the instructions of the Central Military Commission, is all out to deepen the 12 differences by nibbling on the border through brazen might and force. Strategically also, it helps Chinese dictators to keep the border in ferment as it holds the potential to destabilise the democratic and multi-party India, where L 1 (lowest bidder) rules prevails and political competition is fierce.Despite being the paramount leader of an authoritarian communist regime, General Secretary Xi Jinping is under tremendous pressure with slow economic growth hitting Beijing as a manifestation of the failure of the politburo to control the coronavirus pandemic that spread from Wuhan. Rather than focus internally, the regime is firing from the hip at Japan, Australia, India, Taiwan, Hong Kong and US and by keeping the restive populations in Tibet and Xinjiang under iron hand to showcase Han supremacy.However, the Modi government has made it clear to Beijing that borders are non-negotiable from the very beginning. National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, who heads the bilateral Special Representative dialogue on boundary resolution, once told his Chinese counterpart during the meeting that just because his grandfather went to Mansarovar Lake from Garhwal without a visa, should India lay claim to western Tibet. At another time, when his counterpart wanted to bring Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh into the ambit of boundary talks, Doval told him that it is time they put an end to the dialogue as Tawang is not on the table.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/diplomatic-border-talks-today-to-spell-out-steps-to-india-china-disengagement/story-cwwnQn6StwwetmWLiJL2ZP.html
24-06-2020||India||Nadda criticises Congress for questioning govt’s stand on India-China relations||Bharatiya Janata Party president JP Nadda on Wednesday criticised the Congress for questioning the government’s stand on the standoff between Indian and Chinese border troops in Ladakh.In a series of tweets, Nadda lashed out at the Congress and said it is the opposition’s right to ask questions, and the all-party meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week saw healthy deliberations with several opposition leaders giving their valuable inputs. Nadda said while the opposition fully supported the Centre in determining the way ahead, some leaders had opted for a different path. “One family was an exception. Any guesses who?” he tweeted without giving names, though he appeared to be targeting the Gandhi family. The BJP and the Congress have engaged in verbal duels over the violent face-off between Indian and Chinese troops in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on June 15, which led to the death of 20 Indian soldiers. The BJP-led NDA government has maintained there were no incursions and only transgressions across the LAC, the Congress has demanded to know why there is ambiguity in the government’s stance on what transpired along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). A day after the Congress at its Central Working Committee (CWC) meeting blamed the “Centre’s mismanagement” for a “full blown crisis on the borders with China”, Nadda retaliated by tweeting, “Due to the misadventures of one dynasty: we lost thousands of square kilometres of land. The Siachen glacier was almost gone. And much more. No wonder India has rejected them.”Nadda said a “rejected and ejected dynasty is NOT equal to the entire opposition. One dynasty’s interests are not India’s interests. Today, the nation is united and supportive of armed forces. This is the time for unity and solidarity. Relaunch of the scion and for the nth time can wait.“In another tweet, he added, “One ‘royal’ dynasty and the ‘loyal’ courtiers have a grand delusions of the opposition being about one dynasty. A dynast throws tantrums and his courtiers peddle that fake narrative. Latest one relates to the opposition asking questions to the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nadda-criticises-congress-for-questioning-govt-s-stand-on-india-china-relations/story-vfeD1p7r71L9oPyi5OrVPJ.html
24-06-2020||India||Another biggest one-day jump in India with 15,968 new Covid-19 cases and 465 deaths||India on Wednesday recorded 15,968 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease and 465 deaths, in the highest single-day jump so far, taking the infection tally to 456,183, the Union health ministry data showed.The country has added 265,648 Covid-19 cases in its infection tally in less than a month—the number stood at 190,536 on June 1. There were 5,394 deaths on that day and on Wednesday the toll surged to 14,476, according to the health ministry data.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe health ministry said on Tuesday that India has one of the lowest deaths per lakh population in the world citing a report by the World Health Organization (WHO)It said India’s cases of death per lakh population is 1.00 while the global average is more than its six times, at 6.04. The United Kingdom has witnessed 63.13 cases of Covid-19 related deaths per lakh population, while the metric for Spain, Italy and the United States is 60.60, 57.19 and 36.30 respectively.Click here to follow Covid-19 live updatesAs the number of active cases stood at 183,022, there has been an improvement in the recovery rate. There were 258,684 patients, 10,495 in the last 24 hours, who have been cured so far. India’s recovery rate is now 56.70%.Most of India’s Covid-19 cases come from the Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat, which have seen a steady rise in the number of infections and deaths.Maharashtra has recorded 139,010 Covid-19 cases and 6,531 death, Delhi is the second worst-affected with 66,602 infections, with more than 40% of these recorded in just the last 10 days, and 2,301 fatalities. On Tuesday, Maharashtra had reported its highest single-day jump in fatalities with 248 deaths, even as Mumbai, the worst-hit Indian city, recorded 824 new cases — lowest one-day jump in 41 days. Mumbai had reported 800 cases on May 13.An analysis of Delhi’s Covid-19 data by HT shows that Delhi has seen more recoveries than new cases. The number of active cases in the city has actually reduced by 1,363 in the last week with the number of new recoveries and discharges picking up pace in the past few days.In Tamil Nadu, which has enforced a lockdown in its worst-hit districts, 64,603 infections have been witnessed and 833 people have succumbed in the southern state.Gujarat also has seen a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases and has recorded 28,371 patients and 1,710 deaths so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-biggest-one-day-jump-in-india-with-15-968-new-covid-19-cases-and-465-deaths-in-a-day/story-JyXME99FdywObySy6JOVVK.html
24-06-2020||India||Rain lashes parts of Delhi, UP likely to witness spell of showers in next 3-4 hours||Parts of the national capital witnessed rainfall on Wednesday morning. On Tuesday, the weather department had predicted monsoon to hit the national capital in the next 48 hours.“Rainfall would occur over Delhi-NCR during next 3-4 hours,” Dr Kuldeep Srivastava, head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre (RWFC), Delhi said. Areas in Uttar Pradesh are also likely to experience rainfall in the next three to four hours, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday morning.  Delhi: Rain lashes parts of the national capital; visuals from Akbar Road. India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted generally cloudy sky with moderate rain for today. pic.twitter.com/Kjc9T1jzqTRain and thundershowers, coupled with lightning, are very likely to occur today in the next three hours over a few places in Uttar Pradesh, including Budaun, Sambhal, Aligarh, Bulandshahr, Bijnor, Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Saharanpur, Hapur, Amroha, Meerut, GB Nagar, Mathura, Hathras, Raebareli, Lucknow, Barabanki districts, IMD, Lucknow states.  As we had said earlier, monsoon will arrive in Delhi-NCR region on June 25 so tomorrow we are naturally going to get rain and monsoon will be declared over this region: Anand Sharma, Deputy Director, IMD, Delhi pic.twitter.com/ksO9qlLRj2Also read: Heavy rainfall to lash Kerala, IMD issues orange alert for several districtsThe southwest monsoon further advanced in some parts of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, the MeT department said on Tuesday, adding that conditions are also becoming favourable for the further advance of the monsoon into the remaining parts of Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana, Chandigarh, Punjab and Rajasthan in the next 48 hours.“Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is also likely over remaining parts of the western Himalayan region and the plains of north-west India during 24th-25th June,” it said. Rain/Thundershowers&lightning are very likely to occur today during next 3 hrs at a few places over Budaun, Sambhal, Aligarh, Bulandsahar, Bijnor, Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Saharanpur, Hapur, Amroha, Meerut,GB Nagar, Mathura,Hathras,Raebareli,Lucknow,Barabanki districts: IMD,LucknowOn Monday, the department had predicted that monsoon is likely to hit parts of western Uttar Pradesh, including Noida and Ghaziabad, in the next 24 to 48 hours. “Weather conditions are favourable for the further advancing of monsoon over some more parts of Uttar Pradesh. The monsoon is likely to reach the Noida-Ghaziabad area within next 24 to 48 hours and subsequently across other regions of Delhi-NCR,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-parts-of-up-likely-to-witness-rainfall-in-the-next-3-4-hours-imd/story-ArFWLwkIGWsEvDWZ9WbwjN.html
24-06-2020||India||‘Rejected and ejected dynasty’: BJP chief Nadda sharpens attack on Congress over Ladakh face-off||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Jagat Prakash Nadda on Wednesday unleashed a blistering attack on the Gandhi family amidst the war of words over the Ladakh face-off between Indian and Chinese soldiers.Without naming anyone, Nadda said on Twitter that one ‘royal’ dynasty is asking questions to the government and accused its followers of peddling the fake narrative.“One ‘royal’ dynasty and their ‘loyal’ courtiers have grand delusions of the Opposition being about one dynasty. A dynast throws tantrums and his courtiers peddle that fake narrative. Latest one relates to the the Opposition asking questions to the Government,” Nadda said in his first tweet.“It is the Opposition’s right to ask questions. The All Party Meeting saw healthy deliberations, with several Opposition leaders giving their valuable inputs. They also fully supported the Centre in determining the way ahead. One family was an exception. Any guesses who?” he further said.Nadda said that a “rejected and ejected dynasty is NOT equal to the entire Opposition”. “One dynasty’s interests are not India’s interests. Today, the nation is united and supportive of our armed forces. This is the time for unity and solidarity,” the BJP chief said in his third time. A rejected and ejected dynasty is NOT equal to the entire Opposition. One dynasty’s interests are not India’s interests. Today, the nation is united and supportive of our armed forces. This is the time for unity and solidarity. Relaunch of ‘the scion’ for the nth time can wait.He also took an indirect jibe at Rahul Gandhi saying the “relaunch of ‘the scion’ for the nth time can wait”.“Due to the misadventures of one dynasty: We lost thousands of square kilometers of our land. The Siachen glacier was almost gone. And much more. No wonder India has rejected them,” Nadda said in his final tweet on the issue. Due to the misadventures of one dynasty: We lost thousands of square kilometers of our land.The Siachen glacier was almost gone. And much more. No wonder India has rejected them. pic.twitter.com/QOGZH7WGNdThe war of words has been going on between the BJP and the Congress over the June 15 skirmish in the Ladakh region in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed. The Congress has targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi, accusing him of giving away Indian territory to China. The attack has been led by Congress leader and party’s former president Rahul Gandhi.PM Modi had asserted at the all-party meeting that “no one has entered our territory, no one is at present within our territory and no one has occupied our posts”. This was in reference to the situation in the Galwan Valley after Indian Army’s brave action to thwart Chinese attempts to erect a structure on the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC).“Why did the PM tell the All-Party Meeting that “no one intruded into our territory”? Why did PMO delete these words from the official statement? And if ‘no one intruded into our territory’, how did our 20 soldiers die?” Congress leader Kapil Sibal asked on Tuesday.Nadda had earlier targeted the Congress party and former PM Manmohan Singh for their remarks on the Ladakh incident. He had said that they should stop insulting the security forces repeatedly and questioning their valour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rejected-and-ejected-dynasty-bjp-chief-nadda-sharpens-attack-on-congress-over-ladakh-face-off/story-xc6KFrQOscAu549uuXaRCJ.html
24-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Earthquake of magnitude 4.1 hits Mizoram, fourth in less than 10 days and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Earthquake hits Mizoram for the fourth dayAn earthquake of magnitude 4.1 on the Richter scale struck Mizoram on Wednesday morning, the fourth in the northeastern state in as many days. Read more Yogi Adityanath to announce employment for 1 crore people on June 26Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath will be making a record on June 26 by handing over employment to one crore people. The event will be held in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Hindustan further reported. Read more Petrol, diesel prices revised further, two fuels now cost almost same in DelhiDiesel price was increased on Wednesday for the 18th day in a row since June 7, taking the total hike during the period to Rs 10.49 a litre. While diesel will cost Rs 79.88 per litre after an increase by 48 paise, the price of petrol remained unchanged at Rs 79.76 or every litre in Delhi today. Read more US freeze on H-1B visas to hit IT firms coping with travel curbs amid Covid-19 crisisThe US decision to freeze work visas, including the H-1B visa for highly skilled workers, till the year end will add to the troubles of Indian software services companies that are already struggling to cope with travel curbs amid the pandemic. Read more When Sara Ali Khan paid emotional tribute to Sushant Singh Rajput for guiding her on KedarnathAn old video of Sara Ali Khan praising her Kedarnath co-star Sushant Singh Rajput is being widely shared online. Sushant died by suicide last week, at the age of 34. He was suffering from depression. Read more Sachin Tendulkar’s lookalike battles downsizing bluesBalvir Chand knows all about reflected glory, having soaked in the adulation for years as the spitting image of Sachin Tendulkar. Chand wasn’t just sought after for pictures in the stands while the original tamed bowlers on the field, he was so convincing a duplicate he was made brand ambassador for a Mumbai food chain. Read more Songs for succulents: Barcelona opera reopens with concert for plantsBarcelona’s Liceu opera reopened its doors on Monday for the first time in over three months post the coronavirus-led lockdown to hold a concert, exclusively for a quiet, leafy audience of nearly 2,300 house plants. Read more HT Salutes: Dehradun duo who distribute free milk packets across the citySukriti Sharma and Nitin Gaur are helping hundreds by distributing milk packets during the lockdown. The Uttarakhand duo runs a milk production unit named Moo Day which distributes free milk packets to the needy. Sharma and Gaur say ‘profit is not everything in such times’. Watch full video||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-earthquake-of-magnitude-4-1-hits-mizoram-fourth-in-less-than-10-days-and-all-the-latest-news/story-OEsjGm7rszCaM1rpzflmgL.html
24-06-2020||India||Earthquake hits Mizoram for the fourth day||An earthquake of magnitude 4.1 on the Richter scale struck Mizoram on Wednesday morning, the fourth in the northeastern state in as many days.According to the National Center for Seismology (NCS), it occurred 31km south-southwest (SSW) of Champhai at 8:02am.The northeastern state was hit by earthquakes on Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday, causing damage to houses and cracks on roads at several places.On Tuesday, the disaster management and rehabilitation department said that ceilings of some buildings including community halls and churches have caved in, walls of several buildings have developed cracks and some water tanks are affected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthquake-hits-mizoram-for-the-fourth-day/story-Ns5VtGUJ8E14sLlVHN6LOL.html
24-06-2020||India||From a gap of Rs 30 a litre to costing more than petrol: How diesel price surged||The price of diesel rose for 18th day in a row on Wednesday. With the current increase, diesel will now cost Rs 79.88 per litre in Delhi, while petrol price remained unchanged at Rs 79.76 a litre. This is the first time that diesel costs more than petrol in Delhi.The two fuels have seen a hike of Rs 10.49 per litre in the last 18 days.In January 2018, diesel retailed at Rs 61.74 a litre in Delhi. In about a year and a half, the price has gone up by mroe than Rs 18 per litre.In 2011, the difference was Rs 30 per litre.In June 2017, state-run fuel retailers Indian Oil, Bharat Petroleum and Hindustan Petroleum switched to daily price revision from a fortnightly pricing system. And since the dynamic fuel pricing system began, the gap between the prices of the two fuels has been narrowing.Higher levies imposed by the Centre and various state governments also contribute to the higher retail price of diesel.The increase in fuel rates started on June 7 this year as oil companies resumed daily revision in prices in line with costs after ending an 82-day gap during the Covid-19 lockdown. It has taken diesel prices to fresh highs and petrol price too is at a two-year high.People aware of the development said the fuel prices may soon cross the Rs 80 per litre mark soon as international oil prices continue to surge.The government has been facing Opposition’s ire over the daily increase in fuel prices. The Congress said on Tuesday that it will launch a ‘Jan Andolan’ (people’s movement) across the country soon against the hike.Discussing the issue at a meeting of the Congress Working Committee, the party condemned the hike in petrol and diesel prices and reminded the government of its “Raj Dharma”.The Trinamool Congress also slammed the Modi government at the Centre, saying it is “disgraceful to unleash a planned disaster” on the common people at a time when the country is in the throes of a pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-a-gap-of-rs-30-a-litre-to-costing-more-than-petrol-how-diesel-price-has-surged/story-VG22RMJiGEYxMimBBdBF5J.html
24-06-2020||India||Amid Manipur political crisis, 4 NPP MLAs who withdrew support to BJP-led govt fly out of Imphal||In a new twist to the political drama in Manipur, the four National People’s Party (NPP) legislators, who had withdrawn support to N Biren Singh headed Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led coalition government last week, left Imphal on Tuesday to meet central leaders in Delhi.Prior to their departure from the Bir Tikendrajit International airport near Imphal in the afternoon, Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said they will try to resolve the issue with the “spirit of friendship and solidarity”.“This time we want to address all the issues raised by the MLAs. We want to resolve all the issues once for all so that we can concentrate on development and elections,” Sarma, who is also the convener of the North-East Democratic Alliance (NEDA), said.Admitting that “this will be very productive and constructive engagement.”Sarma along with Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma, who is also the national president of NPP, air dashed to Imphal on a chartered flight earlier in the day to meet leaders and resolve the ongoing political crisis.Both Sarma and Sangma had already visited the state on Sunday. Miffed at the functioning of chief minister Biren Singh, the four NPP MLAs along with one All India Trinamool Congress MLA and one Independent legislator had withdrawn support to the coalition government on June 17.The same day three BJP MLAs resigned both from the party and membership of the Manipur Legislative Assembly taking the party’s tally to 18 and the coalition’s total to 23. The NPP, a key member of the NEDA - a non-Congress political platform floated by the BJP after winning the Assam elections in 2016, has been a key BJP ally in Manipur too.Despite the developments, the BJP’s candidate secured a win in the Rajya Sabha polls on June 19 securing 28 votes to the Congress nominee’s 24. NPP chief Sangma and all the four NPP MLAs of the state refused to comment on the development.The Congress, which has been seeking convening of a special assembly session to test the majority of the government, also refused to comment on the latest developments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-manipur-political-crisis-4-npp-mlas-who-withdrew-support-to-bjp-led-govt-fly-out-of-imphal/story-mOFs42emsN9zR0OAVORNCI.html
24-06-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to announce employment for 1 crore people on June 26||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath will be making a record on June 26 by handing over employment to one crore people, Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan reported. The event will be held in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Hindustan further reported.With this, Uttar Pradesh will become the first state in the country to give employment to one crore people in one go.Adityanath review the preparations for the event in a meeting with the officials on Tuesday. This will be the first time that PM Modi will be participating in a state-level event since the Covid-19 pandemic began.The Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS) is going to be a major contributor assuring over 50 per cent of total jobs being created in Uttar Pradesh.“Uttar Pradesh has about 1.80 crore MNREGA job cardholders. Out of them, 85 lakh have been active. About 15 lakh new job cards have been added in the past few months and most of them are migrant labourers,” said Sanjay Dixit, former member of the Union government’s central employment guarantee council.Besides restoration of river, construction of rural roads, digging of ponds and pits for plantation drives and other such work is being carried out under the rural job scheme to provide work to people.“We are roping in all many major departments to provide work in addition to jobs being provided under the MNREGS. The micro small and medium enterprises (MSME) department, public works department, horticulture department and the agencies constructing the expressways will also contribute in a big way in creation of more jobs,” chief secretary RK Tiwari had said last week about the state government’s efforts in generating employment opportunities.Realtors’ body Naredco’s Uttar Pradesh wing will give employment to 1 lakh labourers belonging to the state at various real estate projects, the association said on Tuesday.Last month, the Naredco-UP signed an initial pact with the Uttar Pradesh government, offering to provide employment in their real estate projects to migrant labourers who have returned to the state.Meanwhile, former chief minister and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav attacked Adityanath on the issue of providing one crore jobs to people of the state.“Chief Minister made claim of providing one crore job in a rally but someone go and ask people what they got in their bags,” Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi on Tuesday. ‘मुख्यमंत्री’ करोड़ों को रोज़गार का दावा कर गये रैली मेंपर जाकर जनता से पूछो भई क्या आया उसकी थैली मेंThe plan was set in motion after the arrival of migrant workers from various parts of the country to Uttar Pradesh during Covid-19 lockdown. Till last week, about 35 lakh migrant labourers had reached different districts of UP. The chief minister had asked authorities to do skill mapping of these labourers who can then be provided work according to their skills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-chief-minister-yogi-adityanath-to-announce-employment-for-1-crore-people-on-june-26/story-ZijAQdvhzhGMPPaiwLxgXJ.html
24-06-2020||India||Patanjali launches Covid-19 drugs; Centre seeks details: Here’s what the company said||Patanjali Ayurved Ltd, the company promoted by yoga guru Ramdev, has been asked by the government to provide details of the medicines launched by it as an alleged treatment for the patients of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients.The ministry of Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy (AYUSH) has ordered Patanjali to stop advertising the products—Coronil and Swasari. It has also warned Patanjali to stop misleading advertising until the results are verified.“Facts of the claim and details of the stated scientific study are not known to the Ministry… Patanjali Ayurved Ltd has been asked to provide at the earliest details of the name and composition of the medicines being claimed for COVID treatment; site(s)/hospital(s), where the research study was conducted for Covid-19; protocol, sample size, Institutional Ethics Committee clearance, Clinical Trials Registry- India registration and results data of the study (ies)…,” the ministry said in a statement on Tuesday.The ministry asked Patanjali to submit details of the sample size, sites and hospitals where the research study was conducted and also for the Institutional Ethics Committee clearance.“Patanjali Ayurved Ltd has been asked to provide at the earliest details of the name and composition of the medicines being claimed for COVID treatment; site(s)/hospital(s), where the research study was conducted for COVID-19; protocol, sample size, Institutional Ethics Committee clearance, CTRI registration and results data of the study (ies) and stop advertising/publicizing such claims till the issue is duly examined,” the ministry said in its statement.Here is what Patanjali said:* Ramdev’s associate Acharya Balakrishna has claimed that the Centre has been provided with all the necessary details of the clinical trials of Coronil—the medicine launched on Tuesday by Patanjali.* Balakrishna tweeted to claim that 100% parameters laid down for controlled trial of the Ayurvedic product have been followed by the company after Patanjali.* “This government encourages Ayurveda and works for its glory, the communication gap has been filled and we have given the AYUSH ministry all the information regarding the 100% fulfilment of all the standard parameters of Randomized Placebo Controlled Clinical Trials,” Balakrishna tweeted in Hindi.* Patanjali Ayurved on Tuesday launched Coronil and Swasari claiming that it has successfully cured scores of under-trial Covid-19 patients with 100% results except for those on life support systems.* The products have been made in association with privately-owned National Institute of Medical Science in Jaipur, according to Patanjali.* Ramdev had claimed that the first clinical controlled study was conducted on 280 patients in Delhi and Ahmedabad among many other cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/patanjali-launches-covid-19-drugs-centre-seeks-details-here-s-what-the-company-said/story-gpCRPcukj4VbufsiDq53eP.html
24-06-2020||India||Army builds bridge near Assam gas well fire site||Indian Army personnel have constructed a bridge near the burning natural gas well in Assam’s Tinsukia, which will help in extinguishing the flames.The 150 metre long Bailey bridge, constructed over a water body near the gas well of Oil India Limited (OIL) at Baghjan which had a blow out on May 27 and caught fire on June 9, will help deliver water needed to control the fire and plug the blowout.“Construction of the bridge is extremely critical for the task of controlling the fire as it provides the only access to the experts to approach the well. The experts now plan to lay a heavy-duty pipeline over the bridge to create a water umbrella for dousing the fire,” said an army release issued on Tuesday.According to Guwahati-based army spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel P Khongsai, construction of the bridge required the transportation of 233 metric tonnes of materials over a distance of 400km.“150 specially trained troops undertook the task under extremely risky and hazardous conditions in the vicinity of the raging fire with working temperatures exceeding 75 degree Celcius,” the release said.“Undaunted by the multitude of engineering challenges Army constructed the bridge in a short time of 24 hours on June 22 under heavy rainfall and extreme temperatures,” it added.According to OIL, the pipeline over the bridge will carry water from the nearby Dangori River to the well. A continuous and large volume of water is needed to control the fire and plug the blowout, uncontrolled release of gas and oil from a well when pressure systems fail.“Laying of water delivery line over Bailey bridge has been completed on Monday after whole night work at the site. Connections for sourcing water from Dangori River are underway,” said an OIL release on Monday.After the well caught fire, OIL had sought help from the army on June 14 for building the bridge. The entire exercise of controlling the fire and plugging the blow out is expected to be completed by the first week of July.The blowout on May 27 sparked an inferno that displaced thousands of people, spewed thousands of litres of oil and gas into the fragile ecosystem and wreaked havoc on the local wildlife.There are 17 oil wells and five gas wells in the Baghjan oil field, which generates 1,200 kilolitres of crude oil and 1.5 to 2 million metric standard cubic metres of gas per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-builds-bridge-near-assam-gas-well-fire-site/story-meFWvoJ5FCyWg6aqZa27hP.html
24-06-2020||India||Money laundering: ED searches Tahir Hussain’s premises||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday raided the premises of suspended Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Councillor,Tahir Hussain, and others in connection with a money laundering probe, officials said.The agency is investigating two cases of money laundering – one against Hussain and another against the Popular Front of India (PFI) -- for allegedly mobilizing funds during the February riots.The officials cited above, who requested anonymity, said the raids were carried out at six places in Delhi and Noida. Hussain and his associates allegedly laundered around Rs 1.10 crore using shell companies to fuel protests against the CAA and the riots. In its probe against PFI, the ED has alleged that about Rs 120 crore were channelled to fuel anti-CAA riots. Hussain’s lawyer Javed Ali refused to comment on the ED raids.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/money-laundering-ed-searches-tahir-hussain-s-premises/story-kZ7O7BRsNOFkxjBsvteZoJ.html
24-06-2020||India||CBI summons former Manipur CM Ibobi in embezzlement case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has summoned Okram Ibobi Singh for questioning on Wednesday in connection with its probe into alleged misappropriation of funds between 2009 and 2017 when he was the Manipur chief minister. The Congress called the summon a “desperate bid” to save the state’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government. Singh was summoned days after the Congress last week staked a claim to form the government in Manipur under his leadership after three BJP lawmakers resigned and six others withdrew their support to the state’s coalition government.Officials said a team of CBI’s Special Task Branch from New Delhi has arrived in Imphal to question Singh over the Manipur Development Society scam pertaining to alleged misappropriation Rs 332 crore.“It was alleged that the accused [Singh] while working as chairman of Manipur Development Society from June 30, 2009, to July 6, 2017, in conspiracy with others, misappropriated government funds to the tune of Rs 332 crore out of the total amount of Rs 518 crore which was entrusted to them for the purpose of executing development work,” a CBI statement said.The BJP-led government in Manipur filed two FIRs against Singh in September 2017 alleging irregularities. The CBI took over the cases from the state police and registered another FIR in November 2019. Three former chief secretaries DS Poonia, P C Lawmuknga and O Nabakishore are among other accused in the case. The Congress hit out at the BJP over the summon. “Desperate bid to save BJP government. Unlikely to save an unpopular leadership. This is nothing but an effort to buy time for a sinking ship. People will lose their faith in the CBI,” tweeted Gaurav Gogoi, a Congress MP.Gogoi and another Congress leader, Ajay Maken, were due to arrive in Imphal as their party seeks to form the government in the state. The Congress had asked governor Najma Heptullah to convene a special assembly session for a no-confidence motion against the government, whose strength in the 60-member assembly has been reduced to 18. Five MLAs from allied parties and an independent back the BJP.The BJP came to power in Manipur in 2017 even as Congress emerged as the single largest party with 28 seats. It secured 21 seats but formed the government with the support of allies.Congress has 20 lawmakers and with the support of smaller parties and an Independent legislator, the newly-formed Secular Progressive Front it leads has 26 legislators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-summons-former-manipur-cm-ibobi-in-embezzlement-case/story-CcZy0ZJzRgqQvtoim5jHEL.html
24-06-2020||India||Coal auctions may open up pristine forests for mining||The ongoing auction of 41 coal mines across the country would open up pristine and contiguous forests for mining in parts of central India, government documents show, even as the Union environment ministry has said decisions regarding auctioning were being taken on a case-by-case basis.The government was until 2015 considering declaring dense forests with hydrological value, and those near or overlapping streams and rivers as inviolate and hence no mining zones.Jairam Ramesh, the then Union environment minister, proposed go and no-go area classification for coal mining in 2009-10, and nine major coal blocks were studied for their biodiversity and forest cover. As many as 70% of the blocks were found to be suitable for mining while 30% were categorised as no-go areas. But the classification was never implemented following stiff resistance from steel, power and coal sectors.Ramesh’s successor, Jayanthi Natarajan, began an exercise for categorising inviolate forest areas in 2012. A group of ministers was constituted earlier in 2011 to consider environmental and developmental issues related to coal mining. It suggested all forests that cannot be regenerated to the desired capacity should be protected, according to a July 2012 report of the environment ministry.The report, a copy of which HT has seen, dealt with the formulation of parameters for the identification of inviolate forest areas. The parameters included forest type and cover, biological richness, wildlife value, landscape integrity, and hydrological value.The Forest Survey of India, Wildlife Institute of India, National Biodiversity Authority and National Tiger Conservation Authority were tasked with applying these parameters and to come up with a list of inviolate areas, according to the report.Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air director Nandikesh Sivalingam received a list of proposed inviolate areas under the Right To Information (RTI) Act from the environment ministry in 2015.The list showed that nearly 50% of the 825 current and future coal blocks met the inviolate area parameters. Sivalingam filed more queries under the RTIs, but did not receive any information on the implementation of the inviolate forest area policy.Fatehpur East, Morga II, Morga South (in Hasdeo Arand) in Chhattisgarh and Bandha in Madhya Pradesh are some of the 41 blocks being auctioned that were on the 2015 list of inviolate areas. A description of mines up for auction on Metal Scrap Trade Corporation (MSTC) website shows several of the mines do not have required forest clearance and are in the midst of protected forests.For instance, 19 sq km of Madanpur North’s 21 sq km area in Chhattisgarh is forested and several streams pass through it before joining the Hasdeo river. It awaits both forest and environmental clearance. Morga II has an area of 26.64 sq km, out of which 85% is in forest land. The area falls within the drainage of the Hasdeo, a major tributary of the Mahanadi river. Almost the entire Morga South coal block is spread over the forest land as per site description on the MSTC website.Environment ministry secretary RP Gupta said they have come out with parameters and decisions about the auction will depend on location, importance and nature of the projects.Officials cited the instance of Jharkhand’s Saranda Forest and said mining there was being restricted to a part of it after a study was conducted there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coal-auctions-may-open-up-pristine-forests-for-mining/story-ErOjZZKsv1gr3KCD1rtnTM.html
24-06-2020||India||Delhiwale: His body, his house||He is standing motionless. His large eyes are gazing straight ahead, unblinking, as if penetrating into infinity. The middle-aged man in shirt and pyjamas is stationed by a pavement in a congested central Delhi market. It is very early in the morning and the shops are still shuttered.The man has huge bags hanging down from both his shoulders. The plastic sack lying by his side is of a basmati rice brand, printed with the illustration of an extravagantly dressed nobleman ensconced beside a mound of luscious biryani. “That’s also my samaan (belonging),” he mutters, nodding his head towards the rice sack—it is filled with something too, but not rice.A huge rat brazenly runs around the man’s feet and disappears into the adjacent drain. He shows no reaction.The man is supporting himself on a lathi, a walking stick. “Tooti taang (broken leg),” he explains, shaking his head. The lathi is wrapped in various layers of plastic, and the top is tied with padded pieces of various clothes. “So that it doesn’t hurt my hand to hold it for so long.... the plastic keeps the lathi free of gandagee (filth),” he says, gesturing absentmindedly towards a rain puddle.Introducing himself as Dherapad, the gentleman informs that he is “hoping that somebody will give me money for chai and breakfast.”That’s how he survives from one morning to another, he says, or rather murmurs, for he is talking in a low voice. It becomes impossible to discern his words, for instance, when he repeatedly gives the name of his native place.Showing the bags hanging from both his shoulders, he says they are packed with his clothes and bedding. “Mera sharir mera makaan hain (my body is my house)... wherever I go, my house goes with me.”Dherapad sleeps on the pavement, he says. He waves his arm casually in one direction, muttering, “One night I sleep in iss gali (this lane), another night I sleep in uss gali (that lane). My beds are everywhere.”It is difficult to describe his looks. He is wearing a mask. It isn’t the drab hospital-like face-wear other pedestrians are sporting. His bright coloured mask shows the popular animated character green Hulk, posing in all his anger and aggression. “Some unknown person gave it to me,” he shrugs.It appears that Dherapad is familiar to the people in the area. A few passersby acknowledge him with a friendly nod. And now an elderly man carrying a bundle of something hands it to Dherapad, requesting him to hold it while he shop around for mangoes. Dherapad wordlessly takes the bundle and holds it the way people with no experience of babies hold them when asked. The elderly man returns after a while, takes back the bag, taps cheerily on Dherapad’s shoulder out of gratitude and walks away.Across the road, a cat tiptoes under a vegetable cart and Dherapad follows her movement patiently.On being asked about his family, he says that “I am alone and I am enough for myself.” His mask slips down under his lips—he is smiling.As the morning lengthens, and the street gets crowded, Dherapad remains still, rooted to the same spot. The passersby go past him, barely noticing him. As if he were a market statue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-his-body-his-house/story-QjZQvz2eq8IHZFbV2nz2tN.html
24-06-2020||India||Covid-19: Trials for inhaled version of remdesivir to start in August||Gilead Sciences has said it will soon start clinical trials for inhaled formulation of its antiviral drug remdesivir used for the treatment of Covid-19. The US drugmaker said the trials will begin in August. “Remdesivir, our investigational antiviral medicine, is currently given to patients intravenously through daily infusions in the hospital,” Gilead Sciences said in a statement, adding that the inhaled formulation will be given through a nebulizer, which could potentially allow for easier administration outside the hospital at early stages of the disease.This could have significant implications in helping stem the tide of the pandemic, it said.“We have already learned a lot about how remdesivir works in a relatively short space of time. Remdesivir is now being used to treat patients through emergency use authorizations and other access programs around the world. And yet, we still have some way to go in exploring the full potential of remdesivir to help against Covid-19.”In the next wave of clinical development, the drug maker said it will study remdesivir in combination with other therapies and in additional patient groups. So far, randomised controlled trials of remdesivir have been evaluating safety and efficacy in hospitalised patients.In a study by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), it was found that remdesivir shortened recovery time by an average of four days and in the SIMPLE study of moderately ill patients--those in hospital but not requiring oxygen--individuals on a five-day course of remdesivir had better clinical outcomes than those receiving standard care.The NIAID study also showed that treatment was most effective in patients who did not require ventilator support, supporting further study in patients in early stages of the disease. The totality of these data shows that remdesivir has the potential to be of meaningful benefit to patients with Covid-19.“The inhaled formulation studies are one means of exploring the use of remdesivir in the earlier stages of Covid-19. We will also conduct trials using intravenous infusions in outpatient settings such as infusion centers and nursing homes,”’said Daniel O’Day, chairman and chief executive, Gilead Sciences.“Our hope is that earlier intervention could help patients avoid hospitalization,” he said.India’s Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation on June 20 approved manufacturing and marketing of remdesivir by Hetero and Cipla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trials-for-inhaled-version-of-remdesivir-to-start-in-august/story-49yDzjO3XmL8o44pJSp0HI.html
24-06-2020||India||Tamil Nadu declares curbs in Madurai from June 24 to 30||The Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday announced that there will be lockdown in Madurai Corporation limits between June 24 to 30 as part of measures to control the spread of coronavirus disease pandemic.The state government said that there will be complete lockdown in Madurai Corporation limits, Paravai town panchayat and rural blocks of Madurai east and Madurai west and Thiruparankundram from June 24 to June 30. The state reported 2,710 Covid-19 cases and 37 deaths on Monday taking the total number of cases to 62,087 and death toll to 794. The number of active cases stands at 27,178.Meanwhile, a new quarantine strategy confining to homes an estimated 7-8 lakh people is expected to cut down chances of transmission of the coronavirus in Chennai, witnessing unabated spike in cases on a daily basis, according to a top official of the city civic body.Apart from the containment measures, the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) was also ramping up capacity of the Covid Care centres, adding over 7,000 beds, its Commissioner G Prakash said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-declares-curbs-in-madurai-from-june-24-to-30/story-8FFrFIi7SEEOrHKllnf6UI.html
24-06-2020||India||India, China agree to pull back, reach ‘mutual consensus to disengage’||Indian and Chinese military commanders reached a “mutual consensus to disengage” from all “friction areas” along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), which has been tense since a brutal brawl on June 15 left 20 Indian troops dead in the Ladakh sector, two senior officials said on Tuesday.But the process of disengagement is likely to be “arduous and challenging”, and will require moving ahead cautiously in phases, people with direct knowledge of the matter said.The agreement was reached during an 11-hour meeting between top commanders at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC on Monday. The talks were aimed at cooling tensions and thinning the military build-up on both sides of the border. “The Corps Commander-level talks between India and China were held in a cordial, positive and constructive atmosphere,” one of the officials cited in the first instance said. “Modalities for disengagement from all friction areas in eastern Ladakh were discussed and will be taken forward by both the sides,” he added.While disengaging in some friction areas was a “low-hanging fruit” and could be achieved in a reasonable time-frame, the “real test” would lie in the restoration of status quo ante in the Finger Area where the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has set up permanent bunkers, pillboxes and observation posts, said one of the persons cited in the second instance.China watchers believe that the disengagement process is likely to be less complicated in the Gogra Post-Hot Springs and the Galwan Valley sectors, where there are no real issues about the alignment of the LAC.The disengagement will have to be “equal, mutual and proportional,” said Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd), a former director general of military operations (DGMO).“The disengagement will be a long-drawn process because of the mistrust that has set in after the Galwan Valley clash. A lot of verification through different means will be required at every stage of disengagement to make sure that the PLA has retreated,” added Bhatia, who served as the army’s DGMO during 2013-14. The June 15 Galwan Valley skirmish in eastern Ladakh resulted in 20 deaths on the Indian side and the PLA suffered 43 casualties, according to Indian officials, but Beijing has not confirmed the fatalities. A Chinese spokesman on Tuesday dismissed such reports as “fake news”.Disengagement in the Finger Area on the north bank of Pangong Tso will be tricky in comparison with Gogra Post-Hot Springs and the Galwan Valley sectors where limited disengagement had begun after the first meeting between senior Indian and Chinese commanders on June 6, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd).He was referring to the first meeting between delegations led by Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region. During that meeting, the two sides reached an understanding to implement a de-escalation plan to ease rising tensions along the contested border, but tensions peaked in the aftermath of the June 15 skirmish. It was the first deadly conflict between Indian and Chinese soldiers along the LAC in 45 years.“The Finger area is where the real problem lies as the Chinese soldiers have dug in their heels there. It will be the most challenging part of the proposed disengagement,” said Hooda. The army is concerned about the PLA’s presence in the Finger Area, especially the Chinese activities between Finger 4 and Finger 8 over the last seven weeks. Chinese military positions in the Finger Area restrict the scope of the Indian Army patrolling areas that New Delhi considers its territory, according to a security official aware of the developments.He said the Indian Army would have to be extremely vigilant during the disengagement process, given what transpired in the Galwan Valley; the disengagement will have to be monitored by senior commanders to ensure things do not go awry; and a diplomatic dialogue will have to progress simultaneously.While the modalities for disengagement were discussed at the meeting between senior commanders, implementing the plan would require several rounds of talks between commanders on the ground, a second security official added.At the June 22 meeting between the corps commanders, India sought an assurance from the Chinese side on ending aggression along the border, and the thinning of Chinese military deployments in “depth areas” on their side of the disputed border. China had deployed up to 10,000 troops in these areas with the military buildup including fighter jets, helicopters, tanks, artillery guns, missile systems and air defence radars. India has matched the neighbour’s military moves. “Neither India nor China are likely to immediately thin their deployments in rear areas, given how volatile the disputed border has been,” the second security official added.Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Tuesday arrived in Leh, the headquarters of 14 Corps in Ladakh, on a two-day visit focused on conducting a security review of the sensitive sector. Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria made a low-key visit to Ladakh last week to review the Indian Air Force’s preparedness in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-agree-to-pull-back/story-opEPbVrWjWTlBv0aqDFxeL.html
24-06-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Some time back, one of my editors and I went back and forth on a story about a Good Samaritan who had apparently saved hundreds of lives by ensuring that people bitten by snakes got a homeopathic antidote on time.I’m a believer when it comes to matters of faith, but I’m otherwise a rationalist — which means I do not believe in homeopathy. There are millions of people who believe in it, and more power to them, but the newsroom is a place where data and science (not belief) must guide decisions.But many of the people were saved, the editor argued.I knew the counter to this because I know a little about snakes.That’s because the bite may have been what is called a “dry bite” (one where no venom is injected), or a “partial bite” (where a little venom is), or the snake itself may have been non-venomous (which is often the case), I remember explaining.It’s this combination of circumstances that’s probably kept in business generations of herbalists offering traditional antidotes to snake venom — and more power to these herbalists too. Caveat Emptor and all that.I thought it was a good time to share the snakebite story because there seems to be a belief in some quarters that a miracle cure for Covid-19 is waiting to be discovered.It may be, but the chances of one existing are low, and the probability that, if it exists, it will be found, even lower. I say this despite knowing that Oseltamivir (which many of us know better as Tamiflu), used to treat many kinds of flu, was originally derived from shikimic acid, which itself was derived from the Chinese star anise (Illicium verma), which has been around forever.And so, speaking of snakes, all of us must guard against snake oil merchants proffering miracle cures for Covid-19.This is what we know: there are many existing drugs whose efficacy, when it comes to treating Covid-19, is the subject of clinical trials around the world. An Indian study indicates that hydroxychloroquine (also derived from a tree), an inexpensive malaria medicine, is a prophylactic. A US study indicates that Gilead’s Remdesivir seems to work well on moderately ill Covid-19 patients if given early. And a British study indicates that the steroid dexamethasone works well on critically ill Covid-19 patients who are on ventilator or oxygen support (when given late) (see page 5).This is what science tells us and this is what we must believe, all of us.Governments, medical research organisations, drug controllers, everyone has a duty to see that we do — and facilitate this belief in science by coming down hard on anything that isn’t science (or worse still, is pseudo-science).This doesn’t always happen; even in the midst of the current Covid-19 crisis, some Indian state governments have been disingenuous, equating Ayurvedic medicines that boost general immunity with Covid-19 cures. There is no Ayurvedic medicine for Covid-19; at least, not yet.India’s drug regulator, Drug Controller General of India, the Indian Council of Medical Research, and the Union and state health ministries must ensure that no one pitches a cure for Covid-19 without going through due scientific process. In a country of believers, the consequences of allowing a company or an individual to launch a miracle cure for Covid-19 that hasn’t been scientifically tested would be disastrous.India is a country that believes in home remedies. Many work (and work well), obviating the need for allopathic intervention that, apart from being expensive, could also take its toll on the body. But Covid-19 isn’t going to be cured by home remedies.We should all believe that.P.S.: I’d be delighted if someone were to discover a home remedy for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-gBedb3hZVCbV4UbLOK5PEP.html
24-06-2020||India||Severe chaos over mild patients after new SOP||The old system of assessing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients at their residence to determine if they are fit for home isolation must be brought back, the Delhi government said in a letter to Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Tuesday, reiterating the practical difficulties in a new protocol that senior as well as grassroots health staff separately said was virtually impossible to implement. The administration on Monday formalised the new health assessments protocol that says every new Covid-19 patient must visit a government facility, a process that requires special ambulances and increased deployment of medical staff, and raises the risk of infection among anyone who is involved in the exercise. “There is a lot of panic among people because of the new guidelines. Earlier, they tried to stop home isolation and a consensus on continuing it was reached after a lot of dialogue. Now, [there is] this new guideline… Why should a Covid-19 patient be made to stand in a queue at a quarantine centre? I have written to the L-G to continue with the earlier system of the medical team visiting the home of coronavirus patients instead,” said Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia at a press briefing.On Tuesday, Delhi recorded its largest single-day spike of Covid-19 cases so far with 3,947 people testing positive. While at least some of these were possibly through antigen tests at a health facility, a large proportion are likely to have been identified through RT-PCR tests carried out by labs. These results usually come a day or more later, and it is these people who need to be taken to a facility, according to the rule put into force on Monday.The guidelines were first suggested by the L-G-led Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) over the weekend. According to these rules, a doctor at a Covid-19 Care Centre (CCC) will check severity of symptoms of each patient and, from health history of any comorbid condition, determine if they can be allowed to recover at home. A separate team will carry out house checks to see whether there is a stand-alone room and bathroom that a Covid-19 patient needs for home isolation so that other members of the family are not infected. The new rules led to such chaos that at least three of the 11 districts of Delhi have not been able to adopt the protocol since they have too many new cases to handle, officials from these districts told HT on Tuesday on the condition of anonymity. “Currently, around 3,000 people on an average are testing Covid-19 positive in Delhi per day through swab tests. If they have to be taken to CCCs, the government will have to arrange 3,000 trips of ambulances in addition to the distress calls that they are presently catering to. This seems impossible at this juncture. So, we have no alternatives but to continue with the old method for now until further orders are received,” said one of the three district magistrates, asking not to be named. Delhi has 163 ambulances on special “corona duty” that requires its staff to be in full personal protective equipment (PPE) and follow special sanitisation procedures. Given the strength of the fleet, each ambulance will need to carry out more than 18 trips in 24 hours if all of these patients are to be taken to these centres as per protocol.“Coronavirus patients will have to go to the quarantine centres and stand in long queues, which will aggravate their illness and pass it on to others. How will they reach the centres? Ambulances should be kept for taking severe patients to hospitals rather than transporting people with mild symptoms to these centres,” said Sisodia. “I am hopeful that the L-G will soon call a meeting of the state disaster management authority to change this decision and resolve the problems of the patient,” he added.The LG’s office did not respond to requests for a comment on Sisodia’s letter.The letter follows a protracted row between the L-G’s office and the Delhi government, triggered by an order on Friday that virtually scrapped the practice of home isolation. The order was reversed a day later, but the DDMA – the nodal agency for Covid-19 response measures that is led by the L-G – introduced the mandatory assessments.A second area of confrontation was on the choice of an agency that is meant to carry out followup checks with people in home isolation. The Friday order scrapped the arrangement with Portea Medical and, according to Monday’s guidelines, the task can now involve medical students or be outsourced. Officials said the process of outsourcing will require new tendering.The tussle has led to a situation where many patients were moved to CCCs and are not requesting to be allowed to go back. “I feel weak and breathless. I thought I’d be kept under observation. But the doctor only checks up on me over the phone. The facility is good, but I think I would have taken better care of myself at home, as there is no special medical treatment for this,” said 35-year-old Anita from the Terapanth Bhawan CCC in Chattarpur.A majority of the CCCs lack air conditioning and some – particularly the ones setup in schools – require residents to use common lavatories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/severe-chaos-over-mild-patients-after-new-sop/story-Cw5dkrQ2DHwrAA9bswv8gP.html
24-06-2020||India||A transformed MGNREGS is an effective tool to tackle rural distress | Opinion||As our country goes through one of the toughest crises, it is expected that there would be political consensus, not political mudslinging, around our response to the Covid-19 pandemic. Right from upgrading hospital infrastructure, developing emergency beds and ICUs to economic measures. It was interesting to see Abhishek Manu Singhvi, in a recent newspaper article, taking umbrage at PM Modi’s ‘monumental failure’ expression for MGNREGS in 2014. However, the entire discourse, carried on by many opposition leaders, amounts to ‘missing the wood for the trees’. The recent announcement of an additional Rs 40,000 crore under MGNREGS to mitigate rural distress could not have come at a more appropriate time. This has further been supplemented by the “PM Garib Kalyan Rozgar Yojna” that aims at providing Rs 50,000 crore worth of work to 69 lakh migrant workers in 116 districts. While the naysayers are recollecting PM Modi’s description of MGNREGS as ‘monumental failure’, they intentionally forget to mention the context in which such a statement was made. Prior to May 2014, a series of objections raised by the Comptroller and Auditor General, PILs filed before the Supreme Court, a plethora of circulars issued by the Ministry of Rural Development - many of the circulars contradicting the ones issued earlier - frequent interference of the then National Advisory Council in policy making and implementation and lack of proper monitoring and transparency had led to tremendous chaos and confusion in the field. Consequently, there was rampant corruption and a large number of earthworks, which would facilitate such corruption, became the order of the day. PM Modi’s statement regarding ‘monumental failure’ was basically intended to highlight the urgent need to transform MGNREGS with a focus on transparency, durable asset creation and convergence of MGNREGS with other schemes to maximize the impact.Having been directly associated with the entire transformation exercise taken up under MGNREGS, I would like to list out some of the major governance reforms that ensured a complete overhaul of the programme. If MGNREGS has been able to stand by the poor and the deprived in the villages today, it is due to a series of painstaking reforms that were ushered in pursuant to PM Modi’s directions.In the midst of the chaos and confusion prevailing in MGNREGS implementation in the UPA-2 regime, a major intervention for removing the possibility of ‘ghost assets’ and repeat works on the same site was geo-tagging of all assets created since April, 2014. With the help of space technology and tie up with National Remote Sensing Centre, ISRO, Hyderabad, the MORD, with support from states, geo-tagged nearly 4 crore assets within a short period and the effort continues. This was a path-breaking initiative which was emulated in many central government schemes at a later date.Coupled with this, came the National Electronic Fund Management System (e-FMS) on 1 January 2015. While Dr Singhvi is right that the DBT announcement had been made in the 2013 budget, he conveniently chose not to mention the extremely poor implementation of all DBT announcements by the UPA-2 Government. Because of strong monitoring and guidance of the Prime Minister, 99% of the MGNREGA funds are being transferred directly to the bank account of the beneficiaries today. Holding on to Aadhaar database, without making effective use was one more glaring example of the policy paralysis afflicting the system in UPA-2 days.In sharp contrast to the earlier focus on taking up any kind of earthwork in the name of addressing rural unemployment, there was a conscious effort after 2014 to move towards durable asset creation and taking up more individual land based activities to enable small and marginal farmers to gain long term benefits through MGNREGS interventions. For example, only 3,488 works were taken up under the rural infrastructure component of MGNREGS in the financial year 2013-14. This shot up to 2,52,628 in 2019-20. Works on individual land go a long way in augmenting the income of a household and they ensure more tangible asset creation due to personal involvement of the landowner or the small and marginal farmer. A massive push was given to such works and consequently, this figure jumped from 18 lakh individual works in 2013-14 to 1.42 crore works in 2019-20.Dr Singhvi’s overenthusiastic suggestion to increase the number of mandays from 100 days to 200 days misses the fact that the law itself provides for adding 50 more mandays only to the existing 100 days. That too is permissible only in the event of drought or other natural calamities. The cynics must note that the Labour Budget of MGNREGS has been increasing with focus on poor and needy states like Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Bihar. The Labour Budget of 2014-15 and 2020-21 are 220 crore and 281 crore mandays respectively. That means more resources are made available for which PM Modi and team deserve accolades; this is another dimension of the transformative approach adopted by the central government.To maximize the impact of MGNREGS interventions, works under convergence have increased immensely in recent years. Convergence has helped in combining necessary resources for generating an asset. Increased demand from beneficiaries from all the states for convergence works has further cemented the utility of this initiative. This thrust of the government on convergence has resulted in creation of useful and durable assets - anganwadi centres, food storage godowns, variety of roads including those with paver blocks as well as plastic waste and water conservation structures. While 66,525 works were taken up under the ‘convergence’ category in 2014-15, this number has gone up to 4,51,779 in 2019-20.That Dr Singhvi has not checked facts before putting in certain figures mesmerizes many of us keeping in view his level of wisdom. His allegation that Rs 16,000 crore is outstanding is divorced from reality. In April 2020 itself, all pending dues have been cleared, thanks to the proactive approach of the central government.Times like these require a proper appreciation of the gravity of the situation and a constructive approach to overcome the present crisis which is staring at us. Statements of Dr Singhvi and other opposition leaders at this critical juncture smack of cynicism and apathy. PM Modi is leading from the front. His clarion call for constructing an Atma Nirbhar Bharat requires all of us, from all segments, to join hands for various nation-building activities with hearts full of compassion, empathy and hope.(A former IAS officer, Aparajita Sarangi is a BJP Member of Parliament from Odisha’s Bhubaneswar constituency. She was the joint secretary handling MGNREGS in the rural development ministry between 2013 and 2018)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-transformed-mgnregs-is-an-effective-tool-to-tackle-rural-distress-opinion/story-mM4uufEcSYTDGo6rcVp8UP.html
24-06-2020||India||India pledges $10 million for UN agency working for Palestinian refugees||India on Tuesday announced it will contribute $10 million over the next two years to a key UN agency working for Palestinian refugees as part of efforts to ensure sustainable and predictable funding for the body.Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan announced India’s contribution for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA) while participating in an extraordinary virtual ministerial pledging conference convened by Jordan and Sweden.UNRWA needs continued support since “sustainability and predictability of funding is imperative for any agency or organisation to carry on its mandate without interruption”, he said.“When certain countries withdrew funding, we had stepped up our annual pledge from $1.25 million to $5 million in 2018. For this year, we have already disbursed $2 million and will soon be remitting the balance $3 million. I am pleased to announce that we will contribute another $10 million to UNRWA over the coming two years,” Muraleedharan said.Describing India as a “steadfast supporter of the Palestinian cause”, he said capacity enhancement through training and building durable institutions is a major plank of New Delhi’s developmental assistance.India is working with the Palestinian side to organise more training programmes on virtual platforms amid the Covid-19 pandemic and is committed to timely disbursement of funds so that developmental projects continue on schedule, he said.“We provide 250 annual scholarships to Palestinian youth and officials, apart from regular customised training programmes, and our current project grant is around $72 million,” Muraleedharan said.As the pandemic continues to wreak havoc around the world and stretch governments’ resources to address healthcare and socio-economic needs, India is assisting countries in need of critical life-saving drugs despite a surge in domestic demand for medical supplies, he said. “We are sending a medical shipment to Palestine next week,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-pledges-10-million-for-un-agency-working-for-palestinian-refugees/story-wRMMw5kz1QgrrAldvv23EJ.html
24-06-2020||India||Not just defence modernisation, India needs to step up economic development | Opinion||There are no permanent friends or enemies in international relations, only self-interest determines the scope of relationships. History is witness to numerous instances when countries ignored this dictum and were shocked beyond belief to find their best friends betraying their trust to further their own self-interest. It is China today but there was another country yesterday. This is how it goes. It is not a surprise that they betrayed, the surprise is that they were trusted. So every country should keep their eyes and ears open, remain vigilant, watch closely actions of others, look at their-self interest, assess their own actions and policies as perceived by others and then determine the depth or otherwise of a relationship.The annexation of Tibet, asylum to Dalai Lama, establishment of Tibet’s government-in-exile in Dharamsala, Himachal Pradesh, then the 1962 war and consequential loss of India’s territory are still fresh in our nation’s mind . Further, China has been periodically raising disputes along the Line of Actual Control, which still remains largely unmarked, leading to several skirmishes in the past. Only three years back, the Doklam stand-off lasted for more than 70 days and a lot of energy, time and effort was expended by the Indian side to bring the issue to a closeChina has been consistently opposing India’s entry in the Nuclear Suppliers Group, tried to raise the Kashmir issue repeatedly at the UN and openly helped Pakistan block the UN Security Council from classifying terrorist group Jaish-e-Mohammad chief Masood Azhar for as long as it could. Not only that , construction of road in Aksai Chin area, which passes through Pakistan occupied Kashmir, was carried out despite strong opposition by India.In today’s world , no two nuclear-armed countries can afford to go to war with each other. That is a given. In this scenario, protecting the national boundaries from encroachment by others is the most pragmatic approach. Certainly this requires constant vigil at the border, proper force deployment and round-the-clock intelligence gathering through the year.As for the present stand off, the orders given by the Prime Minister to our armed forces to take all necessary steps to ensure that Chinese forces do not cross the Line of Actual Control at any cost is a step in the right direction. Freedom of action to achieve a defined goal is the key to success in any kind of situation, particularly when it comes to protecting our national boundaries. That being done, now it is up to the leadership of the armed forces to ensure that our boundaries are protected at all costs come what may. Political authorisation is there, now the action to implement the decision lies with them. Naturally during such times the entire country stands by our brave forces who are second to none.The world’s history has only one lesson to offer. That there is no place for the weak in history, they have to perish. Only those who are prepared for all eventualities survive, and those who depend on the benevolence and goodwill of others will perish. This is how human civilization has behaved during the past nearly three thousand years of recorded history, and it is not going to change its character any sooner. To ensure that our country is not made to suffer any embarrassing situations, we have to prepare ourselves to such a level that others do not even dare to think about such mischievous acts. That will not only require building a stronger, modern, better equipped and commensurate armed force but also to transform our country into an economic powerhouse, a prosperous and poverty-free country. Our people certainly deserve it more than others.(VS Pandey is a former IAS officer. He retired as secretary, department of fertilisers in the Government of India)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-just-defence-modernisation-india-needs-to-step-up-economic-development/story-2qNP2Sz3Spnbj6xe6O5HQP.html
24-06-2020||India||Govt mismanaging border situation: Sonia Gandhi at CWC meeting||Accusing the government of engaging in “denials, disinformation and diversions” on Chinese “intrusions” in Indian territory and mismanaging the matter, and alleging that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement on the issue stood in contradiction to the positions of the ministry of defence and external affairs, the Congress has asked the government about steps being taken to ensure the restoration of status quo ante at the border. At a virtual meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party also strongly critiqued the government’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic — and said it had “abandoned” its responsibilities and had not unveiled a “coherent strategy”, even as the infection curve was rising “exponentially”. The main national opposition also accused the government of “profiteering” by “fleecing” citizens with the repeated increases in petrol and diesel prices. The meeting, chaired by party president Sonia Gandhi, was attended by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, former party chief Rahul Gandhi, all Congress chief ministers and senior leaders. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has rebutted the Congress’s criticism, and claimed that it was deriving “sadistic pleasure” from the India-China stand-off. In her opening remarks, Sonia Gandhi said, “It is said ‘misfortunes do not come singly’. India has been hit by a terrible economic crisis, a pandemic of huge proportions and, now, by a full-blown crisis on the borders with China. Much of each crisis is attributable to the mismanagement of the BJP-led NDA government and the wrong policies pursued by it.” She added that the cumulative effect was “widespread misery, fear, and danger to the security and territorial integrity of the country”. On the PM’s statement On China, the Congress president, while hoping for mature diplomacy and decisive leadership in protecting India’s territorial integrity, critiqued the PM for his statement on Friday that there was no (external) presence in Indian territory. The Prime Minister’s Office subsequently clarified that his remark pertained to the situation in the Galwan Valley, where 20 personnel of the Indian army were killed in clashed on June 15.Rahul Gandhi too critiqued the government on its China policy. He claimed that China had “brazenly” occupied Indian territory and accused the PM of destroying “our position” and betraying the army by accepting China’s position. “The Chinese can’t be permitted to get away with this unacceptable usurpation of our land.” He claimed that the PM had demolished the “institutional structure of Indian diplomacy”. Former PM Manmohan Singh told the CWC that the crisis on the border, which if not tackled firmly, can lead to a “serious” situation.A formal CWC resolution said, “The Prime Minister’s statement has had far reaching implications. He cannot allow his words to be used by the Chinese as a vindication of their position, when it is clear that the brazen transgressions into our territory were committed by them.” It added that for China to make “audacious claims” over Indian territory, including Galwan Valley, by resorting to “unilateral and unprovoked acts of transgression and incursion” could not be tolerated or accepted.The BJP hit back at the Congress for deriving “sadistic pleasure” from the ongoing India-China stand-off. “India has not surrendered an inch of its land, but the Congress has surrendered it shame,” BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said.“Why is the Congress deriving sadistic pleasure by showing that India is not performing well? It is not only worrying, but also indicates a conspiracy,” he said, claiming that the stand-off with China was a “legacy issue”.On the timing of the Congress’ critique, Sanjay Kumar, political analyst at the Centre for Study of Developing Societies (CSDS) said that both political parties had politicised the issue of national security. “I don’t consider it right that Congress is asking questions of government on China but this culture was started by BJP when it was in opposition. It didn’t start in last 6-7 days. There has been a deterioration in politics. We saw it in campaign and now in governance. Congress is also fighting its game for survival and they are looking for some opportunity to corner the BJP.”On Covid-19 management The Congress also put forth a detailed critique of the government’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic. While lauding Corona warriors, the party said it was “astonishing” that the government had not unveiled a “coherent strategy” on “reducing fatalities, increasing testing, contact tracing and ensuring social distancing and safety for the most vulnerable population”. It alleged that there was no nationwide data on hospital beds and ventilators and that the PM-Cares fund was “severely under-utilised” and managed without transparency.The party demanded that the government cap prices of treatment in private hospitals, ensure price control and easy availability of drugs, and impose penalties on defaulting insurance companies. Sonia Gandhi said within weeks of the coronavirus lockdown, it was apparent that the government was totally unprepared to manage its fallout. “The result was the greatest humanitarian crisis witnessed since 1947-48. Millions of migrant workers, daily wage earners and self-employed were devastated. 130 million jobs are estimated to have been lost. Crores of MSMEs have been shut, perhaps forever,” Gandhi claimed. She added that a sliding economy is now hurtling toward a recession for the first time in 42 years. “I am afraid there will be high unemployment, falling incomes and wages, and lower investment.”The BJP dismissed the criticism on the governments management of the pandemic. Patra said, “It is unfortunate that the Congress is doing politics of misfortune. India is capable to fight ‘C’ for Corona, ‘C’ for China and of course ‘C’ for conspiracies of Congress as well. We can fight all this and let me assure you India will emerge victorious of all the misfortunes that Sonia Gandhi was talking about.”On fuel pricesThe Congress also raised the issue of the fuel price hike, with the party president saying that the government had added “insult to injury by mercilessly” raising petrol and diesel prices for 17 consecutive days, at a time when world prices of crude have fallen. In a resolution, the CWC said this unjustly enriched the government at the cost of people “struggling with rising unemployment, deep income shortfalls and significant salary cuts”. It demanded a rollback of the hike and passing the benefit of low oil prices directly to citizens. The Congress is planning a nationwide agitation on the issue after oil companies on Tuesday hiked auto fuel rates for the 17th day in a row by 20 paise a litre and 55 paise respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-mismanaging-border-situation-sonia-at-cwc-meeting/story-pQmM2N2SBt49FQjuku8kJI.html
24-06-2020||India||H-1B visa holders anxious after decision||Vikram Desai, an information technology (IT) professional on an H-1B visa cleared for a Green Card, says that when he and his wife first heard of President Donald Trump’s order suspending work visas, they panicked.“We have parents in the high-risk category of those vulnerable to Covid-19 and our first thoughts were that if one of us had to leave the US for India ,we may not be able to return until the end of the year,” he said. His H-1B visa has expired and he is on extension, which is being granted easily by US authorities in view of the Covid-19 restrictions and lockdowns. But if he or his wife were to travel to India or anywhere out of the US, they will be unable to return without getting their passports stamped with renewed visas.That was already a problem with consular operations closed at US missions, and now with the suspension until the end of the year, it’s even worse.“It feels just safer to stay in the US,” Desai said, adding, “things are so uncertain at this time.”Many Indians on H-1B or in line for Green Cards are stranded in India already because of the suspension of commercial flights. They have begun to make their way back, slowly.“This is a Hindu Ban much like the Muslim Ban,” said one of those impacted by the suspension, referring to the controversial ban imposed on the entry of people from some Muslim majority countries by Trump early on in his presidency, which remains in force, in a version diluted by legal challenges.This person may have actually meant an “India ban”, not a Hindu ban, because Indians, irrespective of their religion, have been the largest beneficiaries of the suspended H-1Bs and H-4 visas, which are given to spouses of H-1B visa-holders cleared for the Green Card. It allows the spouses to work.Indians are the largest beneficiaries of both H-1Bs (more than 70% of the annual 85,000) and H-4 (for spouses and unmarried children). Indians accounted for 93% of the 126,853 H-4 EAD (employment authorization document) applications approved till December 2017, according to a study by the Congressional Research Service, a non-partisan provider of data and analysis to US congress, based on numbers from the USCIS.This is because the queue for Green Cards is the longest for Indians; current waiting time is statistically estimated to be over 100 years. H-4 was introduced by President Barack Obama in 2015 as an incentive for these Green Card hopefuls. The Trump administration wants to rescind it.Pramila Jayapal, the Indian American congresswoman who led a joint appeal by lawmakers to the administration to not cancel H-4, slammed Trump’s new order in a post on Twitter: “For months, Trump has been desperately trying to do anything to open the country back up and return to ‘normal’. EXCEPT for those who are immigrants seeking to contribute to this country,” she wrote, and added, “We must defeat Trump’s racist and white nationalist agenda.”But for some IT services companies that use H-1Bs to hire workers from India, or elsewhere, the Monday order was “not as bad as feared”.“I breathed a sigh of relief,,” said Deepali Khadakban, owner of New Jersey-based Precision Technologies. Based on news reports and speculation, the company expected a hike in H-1B visa processing fee, which is paid by the employer, a change in the qualification for H-1B, and an end of work authorization for graduates as part of their course.As of now, the suspension will only push the joining date for new hires coming from India, from October, the usual starting time, by a few months to December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/h-1b-visa-holders-anxious-after-decision/story-Ttw3WFBBEqcvjAt3X4uxlN.html
24-06-2020||India||China road projects changed course of rivers, expanded its territory: Nepal govt document||Massive road development projects in the Tibet Autonomous Region have resulted in rivers changing course and expanding China’s boundary into the northern territories of Nepal, according to a document from Nepal’s agriculture department.The document, accessed by Hindustan Times, said patches of Nepalese territory in several districts had been encroached on by China, and it cautioned Beijing could take over more territory in the north if the rivers continue to change course. The loss of Nepalese territory due to rivers changing course could run into “hundreds of hectares”, it said.“There is a high possibility that over the period of time, China may develop its Border Observation Post of Armed Police in those territories,” the document from the agriculture ministry’s survey department said.Nepal, which shares a boundary with China in the north, has 43 hills and mountains, from east to west, that act as the natural boundary between the two countries. The two sides have six check posts, essentially for trade.The survey department assessed that the changing course of 11 rivers had already cost Nepal 36 hectares, or 0.36 sq km, across the four districts of Humla, Rasuwa, Sindhupal chowk and Sankhuwasabha.The encroachment of 36 hectares by China was first reported to the KP Sharma Oli government last year.There were street protests after the loss of Nepalese territory to China emerged in the local media but the government, accused by Oli’s detractors of attempting to cosy up to China’s communist party, played down the encroachment by the Chinese and channelled the public outrage against India over new maps issued by New Delhi last November after the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir was split into two union territories.Oli went on to ramp up differences with India over Kalapani, Limpiyadhura and Lipulekh, spread over 330 sq km, in May after Chinese intervention helped him survive a rebellion within his party the previous month. That intervention, however, meant he had to scrap two ordinances promulgated just five days earlier.Oli seized the opportunity after defence minister Rajnath Singh opened an 80-km road that ends at Lipulekh pass on the border with Tibet.Analysts in New Delhi and Kathmandu believe Oli’s hard push for Nepal’s new political map was an effort to whip up ultra-nationalistic sentiments targeting India to consolidate his position in the government and the party. This is why, a diplomat in New Delhi said, didn’t inform Parliament before it voted on the map earlier this month that he had ignored an offer of dialogue between the foreign secretaries of the two countries.Instead, he gave parliamentarians the impression his government was forced to push the envelope since New Delhi had declined his offer for dialogue.New Delhi hardened its position after the map was cleared by Nepal’s Parliament this month, asserting it was for him to create a conducive atmosphere in case he is interested in bilateral dialogue on the boundary issue.Nepalese officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, questioned the veracity of the survey showing loss of land to the Chinese side and said such matters are handled by the survey department under the ministry of land reform and management.“Nepal and China have an agreed boundary and established protocols. The border has been completely mapped and there are pillars and established mechanisms for dealing with any issue that may arise,” said one of the people cited above.“There are also periodic inspections between the two sides and any issues that could crop up on the ground are dealt with by the two sides,” the person added.The officials acknowledged that Nepal and India are yet to reach a similar stage in their handling of the border, which is yet to be completely mapped.The Indian side said earlier this month that almost 98% of the 1,750-km land and riverine border between India and Nepal has been delineated and differences remain only in Kalapani sector in Uttarakhand and Susta sector in Bihar. ...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-road-projects-changed-course-of-rivers-expanded-its-territory-nepal-govt-document/story-NGEiAQc25H1oIcCXEgu4GI.html
24-06-2020||India||Lessons from 2014 standoff in focus as commanders agree to disengage||The disengagement process during a previous border standoff in the Ladakh involved a temporary ban on Indian and Chinese soldiers patrolling disputed areas along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), people familiar with that border dispute said on Tuesday.The three-week tense confrontation in Ladakh’s Chumar sector in 2014 may have lacked the aggression that has been witnessed during the current round of border tensions but it was a serious development as dominating the area where the standoff took place.The “mutual consensus to disengage from friction areas” along the LAC, reached during a marathon meeting between senior Indian and Chinese commanders , has turned the spotlight on how disengagement works.More than 1,000 troops Indian troops were eyeball to eyeball with an equal number of Chinese soldiers at the height of the Chumar standoff. “The soldiers from the two armies were barely five metres apart. When our helicopters dropped chocolates for our soldiers, the Chinese troops would also get some of the goodies. That’s how close they were,” said Lieutenant General (retd) DS Hooda, who was the Northern Army commander during the Chumar standoff.The final disengagement between the troops involved two steps, Hooda said. “After the modalities for disengagement were worked out, we were successful in getting the Chinese to retreat to their camp in Chepzi, which was five km away. We moved back to our camp. It wasn’t that complicated as there had been hardly any aggression from either side. In the second step, both sides agreed to a moratorium on patrolling disputed areas to avoid face-offs,” Hooda said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lessons-from-2014-standoff-in-focus-as-commanders-agree-to-disengage/story-9OQKTIpDBeJAkyaNTngAZO.html
24-06-2020||India||Largest beneficiary, India to be hit hard by overhaul||President Donald Trump on Monday extended the suspension of Green Cards till the end of the year and expanded it to cover non-immigrant work visas such as H-1B that go mostly to Indian professionals hired by both American companies such as Google, Microsoft and Amazon, and Indian IT services giants such as TCS, Wipro and Infosys. The president has also directed officials to separately overhaul the H-1B programme through a regulation at a later date to turn it merit-based by prioritizing highest paid applicants.Indians will be disproportionately impacted on both counts as the largest beneficiaries of the H-1B programme accounting for more than 70% of the 85,000 visas issued annually. Senior Trump administration officials said the suspended work visas included H-1B (H-4 is for spouses and unmarried children of H-1B visa-holders, and some of them with H-4 EAD are allowed to work, not all), H-2B for low skill workers, some categories of J visas for cultural and education workers and L-1 for intra-company transfers. They were intended to ensure Americans had the first shot at jobs in the aftermath of record job losses caused by Covid-19 related lockdowns, and are expected to free up 525,000 jobs.Opposition from the industry came swiftly. “Immigration has contributed immensely to America’s economic success, making it a global leader in tech, and also Google the company it is today,” Sundar Pichai, the head of Google and an immigrant from India, wrote on Twitter. He added: ’“Disappointed by today’s proclamation — we’ll continue to stand with immigrants and work to expand opportunity for all.”Amazon, which received more H-1Bs than any other company. in 2019, also slammed the Trump order. ““Preventing high skilled professionals from entering the country and contributing to America’s economic recovery puts American’s global competitiveness at risk,” the company said.For those at the receiving end of the order, it was frightening. Vikram Desai, an IT professional cleared for a Green Card, said he and his wife had looked at each other with dread when they first heard of the suspension order. “We have parents in the high-risk category of those vulnerable to Covid-19 and our first thoughts were that if one of us had to leave the US for India, we may not be able to return until the end of the year,” he said.Hundreds of Indians on H-1B or those approved for Green Cards have already been living away from their family or spouse for months now, stranded in India because of travel restrictions in force on either side, compounded by the closure of consular operations at US missions.Political observers linked the suspensions to Trump’s desire to seal the support of his base ahead of his re-election bid in November. Some conservatives have long viewed the work visa programmes, specially H-1B, as a threat for Americans, and Trump is tapping into it with these suspensions.Activists campaigning for a better deal for Indian H-1B visa holders in line for Green Card say an estimated 2 million Indians will be impacted by the suspensions, including H-1B visa holders, those waiting for their Green Cards and those on L-1. They claimed these were conservative estimates.Chinese are the second largest beneficiaries of these programmes, but they are already on notice from the Trump administration because of the coronavirus disease (which originated in China) .Equally significant with lasting impact for Indian professionals wanting to work in the United States and Indian IT services companies will be the permanent changes that the president is ordering, such as the way H-1B applicants are selected from among the hundreds of thousands that apply.The electronic lottery system, which is used to pick the 85,000 successful applicants from the total number of applicants that was three times more last year at 225,000, will now be replaced by a merit-based system that will prioritize the highest salaried applicants to “get the best and the brightest”, a senior Trump administration official told reporters in a background briefing ahead the issuance of the order.“So the top 85 (thousand) salary offers among the 225,000 or so applicants for those visas will get those visas,” the official added.President Trump has been calling for reforms in the H-1B visa programme to attract the best and brightest, echoing immigration hardliners who have argued that the present system is being abused to bring foreign workers on low wages to displace Americans, instead of attracting the really talented as its original mandate.The Trump administration will also seek to plug a “loophole” in the existing H-1B programme that allowed companies to hire foreign workers and then “domestically outsource” them to other companies, replacing their American workers. They do so by bypassing a rule prohibiting the hiring of a foreign worker if it directly led to the firing of an American worker. Outsourcing through a third-party system is critical to the business model of Indian IT services companies.The officials did not name any Indian companies, but did mention two American companies that have gone on to become controversial faces of this practice, Disney and AT&T. Most egregiously for the critics of this practice, Americans workers were forced to train the foreign workers who replaced them.“The President has instructed us to end that practice and will do so by regulation as soon as we possibly can,” said one of the officials who briefed reporters.The H-1B reforms will also include a change in the way the department of labor calculated prevailing wages so that foreign workers are in the upper end of the salary scale and don’t end up undercutting American workers. The labor department will also be empowered to investigate H-1B abuse.“Without regulatory language on changing the H-1B lottery to a system based on highest salary it is not possible to know whether such a regulation would be lawful and not struck down by a court,” said Stuart Andersen, whose non-partisan think tank National Foundation for American Policy closely tracks immigration issues, of the proposed changes in the H-1B selection system.The text or the timing of the regulation is not known.About the suspension of H-1B and other work visas, Andersen said, “it will encourage companies to conduct more work outside the United States and are much more likely to harm the US economic recovery than to aid it”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/largest-beneficiary-india-to-be-hit-hard-by-overhaul/story-L9WdsswOuktMhveqKGUweO.html
24-06-2020||India||Ladakh’s Pangong Fingers emerge as key focal point in India-China talks||While a “mutual consensus to disengage” from “all friction areas” along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) was reached during a meeting between Indian and Chinese commanders on Monday, it is the restoration of status quo ante in the Finger Area on the north bank of Ladakh’s Pangong Tso lake that will determine the success of efforts to cool tensions along the contested border, officials and China watchers said on Tuesday.The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has set up permanent bunkers, pillboxes and observation posts between Fingers Four and Eight and getting it to pull down those structures and move back to their original positions at Finger Eight will be the toughest part of the disengagement process, said an official asking not to be named.The Finger Area refers to a set of eight cliffs jutting out of the Sirijap range that overlooks the Pangong lake. Before Chinese forces occupied vantage positions on Finger Four in early May, Indian Army soldiers would patrol right up to Finger Eight, which New Delhi considers to be its territory, said another official asking not to be named. The new Chinese positions have restricted the scope of Indian patrols. Fingers Four and Eight are eight kilometers apart. Satellite imagery shows that several of these positions came up after the current round of border tensions erupted on May 5-6.The Indian claim line in this sector extends to Finger Eight, while the Chinese claim is up to Finger Four till where PLA has constructed a vehicle track.“Getting PLA to pull back from Finger Four to Finger Eight will be a huge challenge. Their intentions can be discerned from their military posturing in the sector and the new positions and structures that have come up,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd).The army is concerned about PLA’s presence in the Finger Area, especially its activities between Finger Four and Finger Eight over the last seven weeks. “It is not just about the Finger Area. You could next see PLA creating the same situation in Depsang, Chumar, Demchok and areas in the eastern sector on the basis of their perception of the border,” Hooda said.The Finger Area was the only sector, where limited disengagement did not begin after the two sides reached an understanding to implement a de-escalation plan to ease rising tensions along the border during a meeting between senior Indian and Chinese commanders. The area has been at the centre of the weeks-long border standoff between India and China that has plunged the bilateral relationship to a new low.“The PLA has entrenched itself in the Finger Area. It will be the biggest challenge that the disengagement process will encounter,” said Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd), a former director-general of military operations. The modalities for disengagement from all friction areas were discussed at the meeting between senior Indian and Chinese commanders at Moldo on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pangong-fingers-emergeas-key-focal-point-in-talks/story-56NXogfl2qGTY4YpvV7NYP.html
24-06-2020||India||Two Covid-19 deaths in two days darken Goa’s mood, CM says nothing to worry||Two Covid-19 deaths in two days have sent shockwaves through Goa, which until Sunday had maintained a perfect record of zero deaths despite mounting coronavirus cases. On Sunday, an 85-year old bed-ridden man became Goa’s first Covid-19 casualty followed by a 58-year old man’s death. The latter had underlying heart conditions that aggravated his condition. Chief minister Pramod Sawant, however, sought to allay fears that the number of deaths would increase in the coming days. “Barring the two persons who have died, all the rest in Covid hospital are stable,” Sawant said while speaking to reporters on Monday. Goa’s coronavirus count mounted to 902 with the addition of 45 new cases on Monday, one less than the 46 cases recorded on Sunday and 19 less than the 64 cases registered on Saturday. The recent spate in Covid-19 infections has resulted in 462 cases per million ratio for Goa, the fourth highest in the country behind Ladakh, Delhi and Maharashtra. A former health minister, too, was found positive for the disease and moved to the Covid-19 Hospital on Monday night; his condition is said to be stable. 90% of Goa’s 705 cases have been registered in the month of June with the daily growth rate now comparable with much larger states.Goa’s 30-40 cases per day puts it in the same league as Jharkhand, which averaged around 60 cases per day and Chhattisgarh, averaging around 49 cases a day.Goa has, however, conducted a lot more tests, nearly 55,000, amounting to 30,000 tests per million people. Besides a dedicated Covid-19 Hospital, Goa has six Covid care centres where asymptomatic patients -- who make up around 95% of Goa’s all cases -- are being treated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-covid-19-deaths-in-two-days-darken-goa-s-mood-cm-says-nothing-to-worry/story-CGYdJsSo5WgB0tP72EWrBL.html
24-06-2020||India||Lucknow for me is a food heaven: Boloram Das||Actor from Guwahati, Assam, Boloram Das believes in striving hard to achieve success. “Neither I have nor I ever will ever shy away from working hard to make a mark. I come from a very humble background where every penny counted, so taking up acting was just beyond comprehension for my family. I was only ten when I went to a local ‘natak mandli’ and I remember they asked for Rs 20 for a month. How I managed those rupees is another story altogether, but from next month they let me join them for free as I was a very eager and hard-working kid,” said the actor.Reaching NSD (National School of Drama) was not an easy task for Boloram. “After being part of Kingdom of Dreams in Delhi for long I shifted my base to Mumbai in 2013. Luckily, I got an ad with none other than Amitabh (Bachchan) sir and it actually did make me stand out. Then I acted in numerous episodes of ‘Crime Patrol’ and got roles in films like ‘Badlapur Boys,’ ‘Haider’ and ‘Ok Jaanu,’ ‘Gabbar is Back’. I never thought of any role as big or small for me every role matter as I knew this will keep me in picture,” he said.For Boloram language has been no bar, telling more about this, he said, “Though I came from different language zone and my diction of Hindi was never that good. So, I knew that I have to overcome this and because of this I took up a job of a salesman so I get to move around in the city, meet people and just talk and talk. That actually helped me a lot. Today, I am comfortable in Hindi completely.”The diligent actor was in Lucknow in the beginning of the year to shoot for a film with actor Richa Chadha in lead. “The film, ‘Madam Chief Minister,’ has an ensemble cast and I am playing an important character. We all had a great time shooting there. Lucknow for me is a heaven of food. Being an Assamese I love non-vegetarian delicacies and the city of nawabs has a range of Mughlai dishes to savour on. I wish to come back and eat all that tasty stuff again.”With the ongoing crisis the film awaits a release. “It’s really tough time for the films that are all ready to release. Also, my next film ‘Om’ and another untitled film too are both complete. Seeing the current trend, we actors don’t mind a release on OTT as that is the best available option for now.” With his industry friends from various departments and his wife-actor Tina, he has come up with short film ‘Conditions Apply’ which got good appreciation on the digital platform.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow-for-me-is-a-food-heaven-boloram-das/story-E9NQi1645SWxhVujfJTqtK.html
24-06-2020||India||Saudi bans foreign pilgrims for Haj, Indians won’t attend||India announced on Tuesday that it will not send pilgrims for the annual Haj pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia because of the Covi-19 pandemic.Union minister for minority affairs. Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said money collected for application from more than 230,000 pilgrims will be returned without cancellation deductions through direct transfer. The decision was taken after Saudi Arabia’s haj and umrah minister Mohammad Saleh bin Taher Benten asked India not to send pilgrims this year, he told reporters.“Honouring the decision of the Saudi Arabia government in view of serious challenges of Corona pandemic and keeping in mind the health and well-being of the people, it has been decided that Muslims from India will not go to Saudi Arabia to perform Haj,” the minister said. The Saudi Arabian government said it will place restrictions on foreign arrival for the Haj this year and allow only a limited number of Saudi citizens to make the pilgrimage with social distancing measures.“2.3 lakh applications had been received for Haj 2020. The process has been started today to immediately refund the full amount of money deposited by the applicant is without any deductions. The money will be refunded through online DBT mode into bank accounts of the applicants,” Naqvi tweeted.In 2018, the Union government allowed single woman to undertake the pilgrimage without a male escort. Around 2,300 women applied to perform Haj without a male companion this year and they will be allowed in 2021 on the basis of their application this year.Some 2.5 million pilgrims typically visit the holiest sites of Islam in Mecca and Medina for the week-long Haj, a once-in-a-lifetime duty for every able-bodied Muslim. Haj is due to start by the end of July.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saudi-bans-foreign-pilgrims-for-haj-indians-won-t-attend/story-ZupCDo8DqaDglmygBlLRZK.html
24-06-2020||India||MP trader misused passes in lockdown, police probe on||The Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) said it has unearthed an alleged goods and services tax (GST) evasion of over Rs 500 crore by chewing tobacco (pan masala and gutka) manufacturers, dealers, and distributors in Indore. Kishore Wadhwani, a trader who has been named one of the main accused in the case, allegedly used his media outlet to obtain curfew passes which were misused to transport gutka and cigarettes during the Covid-19 lockdown when only the transportation of essential goods was allowed, officials said on Tuesday. DGGI said in a statement that Wadhwani was arrested on June 15 and has been remanded to custody until June 30 in Indore. He has been booked for allegedly making fraudulent bills and using press stickers obtained from the district administration on vehicles used to transport gutka and tobacco, an official investigating the matter said on condition of anonymity.In the statement, DGGI’s Bhopal unit added that searches were conducted on the premises of gutka and tobacco dealers and distributors from June 9 to June 12, leading to the seizure of stocked non-GST paid pan masala and tobacco. The statement said the raids led to the detection of an estimated GST evasion of Rs 400 crore. “One of the masterminds and financial beneficiaries of the pan masala/tobacco GST evasion, who was arrested from Mumbai on June 15, was also found involved in manufacture and supply of cigarettes from a unit named M/s Ellora Tobacco Company Limited, Indore.”The statement said the unit has paid only Rs 3.55 crore over the last two financial years as GST. “Investigations conducted by DGGI has unearthed a major tax/ duty/ cess evasion estimated to be about Rs 105 crore only for the period from April 2019 to May 2020.” The statement added: “Hence the total revenue evasion, which would be clear only after completion of the investigation, is suspected to be multiple times higher. The tax evasion syndicate, in this case, involves directors of the company, transporters, supporting manufacturers, and raw material suppliers.”The statement said a number of accused were absconding and have not joined DGGI investigations. It added that a search at a factory of the company revealed a secret exit used to bring in unaccounted raw materials and toship out finished goods.The statement said DGGI located one of the clandestine and unregistered godowns used by the alleged tax evaders. It added there could be several other such undeclared godowns in and around Indore.The statement said Wadhwani started a media company and allegedly used it to “book fictitious advertising” to show income. DGGI additional director, PL Singh, declined comment and said he has nothing to add to the statement.Indore collector, Manish Singh, said the district administration issued passes to 500-600 traders during the lockdown but has nothing to do with any taxation.Wadhwani’s lawyer, Avinash M Sirpurkar, rejected the allegations against his client. “I am unable to understand how DGGI could unearth such a huge tax evasion during just five days of his remand. The charges regarding tax evasion against Wadhwani are completely baseless. Even if it is presumed that he indulged in tax evasion, it is a civil law matter related to GST, but Wadhwani was booked under the Indian Penal Code over alleged bills and press stickers just to harass him.”(With input from Neha Jain in Indore)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-trader-misused-passes-in-lockdown-police-probe-on/story-TVo5y1KLxB2E0p498gR7AK.html
24-06-2020||India||ICMR expands norms to enable rapid antibody, antigen testing||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Tuesday expanded the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) testing norms, advising that all hospitals, offices and public sector units be enabled to conduct rapid antibody tests, and recommending the deployment of rapid antigen tests in all containment zones, and hospitals and private labs across the state.While the antibody-based test can be used as a surveillance method to check if a person was infected by the Sars-CoV-2 virus at some point, tests through new “antigen” devices can be carried out on-site and provide results within 30 minutes. The rapid antigen tests were recently deployed in Delhi and have been hailed by experts for speeding up the test-trace-isolate process.“It is advised to enable all government and private Hospitals, offices, public sector units etc. to perform the antibody-based testing. This will help in allaying the fear and anxiety of health care workers, office employees etc..,” a statement released by ICMR said.“ICMR recommends deployment of the rapid antigen PoC (point of care) test in the following settings: i) All containment zones identified by the State Governments, ii) All Central & State Government Medical Colleges and Government hospitals, iii) All private hospitals approved by National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare (NABH), iv) All private labs accredited by National Accreditation Board for Laboratories (NABL) and approved by ICMR as COVID-19 testing labs,” India’s apex biomedical research body said.The private sector welcomed the move. “We had raised the issue that we needed some clarity on whether we can perform antibody and antigen based tests. It’s good to know that government has come out with a revised advisory as it will be important to know how many have had exposure to the virus, especially in the health care sectors,” said Dr Anupam Sibal, group medical director, Apollo Hospitals. Speaking about the efficacy of the rapid antigen test, Dr Navin Dang said: “Antigen testing is point of care testing for time is of essence in conducting an antigen based test. It has to be done within an hour so if offices or other places have been allowed which means booths will have to be set-up on site itself. It is doable but modalities will have to be worked out so as to not compromise the sanctity of a sample.”An antigen is a molecule that induces an immune response within the body, especially the production of antibodies, and detecting its presence determines a present infection. Antigen-based tests ensure rapid diagnosis and they take about 30 minutes to present results, as opposed to nearly six hours taken by the RT-PCR test. It is a point-of-care test and does not require specialised laboratory facilities in terms of equipment, biosafety and biosecurity. It can be read through the naked eye without any specialised equipment.The research body said that all the positive results for any kind of Covid-19 test must be registered. “All data of testing needs to be entered into the ICMR portal on a real time basis…,” the advisory said.ICMR said in its statement that in an effort to ramp up testing capacity in the country, it has approved a total of 1,000 Covid-19 testing labs in public (730) and private (270) sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-expands-norms-to-enable-rapid-antibody-antigen-testing/story-z7NWa16AV312NmifuWWMOJ.html
24-06-2020||India||Govt asks Patanjali to stop ads of Covid drug||The Union government has demanded clarification from Patanjali Ayurved, the company promoted by Baba Ramdev, over its claim of having developed a cure for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), and asked it to stop advertising the product till the claim is verified. The company announced its discovery in a press conference and Ramdev, a popular yoga guru, followed it up with a spate of interview to TV channels extolling the benefits of the cure, which, if it holds up to scientific scrutiny , will be the first of its kind in the world. “Facts of the claim and details of the stated scientific study are not known to the Ministry… Patanjali Ayurved Ltd has been asked to provide at the earliest details of the name and composition of the medicines being claimed for COVID treatment; site(s)/hospital(s), where the research study was conducted for Covid-19; protocol, sample size, Institutional Ethics Committee clearance, Clinical Trials Registry- India registration and results data of the study (ies)…,” said the ministry of Ayush (Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy) in a statement on Tuesday.According to Patanjali, the products have been made in association with privately-owned National Institute of Medical Science, Jaipur. The company also claimed the medicines cleared a clinical trial in several cities including Delhi, Ahmedabad and Meerut and the RCT (Randomized Clinical Trial) controlled with placebo at the Jaipur-based National Institute of Medical Sciences & Research. To be sure, no clinical testing data was released by the company. The approvals for manufacturing and marketing for the drugs named Coronil and Swasari have likely come from the licensing authority of Uttarakhand government, which is the state licensing authority for Patanjali in Haridwar. The Centre has asked the Uttarakhand government for details and also ordered Patanjali to stop advertising the products. “…and stop advertising/publicizing such claims till the issue is duly examined. Ministry has also requested concerned State Licensing Authority of Uttrakhand Government to provide copies of license and product approval details of the Ayurvedic medicines being claimed for the treatment of COVID -19,” the statement further read.In a press briefing held on Tuesday morning, Ramdev announced that its new drugs Coronil and Swasari will cure Covid-19, and that it has been proved through clinical trials. “We conducted a clinical case study and clinical controlled trial, and found 69 per cent patients recovered in three days and 100 patients recovered in seven days,” he said.The Ayush ministry has also warned Patanjali to stop misleading advertising till the results are verified.“The concerned Ayurvedic drug manufacturing company has been informed that such advertisements of drugs including Ayurvedic medicines are regulated under the provisions of Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act, 1954 and Rules there under and the directives issued by the Central Government in the wake of COVID outbreak. Ministry had also issued a Gazette Notification dated 21st April, 2020 stating the requirements and the manner the research studies on COVID-19 with Ayush interventions/medicines should be undertaken.”An official in the Ayush ministry, on condition of anonymity said, “The central ministry wasn’t involved in the process, as health is a state subject the state regulators have the powers to grant approvals. The claim, however, needs to be verified now that it has come to our notice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-asks-patanjali-to-stop-ads-of-covid-drug/story-zPdLluK7AXOngR2Jn0qKWO.html
24-06-2020||India||Cheap steroid first life-saving drug in Covid fight, says study||The cheap and widely available steroid drug dexamethasone can save one in three critically ill coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients , according to the much awaited results of a scientific scrutiny by the University of Oxford published in a pre-print journal on Monday.Dexamethasone, a low-dose steroid that is manufactured in India and costs a few rupees, has been used for 60 years to treat inflammatory diseases and sceptic shock. India has approved the use glucocorticoid, which is another steroid with similar action, to treat critically ill Covid-19 patients in intensive care units (ICUs) who need ventilatory support. Results from the UK’s RECOVERY (Randomised Evaluation of COVid-19 thERapY) trial show the steroid reduced death by a third in hospitalised Covid-19 patients who needed invasive ventilator support to help them breathe, and by a fifth in those who needed oxygenation but not ventilation, when given as a 6mg dose per day for up to 10 days.Dexamethadose is the first treatment to prevent death from Covid-19. “Although (the antiviral) remdesivir has been shown to shorten the time to recovery in hospitalised patients, no therapeutic agents have been shown to reduce mortality,” said the report, published in medRxiv, a preprint server that publishes scientific studies before peer review to inform potentially lifesaving decisions.Both remdesivir and dexamethasone are manufactured in India.“The data is conclusive for moderately and severely sick ICU patients, especially for those very sick on ventilators. The drug will also be useful for those with difficulty breathing that needs oxygen constantly, despite proning,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India, and an independent expert on the World Health Organisation’s Global Executive Group of the Steering Committee on Solidarity trial.Proning refers to patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome who are asked to lie flat on their stomach with the chest down and the back up (prone position) during mechanical ventilation to improve oxygenation and reduce mortality.Scientists say Covid-19 is associated with diffuse lung damage, which makes corticosteroid an effective drug to help modulate immune-mediated lung injury and reduce its progression to respiratory failure and death.“I would generalise and say that as of now, our most effective strategy is in reducing the inflammatory response in the later stages of Covid-19. Steroids like dexamethasone seem to be partially effective. Other steroids (glucocorticoids) are already being used in India during this phase of the disease. Now there is evidence for effectiveness, which is important. I do not expect a difference between dexamethasone or other glucocorticoids at equivalent doses,” said Dr Anurag Agrawal, director, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi.The Oxford group announced preliminary findings on June 16 in a press release, instead of a medical journal, which were welcomed by WHO but criticised by some as “science by press release” because the findings were announced without the trial data being shared for scientific scrutiny. RECOVERY halted the dexamethasone arm of the trial on June 8 after the drug showed significant benefits in a sufficient number of patients.The RECOVERY trial, which enrolled 11,500 patients from at least 175 hospitals in the UK in March to test a range of potential treatments for Covid-19, last month suspended the hydroxychloroquine arm of the trial after it found the anti-malaria drug did not benefit patients.Dexamethasone, however, was not found to benefit hospitalised Covid-19 patients not receiving respiratory support, with “results consistent with possible harm in this group,” according to the RECOVERY trial data.“The important caution is that it would worsen the disease if used too early,” said Dr Agarwal.WHO on Monday called for a rapid increase in the production of the steroid. “Although the data is still preliminary, the recent findings that the steroid dexamethasone has life-saving potential for critically ill Covid-19 patients gave us a much-needed reason to celebrate,” WHO director-general Dr Adhanom Ghebreyesus Tedros said at the health agency’s daily virtual briefing on Monday.“The next challenge is to increase production and rapidly and equitably distribute dexamethasone worldwide, focusing on where it is needed most. Demand has already surged, following the UK trial results showing dexamethasone’s clear benefit,” he added. WHO also cautioned that dexamethasone must only be used for patients with severe or critical disease, under close clinical supervision. “There is no evidence that the drug works for patients with mild disease or as a preventative measure, and it could cause harm,” said Dr Tedros.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cheap-steroid-first-life-saving-drug-in-covid-fight-says-study/story-hybZueMT9lv8I1CsiTYmiP.html
24-06-2020||India||Puri Jagannath Rath Yatra begins||For the first time in its history, the famous Rath Yatra of the Jagannath temple in Puri, Odisha, began on Tuesday morning with priests pulling the three colourful chariots of the presiding deities in the absence of the tens of thousands of devotees who typically throng the town every year for the annual event.Around 1,500 priests of the iconic 12th century temple milled around the wooden chariots which they started pulling from the main temple to the Gundicha temple amid the beating of cymbals and drums in praise of the resident deities: Lord Jagannath, Lord Balabhadra and Goddess Subhadra. The pulling of the chariots -- Nandighosh, Taladwaja and Darpadalana -- is the main ritual of the festival. It was performed by the priests who had been tested for Covid-19 on Monday.The Supreme Court on Monday allowed the conduct of the Rath Yatra, recalling its June 18 order that prohibited the event, but laid down strict conditions, including a ban on pubic attendance and the imposition of a curfew in Puri during the festivities.  The festival was telecast on Doordarshan. The erstwhile King of Puri, Gajapati Dibyasingha Deb, who is also the first servitor of the Lord, performed the Chhera Panhara, a ritual sweeping of the chariots, before they were pulled by the priests. “It’s hard to imagine Rath Yatra without devotees on Badadanda (Grand Road). But Lord Jagannath stepped out of temple for the whole universe,” said Deb. Puri Govardhan Peeth Shankaracharya Nischalananda Saraswati paid obeisance to the deities atop the chariots along with his disciples.Until Monday afternoon, uncertainty clouded the Rath Yatra as a three-judge bench of the apex court led by chief justice SA Bobde heard dozens of intervention petitions seeking recall of the court’s June 18 order that stayed the festival over fears of a mass congregation amid the coronavirus disease pandemic. For a few days, it seemed that the Rath Yatra would not be held for the first time in 285 years.The judges on Monday afternoon reversed their decision after an appeal by the petitioners as well as an affidavit by the state and the Centre arguing that the event had been held continuously for centuries, and even in 1918, when the world was in the grip of the Spanish flu. The apex court agreed to allow the festival subject to conditions. Since Tuesday morning, the district administration disinfected the 2.5 km long road from the main temple to Gundicha temple ahead of the pulling of chariots. From 9 pm Monday, the police enforced a curfew around the holy town restricting anyone’s entry or exit for the following 41 hours. “We have mobilised 50 platoons of forces in Puri with two primary objectives – smooth and incident-free movement / pulling of the chariots from origin to destination and restricting entry of unauthorised persons into the town,” said state director general of police (DGP) Abhay, who goes by one name.The devotees, who are an intrinsic part of the festival, remained glued to TV sets as Doordarshan telecast the proceedings live. “It’s all the wish of Lord Jagannath. I am happy with the decision of the Supreme Court. I will see my Lord after the lockdown is over,” said Binapani Mallik, a housewife in Bhubaneswar.“After the SC order last week, I had given up hope. But I knew that the Lord of Universe would perform a miracle to come out on the road and show his face to his millions of devotees,” said Prabodh Mishra, a septuagenarian.On Monday, 1,143 servitors of the temple were tested for Covid-19 and one tested positive. The servitor who tested positive was shifted to a Covid hospital before the beginning of the Rath Yatra rituals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puri-jagannath-rath-yatra-begins/story-PR5eYbVKQS2xVxZHA92fPK.html
24-06-2020||India||US puts restrictions on Vande Bharat Mission flights||The US administration has imposed restrictions  on Air India’s repatriation flights for Indians stranded in the United States in the aftermath of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, saying the Indian government has been engaging in discriminatory treatment of American airlines by barring them from operating similar flights. India said it was studying requests by other countries, including the US, to operate such flights.An order issued by the US department of transport on Monday said the directive would take effect in 30 days. The order said the US had taken the action after Indian authorities didn’t address American concerns about “restrictive and discriminatory treatment of US carriers” that were first raised on May 19.The order said Air India will have to file applications for authorisation for repatriation flights at least 30 days before the date of the proposed flight.   “We have received requests from concerned authorities in several countries including the US, France, Germany among others requesting that their air carriers be allowed to participate in the transportation of passengers along the line being conducted by Air India under Vande Bharat Mission. These requests are being examined,” he civil aviation ministry said in a statement.“We have also had one round of negotiations with US on 15 June 2020 with representatives of US Department of Transportation and US Embassy on this issue. They were invited to submit precise proposals in this respect. A communication has now been received on 19 June, 2020 detailing these requests.” “As we move from controlled and managed aviation evacuation of our citizens in different parts of the world and foreign nationals from India, we are now looking at the possibility of establishing bilateral arrangements... As we contemplate further opening up in response to demands, we are looking at the prospect of establishing individual bilateral bubbles, India-US, India-France, India-Germany, India-UK. These are all destinations where demand for travel has not diminished. Final decisions pursuant to negotiations are expected to be taken soon,” the statement added.India plans to operate a total of 96 flights to various cities in the US between June 12 and July 2 under the third phase of the Vande Bharat Mission, the country’s largest repatriation programme for Indian nationals stranded abroad because of the Covid-19 pandemic. These flights won’t be affected by the order.India significantly ramped up flights to the US and Canada in the second and third phases of the Vande Bharat Mission to being back stranded citizens, including students and professionals who lost their jobs because of the economic fallout of the pandemic.The US order said Air India was being notified that it “will be required, effective 30 days after the service date of this Order, to obtain prior approval from the Department…before operating any Third- and/or Fourth-Freedom charter flights to or from the United States”.“We are taking this action because the Government of India (GoI) has impaired the operating rights of US carriers and has engaged in discriminatory and restrictive practices with respect to US carrier services to and from India,” it said.Air India is currently the only foreign air carrier from India that has authorisation from the US department of transport to operate flights to and from the US with its own aircraft and crew. Air India’s permit authorises it to fly scheduled and chartered flights.The order contended that the Indian side imposed restrictions that prevent US carriers from making full use of charter rights as they have been barred from conducting passenger charter operations “involving direct sales to individual passengers or through other distribution systems”. It added that the US hasn’t placed any limitations on Air India’s charter operations.Air India has been conducting repatriation flights to the US since May 18. “On May 19, 2020, an official from the Department [of transport] advised Air India of the Department’s concerns that some, if not all, of Air India’s so-called evacuation charters have gone beyond true evacuations (at least on the India to the United States segments) and involved sales to any member of the general public able to enter the United States,” the order said.Delta Air Lines sought permission from India on May 26 to perform repatriation charter services but has not received approval, the order said. The order also accused Air India of using the repatriation charter flights “as a way of circumventing the GoI-imposed prohibition of all scheduled services” since March 25.“This situation, in which Indian airlines are permitted to perform services pursuant to their rights under the Agreement while US carriers are not, creates a competitive disadvantage for US carriers vis-à-vis Indian carriers...,” it said, adding the US embassy had first registered its objections with the Indian government on May 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-puts-restrictions-on-vande-bharat-mission-flights/story-9Qp4aVmAVQKOVZTzX65tJM.html
24-06-2020||India||Mumbai reports only 824 new cases in 24 hours, lowest in last 40 days||Mumbai recorded 824 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, the lowest in the last 40 days, taking the tally of coronavirus infected in the maximum city to 68,410 and the death toll in the city reached 3,844 with the addition of 107 fatalities reported on Tuesday. Active Covid 19 cases in Mumbai stand at 29,982.Maharashtra on the other hand, kept the trend of reporting more than 3,000 Covid -19 cases per day as seen for the entire last week, by recording 3,214 new infections on Tuesday, taking the state tally to 1,39,010 with 62,833 active cases.The worst affected Indian state by Covid-19, also reported 248 deaths on Tuesday, including 75 registered in the last 48 hours and the remaining being backlogged from the last few weeks. The addition has taken the state death toll to 6,531 and the case fatality rate to 4.69%. The recovery rate, however, has improved to 50.09% with the discharge of a total of 69,631 patients till date. The data was released by the state health department on Tuesday.The additional 1,328 deaths added last Tuesday on account of reconciliation of past data, made the death toll in the state jump by 2,403 in the last eight days. This resulted in the case fatality rate zooming to 4.69% on Tuesday from 3.79% on June 15. The positivity rate in the state has risen multifold over the last few weeks. It was 27.45 % on Monday, an increase of close to 5 percentage points from 22.49 % recorded a month ago on May 22, and over 21% more than the meager 6.06% recorded on April 22. The positivity rate in Mumbai, too, has seen a rising trend. From 8.67% on April 21, the positivity rate in the metropolitan increased to 27.9% on May 21 and 27.5% on June 21. Also Read: 40,300 cyber attacks in the last 4-5 days from China, more coming: Maharashtra cyber departmentThe test positivity rate is the percentage of tests that turn out to be positive for SARS-CoV-2. Maharashtra has so far conducted 7.87 lakhs tests, including 2.92 lakh in Mumbai alone. Dr Avinash Supe, former KEM dean and member of the expert committee appointed by the state to recommend steps to curb the spread said, “As per the ICMR guidelines the tests are being performed on the symptomatic cases and hence the rate naturally ought to be high. When the tests are done for all contacts, the positivity rate is low.”When asked if the high positivity rate is an indication of the community transmission, Dr Supe said, “It is a controversial subject, some epidemiologists say it’s already begun, some say no it hasn’t. The possibility of it (having begun) is high, but it is the matter of research by scientists and experts.” He added that though the case fatality rate is high, it is still within limits and barring a few areas, the situation in Mumbai is improving. Also Read: Ajit Pawar says there could a sharp rise in Covid cases in MaharashtraHowever, experts also point out that the high positivity rate also indicates that the state is only testing the sick and not casting the net wide to know if the virus is spreading within communities. 6,05,141 people are currently home quarantined in the state, while 26,572 patients are under institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-reports-only-824-new-cases-in-24-hours-lowest-in-last-40-days/story-yYZvHpBgmviH4qpz49YCNL.html
24-06-2020||India||TMC under fire after alleged corruption in cyclone relief sparks violence||Violence was reported from two places in West Bengal following allegations of corruption in distribution of compensation for those affected by cyclone Amphan, police said Tuesday.The allegations of corruption were raised against local Trinamool Congress (TMC) panchayat leaders.A panchayat office and the home of a TMC leader were ransacked by the party’s supporters at Sagar in South 24 Parganas district on Monday morning while the office of the community block development officer (BDO) at Deganga in the adjoining North 24 Parganas district was vandalised late in the night.Fifteen people, including some college students, were arrested in Deganga on charges of vandalism and blocking Taki Road, the main highway in the area, for several hours, police said.Samit Mondal, inspector-in-charge of Deganga police station said, “Five of the accused were sent to police remand by the local court this afternoon. They have been charged with destruction of public property, including police vehicles, blocking roads and assaulting people. They are being brought to the police station for questioning.”In both incidents, villagers alleged that the sum of Rs 20,000 that the state government has sanctioned for repairing damaged houses was being given to people who are close to the ruling party and whose homes did not suffer any damage. They also alleged that people were not getting work under the MNREGA projects.“The violence at Deganga was planned and perpetrated by Naxalite elements with help from the BJP. Two TMC panchayat samity members were assaulted,” said state food and supplies minister and TMC district president Jyotipriyo Mullick. “The agitation had no link with politics. Many of us are supporters of TMC as well,” said Waziruddin Mullick, a local villager. BJP’s Bengal unit chief Dilip Ghosh alleged that thousands of TMC panchayat leaders are involved in corruption and this began with distribution of free ration during the Covid-19 lockdown.“People are revolting now because they have run out of patience. The food minister’s allegations against the BJP are baseless,” Ghosh told the media on Tuesday.“We witnessed looting of ration during the lockdown. Now it has spread to relief work in Amphan-hit districts,” said Sujan Chakraborty, CPI(M) legislator and leader of the Left parties in the state Assembly.Referring to the incident at Sagar in South 24 Parganas, Sunderbans affairs minister Manturam Pakhira said the administration would look into the allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-under-fire-after-alleged-corruption-in-cyclone-relief-sparks-violence/story-0cwD8iTWtKMCk5cxRZxU8N.html
24-06-2020||India||‘All parameters met’: Patanjali claims Coronil clinical trial details furnished to Centre||A senior functionary associated with yoga guru Ramdev has claimed that the Central government has been provided with all the necessary details of clinical trials of Coronil- the product launched on Tuesday by Patanjali Ayurved ltd, founded by the yoga guru, as alleged treatment for coronavirus patients.Ramdev’s associate Acharya Balakrishna tweeted a clarification to claim that 100% parameters laid down for controlled trial of this Ayurvedic product have been followed by the company after Patanjali Ayurved Ltd was asked by the AYUSH ministry of government of India to suspend advertisements promoting use of Coronil, launched on Tuesday, as an effective treatment for the deadly Covid-19 infection.“This government encourages Ayurveda and works for its glory, the communication gap has been filled and the Ayush ministry has been given all the information regarding the 100% fulfillment of all the standard parameters of Randomized Placebo Controlled Clinical Trials (of Coronil),” Balakrishna tweeted.Watch: ‘Coronil and Swasari’: Ramdev’s Covid medicines available at Rs 545 for 30 daysHis tweet followed AYUSH ministry asking Patanjali Ayurveda Limited to provide the composition and other details of the alleged Ayurvedic medicine to treat Coved-19 and putting on hold the product’s advertisements until an examination of its claim.Patanjali Ayurveda has launched the ‘Coronil and Swasari’ products with the claim that it has successfully cured scores of under-trial Covid-19 patients with 100% results except for those on life support systems.The ministry asked Patanjali to submit details of the sample size, sites and hospitals where the research study was conducted and also for the Institutional Ethics Committee clearance.Also Read: Govt asks Ramdev’s Patanjali to back up Covid medicine claim, issues gag order“Patanjali Ayurved Ltd has been asked to provide at the earliest details of the name and composition of the medicines being claimed for COVID treatment; site(s)/hospital(s), where the research study was conducted for COVID-19; protocol, sample size, Institutional Ethics Committee clearance, CTRI registration and results data of the study (ies) and stop advertising/publicizing such claims till the issue is duly examined,” the ministry said in its statement.Ramdev had claimed that the first clinical controlled study was conducted on 280 patients in Delhi and Ahmedabad among many other cities.In a guideline issued in April this year, the AYUSH ministry had laid down several conditions for organizations researching remedies of Covid-19 infection through use of traditional medicine.According to the guidelines, AYUSH registered practitioner/expert should be part of the study/research team at each site and the research should be conducted in line with AYUSH guidelines for clinical research or ICMR guidelines. It must also comply with relevant regulations for bio-medical and health research and good clinical practice guidelines along with national ethical guidelines. Among other conditions, the proposal/research should be approved by their scientific advisory bodies and institutional ethics committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-parametres-met-patanjali-claims-coronil-clinical-trial-details-furnished-to-centre/story-wV0b2zhW4SNbd24VX4Gc6N.html
24-06-2020||India||Nearly 4,000 new Covid-19 cases take Delhi tally past 66,600||Delhi on Tuesday recorded the highest single-day hike with nearly 4,000 fresh Covid-19 cases registered in the last 24 hours to take the coronavirus tally in the capital to 66,602, according to data released by the health department. It also reported 68 new deaths in the same period, taking the death toll to 2,301 since the outbreak of the disease. The city-state currently has 24,988 active coronavirus cases.The capital has also crossed 4 lakh tests conducted in the city to detect Covid-19 patients with tests conducted on 16,952 samples in the last 24 hours, according to the health bulletin.Delhi is tasked with a major challenge to ramp up its medical infrastructure in the wake of the rising Covid cases, expected to cross 5.5 lakh by the end of July by one estimate, requiring close to 90,000 beds. The health bulletin on Tuesday didn’t give any information on the number of beds currently available at the disposal of the authorities for treatment of coronavirus patients.The departure from normal practice comes on a day when the Union home minister Amit Shah and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal exchanged tweets over a new facility created for temporary use as a Covid-19 treatment centre.It all started with Kejriwal requesting Amit Shah to inspect the facility with 10,000 beds and to deploy doctors and nurses from ITBP and Army to the facility. It invited a retort from Shah, who said that the decision to operationalise the centre had been taken three days ago in a meeting attended both by Shah and Kejriwal apart from other officials while taking stock of Delhi’s preparedness.He also reminded the Delhi CM that the centre erected at Radha Swami Beas facility in south Delhi will be run by Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP).“Dear Kejriwal ji, it has already been decided in our meeting three days back and MHA has assigned work of operating 10,000 bed COVID Care Centre at Radha Swami Beas in Delhi to ITBP. Work is in full swing and a large part of the facility will be operational by June 26,” Shah said in a tweet, which was seen as a counter to Kejriwal.Shah also announced that another 1,000 bed hospital with 250 ICU beds was being prepared to be operationalised in the next 10 days. This facility, he added, will be managed by armed forces personnel.An expert committee set up to aid the government’s Covid-19 containment efforts had earlier this month claimed that Delhi will need 15,000 beds by the end of June and around 42,000 by mid-July. It also estimated that the number of positive cases in Delhi will touch the 100,000 mark by the end of June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-4-000-new-covid-19-cases-take-delhi-tally-past-66-600/story-YnDtpoLUOwGVEqUpLll57H.html
