26-06-2020||India||Army chief briefs Rajnath on LAC, proposed disengagement||New Delhi: Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Friday briefed defence minister Rajnath Singh on the latest developments along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the immediate requirements of the army if the India-China border standoff is long-drawn, and the proposed disengagement process to cool tensions at the LAC, people familiar with the matter said who spoke on the condition of anonymity.In the hour-long meeting at Singh’s residence, the army chief, who returned on Thursday from his two-day visit to eastern Ladakh, apprised the minister of the critical purchases that the army needs to make in case the border standoff carries on for a longer duration, said of the persons cited above. Singh also returned on Thursday night from a four-day visit to Moscow, where he discussed the time delivery of military equipment including the S-400 air defence missile system from Russia.The army chief briefed the minister on Indian Army positions in eastern Ladakh and how the force was prepared to deal with any eventuality, said the second official. “The army chief’s briefing to the defence minister would have addressed issues of operational readiness at the LAC, additional inductions of troops, and acquisitions that would require extraordinary or fast track processes to make up critical systems and related aspects,” said former army vice chief Lieutenant General AS Lamba (retd).This will enable a comprehensive approach for handling any long haul situation before de-escalation, or lesser contingencies for which the Indian Army is always prepared, Lamba added.During his visit to Ladakh, top officials briefed Naravane on the army’s preparations and ability to respond to threatening actions by China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA).The security review of the Ladakh sector, where tensions rose sharply after 20 Indian and an unspecified number of Chinese soldiers were killed in a clash in the Galwan Valley on June 15, saw the chief tour forward army bases at Durbuk and Chushul, interact with commanders on the ground and undertake aerial surveys of the army’s deployments in some sensitive sectors.The sectors where Indian soldiers hold forward positions along the LAC include Depsang, Gogra Post-Hot Springs, Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Chumar, and military negotiations for disengagement in some of these areas are in progress.The army chief briefed the minister at a time China has not halted — and instead ramped up — its military activity along LAC in Galwan Valley, with a concentration of soldiers, military vehicles, earth-moving machinery, and erection of structures, including near the same point where Indian and Chinese troops clashed on June 15.The Chinese buildup in other areas along the LAC including Depsang, Gogra Post-Hot Springs and Pangong Tso, hasn’t thinned either. The army is keeping a strict vigil along the LAC and is fully prepared to respond to any provocation or adventurism by the PLA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-briefs-rajnath-on-lac-proposed-disengagement/story-70XY5NKKiykfQIhjgUsSMK.html
26-06-2020||India||Child, grandfather sustain gunshot injury during elephant attack in Bengal||A four-year-old West Bengal girl and her grandfather sustained pellet injuries in an accidental fire from a shotgun being used by a state forest department official to scare away wild elephants from a Jalpaiguri village on Friday afternoon.The shotgun went off after it was accidentally dropped by the forest department staff, while trying to deal with the pachyderm and the crowd of locals at the Bamantari village. When he tried to lift the gun, it went off. Angry villagers allegedly manhandled some forest department staff. The incident happened in the Dhupguri community block area.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesLaxmi Modak (4) and Promod Modok (60) were first taken to Jalpaiguri hospital and later shifted to North Bengal Medical College and Hospital in Siliguri on Friday night.“It was an accident. We have taken responsibility for their treatment,” said Nisha Goswami, divisional forest officer, Gorumara wildlife division. V K Sood, additional principal chief conservator of forest, said “The child and her grandfather were brought to Siliguri for better treatment.”A tusker, which created most of the havoc, did not leave the village till Friday evening. It was part of a large herd that raided two villages and damaged many houses and crops. A large number of people had gathered to watch the herd. Personnel from Binnaguri Wildlife Squad and Nathua range rushed to the village and tried to drive the pachyderms back into the forest. The crowd made their job difficult, a forest department official said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/child-grandfather-sustain-gunshot-injury-during-elephant-attack-in-bengal/story-H4I1bR5sMIdl789wjcYeQJ.html
26-06-2020||India||Rajasthan announces expansion of Covid 19 testing with antigen tests||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday declared that the state was going to expand the scope of Covid 19 testing with the help of new antigen tests to be conducted as per ICMR guidelines. He added that the Rajasthan model of coronavirus containment was being discussed all over the country.Gehlot held discussions with doctors and experts from across the state including medical colleges over Covid 19 investigation, treatment and prevention protocols.The chief minister said the medical community has played an important role in controlling the coronavirus in Rajasthan.“Due to our coordinated efforts, the Rajasthan model is discussed all over the country. Death audits of corona patients are also being conducted in the state, so that the actual cause of death can be ascertained, and this study can be used to prevent corona,” Gehlot said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesHealth Minister Dr Raghu Sharma said that the state was also preparing for other deadly seasonal diseases. “More challenging times are coming, as along with Corona, we also have to face seasonal diseases for which the department is prepared,” Sharma said.Additional chief secretary, health, Rohit Kumar Singh said 200 Antigen test kits were being sent to the state by the ICMR and they will soon be tested in the state. He added that an awareness campaign along with an active surveillance campaign has been started in the state for the fourth time.Singh pointed out that the rate of recovery from Covid-19 was continuously increasing in Rajasthan and was currently at 78.9%, the highest among the big states of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-announces-expansion-of-covid-19-testing-with-antigen-tests/story-LsZ57hYU6jietTqid3L9rL.html
26-06-2020||India||With zero Covid-19 cases till last week, hamlets in Darjeeling hills will now be locked down||Mirik, a small town in the Darjeeling district of Bengal, did not have a single Covid-19 patient till last week. Equally lucky were a few hamlets dotting the landscape.The situation has now suddenly changed. Mirik town, officials said, will remain out of bounds for outsiders for a week starting Friday. The decision was taken after four health workers, including a doctor posted at the Mirik community block health centre tested positive for Covid-19. Aswini Kumar Roy, sub-divisional officer of Mirik, said, “The administration will go door- to-door till July 1 to find out if any social contamination has taken place. Nine people have tested positive so far in this sub-division.”Sauraj Golay, president of the Mirik traders’ association said, “Mirik town and all nine community wards in Mirik municipality area will go under complete lockdown. Vehicles will not be allowed to enter or leave Mirik.” Hamlets around Mirik will also follow the lockdown order. The shutdown in Mirik comes days after traders in Siliguri town in the plains decided to suspend business at Bidhan Market, Hong Kong Market and the local jewellery market. Ten people have died in Siliguri and the number of Covid-19 cases in Siliguri sub-division stood at 395 till Thursday. The Siliguri regulated market, which is the largest regulated market in north Bengal and from where vegetable, fruit and fish are supplied to Darjeeling hills and Sikkim, is closed since two weeks.On Friday, traders decided to shut down the Salugara market near Siliguri for a week after some local people tested positive for Covid-19. Sankar Prasad, secretary of the traders’ body said, “A large number of people from outside have come to Salugara to work as porters in the army. Local people are feeling scared.”The army, which has a base in the region, recruits porters on a temporary basis in Sikkim and Salugara. The number of people applying for the six-month long job has increased exponentially this year because of rising unemployment during the lockdown, local people said.Tashi Lama, president of Salugara traders’ association said, “More than 4000 people have come to Salugara while the army needs only 300 porters. They have no place to stay and are spending their nights outside shops and temples.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-zero-covid-19-cases-till-last-week-hamlets-in-darjeeling-hills-will-now-be-locked-down/story-wnxQd6U1NgfJcl5GZC64oI.html
26-06-2020||India||US tightens the screws on Beijing, restricts visas for Chinese officials||The United States is imposing visa restrictions on current and former Chinese officials responsible for “eviscerating” the freedoms of Hong Kong citizens, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on Friday, signalling that the US would continue to tighten controls vis-a-vis the Chinese government officials. The move coincides with an intensified US rhetoric against China in the midst of Trump’s re-election campaign, in which opinion polls have shown voters increasingly embittered toward Beijing, especially over the coronavirus that began from China’s Wuhan.“I am announcing visa restrictions on current and former CCP (Communist Party of China) officials who are believed to be responsible for, or complicit in, undermining Hong Kong’s high degree of autonomy, as guaranteed in the 1984 Sino-British Joint Declaration, or undermining human rights and fundamental freedoms in Hong Kong,” Pompeo said in a statement Friday.Pompeo said family members of such persons may also be subject to these restrictions.Also Read: China, the common link between Ladakh and 3 US super carriers in the Indo-PacificFriday’s restrictions come just days after US President Donald Trump signed off on a legislation that cleared the path for imposing sanctions against senior Chinese officials for gross human rights violations of Uyghur minority groups in China’s restive Muslim-majority Xinjiang region.On Twitter, Pompeo counted the visa restrictions as one of the steps to punish CCP officials “responsible for eviscerating Hong Kong’s freedoms” that had been promised by President Trump. President @realDonaldTrump promised to punish the CCP officials responsible for eviscerating Hong Kong’s freedoms. Today, we are taking action to do just that– we've announced visa restrictions on CCP officials responsible for undermining Hong Kong’s autonomy and human rights.President Trump had earlier promised sanctions against Chinese and Hong Kong officials “directly or indirectly involved” in eroding Hong Kong’s autonomy.“Our actions will be strong. Our actions will be meaningful,” Trump said in May.“Today, we are taking action to do just that– we’ve announced visa restrictions on CCP officials responsible for undermining Hong Kong’s autonomy and human rights,” Pompeo tweeted on Friday.News agency Bloomberg said Friday’s move comes amid worsening ties between the world’s two biggest economies. Despite meetings that Pompeo held with his Chinese counterpart in Hawaii last week, relations remain soured over issues from China’s handling of the coronavirus to its move to enact legislation restricting Hong Kong and its treatment of ethnic minorities in Xinjiang province.Just two days back, the Pentagon published a list of 20 Chinese companies said to be owned or controlled by China’s military, potentially exposing them to further scrutiny or sanctions in the US.Also Read: Chinese ambassador in United States secretly recruited scientists, says FBIOn Thursday, the Senate approved a bipartisan measure that penalises banks doing business with Chinese officials involved in the national security law the country is seeking to impose on Hong Kong.The hard push comes in response to moves by China to impose a new national security legislation that would undermine Hong Kong’s autonomy and put pressure on local officials to jail pro-democracy activists and bar them from contesting elections.Last month, US President Trump initiated the process to eliminate special economic treatment that allowed Hong Kong to remain a global financial center.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-tightens-the-screws-on-beijing-restricts-visas-for-chinese-officials/story-f0KO5Naw0PIQ1jXATibxaN.html
26-06-2020||India||BMC sets deadline for reporting Covid 19 deaths backlog amid Fadnavis charge of hiding Mumbai deaths||Mumbai’s civic body has directed all Mumbai hospitals on Friday to report deaths due to Covid 19 within 48 hours and reconcile earlier fatalities before June 29, a deadline set by the BMC, amid a raging political controversy over alleged under reporting of deaths by the corporation.The instruction by the BMC came close on the heels of state health minister Rajesh Tope denying any attempt by the state government to hide coronavirus related casualties in the state. He attributed the rise and drop in death figures due to ongoing reconciliation of casualties from past weeks.“We are not hiding any deaths. Sometimes, more death cases are reported on a particular day. It happens due to reconciliation of past deaths. There is no question of hiding death cases,” Tope told reporters in Pune on Friday.Tope was responding to questions by reporters following allegations levelled by the leader of opposition in the state assembly, Devendra Fadnavis, who had yesterday written to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray alleging Covid-19 deaths in Mumbai had been under reported by a 1,000.Sharpest single day spike of over 5k Covid cases takes Maharashtra past 1.5 lakh mark“As per my information, the death of 1,000 people caused due to Covid-19 in the last three months has not been reported so far. Any death happening due to Covid-19 should be reported within 72 hours. But it is not happening,” Fadnavis had alleged. He had made similar allegations in the past following which the death toll in Mahrashtra saw a major revision on June 16.1,328 additional fatalities apart from the daily death count was added to the state’s tally that day after a reconciliation of figures done in a review of cases.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesFadnavis has also asked the state to conduct more tests and expressed an apprehension that Pune was not doing enough on testing. Tope rejected the allegation and said that in comparison with Mumbai’s 22,000 tests per million population, 15,000 tests per million of the population was being conducted in Pune. Tope said the number of cases in the state was high because of the higher number of tests being carried out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bmc-sets-deadline-for-reporting-covid-19-deaths-backlog-amid-fadnavis-charge-of-hiding-mumbai-deaths/story-fsOkQyrDNt4zDbssZ5xDCO.html
26-06-2020||India||Covid-19 management may fetch political dividends in Kerala for CPI(M)||Keeping an eye on next year’s assembly elections, the CPI (M)-led Kerala government has started marketing its Covid-19 “success story” as Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan began an online debate lining up many experts to talk about the issue. The opposition, however, quickly dubbed it as another publicity stunt. Citing the CM’s rising stock the party has given a call to its workers that there will be a continuation of power in the state changing the four-decade-old system of gifting power to the Opposition after every five years. The party feels the management of the pandemic and the state’s record of lowest mortality, high recovery and least number of cases will fetch it rich political dividends. Its mortality rate is less than one per cent and recovery about 60 per cent.The party is planning a big campaign citing these records to ensure a second term for Vijayan, said party insiders adding he has turned the crisis into an opportunity with his administrative skills. They say his 6 pm daily press briefing is a big hit but his critics say people view them religiously just to know the daily number of cases and recoveries.“There will be a continuation of power. The state has never seen such able administration. The opposition Congress is quite worried about our popularity that is why it is raising unnecessary allegations. The whole world is praising Kerala but the opposition is trying to sabotage these records,” said CPI (M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan.Titled ‘Kerala Dialogue’ the debate, almost on the lines of Congress president Rahul Gandhi’s interaction with party leaders and workers, will discuss ways to ensure sustainable and inclusive development in the time of the pandemic. Nobel laureate Amartya Sen, political activist Noam Chomsky, World Health Organization scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan and others participated in the debate inaugurated by the CM. The debate will continue on the CM’s social media site in the coming days. Experts will discuss fresh challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic and how things will shape up after the threat subsides. The government is of the view that the series can throw enough light on the state’s fight against the contagion and discuss post-pandemic challenges.“The state’s virus management is appreciated all over the world. Like Vietnam and South Korea, it fought a valiant battle to limit the damage. The state always gave importance to social and decentralized development and the results are there to see. We saw how some of the super powers struggled to contain it,” said Amartya Sen. Swaminathan said countries and states which followed the WHO warning and directives were successful in containing the spread.But the opposition is not amused. “This is another publicity stunt. Public relations agencies have a good market in Kerala these days,” said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. “In terms of tests the state is placed at 23rd. The government is celebrating as if it has won the war,” said BJP state president K Sudhakaran. Kerala reported 150 new Covid-19 cases on Friday. For the last eight days, the state has been reporting more than 100 coronavirus cases a day. Out of 3,876 cases, 1846 are active ones and 2,006 patients have recovered. The first state to report the virus in the country-- a China-returned medical student in January-- Kerala has reported 23 deaths so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-management-may-fetch-political-dividends-in-kerala-for-cpi-m/story-sHiOKzrcWuSM9eCnmOQrJK.html
26-06-2020||India||Amartya Sen, Noam Chomsky praise Kerala fight against Covid-19||Praising Kerala for the way it has handled the coronavirus surge, Nobel-laureate and economist Amartya Sen said on Friday Covid-19 would be a transformatory movement in the state and it has dealt with the pandemic combating bureaucracy and red tape. Sen was speaking during a webinar on development titled ‘Kerala Dialogue’, organised by the Kerala government, to bring together thinkers, policy-makers, professionals, scientists and the public to a space where they could rethink and reimagine development for a world disrupted by the pandemic.Sen came down heavily on the “unplanned and unstructured lockdown” in India and said it caused distress and hardship.“I think Covid would be a transformatory movement in Kerala.There is a danger of being deluged under the rather deceptive economic slogan that is so dominant in India today and there is widespread resistance to that. But it also suggests that combating bureaucracy, combating red tape, and doing things with exceeding speed, which indeed is what Kerala seems to have done in dealing with Covid,” Sen said. Well-known philosopher and social critic, Noam Chomsky, who also participated in the talk, said the way Kerala responded to the Covid-19 pestilence was a surprise to the whole world. “The differences in the way between Kerala and the rest of India, and the rest of most of the world, on how they reacted to the crisis was quite startling.Not many places have dealt with it the way Kerala has. This pandemic has brought out very sharply the extraordinary inequality that has been, of course always there, but greatly exaggerated through the neo-liberal period,” Chomsky said. Asked if there will be a fundamental change in the world at the end of the pandemic, Chomsky claimed countries like the US are trying to continue the current situation and move to more dictatorships, restrictions and people-watching. “But there are movements all over the world to counter this.Coordinating this can be a huge force. They can make changesand theyare all trying to create a new world,” Chomsky said. Sen appreciated the public healthcare system and the high level of literacy in the state. “The unplanned and unstructured lockdown in India caused distress and hardship. The government should have discussed the matter with civil society. However, the government implemented the lockdown in an authoritarian manner.It was a disaster for the daily wage labourers,” Sen said.Sen also pointed out that the collapse of the public system, which has happened in Europe, has not happened in Kerala.“Though Europe had a tradition of public sector intervention it is not there now but that kind of reliance on the public sector can still be seen in Kerala,”he added. WHO Chief Scientist, Dr Soumya Swaminathan said countries, which responded to the early warning issued by the World Health Organization, were better prepared to face the pandemic. “On January 30, WHO issued an emergency alert for global Covid-19 defence.But Kerala had already started preventive measures in early January, anticipating potential problems. That is why the first cases from Wuhan could be discovered.Following this, Kerala was able to locate, quarantine those who had contact with them and contain the outbreak. Kerala has been able to contain the disease as fast as possible due to proper preventive measures,” Swaminathan said. Chomsky said Vietnam has confronted this pestilence and not a single Covid related death was reported there. He also pointed out that South Korea has also effectively controlled the pandemic without even a lockdown. “Taiwan, Hong Kong and New Zealand are other countries that dealt with the disease. In Europe, Germany was able to prevent the spread of the disease in a good way.What saved them was that Germany did not adopt a commercial hospital system like the US,” he said. Chomsky said it was doctors from “poor Cuba, who have been the victims of the US economic assault for more than six decades”, who moved to Italy to help them out. “This pandemic was able to show the extraordinary inequality of the world. In the United States, it was most pronounced....Blacks and their descendants from Spain and South America suffered the most in the United States,” he claimed. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan,who also participated in the discussion, said Kerala was starting a new conversation on development. “The Left Front is launching the KeralaDialogue to bring new concepts and sustainable development models,” Vijayan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amartya-sen-noam-chomsky-praise-kerala-fight-against-covid-19/story-eWLFUs5nldBiJUranNGUVM.html
26-06-2020||India||Covid-19 cases in Goa cross 1,000-mark, CM says community transmission||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Friday conceded that Goa had entered the stage of community transmission with cases springing up in various parts of the state with no apparent link to the first few local cases in the state. The Chief Minister’s statement comes at the end of a week in which the state saw a rise of 44-46 cases each day taking the number of total cases past the 1,000-mark. “We are getting cases across the state and it is being transmitted among contacts. But we will have to say that this is community transmissions. We will have to accept this. All the cases can be traced to some link or the other,” Sawant said on Friday. “It has reached in a big way in various talukas, yet we have to take care to use masks and sanitizers and awareness and education and law enforcement from the police. If people cooperate then we will be able to control it,” Sawant said. “All patients are stable and I am in touch with the hospitals and care centres. Monitoring is going on through the collectors for those in home quarantine,” Sawant said. On Friday, 44 new cases were detected taking Goa’s total count to 1039 of which 667 are active patients with 370 having recovered. More than 90% of Goa’s cases were registered during the month of June. At the start of the month there were less than 100 cases registered in the state. Two persons have succumbed to the disease. Sawant has assured that testing of all contacts and neighbours of those who have tested positive are being tested and quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-in-goa-cross-1-000-mark-cm-says-community-transmission/story-ZJI7PRWUPmvEs9CEleoqcL.html
26-06-2020||India||Indian Navy inducts indigenously developed anti-torpedo decoy system Maareech||The Indian Navy said on Friday it has inducted an advanced anti-torpedo decoy system called ‘Maareech’ that is capable of being fired from all frontline ships.‘Maareech’ has been designed and developed indigenously by the Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) and it is capable of detecting, locating and neutralizing incoming torpedo.In a release, the Navy said, “The prototype of this system installed onboard a nominated naval platform had successfully completed all user evaluation trials and demonstrated the features as per the Naval Staff Qualification Requirements.” This induction not only stands testimony to the joint resolve of the Indian Navy and DRDO towards indigenous development of defence technology, but has also given a major fillip to the government’s ‘Make in India’ initiative and the country’s resolve to become ‘atmanirbhar’ (self-reliant) in niche technology, the Navy said.Bharat Electronics Limited, a defence PSU, would undertake the production of this decoy system, the Navy stated. “Anti - Submarine warfare capability of the Indian Navy has received a major boost today with the conclusion of a contract for advanced torpedo decoy system Maareech capable of being fired from all frontline warships,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-navy-inducts-indigenously-developed-anti-torpedo-decoy-system-maareech/story-4BUig8Z17ey8cHHOVXSU6N.html
26-06-2020||India||Migrants returning from Bihar, UP shows economic activity on rise: Railways||The trend of migrants returning by special trains from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal -states with high migrant population - is encouraging, railway board chairman said on Friday, adding that it is a sign of economic activity picking up.Special trains returning from high migrant population states have shown over 100% occupancy from June 26 till June 30, according to railway ministry data, indicating that may be migrants who had gone back to their home states on Shramik Specials during the lockdown are returning as lockdown restrictions have eased.Most special trains from states like Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal to cities like Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Bangalore are running on 100% occupancy over the next four days, the data showed.¨It is very encouraging to note that some of the trains which are moving in the reverse direction -- trains from UP to Mumbai, Bihar to Mumbai or UP to Gujarat or West Bengal to Gujarat are showing increase in occupancy day by day. This is an indicator that the economic situation is picking up. We are talking to state governments and in the coming week we will announce new special trains based on occupancy,” railway board chairman VK Yadav said during a press conference.At present, railways is running 15 pairs of premium Rajdhani trains connecting Delhi with different parts of the country and 100 pairs of long-distance trains, which began on June 1. Yadav said that the migrant workers who are returning to the cities are doing so in the regular trains that are being run by the Railways since June 1.Railways till now has transported nearly 62.8 lakh migrants on board more than 4,594 Shramik Special trains that began plying from May 1 to ferry stranded migrants to their home states.UP and Bihar that accounted for nearly 75% of trains ferrying migrants back received 1,723 and 1,680 Shramik trains respectively while West Bengal accounted for 282 trains.According to ministry’s data, some special trains from UP including Avadh Express from Gorakhpur to Bandra have an occupancy rate of 121.60% over the next four days till June 30, Kushinagar Express from Gorakhpur to Mumbai has an occupancy rate of 107.8% and the Gorakhpur-Ahmedabad special has an occupancy of 121%.Similarly special trains from Bihar including Muzaffarpur to Ahmedabad have an occupancy rate of more than 127.8%, Muzaffarpur-Bandra terminal 115% and Danapur to an occupancy of 121%. Most trains from Bihar are scheduled to terminate at Mumbai, Delhi and Ahmedabad with heavy occupancy bookings.From West Bengal, which accounted for 282 Shramik Trains thus far, includes special scheduled trains from Howrah to Delhi, Ahmedabad, Jodhpur, Secunderabad running on full occupancy.The Centre has extended the suspension of Passenger trains, including express and suburban services from June 30 till August 12. On suspension of regular trains, the railway board chairman said it was not possible to resume regular trains services given the current situation with Covid-19; however, more special trains will be added as per demand from select routes in the near future, he added.According to the ministry, out of the 230 special trains in service as of now, 43 trains had 75-100 % occupancy at present, while 27 trains had 50-75 % occupancy and 78 trains are running on 100% occupancy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrants-returning-from-bihar-up-shows-economic-activity-on-rise-railway/story-HYGSMsJyZsxIuLtrmXh6OI.html
26-06-2020||India||Pak national held by BSF at Gujarat’s Rann of Kutch border||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Friday apprehended a Pakistan national from Kutch district in Gujarat for trying to enter India illegally, officials said.He was held while trying to enter Indian territory from Pillar Number 1082 in the Rann of Kutch, a BSF release said.Nothing suspicious has been found on him, it said, adding that a joint interrogation would be done by security agencies before he is handed over to the police.Pakistan nationals, mainly from Sindh province, routinely get caught while trying to sneak into India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-national-held-by-bsf-at-gujarat-s-rann-of-kutch-border/story-oteADcRlXqUDIp7KQ04hWK.html
26-06-2020||India||Indian envoy delivers sharp message to China about ‘repercussions’ over Ladakh||The standoff between Indian and Chinese border troops can be resolved only if the Chinese side stops building new structures along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), India’s ambassador to China Vikram Misri said on Friday. Reiterating India’s position that the standoff and a violent face-off on June 15 were triggered by China’s actions, Vikram Misri told news agency PTI in Beijing that the Chinese side has to stop the practice of transgressing. His remarks made it clear that the Indian side expects China to take steps that will lead to de-escalation and disengagement on the LAC and help restore peace and tranquillity along the disputed border.The comments also appeared to be a riposte to remarks by China’s envoy to India, Sun Weidong, who had said in an interview on Thursday that the onus wasn’t on his country to resolve the border standoff. Sun said he hoped the Indian side would meet the Chinese side halfway and avoid any actions that could complicate the situation.Misri said the only way to resolve the standoff along the LAC is for China to stop erecting new structures. He further said China’s recent claim of sovereignty over Galwan Valley was completely “untenable” and such exaggerated claims are not going to help in the prevailing circumstances.Also Read: Domestic constraints will impinge on the China policy | OpinionIndia hopes China will realise its responsibility in de-escalation and disengaging by “moving back to its side of LAC”, he said. China should also stop creating obstructions and hindrances in normal patrolling by Indian troops, he added.Also Read: China, the common link between Ladakh and 3 US super carriers in the Indo-PacificIndia has always carried out activities on the Indian side of the LAC, he said, reiterating the line taken by the external affairs ministry in recent weeks.The actions by Chinese forces on the ground have damaged “considerable trust in the bilateral relationship”, Misri said, adding that maintaining peace and tranquillity on the border is a “sine qua non for progress in the rest of the bilateral relationship”.China’s attempt to alter the status quo on the ground can have “ripples and repercussions” for the broader bilateral relationship, Misri said.Also Read: China’s aggressive posturing along LAC turning bilateral relationship back to 1990sIn a strongly worded statement on Thursday, the external affairs ministry had squarely blamed China for the standoff along the LAC, saying Beijing had massed troops along the disputed frontier since May, violated a recent understanding to disengage in Galwan Valley and disregarded all mutually agreed norms for border patrols.Accusing China of triggering several face-offs by trying to unilaterally change the status quo along the LAC, the Indian side rejected the Chinese side’s “unjustified and untenable” claim on Galwan Valley. The statement also acknowledged both sides “remain deployed in large numbers in the region”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/must-stop-practice-of-transgressions-india-draws-red-lines-for-china-along-lac/story-Jt84ibmfscqFSOSj94aKtN.html
26-06-2020||India||Govt allows more flights on domestic routes, extends bar on international routes||The ministry of civil aviation has given its nod to increase capacity of domestic flight operations to 45% from 33% allowed at present.An order issued by the ministry on Friday noted that the director general of civil aviation (DGCA) has been requested to prepare the schedule of airlines. HT has reviewed a copy of the order.“We are working on the schedule specific to different airports in the country and soon we should be able to provide more connectivity to our citizens,” a senior DGCA official said.The order has revised the Centre’s earlier order issued on May 21 restricting capacity utilisation of domestic flights to a third of the approved summer schedule.“In partial modification on the order issued on May 21, after review of the current status of scheduled domestic operations viz-viz passenger demand for air travel…one third capacity may be read as 45%,” the order noted.Domestic flights were allowed to resume from May 25, two months after a blanket suspension since the first lockdown was announced while only international repatriation flights and cargo flights have been allowed by the government.The Centre has also extended the suspension on international flights to July 15 from June 30.“The decision has been taken to gradually increase more flights and add more routes in a calibrated manner. We expect the capacity to increase slowly with demand. We are looking to increase our domestic passengers from 60,000 to 70,000,” a civil aviation ministry official said. On June 25, a month since the resumption of domestic flights, 772 flights took off ferrying 62,580 passengers, according to the aviation ministry.This also comes a week after union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri said that he was hopeful of resuming domestic flights to full capacity by year end, adding that a decision on international flights may be taken when domestic air traffic reaches 50-55 % of its pre-Covid capacity.The limits on airfares imposed on domestic flights may also be extended beyond the current period of August 24, officials said. The Centre had imposed a cap on the airfares of domestic flights that resumed from May 25 with fixed lower and upper limits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-increases-capacity-of-domestic-flight-ops-to-45-from-33-at-present-dgca-asked-to-chart-new-routes-with-airlines/story-YjVSqGjobArkSDXsp3CyrL.html
26-06-2020||India||Sharpest single day spike of over 5k Covid cases takes Maharashtra past 1.5 lakh mark||Maharashtra crossed the 1.5 lakh mark for total coronavirus cases with five thousand new Covid cases recorded on Friday—the highest single day rise and the first instance of more than 5,000 cases registered in a day in the state. The previous highest single day spike was recorded on Thursday with 4,841 new Coved-19 cases.Total number of deaths in the state has reached 7,106 including the 175 fatalities recorded on Friday. Maharashtra had reported 192 deaths on Thursday. Out of the 175 Covid-19 deaths reported today, 91 occurred in the last 48 hours, while others had taken place earlier but reconciled into the figures today, the statement by the health department said. State’s case fatality rate is 4.65 per cent.Maharashtra is India’s worst affected state by the coronavirus disease and accounts for nearly one-third of India’s total 4,90,401 positive cases as on Friday.The number of new cases in Maharashtra’s worst affected city of capital Mumbai, however, came down marginally to 1,297 from Thursday’s figure of 1,350 cases. The total number of cases registered in Mumbai so far have reached 72,175 including 4,179 deaths. 117 of these fatalities were recorded on Friday.One silver lining, however, was seen in the total number recoveries that have continuously risen to reach the figure of 79,815 including 2,362 recorded on Friday. Maharashtra has fewer active cases--65,844--compared to recoveries. The recovery rate in the state is 52.25 per cent.Also Read: Maharashtra government asks Aurangabad Municipal Corporation to deploy staff to verify Covid-19 billsThe state has also been getting close to reaching the 9 lakh tests mark with 8,71,875 samples tested so far.Earlier today, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope denied the allegations leveled by opposition leaders including the BJP leader and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and said the state government was not hiding Covid-19 deaths and the rise and drop in casualty figures seen over the past couple of weeks was due to reconciliation of past data.Also Read: Maharashtra CM writes to PM Modi over cancellation of exams amid Covid outbreak“We are not hiding any deaths. Sometimes, more death cases are reported on a particular day. It happens due to reconciliation of past deaths. There is no question of hiding death cases,” Tope was quoted as saying by the PTI in Pune.Tope added that 22,000 tests are done per million people in Mumbai compared to 15,000 tests are done per million population in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharpest-single-day-spike-of-over-5k-covid-cases-takes-maharashtra-past-1-5-lakh-mark-govt-says-it-is-not-hiding-deaths/story-BHPqoMpMQD0qnhQwOAxiuL.html
26-06-2020||India||I unlocked a script, locked in my mind for years: Deepraj Rana||Actor Deepraj Rana made good use of the quarantine phase and finished scripting two stories that he was unable to do in all these years. The UPite completed the scripts one for a film and the other for OTT platform — both set in his hometown Prayagraj.“The phase turned out to be very productive and fulfilling for me. I was trying to write a story of Gulab Devi, a first female who performed last-rites in Prayagraj way back in 1925. Many a times, I wrote in bits and pieces but I was never satisfied. But this time I was able to complete the entire script along with the screenplay and dialogues,” said Deepraj over the phone. His last few projects being ‘Prasthanam’, ‘Dabangg3’ and TV show ‘Muskan,’ Deepraj has always find full support and a critic in his wife Natasha Rana who also happens to be an actor.Talking more about his script based on Gulab Devi, he said, “Known as Maharajin Sarkaar, she got in this profession at the age of 13 at Daraganj Ghat. Making her way in the male baston, she worked there till she was 25 years old. Later, she shifted to Rusoolabagh cremation ghat. Such was her ‘aura’ that people used to make a wish to get cremated by her. My home is nearby in Shivkuti area so I have seen it all very closely.” “Besides, there are multiple layers to the story like ghat politics is one aspect then characters of mallah (boatman), ‘aughar’, tantrik, pandas and among them a sole woman working in the male domain. It was a big thing! There have been many extraordinary situations in her life that I have woven in the story,” he further said.Deepraj feels that a strong female lead is required to do justice to the role and a theatrical release is best suited for the story. He has shared both his scripts with friends to get their feedback and then will pitch it to filmmakers.“I believe theatres will not open any time soon as Covid-19 cases are on a rise. So, this is the best time to devote in pre-production so the shoot can start next year and God-willing by that time we will have a vaccine too,” he said.The versatile actor has also written a youth-centric web-series in this duration which is again set in his hometown and is spread over two seasons.“Every since the lockdown started I tried to utilise it in the best possible way. I enrolled myself in a chakra meditation course and did three levels of it. Besides, with the help of online videos I cooked a lot of dishes.”Next, he is looking forward to shoot for ‘Mard’ starring Randeep Hooda. “Rahul Mittra has announced the film which Sai Kabir will be directing. It is scheduled to be shot in and around Lucknow. When we will get a green signal I will be available for the shoot. It’s a tough time and as per the government, self-precaution is the key and we will have to abide by all the safety norms.” Deepraj has shot for films like ‘Prasthanam’, ‘Bullett Raja’, ‘DaasDev’ and ‘Milan Talkies’ in Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-unlocked-a-script-locked-in-my-mind-for-years-deepraj-rana/story-kzUTKRHdYwsGFI9Nw9EUBN.html
26-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Flood situation in Assam worsens, death toll rises to 16 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Assam flood situation worsens; 2.5 lakh affected in 16 districts, death toll rises to 16With heavy rainfall continuing in most parts of the state on Friday, the flood situation in Assam has worsened. Over 2.5 lakh people have been affected in 16 of the state’s 33 districts. Read moreCoronavirus still out there, UK PM Boris warns partying BritonsUK Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Friday warned tens of thousands of Britons ignoring social distancing and converging on beaches or holding illegal street parties in London that coronavirus “is still out there”, and urged them to realise the risks involved. Read moreRecoveries exceed active Covid-19 cases in India, rate climbs to 58.24 per centIndia’s coronavirus patients who have recovered from the infectious disease have exceeded the number of active Covid-19 cases in the country by 96,173, data from the Union government indicated on Friday. With this, the country’s recovery rate has climbed to an encouraging 58.24 per cent. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput’s Dil Bechara co-star Sanjana Sanghi urges fans to stop demanding a theatrical release: ‘Make it easier for us’Actor Sanjana Sanghi, who will make her film debut with the upcoming Dil Bechara, has shared a voice message on Instagram, about the decision to release the movie directly on the streaming platform Disney+Hotstar. Read moreI Would Leave Me If I Could: Singer-songwriter Halsey to release her first poetry bookEastside and Without Me singer, Halsey is all set to release a very personal book. The American singer and songwriter announced her debut poetry book I Would Leave Me If I Could on Thursday. Read more‘This partnership is of utmost importance’: VVS Laxman on Rahul Dravid and Sourav Ganguly’s roles off the fieldJust like their partnerships were instrumental in helping India notch up numerous wins over the years, VVS Laxman feels Sourav Ganguly and Rahul Dravid’s current roles promise to go a long way in ensuring the safe and bright future of Indian cricket. Read moreTikTok clone Mitron crosses 1 crore downloads on Google Play Store in 2 monthsIndia’s alternative to TikTok, Mitron, has crossed one crore downloads on the Google Play Store. According to AppBrain, Mitron has pulled off this feat in just about two months since launch. Read moreWatch: IAF aircraft carries out sorties in Leh, aerial activity intensifiesAn Indian Air Force aircraft was spotted carrying out sorties in Ladakh’s Leh. Aerial activities have gone up in the region after Galwan valley clash. IAF moved Sukhoi-30MKI, Mirage 2000 & Jaguar fighter to advanced positions. Apache attack helicopters have been deployed for support to army troops. Chinooks helicopters have also deployed for rapid troops transportation. Watch the full video for more details. Ring lost for 18 years turns up in owner’s hands. Here’s the unexpected storyWhether you’re a person working full-time in an office or have just started college with the biggest dreams, there are some things that you hold very close to your heart. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-flood-situation-in-assam-worsens-death-toll-rises-to-16-and-all-the-latest-news/story-jKcqZDSLT2yVtBrA8qwNNO.html
26-06-2020||India||Economy equally important, no further lockdown, says Karnataka CM Yediyurappa||On a day when he met legislators and members of parliament representing Bangalore - cutting across party lines – Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa categorically ruled out a further lockdown despite the growing number of coronavirus cases in both the city and state asserting that ‘economy is equally important.’Karnataka has been seeing a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases and on Friday too, 445 new Covid-19 positive cases were recorded taking the total to more than 11,000 cases even as 180 people till now have died due to the infection. Bangalore accounted for 144 of the 445 new cases and nearly a third of all active cases are in the state capital.Some of the key opposition leaders including former CM and JDS leader H D Kumaraswamy have demanded that Bangalore be locked down for ‘at least 20 days’ arguing that ‘economy was not more important than lives’. However, the government made it clear that while select areas may be sealed; there was no question of either a citywide or a statewide lockdown being implemented.At the meeting with Bangalore’s elected representatives, the government outlined its plan of action with the CM saying that everybody’s cooperation was required to face the pandemic and it was not the time to score political brownie points. The government said that a throat swab testing facility will be set up at every one of the 28 assembly constituencies in Bangalore.The state government also promised a separate ambulance facility to transport the bodies of Covid-19 victims. The government would also commandeer large marriage halls, hotels and other large spaces to quarantine asymptomatic patients. A nodal officer for each assembly constituency would monitor the handling of the Covid-19 situation.The state government also said that ayurvedic medicines would be distributed to increase immunity levels as a precautionary measure but it wasn’t clear how and where it would be done. Meanwhile a 60-year-old woman who had tested positive for Covid-19 along with other family members and was being treated at the government-run KC General Hospital killed herself by hanging in the bathroom in the early hours of Friday.She was said to have been mentally depressed due to the entire family including her son, daughter-in-law and grandson testing Covid-19 positive. Authorities have registered a case and are investigating.Also for the first time in more than a century the Chamundi hill temple in Mysore was deserted on the first Friday of the Hindu month of Ashada when every year normally lakhs throng to get a darshan. Authorities had allowed only priests and temple officials to perform the necessary rituals. According to a temple priest, the last time such a drastic step had been taken was during the 1918 plague when visitors were temporarily barred.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/economy-equally-important-no-further-lockdown-says-karnataka-cm-yediyurappa/story-Idqu5ZFchAG4ybkkNaqNwI.html
26-06-2020||India||‘To end LAC stand-off, China must stop erecting new structures’: Indian envoy||The only way out of the military stand-off between Indian and China at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) would be for Beijing to stop building new structures, Indian envoy to China was quoted as saying by news agency Press Trust of India.“Only way to resolve military standoff along LAC is for China to stop erecting new structures,” Vikram Misri told PTI.China should stop creating obstructions and hindrances, the envoy said, in normal patrolling of Indian troops. Misri also rejected China’s claim of sovereignty over Galwan as completely “untenable”, something the government has repeated over time, adding that such exaggerated claims are not going to help the situation.“China’s attempt to alter status quo on ground can have ‘ripples and repercussions’ in broader bilateral relationship,” the envoy added.In a strongly worded statement on Thursday, the external affairs ministry squarely blamed China for the violent faceoff at the LAC, saying Beijing had massed troops along the disputed frontier since May, violated a recent understanding to disengage in Galwan Valley and disregarded all mutually agreed norms for border patrols.Twenty Indian soldiers died in the line of duty fighting Chinese troopers on June 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-end-lac-stand-off-china-must-stop-erecting-new-structures-indian-envoy/story-shDo2dZKElHpxLcR10EeRJ.html
26-06-2020||India||Memorial, 5 statues as Telangana celebrates Narasimha Rao’s birth centenary||The Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government is all set to kick off year-long birth centenary celebrations of former Prime Minister P V Narasimha Rao starting Sunday. The arrangements are in full swing at Gyan Bhoomi - the samadhi of Narasimha Rao at Necklace Road in Hyderabad on the banks of Hussainsagar lake - for the centenary celebrations.An official release from the chief minister’s office said the state government had earmarked Rs 10 crore for celebrations throughout the year. A committee, headed by Rajya Sabha member K Kesava Rao, had been constituted to conduct various programmes all through the year.The official release said a memorial for Roa would be set up in Hyderabad on the lines of former President APJ Abdul Kalam’s memorial in Rameshwaram in Tamil Nadu. Five bronze statues of PV would be installed at Hyderabad, Warangal, Karimnagar, Vangara (the birthplace of Rao) and Telangana Bhavan in Delhi. “A portrait of PV should be kept in the Telangana state legislative Assembly,” the chief minister said.He also announced a resolution would be adopted in the state assembly in its next session, recommending to the Centre to award Bharat Ratna to Narasimha Rao on the occasion of his birth centenary.However, the state government’s decision to celebrate Rao through the year has angered a section of Muslim groups in the state.Jamaat-e-Islami Telangana unit spokesman Hamid Mohammad Khan said the TRS government had hurt the sentiments of the Muslim community by deciding to celebrate Rao’s birth centenary throughout the year. “It is a known fact that Narasimha Rao was responsible for the demolition of Babri Masjid in Ayodhya. He deliberately remained silent when the mosque was being razed. The Muslims of this country would never forget this historic mistake committed by him,” Khan told Hindustan Times.The JeI spokesman alleged that the government wanted to exploit the Telangana sentiment and gain political mileage as the former PM hailed from the region.Though they have no immediate plans to stage any protest rallies in the wake of prevailing Covid-19 pandemic, Khan said his organisation would write a letter to the chief minister conveying the sentiments of the Muslim community.Majlis Bachao Tehreek (MBT) president Amjad Ullah Khan said by deciding to celebrate PV birth centenary celebrations, the TRS chief had shown his true colours and scant respect for the Muslims.“Why did KCR own up a person like Narasimha Rao who had been disowned by his own party - the Congress. Why did he ignore the birth centenary celebrations of former chief minister Dr Marri Channa Reddy, who had played a key role in the first Telangana movement in 1969?” he asked.The MBT leader alleged that KCR wanted to be in the good books of RSS which hold the former Prime Minister in high regard. Interestingly, Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (MIM) president Asaduddin Owaisi, who had fought a battle for Babri Masjid in the last two decades, has not yet come out with any statement protesting the TRS government’s decision. Efforts to reach out to Owaisi seeking his reaction proved futile and he did not respond to the text messages either.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/memorial-5-statues-as-telangana-celebrates-narasimha-rao-s-birth-centenary/story-qKgIugD1vGPgCbd7cC65iL.html
26-06-2020||India||Recoveries exceed active Covid-19 cases in India, rate climbs to 58.24 per cent||India’s coronavirus patients who have recovered from the infectious disease have exceeded the number of active Covid-19 cases in the country by 96,173, data from the Union government indicated on Friday. With this, the country’s recovery rate has climbed to an encouraging 58.24 per cent. In the last 24 hours, a total of 13,940 Covid-19 patients have been cured and discharged from hospitals taking the total recoveries to 2,85,636. India’s Covid-19 count increased by a record 17,296 in 24 hours for the first time on Friday pushing the total tally to 4,90,401, over 50 per cent of which have been reported from 10 cities and districts, the Union health ministry said.ALSO READ | Delhi schools to remain closed till July 31 due to Covid-19: Deputy CM Manish SisodiaThe country’s death toll touched 15,301 with 407 new fatalities. Friday was the seventh day in a row that India registered over 14,000 cases.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has inducted 11 new labs in the last 24 hours. India now has 1,016 diagnostic labs dedicated to Covid-19. During the past 24 hours, 2,15,446 tests have been conducted in the country. The total number of samples tested, till date, is 77,76,228, according to government data.The Centre on Friday said that the North-eastern states have a lower number of Covid-19 positive cases as compared to the rest of the country. According to government data, there are 3,731 active cases in the northeast, while 5,715 patients have recovered so far.In addition, the mortality rate continues to be low in the northeast, with no deaths reported so far from the states of Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland, and Sikkim.“The North-eastern states have a lower number of Covid-19 cases compared to the rest of the country- active cases are 3,731, recoveries are 5,715. The death rate continues to be low, with no deaths in Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland and Sikkim,” the government data informed.ALSO READ | Over 17,000 new Covid-19 cases take India’s infection tally beyond 4.9 lakh; death toll at 15,301Delhi, Chennai, Thane, Mumbai, Palghar, Pune, Hyderabad, Ranga Reddy, Ahmedabad and Faridabad are the 10 districts and cities that have so far reported a larger number of coronavirus cases between June 19 and June 25, contributing to 54.47 per cent of the total caseload, a health ministry official said.In India, Maharashtra remains the worst-hit state by the coronavirus pandemic, accounting for almost one-third of the country’s total count with the state tally nearing the 2 lakh mark. National capital Delhi is in second spot with over 70,000 Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/recoveries-exceed-active-covid-19-cases-in-india-rate-climbs-to-58-24-per-cent/story-lbahpCC2edbl6LbU4cX0gO.html
26-06-2020||India||PM praises Adityanath for his handling of coronavirus, says it helped save 85k lives||Showering praise on Yogi Adityanath for his handling of Covid-19 pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the vast preparations made by the Uttar Pradesh chief minister saved at least 85,000 lives, something that was unthinkable before 2017. Modi, who launched the “Atma nirbhar Uttar Pradesh Rozgar Abhiyan” seeking to promote local entrepreneurship with industrial associations to provide employment, said Adityanath managed to turn the epidemic into an opportunity which the governments prior to 2017 would have avoided. The prime minister referred to the pre-2017 period when the state was mostly ruled by non-BJP governments, saying, “Whichever government or system was in place, the circumstances were such that they would have avoided the challenge but the Adityanath government took it seriously and worked on a war footing.” He referred to a stampede in Allahabad during the Kumbh Mela, when a former prime minister was in power who was also an MP from the city, saying the PM made all efforts to brush the “deaths of hundreds of thousands” pilgrims under the carpet.  Modi said UP’s population of 24 crore is same as that of four European countries put together but, in UP the death toll is 600 due to coronavirus and lauded the efforts of Adityanath in tackling the pandemic. “UP’s achievement is massive... The population of 24 crore is bigger than that of many countries. The population of England, France, Italy and Spain put together comes to 24 crore but they saw 1.30 lakh deaths due to coronavirus,” he said, adding that these four countries lost more lives than UP even though they are developed nations and have no dearth of facilities. Referring to the scenario in United States, he said, “You must have seen reports of America. They have everything but even then 1.25 lakh lives have been lost till now.” “If Yogiji and his team had not made proper preparations, today 85,000 people would have lost their lives if we compare with other countries. We can say that the hard work done by the UP government saved so many lives,” he said. Modi, who interacted with villagers of six districts through common services centres and krishi vigyan kendras , said this achievement has been managed when 30 to 35 lakh labourers have returned to the state by hundreds of shramik trains. Speaking about the works done by the Adityanath government, he said the chief minister’s dedication was evident in the fact that he opted to miss his father’s last rites. Modi said that he always talked about the double engine for development which was working for Uttar Pradesh and hoped that other states would also bring in schemes like UP. He stressed that he is concerned about the state as a citizen and also because he is an MP from here. “Whoever shows courage in crisis gets success. What you have done is an example for the world,” he said, adding that Uttar Pradesh has a great role in making the country self-reliant. He also hailed the work done by the UP government in the past three years and reminded that the fight against coronavirus was on and cited three steps of social distancing, covering face with a mask and sanitation. The “Atma nirbhar Uttar Pradesh Rozgar Abhiyan” scheme aims to generate 1.25 crore jobs in 31 districts. Exuding confidence of providing jobs to all migrant workers of Uttar Pradesh, Adityanath said the state has enough potential to create employment opportunities for all of them. “Uttar Pradesh has enough possibilities for creating employment for migrant workers who have returned to the state. I can assure that we will succeed in employing all of them,” said Adityanath while launching the scheme through video conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-praises-adityanath-for-his-handling-of-coronavirus-says-it-helped-save-85k-lives/story-uqlpdWNWeJh1yLvzjh2uYL.html
26-06-2020||India||Assam flood situation worsens; 2.5 lakh affected in 16 districts, death toll rises to 16||With heavy rainfall continuing in most parts of the state on Friday, the flood situation in Assam has worsened. Over 2.5 lakh people have been affected in 16 of the state’s 33 districts.According to Assam State Disaster Management Authority, 704 villages in 40 revenue circles in Dhemaji, Lakhimpur, Biswanath, Udalguri, Darrang, Baksa, Nalbari, Kokrajhar, Barpeta, Nagaon, Golaghat, Jorhat, Majuli, Sibsagar, Dibrugarh and Tinsukia districts are affected by floods.One person died due to drowning in Dibrugarh on Friday taking the total number of deaths due to floods in this season to 16. Over 2.5 lakh people are affected across the state with Dhemaji (88,269) and Tinsukia (59,261) being the worst affected districts.A total of 18,234 persons uprooted due to flooding are taking shelter in 142 camps in 9 of the affected districts. Rescue personnel evacuated 151 people trapped due to floods in Dhemaji, Nalbari and Dibrugarh districts on Friday.According to a bulletin by Central Water Commission (CWC), the Brahmaputra was flowing above the danger level at Nematighat in Jorhat district, Dhubri town and Tezpur in Sonitpur district.Several other rivers including Burhidihing, Dhansiri, Jia Bharali, Puthimari, Pagladiya, Manas, Beki and Sankosh were also flowing above the red mark at several places.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), “fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall very likely to continue over northeast India till Monday.It warned that “extremely heavy rainfall is also likely over Assam and Meghalaya till June 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-flood-situation-worsens-2-5-lakh-affected-in-16-districts-death-toll-rises-to-16/story-XMan3YLVXZx56vchUIwLpN.html
26-06-2020||India||Tamil Nadu records highest single day Covid 19 spike with 3645 cases, tally nears 75k mark||Tamil Nadu on Friday reported the highest single day spike with 3,645 new Covid 19 cases taking the state’s total to 74,622 cases including 46 deaths reported over the last 24 hours, according to the data released by the state health department. The southern state has currently 32,305 active cases of Covid-19 and has recorded a total of 957 fatalities. State capital of Chennai is the worst affected city with close to 50,000 coronavirus infections.A total of 3,509 persons had tested positive for the virus on Thursday—the previous record for highest single day spike and the first instance of daily cases crossing the three-thousand mark. 45 coronavirus patients were recorded to have died in the state on Thursday, according to PTI.The state has tested more than 10 lakh samples so far and the results indicate that close to 4,000 children under 12 years of age are infected in the state.Chennai Corporation Commissioner G Prakash said that detection of people with flu- like symptoms had increased manifold during the daily door-to-door survey after the lockdown came into effect a week ago.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesHe said that during the pre-lockdown times, about 600-700 symptomatic cases used to be recorded every day but now, it has crossed the 3,000 mark for a day,“Yesterday, 3,217 people were found with symptoms in the door-to-door surveys,” Prakash said.Tamil Nadu has announced a fresh lockdown from June 19 to June 30 in Chennai and parts of Chengalpet, Kancheepuram, and Tiruvallur districts. Most relaxations have been withdrawn and only shops and retail outlets for essentials are permitted to operate from 6 am till 2 pm.The city corporation has distributed pulse oximeters among the symptomatic cases for self monitoring of blood oxygen levels, which sometimes drop dangerously without prior warning in patients infected by the disease.Doctors are visiting people identified with symptoms to determine who should be sent for a confirmatory RT-PCR test for coronavirus,” Prakash was quoted as saying by PTI.Chennai has close to 12,000 operationalised beds, meaning those with availability of doctors and other personnel, in the Covid Care Centres. 4,350 of such beds are occupied and work is in progress to make additional beds including 5,000 at a Tamil Nadu Housing Board apartment complex and 1,500 at the Anna University premises, available.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The Corporation has kept 17,500 beds ready in 54 Covic Care Centres in the city which includes educational institutions and about 12,000 of these are serviced by health care professionals.Chennai along with nine other major cities including Delhi, Thane, Mumbai, Palghar, Pune, Hyderabad, Ranga Reddy, Ahmedabad and Faridabad are reported to have 54.47 per cent of India’s total cases between June 19 and June 25, according to a health ministry official.The number of Covid-19 cases in India has increased by a record 17,296 in 24 hours on Friday, pushing the total tally to 4,90,401.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-records-highest-single-day-covid-19-spike-with-3645-cases-tally-nears-75k-mark/story-9H6tjoPRKpe6rSfHMsXGLK.html
26-06-2020||India||Mamata writes to PM Modi, says 100% FDI in coal sector contradicts spirit of self-reliance||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has opposed 100 per cent foreign direct investment (FDI) in the coal sector, saying it contradicts the spirit of self reliance and comes at a time when investors across the world are showing interest in renewable energy.On Thursday, Banerjee expressed her reservations in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. She also said that Coal India Limited should not shift the desk offices of four of its subsidiary companies from Kolkata to their headquarters in other regions.Referring to the new policy announced by the Centre on allowing 100 % FDI in coal mining, processing and sale, Banerjee wrote: “This policy can neither bring FDI nor can it bring technologies or knowhow which we are unable to access today. The recent trend and empirical evidences clearly showcase the interest of global investors more in renewable energy projects as comparable to coal mining projects. In fact research suggests about 100 global financial institutions have divested their thermal coal investments. Therefore FDI in thermal coal is a far cry.”ALSO READ | Cut money tag returns in garb of nepotism for TMC in Bengal’s Amphan-hit districtsThe decision on allowing 100 per cent FDI in coal sector was taken by the Centre in 2019. “At a time when the world’s largest coal mining company Coal India Limited (CIL) is producing 80% of our coal with Profit Before Tax of Rs 27,000 crore (2018-19) and holding a reserve of Rs 31,000 crore the decision of the Central government to relax FDI restrictions demeans the capability of CIL,” wrote Banerjee.“Moreover allowing 100% FDI in coal for MNCs will carry a wrong message as it would contradict the very essence of Atmanirbhar Bharat and would also kill the vision of self-reliant policy that we have been following since the beginning,” the letter says. “Further it is observed that in many under-developed and developed countries there has been continuous resistance by the locals against any effort of their possible exploitation. As a result it would create a great impact on the domestic economy in the long run,” observed Banerjee.“As regards possibility of multinational corporations bringing appropriate new technologies in the thermal coal sector it may be mentioned that relevant technologies are universally available in this sector and our companies are already using them widely,” she said.“The recent abrupt decision to shift the desk offices of four of its subsidiary companies namely Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL), Central Coalfields Limited (CCL), South Eastern Coalfields Limited (SECL) and Mahanadi Coalfields Limited (MCL) from Kolkata to their respective headquarters in other areas will be extremely detrimental to the interest of all stakeholders of coal sector including the employees,” the letter said.Referring to the restriction of movement because of the Covid-19 pandemic, Banerjee said the decision of CIL “to shift these offices by June 30 is not humane and may endanger the innocent lives of its large number of employees as well as their family members.”“The contractual employees residing in or near Kolkata will lose their livelihood,” she added. “The location of the offices of all the four subsidiaries in the same city acts as an aid in better coordination among them and even with the CIL headquarters in Kolkata. The decision to shift them from the present strategic centre and commercial hub to other areas will have an adverse effect on our economy,” the letter said.“I would therefore request you to kindly reconsider allowing 100% FDI in coal sector and strongly urge your kind intervention or advising the Ministry of Coal not to go ahead with the decision of CIL to wind up their subordinate offices in Kolkata,” the letter said.The Bharatiya Janata Party reacted sharply to Banerjee’s letter and said shifting the desk offices of the four CIL subsidiaries is necessary to save them from bad work culture. “The FDI in coal sector will benefit West Bengal and the state government the most. But work culture in the state has touched the bottom of the pit. All offices have become centres of politics. Nobody works here. As a result, the Centre has decided to shift some of the offices from Kolkata. The decision was taken long ago but local parties moved the Centre and stalled it. There has been no change in work culture since then. As a result, the coal companies are falling sick,” said BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha. “The CM is free to write letters but instead of that she should take an interest in reviving the work culture in Bengal. Had she done this then not just BCCL but many private companies would have stayed here instead of shifting to other states. The trend started during the Left regime and TMC is taking it to its finale,” said Sinha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-writes-to-pm-modi-says-100-fdi-in-coal-sector-contradicts-spirit-of-self-reliance/story-WGlPRak1JeDUGaKB2AZKLM.html
26-06-2020||India||Railways spending Rs 2 lakh approx on each isolation coach; Rs 620 crore sanctioned by Centre||The Railways on Friday said it was spending an estimated Rs 2 lakh per isolation coach for its maintenance, food and linen for patients on board and protective gear for the staff.Railway Board Chairman VK Yadav said this was the budgetary estimate of the Railways for the 5,213 coaches which have been modified as isolation coaches and the money for it has already been received from the central Covid care fund. He also said so far Rs 620 crore has been sanctioned from the fund to the Ministry of Railways. Yadav also pointed out that it was heartening to see that movement in the reverse direction from states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal has begun with migrant workers returning to the states that they had left due to the coronavirus pandemic.“We are keeping a watch on occupancy of the special trains. Very soon we will begin more special trains depending on demand from states, occupancy, the Covid situation,” the chairperson said.“It is heartening to see that the occupancy in trains from UP, Bihar, West Bengal to big cities is increasing day by day, indicating an improving economic situation,” he further said. He also said that while it may not be possible to run all regular trains in the near future given the coronavirus situation, more special trains will be introduced soon.Yadav said the Railways has identified 160 projects for returnee migrant workers which will generate around nine lakh mandays of work under the Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyan in 6 states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-spending-rs-2-lakh-approx-on-each-isolation-coach-rs-620-crore-sanctioned-by-centre/story-t53bEVFgS7KkI5VDgbfkmL.html
26-06-2020||India||Covid-19 count in Mumbai’s Dharavi rises to 2,218, eight new cases emerge||Eight new Covid-19 cases have emerged in Mumbai’s Dharavi on Friday, taking the total number of coronavirus cases to 2,218, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said.A day earlier, on Thursday, slum colony Dharavi recorded 11 new cases of Covid-19, taking the tally to 2,210, the city’s civic agency had said.According to a senior BMC official, no fresh deaths were reported in Dharavi in the past 24 hours. The death toll in the slum dwelling remains unchanged at 81.ALSO READ | In sharp turnaround, Covid-19 growth rate dips to 1.02% in Mumbai’s Dharavi in JuneAmong the total patients, at least 1,108 have been discharged from hospitals following recovery from the coronavirus infection.The congested slum area has about 1,021 active cases at present.Spread across an area of 2.5 square km, Dharavi is known as the largest slum of Asia with a population of an estimated 6.5 lakh.Recently, the Union health ministry had said that due to proactive measures and containment strategies adopted by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, the Covid-19 growth rate in Dharavi has dipped to 1.02% in June. In the month of May, the growth rate for the Covid-19 disease in Dharavi was about 4.3%, a significant dip from the earlier 12% in April.ALSO READ | Over 17,000 new Covid-19 cases take India’s infection tally beyond 4.9 lakh; death toll at 15,301The number of Covid-19 cases in India increased by a record 17,296 in the last 24 hours for the first time on Friday pushing the total count to 4,90,401, over half of which have been reported from 10 cities and districts, according to Union Health Ministry data.The country’s death toll climbed to 15,301 with 407 new deaths. This is the seventh day in a row that India registered over 14,000 cases.Delhi, Chennai, Thane, Mumbai, Palghar, Pune, Hyderabad, Ranga Reddy, Ahmedabad and Faridabad are 10 districts and cities that have reported a larger number of Covid-19 cases between June 19 and June 25, contributing to about 54.47 per cent of the total caseload, a health ministry official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-count-in-mumbai-s-dharavi-rises-to-2-218-eight-new-cases-emerge/story-4pmR4e6tatigDmU5w20aaK.html
26-06-2020||India||Politics heats up despite Covid restrictions in Uttarakhand, Congress, BJP mobilise support, trade barbs||Politics has heated up in Uttarakhand for the first time in the last few days since the coronavirus pandemic outbreak in mid-March, with Congress taking to the streets and the BJP starting virtual rallies in all 70 assembly constituencies of the state.On Thursday, Congress leaders and workers assembled in Dehradun’s Gandhi Park area to protest against the continuous hike in the prices of diesel and petrol. Following the protest, police booked Congress state president Pritam Singh, senior vice president Suryakant Dhasmana and 163 other Congress workers for staging a protest without permission and for not adhering to social distancing norms during the protest action, said police.Station house officer of Dehradun Kotwali police station SS Negi said all the 165 Congress leaders and workers have been booked under IPC sections 147 (rioting), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and section 51 of the Disaster Management Act 2005.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesCongress leaders have lashed out at the state government for trying to “silence” them by booking such a large number of party members.Leader of opposition Indira Hridayesh said the BJP government was trying to intimidate Congress leaders and workers by filing FIRs against them. “This is an attempt to stifle the voice of the Opposition in the state. We have demanded the withdrawal of all cases filed against our people. Congress is not afraid of this harassment. We will continue to oppose anti-people policies of the BJP in future also,” she saidCongress vice president Suryakant Dhasmana said the party won’t be stopped by such tactics as it was fighting for the people. “People across the country are suffering due to price hike in petrol and diesel, that too, when they are already facing hardships on all fronts due to the coronavirus epidemic. Whatever number of cases they lodge against us, we will not stop. We will continue to fight for people. People cannot be looted like this. They are already facing severe financial hardship,” he said.BJP leadership has rubbished Congress’s claims. State BJP president Bansidhar Bhagat said nobody is trying to silence the Congress. He said Congress or anybody in the state has a right to protest as long as they follow the laid out rules. “But these protests have to be staged as per the norms by seeking prior permission from the authorities concerned and by adhering to social distancing norms these days. Congress or anybody else can’t violate these norms.”Kedarnath visit: HC directs UP MLA, Uttarakhand govt to submit replies within 10 daysBhagat also said that the price hike in petrol and diesel keeps changing according to the price of crude oil. “Sometimes they increase and sometimes they decrease. It has been happening during Congress regimes and it will continue to happen as prices keep fluctuating from time to time,” he said.Three days ago, BJP also started virtual rallies in the state to mark the completion of the first year of the second term of the NDA government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The inaugural virtual rally was held by party state president Bansidhar Bhagat addressing party workers in Tehri assembly constituency from Dehradun party office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/politics-heats-up-despite-covid-restrictions-in-uttarakhand-congress-bjp-mobilise-support-trade-barbs/story-PQEAoHr7QMVzfJriLNBe0K.html
26-06-2020||India||Record spike of 605 new Covid-19 cases take Andhra’s tally past 11,000-mark||Andhra Pradesh’s Covid-19 curve continued to rise steeply as the state recorded 605 new coronavirus cases on Friday, its biggest single-day tally so far, taking the state past the 11,000 mark. With 10 fatalities recorded in the last 24 hours, the death toll in the Telugu state climbed to 146. Andhra Pradesh’s total coronavirus tally currently stands at 11,489.Andhra’s Kadapa district registered 133 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, the largest single-day spike in any district.ALSO READ | Over 17,000 new Covid-19 cases take India’s infection tally beyond 4.9 lakh; death toll at 15,301Kurnool and Krishna districts reported four new deaths each and Guntur and Visakhapatnam one each, according to the latest health bulletin by the state government.An MLA of the ruling YSR Congress contracted the coronavirus infection in Kurnool district and has been sent on home quarantine. He is the second legislator in the state to have been infected with the virus, after a lawmaker tested positive in Vizianagaram district.In the last 24 hours, 191 coronavirus patients have recovered in the state and have been discharged from hospitals.ALSO READ | Andhra Pradesh becomes 10th state with more than 10,000 cases, over 66,000 patients in Delhi: Covid-19 state tally The 11,489 Covid-19 cases include 9,353 local people, 1,764 who have come from other states and 372 people who have arrived in Andhra Pradesh from abroad.The state now has 6,145 active Covid-19 cases after 5,196 patients have been discharged till date. India’s Covid-19 tally surged to 490,401 after 17,296 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease , the highest in a single day, were reported from across the country, according to the Union health ministry on Friday.There are 189,463 active Covid-19 cases in the country and the death toll mounted to 15,301 as 407 people succumbed to the illness between Thursday and Friday morning, the health ministry data indicated.During the last 24 hours, 13,940 Covid-19 patients have been cured. So far, 285,636 patients have been discharged from hospitals, taking the recovery rate to 58.24%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/record-spike-of-605-new-covid-19-cases-take-andhra-s-tally-past-11-000-mark/story-gpMXD4LfOXQp2JwncNTa3N.html
26-06-2020||India||Women should enhance skills to become ‘atmanirbhar’: Gadkari||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday said women should enhance their skills, equip themselves with technology to become ‘atmanirbhar’ and asked the BJP Mahila Morcha to reach out with MSME schemes.During a video-conferencing session with workers of the party’s women’s wing in Nagpur, Gadkari emphasised on the need to create jobs and opportunities for sustainable living for women in villages and slums.He urged the Mahila Morcha to conduct workshops for women where officials from MSMEs and Khadi Gram Udyog can guide them about entrepreneurial opportunities.Women entrepreneurs have been given 3 per cent reservation in the Public Procurement Policy and they should take advantage of this by registering themselves with the MSME authorities, he said. As many as 1,400 MSME women entrepreneurs got public undertaking orders worth Rs 231 crore in 2018-19 and Rs 381 crore in 2019-2020, the Union minister in-charge of MSMEs said.Gadkari also informed that loans were available for women under the Prime Minister Employment Generation Programme and Credit Guarantee Trust fund for micro and small industries, wherein 75 per cent loan guarantee is secured by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/women-should-enhance-skills-to-become-atmanirbhar-gadkari/story-ikZDbFVFY79Ua9E1XFcxvN.html
26-06-2020||India||Several key markets, shops closed in Hyderabad as Covid-19 cases rise rapidly||The sharp spike in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in Hyderabad in the last few days has forced several shops, business establishments and general markets to announce voluntary lockdown for a period ranging from 7-10 days as a precautionary measure.On Thursday night, Telangana reported a whopping 920 positive cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, including 737 in Hyderabad alone, taking the total tally of the positive cases to 11,364. There were five more deaths in Hyderabad, taking the total death toll to 230.While the Telangana government continued with relaxations in lockdown for all the business activities except cinema theatres and other places of large public gathering, several merchants associations and traders’ associations decided to down the shutters voluntarily at least for a week so as to prevent spread of the Covid-19.Pathergatti, a major shopping centre close near Madina in the old city of Hyderabad, wore a deserted look on Friday as the local traders decided to not to open their shops for till July 3. “As the number of cases has been going up sharply, we had no other option but to close down our business activities,” Abid Moinuddin, president, Pathergatti Traders Association said.Similarly, Lad Bazar, a tourist attraction adjacent to historic Charminar known for selling colourful bangles, was also shut down on Friday. The bangle merchants decided to close down their shops in the wake of heavy rush of people resulting in the possibility of spreading the virus.Begum Bazar, a popular wholesale market closer to Osmania General Hospital where everything is available at cheaper rates, will also remain closed from Sunday to July 5. “All the merchants have unanimously decided to voluntarily enforce complete lockdown of commercial market in Begum Bazar in the wake of rising number of Covid-19 cases,” Laxmi Narayan Rathi, president, Hyderabad Kirana Merchant Association, said.Similar decision was taken by the textile traders of famous General Bazar in Secunderabad, who also announced closure of shops till July 5. “As the coronavirus cases are increasing rapidly in our area, for the safety of our customers and our team, the General Bazaar Silk Cloth Merchants Association has decided to close shops from June 25 to July 5,” a notice released by the General Bazaar Silk Cloth Merchant’s Association said.Hyderabad and Secunderabad sanitaryware merchants at Ranigunz announced closure up to July 5 and merchants of electric appliances at Troop Bazar near Abids decided close the shops from Sunday up to July 8.Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation commissioner Lokesh Kumar did not respond to the calls to seek his comments on the decision taken by various traders to close the shops in the wake of increasing Covid-19 threat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/several-key-markets-shops-closed-in-hyderabad-as-covid-19-cases-rise-rapidly/story-fapCCsrft6xXpj2eSLTkJK.html
26-06-2020||India||Mild to medium colour blind people can now obtain driving licence||The government on Friday said those with mild to medium colour blindness can now obtain driving licence.The Road Transport and Highways Ministry has issued a notification in this regard for necessary amendments in required forms of motor vehicle norms.“The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) has issued a notification for amendment to the Form 1 and Form 1A of the Central Motor Vehicles (CMV) Rules, 1989 for enabling the citizens with mild to medium colour blindness in obtaining the driving licence...,” the ministry said in a statement.The MoRTH has been taking many measures to enable ‘divyangjan’ citizens to avail transport-related services and especially relating to the obtaining of the driving licence, it said. The advisories, the statement said, have been issued in this regard to facilitate driving licence to ‘divyangjan’ citizens. Further, an advisory for people with monocular vision has also been issued, it said.“The ministry received representations that the colour blind citizens are not able to have the driving licence made as restrictions through the requirements in the declaration about physical fitness (FORM 1) or the medical certificate (FORM 1A) makes it difficult,” the statement said.“The issue was taken up with medical expert institution and advice was sought. The recommendations received were to allow mild to medium colour blind citizens to be allowed to drive and put restrictions only on the severe colour blind citizens from driving,” the statement said. This is also allowed in other parts of the world. Earlier issuing a draft notification in March, the ministry had sought suggestions and comments from various statkeholders for an amendment in Motor Vehicle Rules for enabling such individuals obtain driving licence. “It was brought to the notice of the ministry that the colour blind citizens were not being able to get the driving licence made although they are able to perform all functions properly except from identifying colours. The matter was sympathetically examined consulting the medical experts,” the ministry had said earlier. It had been reported that the citizens with certain degree of colour blindness can be provided with driving licence and this is being done in many countries of the world, it had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mild-to-medium-colour-blind-people-can-now-obtain-driving-licence/story-ipQmYKQzdq9bVngcim53tK.html
26-06-2020||India||Three militants killed in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama district||Security forces on Friday gunned down three militants during a gun battle in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama district, officials said.Troops had launched an operation at Chewa Ullar in Tral of Pulwama District on Thursday evening after receiving information about the presence of militants in the area.Officials said the first militant was killed early on Friday morning and two more were killed later as the operation progressed. The militants, believed to be locals, were hiding in a house which was damaged during the gun battle. Two AK-47 assault rifles were recovered from the site, a spokesperson of the Indian Army said.A police spokesman said that, during a search operation, the militants were given an opportunity to surrender. However, they fired indiscriminately on the joint search party, which retaliated and this led to the gun battle. “Arms and ammunition, including two AK rifles, six AK magazines, five AK rounds, a pistol, a pistol magazine, four pistol rounds and other incriminating materials were recovered from the site. All the recovered materials have been taken into case records for further investigation and to probe their role and complicity in other terror crimes,” the spokesman said.The spokesman further said that the bodies of the three militants have been sent to Handwara for conducting the last rites after completing medico-legal formalities, including collection of DNA. “In case any family claims the killed terrorists as their kin, they can come forward for their identification and participation in the last rites at Handwara,” he said. Security forces have stepped up the offensive in Kashmir Valley and killed more than 100 terrorists in operations since the beginning of this year. Forty militants were killed this month alone, and most of them were killed in south Kashmir, which is considered the hotbed of militancy in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-militants-killed-in-j-k-s-pulwama/story-N9PovVV3ucLuxfmQu8EnkN.html
26-06-2020||India||Earthquake of 2.8 magnitude jolts Haryana’s Rohtak||Rohtak (Haryana) [India], June 26 (ANI): An earthquake of magnitude 2.8 on the Richter scale struck near the Rohtak area of Haryana on Friday.According to the National Centre for Seismology, the tremors were felt in the area at 3:32 p.m. today.Earlier on Wednesday, an earthquake of the same magnitude struck Haryana’s Rohtak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthquake-of-2-8-magnitude-jolts-haryana-s-rohtak/story-9ZTpfXGO0WRFFsc7PRQAhM.html
26-06-2020||India||Yusuf Memon, Tiger Memon’s brother and 1993 Mumbai serial blasts convict, dead||Yusuf Memon, a 1993 Mumbai serial blasts case convict and a brother of absconding accused Tiger Memon, died on Friday at Nashik Road Prison in Maharashtra’s Nashik district, a prison official said.The cause of death was yet to ascertained and the body would be sent to Dhule for autopsy, he said.Nashik police commissioner Vishwas Nangre-Patil confirmed Memon’s death.While Tiger Memon was allegedly the mastermind of the blasts conspiracy alongwith fugitive gangster Dawood Ibrahim, Yusuf was accused of allowing his flat and garage at Al- Husseini building in Mumbai for terrorist activities.A special TADA court had sentenced him to life imprisonment.Yakub Memon, another Memon brother who was arrested in the case, was hanged in 2015.At least 250 persons were killed and hundreds were injured when 12 blasts ripped through Mumbai on March 12, 1993.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yusuf-memon-tiger-memon-s-brother-and-1993-mumbai-serial-blasts-convict-dead/story-Ggy5HiC1562EPb2KUd2lKI.html
26-06-2020||India||Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee relaxes night curfew hours across state||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who has already extended the lockdown in the state till July 31 to contain the spread of Covid-19, on Friday announced that night curfew hours have been relaxed in the state during the new period of lockdown.The new restrictions will apply from 10 pm to 5 am from the earlier 9 pm to 5 am.After four extended lockdowns, the Centre, at the beginning of this month, said lockdown will only be applicable in containment zones till June 30.She also said she wants the metro services to resume from July 1, but only with 100 per cent seat occupancy, and no passenger standing.“We have decided that (from July 1) the night curfew hours will be from 10 pm to 5 am. We also want the Metro railways to resume services from July 1, by following all the precautionary and sanitisation norms and only with 100 per cent seat occupancy policy,” Banerjee said at a press conference.She said the Kolkata metro railways should ensure that the trains run without any passenger standing or coaches being overcrowded.In another development last evening, the railways said all regular time-tabled passenger trains, including mail express, passenger and suburban services which were suspended by the Centre till June 30, will remain suspended till August 12. The latest round of cancellations of trains comes in the background of a surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-relaxes-night-curfew-hours-across-state/story-Al29PXyLb5VSVHOWU847eI.html
26-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ITBP chief visits 10,000-bed Covid-19 centre, says will deal with any challenge and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.ITBP chief visits India’s largest Covid 19 care centre with 10,000 beds, says force will deal with any challengeIndo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) chief S S Deswal on Friday said that the force was prepared to deal with all kinds of challenges in its service to the nation, while on a visit to country’s largest Covid care centre erected on the premises of a religious organisation in south Delhi. Read moreBhutan says flow of river waters to Assam disrupted by heavy rainsBhutan on Friday said the supply of river water to Assam has been disrupted because irrigation channels have been affected by heavy monsoon rains, dismissing reports that the flow of water had been deliberately stopped. Read moreITBP chief visits India’s largest Covid 19 care centre with 10,000 beds, says force will deal with any challengeIndo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) chief S S Deswal on Friday said that the force was prepared to deal with all kinds of challenges in its service to the nation, while on a visit to country’s largest Covid care centre erected on the premises of a religious organisation in south Delhi. Read moreSafe and stylish: Anti-coronavirus fabric launched to fight Covid-19 spreadEvery Indian is familiar with the famous ‘90s catchphrase, ‘coming home to Siyaram’s’, the textile brand that was most well-known for suiting up Indian men long before high-street and high-end brands took over the fashion scene. Read more‘Why were 20 soldiers killed if China hasn’t occupied our land?’: Sonia GandhiCongress interim president Sonia Gandhi has launched a scathing attack on the Modi government over the Ladakh faceoff with China. She questioned PM Modi for contradicting Defence Minister and Foreign Minister on the Chinese incursions. Read moreHarsh Goenka’s talks about ‘Wall of Gratitude’ that honours Corona WarriorsHarsh Goenka has spoken to Humans of Bombay about the ‘Wall of Gratitude’ that honours Corona Warriors and the post has won praise from a lot of people. Read moreXiaomi covers its branding with ‘Made in India’ bannersXiaomi has started covering the branding of its retail store in India with ‘Made in India’ banners. The company, per reports, has also asked the employees at its retail stores to not wear uniforms fearing miscreants might try to damage the stores or attack employees amid the growing anti-China sentiment in the country. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-itbp-chief-visits-10-000-bed-covid-19-centre-says-will-deal-with-any-challenge-and-all-the-latest-news/story-kAB9EJcHgChZ09M00LvSTO.html
26-06-2020||India||International commercial flights to remain suspended till July 15: Government||Commercial international flights to and from India will continue to remain suspended till July 15, according to a government release issued on Friday.A circular released by the Director General of Civil Aviation in New Delhi said that “scheduled International commercial passenger services to/from India shall remain suspended till 23:59 hours IST of 15th July,2020.”It specified that this restriction will not apply to international cargo operations and flights specifically approved by the aviation regulator.The official release goes on to say that some international scheduled flights on “selected routes” may be allowed by the competent authorities on a case to case basis.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe government is currently running the third phase of Vande Bharat Mission- one of the largest citizen repatriation programmes undertaken by any government to evacuate people stranded in different countries after suspension of international commercial airline operations due to coronavirus pandemic outbreak.The regular international commercial flight operation was suspended on March 22 by the Indian government immediately before the imposition of the first phase of complete lockdown to fight the spread of coronavirus disease.On June 20, the civil aviation minister had said that the resumption of international flights depended on other countries being open to receiving flights. However, he had expressed hope that the domestic flights will be restored to their full capacity by the year end.Explaining the problem, the minister had explained that many countries had put conditions on entry of people in their jurisdictions including restrictions on entry of foreign nationals and this had left India with little option but to keep the flights suspended.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19He gave examples of the US, the UK, France, China, UAE and Singapore to state his point.India has managed to move a total of 182,313 passengers till June 24, 2020 under the Vande Bharat Mission, which began on June 11, according to the latest data released by the ministry on Thursday. Air India group has operated a total of 1,414 flights till yesterday.The government is also looking to explore the possibility of establishing bilateral arrangements with countries to allow their carriers to operate flights from India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-commercial-flights-to-remain-suspended-till-july-15-government/story-lpDWjOuVn7hYePa53NXqoL.html
26-06-2020||India||The virus has made India’s devastating gender gap even worse||Women around the world have been hurt financially by the coronavirus outbreak, but the situation in India is more precarious for them than almost anywhere else. For women in India already suffer from a wide gender gap in employment, wages and education.Less than a quarter of women in India are in the labor force — among the poorest standings in the world — and they earn 35% less on average than men, compared to the global average of a 16% gap. Women represent 49% of India’s population yet contribute only 18% to its economic output, about half the global average. And when Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 25 imposed a lockdown on this nation of 1.3 billion people, many women were set back even further.Asha Sharma, 25, is among them. Five years ago, she left the hilly state of Uttarakhand for New Delhi to try to make a living from her passion of dancing to Bollywood songs. That dream lasted only a short while; she couldn’t get into a dance troupe and her degree from a small town was of no help in landing an office job in the city. With a friend’s reference, Sharma found a job at a beauty salon.She was earning about 12,000 rupees ($159) a month and sending some money back home to her mother, a worker at a government child-care center. After her father’s death a decade ago, her mother struggled to raise three children. Sharma can no longer help, though, as she has had no income in the past two months with the beauty salon shuttered.Her siblings are also out of work amid the outbreak, making them all dependent again on the 1,500 rupees a month their mother earns.“Our mother did so much for us. Now we are all grown up but can’t do anything to help her,” Sharma said. “It’s not easy for a woman to earn. Unlike men, who can do any kind of job, we have limitations. We also have to keep safety aspects in mind.”The virus outbreak and stay-at-home orders in India have hurt women in other ways. Many of the millions of migrant workers forced to flee cities for their rural homes with little notice were women. They are over-represented in vulnerable service jobs like health care and education and in informal jobs, such as agriculture and sex work, where there’s no safety net. And as Sharma points out, they have safety concerns, with travel a risk for many.“Lockdown and social-distancing norms are likely to have an outsized impact on women. The concern is the economic impact will be felt across employment and well-being indicators over the coming years,” said Sanjay Mathur, an economist with Australia and New Zealand Banking Group, calling this “India’s painful shecession.” That’s a term used by the Institute for Women’s Policy Research after U.S. employment numbers showed a majority of jobs lost in April were held by women.Oxfam India estimates the economic loss from women losing their jobs during the pandemic at about $216 billion, knocking off 8% from the country’s gross domestic product. This clouds women’s already poor economic outlook. The World Economic Forum’s Global Gender Gap Index 2020 ranks India 112th of 153 countries in offering equal opportunities to women and men, and women often don’t have the same access to health care and education as their male counterparts.Even professional women in India have had setbacks. The virus outbreak has led many to work from home, yet Poonam Kumar made that choice 20 years ago. A freelance public relations professional living on the outskirts of New Delhi, Kumar wanted to spend time with family, raising her son, who’s now 16.“People who started with me have grown big,” she said over the phone from her residence in Gurugram, referring to colleagues from early in her career who have moved up the ladder. “But that was a choice I made.”Kumar said her life was going smoothly, until the pandemic hit. Her husband’s retail business was hurt by the lockdown, and Kumar’s business, she says, “is at a standstill.” She has lost four of her six clients and hasn’t been able to pay full salaries to the two women she employs.“When companies are struggling to pay salaries and chucking out employees, no one is going to think about public relations,” she said. “I don’t see things returning to normal anytime soon. I’m trying to figure out what to do next.”Other InequitiesThe impact of the virus is also exacerbating India’s deep-rooted social inequities. An unsafe environment in many places, with a girl raped an average of every 15 minutes, and the burden of domestic responsibilities have kept many women away from work. There has been a more than two-fold rise in complaints of domestic violence since the lockdown. Experts warn that girls’ education will be disadvantaged — as only 29% of Internet users in India are female, and there’s a tendency for families with limited means to give preference to boys for schooling.“Insofar that violence has long-lasting emotional and psychological consequences, one persistent economic impact will be on women’s ability to work outside their homes,” said Tarun Jain, a professor of economics at the Indian Institute of Management in Ahmedabad.Female employment in April was at 61% of the pre-lockdown yearly average; for men it was 71%, Ashwini Deshpande, an economics professor at Ashoka University, wrote in a research paper June 3. Women employed in the pre-lockdown phase were 23.5 percentage points less likely than men to be employed post-lockdown, she said.Neeti Pandey, 42, last month became part of those statistics when she walked out of the private school where she taught for about two years, holding a termination letter. A mathematics teacher in Indirapuram near New Delhi, Pandey was called to the school and asked to resign along with several other teachers. They were told there was no money to pay them as many families had stopped paying tuition.The news came as a shock to Pandey, a mother of two who had become the family’s lone breadwinner after her husband, a cancer patient, gave up his grocery business last year. She wasn’t paid for April and May though she taught online classes from home. Taking care of her husband, along with child care and elderly care, has added to her burden.“Life is tough for a woman. Men will do only one job at a time, but we always have to do multitasking. We are supposed to strike the right balance between family and work, and keep everyone happy,” she said. “But if you are sad, you can’t hide it for long.”For now, Pandey is managing with a little savings and some financial assistance from relatives. She is desperately looking for a job, but with unemployment rising above 23%, her search hasn’t been easy.Work RisksIn India, women are at higher risk of contracting the virus because they are overrepresented in the health-care sector. Women’s self-help groups are trying to make available personal protective equipment gear, though the need is great.For some women, “the choice seems to be between unemployment and jobs that put them at risk of disease and infection and make them targets of vicious stigma,” Deshpande said.Madhu, 39, who goes by only one name, is used to handling risk in her job. She is a sex worker in New Delhi, saying financial need pushed her into this field more than a decade ago. She was separated from her husband when her two daughters, nearly adults now, were toddlers. She tells her family she’s a peer educator doing awareness training about AIDS — which she is, a job that pays little but lets her keep her real work under wraps.“There was a time we were 12 people at home, including my parents and siblings, and there was hardly any food to eat. We fed sugar syrup to the kids for days,” Madhu said. “It was then a friend told me about the men who pay 100 rupees for a one-hour bike ride with them. That was a princely amount for me at that time.”The lockdown has left Madhu and millions of other sex workers in India without a source of income. There are no social welfare programs specifically for sex workers in India, and many of them don’t have documents that give the poor access to free food and cash transfers.To survive during the outbreak, Madhu started working at a hospital canteen where coronavirus patients are treated. She serves food to doctors and patients, and in return gets leftovers for her family. A few of her clients also have provided some financial help.“I wish I had studied and become a teacher,” she said. “I don’t want my daughters to struggle like me.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-virus-has-made-india-s-devastating-gender-gap-even-worse/story-cvIzpDBN2RUKRvIxtJ7eyI.html
26-06-2020||India||Covid effect: Age limit reduced for voters to opt for postal ballot in Lok Sabha, assembly polls||Keeping in mind the safety of senior citizens amid rising cases of the coronavirus, the age limit for voters to opt for postal ballot in Lok Sabha and assembly elections has been reduced.After the coronavirus outbreak in India, Bihar will be the first state to have assembly polls, and voters of Bihar will be the first to benefit from the amended rules.In October 2019, the Law Ministry amended the Conduct of Election Rules to allow people with disabilities and those who are 80 years of age or above to opt for postal ballot during Lok Sabha and assembly elections.Now, on June 19, the ministry notified a fresh change in the rules, allowing those aged 65 years and above to opt for postal ballot.While amending the rules on the suggestions of the Election Commission, the ministry also allowed “Covid 19 suspect or affected persons” to use the postal ballot facility.The age limit was reduced as “people who are 65 and above are vulnerable” to the coronavirus, explained an EC official.The EC had approached the government to tweak the rule as pandemic could continue till the end of the year.As of now, people who come under the category of those allowed to use postal ballot have to fill form 12D to avail the facility.The election rules are amended after the Law Minister approves changes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-effect-age-limit-reduced-for-voters-to-opt-for-postal-ballot-in-lok-sabha-assembly-polls/story-MwrhlGA2fFF4fiEkpFT9sN.html
26-06-2020||India||Reuters’ claim of India calling Army to run Covid facilities is ‘far from reality’: Government||The union government has issued a denial to a Reuters news report, carried two days ago on Wednesday, claiming the Centre had called in the Indian Army to run covid-19 treatment and management facilities in Delhi as the number of positive cases were on a rise. The home ministry denial has termed the Reuters report as “far away from reality” and clarified that only medical personnel belonging to the armed forces and the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) have been summoned to assist at some medical facilities in Delhi.“Reuters headline says “India calls in Army to run facilities in Delhi as cases surge”. This news is far away from reality. Note: Army has not been called in, only medical personnel of Armed Forces & CAPF have been asked to assist at some medical facilities in Delhi,” an official statement from the home ministry said on Friday.The Reuters news story published on Wednesday referred to the temporary Covid care treatment centre erected at the Radha Soami Beas premises in south Delhi and the railway coaches converted into Covid wards, to say they were among the facilities designated to be handled by the armed forces.“These include a 10,000 bed facility hosted at a religious centre and railway coaches turned into wards,” the report said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesIt also quoted home minister Amit Shah to substantiate its misleading headline. ‘“Armed forces personnel have been detailed for providing medical care and attention to Covid-19 patients housed in the railway coaches in Delhi,” Home Minister Amit Shah said,’ said the Reuters story.On Wednesday, the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) had taken over the charge of managing the temporary treatment centre created on the premises of Radha Soami Beas establishment in Chhatarpur area in Delhi on the request of the home ministry.ITBP chief visits India’s largest Covid 19 care centre with 10,000 beds, says force will deal with any challengeITBP has deployed around 1,000 of its medical professionals including doctors, nurses and paramedic staff to work at the facility, created to meet the challenges of the rising number of infections in Delhi.“India reported 16,000 new coronavirus cases on Wednesday (Jun 24), its highest daily increase since the outbreak began, and the government called in the army to manage new treatment centres with thousands of additional hospital beds in New Delhi,” said the Reuters story, published as it is by several international media organizations, such as Channel News Asia based in Singapore and The Dawn of Pakistan.This is not the first such assignment handled by ITBP, which also created and ran the Chhawla quarantine centre in the national capital, which was created more than two months ago for Indians evacuated from China and Italy.Indian Army has also been helping the civil administration in Covid containment efforts with its medical facilities and staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reuters-claim-of-india-calling-army-to-run-covid-facilities-is-far-from-reality-government/story-993uzOqHX3Rt7ysUFZhIZJ.html
26-06-2020||India||In 3 video messages, Sonia Gandhi, Rahul and Priyanka amp up attack on PM over ‘Chinese incursion’||In three video messages released back-to-back on Friday afternoon, Congress president Sonia Gandhi, son Rahul and daughter Priyanka stepped up attacks on Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the India-China border standoff and asked the government to take people into confidence on the extent of territories being occupied by Chinese troops.Sonia Gandhi recalled PM Modi’s statements that China hasn’t crossed into our territory. But, she said, Chinese forces do appear to have occupied Indian territory according to defence experts, satellite images and statements emerging out of the foreign ministry.The three video messages were prefaced by glowing tributes to the army and 20 soldiers who made the supreme sacrifice at the violent face-off with China’s People’s Liberation Army troopers in east Ladakh’s Galwan area earlier this month. Then came the jabs and swipes.While the country pays tributes to the fallen soldiers, Sonia Gandhi said the central government could not step back from its responsibilities and must get back the Indian territory, which she said, had been occupied by Chinese troops. She also asked the government to back the army all the way. “This is true patriotism,” she said, wrapping up her three-minute video message.The three video messages from the Gandhi family come against the backdrop of stinging attacks on them from the top leadership of the Bharatiya Janata Party leaders that alleged the party’s Rajiv Gandhi Foundation was a beneficiary of donations from the Chinese government and its embassy in New Delhi. Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad alleged the donation had led the Congress to support China. He also said RGF had pushed for a free trade agreement between the two countries, leading to a huge trade deficit skewed in favour of China, and that the donation led to the Congress supporting China.Also Read: India has closed military gap with China along borderThis morning, BJP chief JP Nadda put out excerpts from annual reports of Rajiv Gandhi Foundation to allege that the PM Relief Fund, which receives donations from the public, had gone ahead to donate money to the RGF, when the Manmohan Singh-led coalition was in power.Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s video messages were a tad more acerbic than the one from Sonia Gandhi.China has taken away our land not just at one place but in three areas. “Prime Minister ji, you will have to speak the truth and tell the country. There is no need to get flustered. If you say no land was taken away and the truth is otherwise, it will be China’s gain,” Rahul Gandhi said. Nudging PM Modi to come out with a revised statement, Rahul Gandhi said China would be the key beneficiary if India keeps on denying that it has occupied territory when it has.Also Read: US shifting military to face Chinese threat to India and Southeast Asia, says Mike PompeoPriyanka Gandhi sought to link Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s efforts to improve relations with China over his information summits with President Xi jinping. “What happened during the discussions that PM Modi had held with the Chinese that they were so emboldened to take over our territories,” Priyanka Gandhi asked, asserting that it was everyone’s duty to ask questions of the government. “We will not allow the sacrifices of our soldiers to go in vain…. It will be a crime to disrespect their sacrifice. We will not allow this to happen,” she said.The Congress insists that PM Modi’s concluding statement at the all-party meeting that Chinese troops were not present in Indian territory contradicted the earlier statements made by the Army chief, the defence Minister and the foreign ministry. The party asked if no Chinese troops had crossed the LAC, what was the reason for the face-off.The Prime Minister’s Office had responded to this line of attack to clarify that the PM’s observations that there was no Chinese presence on our side of the LAC pertain to the situation as a consequence of the bravery of the Armed Forces. “The sacrifice of the soldiers of the 16 Bihar Regiment for the attempts of the Chinese side to erect structures and also cleared the attempted transgression at this point of the LAC on that day,” the PMO had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-india-china-standoff-in-galwan-valley-of-ladakh-sonia-gandhi-rahul-and-priyanka/story-9v2FZq3TJwizCvX50jrbYK.html
26-06-2020||India||Cash-strapped Himachal cuts power subsidy, hikes vehicle tax||The cash-strapped Himachal Pradesh (HP) government has come down hard at consumers by increasing vehicle registration fees and also slashed electricity subsidy to shore up its revenue amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.These decisions were taken during a state cabinet meeting on Thursday.The registration fees for motorcycles have been increased from the existing 2.5%-4% to 7%-10%.The new registration fee for a motorcycle that costs up to Rs 50,000 will be 7%; 8% for above Rs 50,000, and up to Rs 2 lakh; and 10% for above Rs 2 lakh.Similarly, the registration fee for a car has been increased from 8% to 10%.The state government will charge 100% of the composite fee from small contract carriers coming to HP with riders from outside states.The 15-day waiver for contract carriers, who paid the tax for a month at one go, has also been done away with.The state government has decided to slash the Rs 480-crore subsidy for the Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board (HPSEB) by Rs 110 crore in a bid to give relief to those consumers, whose monthly consumption is below 125 units.Government data showed that 18% of the subsidy went to 11 lakh consumers, who consume less than 125 units of electricity per month, and the rest to another nine lakh consumers, whose consumption is over 125 units in a month.There will be no change in the power bills for consumers using electricity less than 125 units a month.However, those who use power between 125 and 200 units a month will see a hike between Rs 40 and Rs 113 in their monthly electricity bills.Similarly, those consuming between 201 to 300 units of power will see an increase between Rs 115 and Rs 200 in their monthly bills. The consumption pattern between Rs 301 and 400 electricity units will entail an increase in the monthly bill between Rs 200 and Rs 290. A consumer has to cough up between Rs 300 and Rs 400 more a month, if his consumption is found to be 401 units or above.In HP, a consumer pays Rs 2.62 for a unit of power, as compared to Rs 6.59 and Rs 3.27 in neighbouring Punjab and Uttarakhand, respectively.The state government has also allowed running of buses with 100% of their capacity, but refused to increase fares.Earlier, private bus operators had demanded that the minimum fare be doubled to Rs 10 from Rs 5 because of 60% occupancy due to social distancing norms owing to the viral outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cash-strapped-himachal-cuts-power-subsidy-hikes-vehicle-tax/story-9zoTsizWVMHo7zcFBau3VO.html
26-06-2020||India||IAF chopper makes emergency landing on KGP expressway in Haryana, personnel safe||An Indian Air Force (IAF) chopper made an emergency landing on the Kundli-Ghaziabad-Palwal expressway in Haryana on Friday following a technical glitch, a police official said.The air force personnel on board the chopper are reported to be safe, according to the police.“The IAF helicopter made an emergency landing due to a technical glitch. All Police Control Room vehicles and police personnel were rushed to the spot. Later, IAF engineers attended to the chopper and it took off after two hours,” Assistant Sub-Inspector of Sonipat Police Sandeep Kumar told news agency PTI.The chopper made the emergency landing on the Kundli-Ghaziabad-Palwal expressway, also called the Eastern Peripheral Expressway.The incident occurred about 10 to 12 kilometres away from Haryana’s Sonipat.On receiving information about the emergency landing by the IAF helicopter, the police reached the spot and stopped vehicular traffic movement on that stretch of the expressway where the chopper had landed.“No one was allowed to go near the chopper. The vehicular traffic movement was restored when the chopper took off,” the police official said.After necessary repairs, the helicopter took off for its destination about two hours later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-chopper-makes-emergency-landing-on-kgp-expressway-in-haryana-personnel-safe/story-UfiZwPMbKhdgXn3McccujN.html
26-06-2020||India||Rise in Covid cases: District Judge orders work from home, judges not to call staff to courts||District Judge of Rohini Courts here has asked all the judicial officers to work from home and not to ask staffers to come to courts in view of rising number of coronavirus cases among staffers and judges recently.District Judge Swarana Kanta Sharma took note of the fact that some judicial officers are asking their staffers to come to court premises and issued a circular in this regard.The circular said that despite the Delhi High Court directions that judicial officers were to work from home, it has been brought to the notice that some of them were regularly coming to the court and also calling their entire staff or most of the staff every day.The directions were passed in a circular issued on June 19 after several court staff and judges, who visited the courts premises, have tested positive for Covid-19 in the past few weeks.It said that in case the judges did not have the technical facility to hear cases through video conferencing, they must inform the District Judge.“Many staff members have been tested positive for Covid-19 contagion and the undersigned had to close one court recently on this account.“Therefore, it is once again made clear that all the judicial officers are to work from their respective residences only and in case they do not have the technical facility to do so, they must first inform the undersigned (District Judge) in this regard,” the circular said.It further stated that only one or two staff members should be called for duty on a particular day.“However, Stenographers (Senior PA/PA) can be given dictation preferably over telephone and he/she can work from their home.As far as Peshi is concerned, Ahlmad/Assistant Ahlmad/Reader may be deputed on rotational basis as per their mutual understanding, be called for limited period,” the circular said.It further noted that some of the courts were not uploading their daily orders on server as per the directions of the High Court.“Hence, all the judicial officers are also requested to ensure uploading of daily orders on the server,” it said.Two court staff posted at the courts complex tested positive for Covid-19 on June 19 and June 22 respectively.While one of the officials had last visited the court premises on June 19 and had come in contact with the personal assistant posted in the judge’s court, the other had last visited the courts premises on June 11, according to circulars issued by District Judges.They have been directed to self-quarantine themselves for 14 days or as per medical advice and guidelines of the Government of India.The Caretaking Branch has been directed to carry out deep cleaning and regular sanitization in the courtroom as well as in the Ahlmad room and the judge’s chamber attached therewith, immediately, it added.In another case, the personal assistant posted the court of Metropolitan Magistrate Mayank Goel had tested positive due to which the courtroom was sealed and sanitised along with the Ahlmad room and the Judge’s chamber.The official had come in close contact with the Judge, other staff members, including the Additional Public Prosecutor and the Constable posted in the court.They were sent to self-isolation for seven days.Earlier, District Judge R P Pandey had also tested positive for Covid-19. His courtroom was also closed and sanitised following this.All the six district courts in the national capital have been working in a restricted way since March due to the coronavirus or Covid-19 pandemic in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rise-in-covid-cases-district-judge-orders-work-from-home-judges-not-to-call-staff-to-courts/story-AIgAxBQXF4fVGi9zcWvV5M.html
26-06-2020||India||Sharp rise in cases forces Assam to impose 14-day lockdown in Kamrup Metro district from June 28 midnight||The Assam government has imposed lockdown restrictions in the Kamrup Metro district, including the state’s biggest city Guwahati, for 14 days beginning 7pm on Sunday because of 677 fresh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases in the past 10 days among patients, who had no recent travel history.The government has also decided to impose a curfew from 7pm to 7am across the state, beginning Friday.Weekend curfew on Saturday and Sunday will be imposed in all urban areas -- except Kamrup Metro -- from Saturday and will continue till further orders by the state government.State health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said that the “painful” decision was taken, as residents of Guwahati were not following safety protocols and posing health hazards for themselves and others. “People have failed to fulfil their social responsibility and when that happens the government has to step in. We have decided to impose complete lockdown in Guwahati from Sunday 7pm onwards for 14 days till 6pm on July 12,” Sarma told media persons on Friday afternoon.“We didn’t want to go from unlocking to a lockdown mode again, but have to take certain tough but painful decisions. It will be strictly enforced and nothing, except hospitals, pharmacies, and laboratories, will be allowed to operate,” he added.The minister said the move was necessitated following the detection of 677 Covid-19 positive cases in Guwahati, who had no travel history, during a community testing campaign in the city that had started from June 15.“We have tested 10,617 Guwahati residents, who haven’t had any recent travel history, since June 15. Of them, 677 tested Covid-19 positive. On Thursday, of the 276 Covid-19 positive cases reported across the state and 133 were from Guwahati alone,” he said.“In Guwahati, barely 10% of the people are following social distancing and other safety norms. The situation is becoming scary and critical. While we expect Covid-19 positive cases across Assam to dip in the coming days, the surge is likely to continue in Guwahati,” Sarma warned.The minister said that government-run hospitals in Guwahati and the rest of Kamrup Metro district have 890 beds that have been set aside for Covid-19 patients, and if the present trend continues, it would become an uphill task for the health authorities concerned.Sarma said all offices, including government and private firms, would remain closed during the lockdown. All shops and business establishments and industries would also remain shut, private and public vehicles would not be allowed to ply, all hotels, educational institutions, and religious places would close down. Inter-state transport services would also remain shut unless the passengers have prior permission.“No functions of any kind will be allowed and only 20 people can take part in a funeral. No grocery, fruit and vegetable shops and establishments selling meat and poultry products will be allowed to open. I urge the public to buy their essential items before the lockdown starts,” Sarma said.Exemptions include movement of defence and police personnel, government officials involved in essential duties such as fire services, disaster management, electricity, water supply, garbage disposal, health workers, banks (with skeleton staff), automated teller machines (ATMs), milk supply, baby products, medicines, telecommunication, print and electronic media and train and air services.“Only those hotels used for quarantine and by airline crew will be allowed to operate, government directorates and secretariat will function with skeleton staff and petrol pumps allowed to open,” Sarma said.He added that people would be allowed to visit the 31 centres opened in all the wards under Guwahati civic body’s jurisdiction to voluntarily undergo Covid-19 tests.The government is planning to conduct over 50,000 Covid-19 tests in Guwahati by Tuesday.“Assam will be under curfew from 7pm to 7am daily from Friday till further notice. Weekend lockdown on Saturdays and Sundays will be imposed in all urban areas -- except Kamrup Metro --- from this Saturday,” said the minister.“Rural areas in the state will be exempt from weekend lockdown measures. The first seven days of the lockdown in Kamrup Metro will be extremely strict. We will have a review meeting on July 3 and decide if any relaxations can be allowed,” Sarma added.Assam had recorded 6,646 Covid-19 positive cases till Friday noon. The state has recorded 10 deaths to date. While 4,033 Covid-19 patients have recovered from the viral infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharp-rise-in-cases-forces-assam-to-impose-14-day-lockdown-in-kamrup-metro-district-from-june-28-midnight/story-N95badIqJydq8BfokPI1uJ.html
26-06-2020||India||Maoists organise meeting in Chhattisgarh, 10,000 people attend||In a show of strength, the Maoists held a programme in the core area of Bastar region in Chhattisgarh. A meeting of around 10,000 people was also held in the three-day programme. A discussion on successor of Rammana, the special secretary of Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee (DKSZC), who died in December 2019 was also held.The programme was held in villages at the border of Sukma and Bijapur districts from June 18-20.Sources said that top Maoist leaders including new general secretary of CPI (Maoist) Nambala Keshav Rao, alias Basavaraju, head of battalion number of 1, Mandavi Hidma, Kosa, Devji and Sujata also attended the meeting.“The information about this three-day meeting has reached me. We are looking into it,” said Director General of Police (DGP), Chhattisgarh, DM Awasthi told Hindustan Times.The senior police officers in Bastar believe that for the first time in last five years such big gathering of civil population has been organised by the Maoists.“Such big gathering was last called by Maoists in Potumpalli village of Sukma in 2015. This year’s gathering was mainly attended by villagers of Sukma, Bijapur and Dantewada districts. Some people of Narayanpur were also present in this gathering,” said a police officer posted in Bastar region.The total population of these three districts is about 5.5 lakh.Another police officer informed that about 300 armed Maoists and more than 500 jan militias (who back the Maoists) were deployed to protect the area for three days. “Sujatha, wife of senior Maoist leader Kishanji was in-charge of security. We don’t have pictures because people were not allowed to carry mobile phones in the gathering,” said the officer.“A woman who attended the gathering told us that the Maoist leaders made stage in the jungle and were giving speeches about the history of Maoism and Bastar. They have also shown the looted weapons and paid tribute to the Maoists who died in recent past. Sports, dance and other cultural activities took place in the gathering,” said a police officer.Experts believe that the Maoists organise these gatherings to show their strength to the people.“I attended one similar meet in Abujhmad in Naryanpur district in 2004 before Salwa Judum in which 10,000 people participated for few days. If they are again doing such meeting after a gap of five years, it is a proof enough that Maoists may be weak but to say that they will be finished soon is day dreaming. People are still with the Maoists in deep jungles in Central India,” said Shubhrashu Chaudhary, Chhattisgarh-based peace activist, who have written extensively on Maoisim.Sources said that the Maoists are supposed to release a video and press release of the gathering in next few days.“Just before the meeting, a senior-level discussion took place over the successor of Maoist leader Ravula Srinivas alias Ramanna (56), who died in December 2019 and was incharge of Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee (DKSZC). A review meeting of tactical counter offensive campaign or TCOC, in which Maoists carry out attacks between April and July every year also took place,” said another IPS officer, preferring anonymity.The officer further said that there were three main objectives behind the meeting.“Firstly, to emphasise that Maoists would still rule the jungles of Bastar in spite of death of Ramanna and would carry forward his legacy. Secondly to show of strength that villagers are with them and thirdly to discuss over the successor of Ramanna. The Maoists have also displayed the arms, which they have looted in Minpa attack (Sukma district) in which 17 jawans were killed in March this year,” said the officer.Bela Bhatia, a human rights activist based in Bastar in Chhattisgarh said, “This gathering of thousands of emphasised the need of public education, measures specially education and health.”Total size of Bastar division is 39,117 square kilometre and population is 15 lakh.There are seven districts in Bastar division which include Kanker, Kondagaon, Jagdalpur, Dantewada, Sukma, Bijapur and Narayanpur.As per police estimate, about 4,500 Maoist cadre (from its political and military wings) live in the jungles of Bastar. More than 2,00,000 people including women and children in Bastar are Sangham Sadasya (members) of CPI (Maoist).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoists-organise-meeting-in-chhattisgarh-10-000-people-attend/story-tNVdUFoXhFYwQ6YdguPEyM.html
26-06-2020||India||‘Speak the truth’: Rahul Gandhi to PM Modi in latest attack on ‘Chinese intrusion’||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday kept up with his attack on the government over the border standoff with China in Galwan Valley of eastern Ladakh earlier this month and urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to speak up about the violence.The Congress party, led by its former president Rahul Gandhi, has been taking jibes at the Centre since the June 15 violent face-off between Indian and Chinese troops in Galwan Valley, which resulted in the killing of 20 Indian Army soldiers, including the commanding officer of the Bihar regiment.It has also been questioning the government whether Indian land has been occupied by China.“A few days ago, our Prime Minister had said that not a single inch of Indian land has been taken by anyone, no one entered inside India’s borders. But we have heard, people are talking about it, satellite images show, Ladakh’s residents and retired generals of the army are saying that China has snatched away our land. China has taken away our land not just at one place but in three areas,” Rahul Gandhi said during a virtual address.The Congress leader was referring to PM Modi’s comments at the all-party meeting that “no one has entered our territory, no one is at present within our territory and no one has occupied our posts”. “Prime Minister ji, you will have to speak the truth and tell the country. There is no need to get flustered. If you say no land was taken away and the truth is otherwise, it will be China’s gain,” he said.“We need to put up a fight together and throw them away. You will have to speak the truth without getting flustered and getting scared that yes China has taken over our land and we are going to take action. The entire country will stand by you,” he said.Gandhi’s next question was about soldiers on the border.“Who sent our brave soldiers without weapons and why?” he asked.Rahul Gandhi’s comments came almost at the same time as Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s address about the border issue.“The Prime Minister says China didn’t infiltrate but, on the other hand, the defence ministry and external affairs ministry keep discussing the large presence of and intrusions by the Chinese…,” Sonia Gandhi said.“Today, when we’re paying tribute to our martyrs, the country wants to know if China has not captured our land in Ladakh, as claimed by PM, then why and how were our 20 soldiers martyred,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-be-scared-speak-the-truth-rahul-gandhi-to-pm-modi-in-this-latest-attack-on-chinese-intrusion/story-tDQtKGfr4v5Gqx46swlg8I.html
26-06-2020||India||If China hasn’t occupied territory, why were our 20 soldiers martyred, asks Sonia Gandhi||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday said the central government cannot shirk its responsibility of securing our borders with China and asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take the nation into confidence on the situation in Ladakh.In a video message put out as part of the Congress party’s campaign to honour the Army personnel who sacrificed their lives in Ladakh, she asked why the country’s soldiers were martyred when China has not captured any Indian territory, as claimed by the Prime Minister.“Today when there is a crisis-like situation at the India-China border, the central government cannot shirk its responsibility (of securing them),” she said in a video message as part of ‘SpeakUpForOurJawans’ campaign.“The country wants to know if China has not captured our land in Ladakh, as claimed by the Prime Minister, then why were our 20 soldiers martyred,” she asked.She said while the Prime Minister says there is no intrusion into Indian territory, experts after seeing satellite images talk of the presence of Chinese troops in our territory confirming the intrusions.“When and how will the Modi government take back from China our land in Ladakh? Is our territorial integrity being violated by China in Ladakh? Will the Prime Minister take the nation in confidence on the situation at the border?” Gandhi asked.She said the government should give full support and strength to the Army, saying “this will be true patriotism”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-china-hasn-t-occupied-territory-why-were-our-20-soldiers-martyred-asks-sonia-gandhi/story-kJDF2bjWB7Xo3COgnb33ZP.html
26-06-2020||India||ITBP chief visits India’s largest Covid 19 care centre with 10,000 beds, says force will deal with any challenge||Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) chief S S Deswal on Friday said that the force was prepared to deal with all kinds of challenges in its service to the nation, while on a visit to country’s largest Covid care centre erected on the premises of a religious organisation in south Delhi. ITBP chief said that the forces’ experience in handling mass Covid treatment and quarantine facilities will come in handy in managing the facility that boasts of over 10,000 beds.“ITBP has gained experience in the last 4 months. Initially we managed a Covid quarantine center in Chhawla & then our 200 bedded hospital in Noida. Our medical team will help people in this crisis,” Deswal was quoted as saying by ANI.Earlier this year, the ITBP had created and managed a 1,000 bed quarantine centre in south-west Delhi. The Chhawla centre had treated about 1,200 people who arrived in the country on special evacuation flights from China and Italy after the outbreak of the disease. It is also credited with coming up with the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the containment of the pandemic among the various Central Armed Police Forces and central and state police organisations.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19“Security forces & Armed Police forces are dedicated to the nation to deal with all kinds of situations. All challenges will be faced. Be it Army or ITBP they are dedicated to the nation for protection of integrity, sovereignty and borders of the nation,” ITBP DG SS Deswal said in reference to the multiple roles played by the armed forces of the country.Apart from handling a medical-humanitarian crisis in Delhi, ITBP is currently deployed along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh, where border tensions with China have peaked in the past couple of months following incursions by the red army and clashes between the soldiers of two sides due to differing perceptions of territories.The Radha Soami Beas establishment in Chhatarpur area of the national capital, will have two segments -- a Covid care centre (CCC) where asymptomatic positive cases will be treated and a dedicated Covid healthcare centre (DCHC). The CCC will have 90 per cent beds, while DCHC will have 10 per cent beds and the latter segment will also have an oxygen support system.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesITBP took over the management of the centre on Wednesday on the request of the Union home ministry.Deswal interacted with a team of doctors and paramedics who would run the facility and was updated about the medical and administrative protocols to be followed at the facility.A team of over 1,000 doctors, nurses and paramedic staff of the ITBP and other paramilitary forces have been earmarked to work at the facility, a senior officer quoted by PTI said.One thousand more ancillary and security staff will be deployed at the facility along with 75 ambulances, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/itbp-chief-visits-india-s-largest-covid-19-care-centre-with-10-000-beds-says-force-will-deal-with-any-challenge/story-hnf2gs0cweBYCgmkW4bq2J.html
26-06-2020||India||Cut money tag returns in garb of nepotism for TMC in Bengal’s Amphan-hit districts||Alleged nepotism by Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders and workers involved in distribution of compensation in districts hit by Cyclone Amphan has revived the ghost of “cut money” or illegal commission they charged from beneficiaries of rural housing schemes in the past.The allegations have led to clashes and protests with governor Jagdeep Dhankhar tweeting on Friday that the law and order situation in three districts was “worrisome”.A majority of the people’s representatives in the cyclone-affected districts belong to the TMC. Villagers in around a dozen panchayat areas have alleged that the sum of Rs 20,000 that the state has sanctioned for repairing damaged houses is being given to people who are close to the ruling party and own houses that have suffered no damage. There are also allegations that people, many of whom are jobless migrant labourers, are not getting work under the MGNREGA projects.After the cyclone, the state government told the visiting inter-ministerial central team that the quantum of damage caused by the cyclone stood at Rs 1.02 lakh crore. The state’s report said 28.6 lakh houses and 17 lakh hectares of farmland were damaged while damage done to dwellings stood at Rs 28,560 crore.On Monday, a panchayat office and the home of a TMC leader were ransacked by the party’s supporters at Sagar in South 24 Parganas district and the office of the community block development officer (BDO) at Deganga in adjoining North 24 Parganas district was vandalized. Fifteen people, including some college students, were arrested in Deganga.On Tuesday, there was unrest at Mathurapur in the South 24 Parganas and Nandakumar in East Midnapore. On Wednesday, BJP and TMC workers clashed at Bhagabanpore in East Midnapore district when the opposition party demanded scrutiny of the beneficiaries. On Thursday, there was a clash at Amdanga in North 24 Parganas.On Friday morning, Dhankhar tweeted, “Protests @MamataOfficial over corruption, nepotism and politicization #Amphan relief distribution is rocking the state. Worrisome law and order scenario in East Midnapore, South and North 24 Parganas as BDO offices are being gheraoed.”“Lip facade will not work. Officials @MamataOfficial must face consequences for such omission acts and abandonment of their work to political party. Officials must be booked for acts of omission and commission. Non entitled beneficiaries be penalized and benefit retrieved,” Dhankhar said in another tweet.The incidents triggered a debate at the all-party meeting that chief minister Mamata Banerjee convened on June 24, primarily to discuss the Covid-19 crisis, said BJP, Left and Congress leaders who took part. “Everybody should get compensation. Political background of people should not be considered. I request people not to vandalize officers of the BDOs. The administration will prepare the list of beneficiaries,” Banerjee said after the all-party meeting. The agitations, however, did not stop.Opposition leaders said that at the meeting Banerjee told them that the unrest was a stray incident and there was no large-scale nepotism as alleged.“According to our conservative estimate anything between Rs 250 and 300 crore has been distributed among people who are not entitled,” said BJP vice president Jay Prakash Majumdar who attended the all-party meet along with BJP state president Dilip Ghosh. To the opposition parties, the alleged corruption in cyclone-hit districts is just another avatar of the “cut money” scandal that rocked Bengal a year ago. It became one of the key issues in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the principal opposition force, won 18 of the state’s 42 seats.While addressing a TMC meeting on June 18 last year, Banerjee asked party leaders to return the “cut money” they took from people and exposed corrupt functionaries to public scrutiny. Her statement became a political weapon for the BJP which had just won 18 Lok Sabha seats even as the TMC claimed that 99.99 % of its leaders and workers were honest and that the CM’s warning was meant for just 0.01%.Soon after this, ‘Didi ke Bolo’ (Tell Didi) a helpline planned by election strategist and Banerjee’s advisor Prasant Kishor to let people to reach out to the government with their grievances led to thousands of complaints against party leaders. Most of these were against panchayat and district leaders.“TMC can never change its character no matter how loudly the chief minister may have claimed that there is no corruption in distribution of compensation. We have demanded an all-party monitoring committee,” said Congress state president Somen Mitra.“This is the last opportunity for TMC workers to make money because they know the party will be out of power in 2021,” said Sujan Chakraborty, Communist Party of India (Marxist) legislator and leader of the Left parties in the state assembly.“The allegations have surfaced because the government allowed panchayat leaders to select beneficiaries. The job should have been done by the administration right from the beginning,” said Kolkata-based political science professor Udayan Bandopadhyay.“Those who own brick and concrete houses cannot claim compensation. People who misrepresented facts will have to return the money,” a BDO in South 24 Parganas said on condition of anonymity.Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited the affected areas in Bengal and Odisha within 48 hours of the cyclone. He announced an initial grant of Rs 1,000 crore for relief and rehabilitation in Bengal and assured both states of more support after conducting separate aerial surveys with Mamata Banerjee and Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cut-money-tag-returns-in-garb-of-nepotism-for-tmc-in-bengal-s-amphan-hit-districts/story-YJmz3QlI6P2HMlGF8OeoBP.html
26-06-2020||India||CRPF personnel, minor boy killed in militant attack in J-K’s Anantnag||A CRPF jawan and a minor boy were killed when militants attacked a security forces team in Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir on Friday, police said. The militants fired upon a road opening party of the CRPF 90 battalion near Padshahi Bagh bridge in the Bijbehara area of the south Kashmir district around 12 noon, a police official said. He said a CRPF personnel and an eight-year-old boy were injured in the attack. The injured were taken to a hospital in Bijbehara where both of them succumbed, the official said. The CRPF personnel has been identified as constable Shamal Kumar, while the boy has been identified as Nihan Yawar, a resident of Yaripora area of the neighbouring Kulgam district, he said. He said the security forces have cordoned off the area and a hunt has been launched to nab the attackers. Meanwhile, National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah condemned the boy’s killing. “An innocent...boy is the latest victim of the violence in Kashmir. His death in a dastardly grenade attack by militants is tragic and condemned without reservation,” he wrote on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpf-personnel-minor-boy-killed-in-militant-attack-in-j-k-s-anantnag/story-4nT08ZaJj4jX6poVpfMNUM.html
26-06-2020||India||Bengal woman finds out she is a man after 30 yrs, has rare condition||For thirty years she led a normal life with no complications, until recently, when doctors, while treating her for abdominal pain, discovered that she was a ‘man’ suffering from testicular cancer.Surprisingly, her 28-year-old sister, who underwent necessary tests following the revelation, was also diagnosed with ‘Androgen Insensitivity Syndrome’ -- a condition in which a person is born genetically male, but has all physical traits of a woman.The 30-year-old Birbhum resident, married for the last nine years, had visited city-based Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Cancer Hospital with severe pain in lower abdomen a couple of months ago, following which clinical oncologist Dr Anupam Dutta and surgical oncologist Dr Soumen Das conducted her medical tests, and found out her “true identity”.“From her appearance, she is a woman. Starting from her voice, developed breasts, normal external genitalia, everything is that of a woman. However, uterus and ovaries have been absent since birth. She has also never experienced menstruation,” Dr Dutta told PTI.It’s a very rare condition, and can be found one in every 22,000 people, he said.After test reports suggested that the person has a “blind vagina”, doctors decided to conduct Karyotyping test, which revealed that her chromosome complement was ‘XY’ and not ‘XX’, as found in a woman.“We conducted clinical examinations, after she complained of abdominal pain, and found out she has testicles inside her body. A biopsy was conducted, following which she was diagnosed with testicular cancer, also called seminoma, Dr Dutta explained.Currently, she is undergoing chemotheraphy and her health condition is stable.“As her testicles remained undeveloped inside the body, there was no secretion of testosterone. Her female hormones, on the other hand, gave her the appearance of a woman,” Dr Dutta stated.Asked about her reaction to the revelation, he said, “The person has grown up to be a woman. She is married to man for almost a decade. Currently, we are counselling the patient and her husband, advising them to continue living life as they have been.” It was learnt, that the couple had tried for babies a number of times but failed.The patient’s two maternal aunts were also diagnosed with Androgen Insensitivity Syndrome in the past, the oncologist said.“It’s probably in the genes. We have come to know that two of her aunts from the maternal side were also suffering from similar condition,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-finds-out-she-is-a-man-during-treatment-at-kolkata-hospital/story-elbGDFWb3Qy6BQrfejoZaK.html
26-06-2020||India||5 die after car plunges into rivulet in J-K’s Doda, no clue of 6 of family in Kishtwar||At least five people, including three children, were killed after the vehicle they were travelling in skidded off the road and fell into a rivulet in Jammu and Kashmir’s Doda district on Friday morning, police said.“It was an Eeco van on its way from Gool to Thathri, which skidded off the road and plunged into Raggi Nullah around 9.30am. Five occupants, including the driver and three children, died,” Mumtaz Ahmed, Doda’s senior superintendent of police, said.“The road where the accident has taken place is in good condition. It seems the driver was drowsy but the exact cause [of the accident] will be known only after investigations,” Ahmed added.The driver has been identified as Mohammad Asif, a resident of Deeda village of Gool. Another deceased was identified as Tasleema Begum from Thathri.On Thursday, a head constable of Jammu and Kashmir police and five members of his family went missing after their car rolled 150 feet down into a rivulet called Bhot Nullah in adjoining Kishtwar district.The rivulet is a tributary of River Chenab in Gulabgarh area of Kishtwar district of the Union territory.Those missing have been identified as head constable Mulkh Raj Sharma, Munni Devi, Kailasho Devi, Anamika Devi, Shallu Devi and Kaki Devi.“Only a cloth has been found from the slope but no clue so far of those who went missing. There is no clue of their car as well,” Rajinder Singh Tara, Kishtwar’s district commissioner, said.“Divers again searched the rivulet on Friday but there is no clue so far. Searches are still on,” Tara added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-die-after-car-plunges-into-rivulet-in-j-k-s-doda-no-clue-of-6-of-family-in-kishtwar/story-z6uTinb12vWsfF1xlytYON.html
26-06-2020||India||Chhattisgarh CM seeks extension of Centre’s food scheme till September||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel has urged the Centre to extend the ‘Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Ann Yojana (PMGKAY) till September, an official here said on Friday.In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday, Baghel said amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the scheme has ensured availability of food grains to affected families (free of cost from April till June) and it should be continued for the next three months, the official from the public relations department said.In Chhattisgarh, apart from 51.50 lakh ration card- holding families identified under the National Food Security Act, the state government has been distributing food grains to 14.10 lakh ration card-holding beneficiaries through its various schemes, he said.Moreover, Baghel also sought that these 14.10 lakh ration card-holding families also be covered under the PMGKAY, the official said.Although the coronavirus-induced lockdown has been gradually relaxed and economic activities were resuming in a phased manner, it will take time for things to normalise, the letter had stated.In view of this, the chief minister has sought an extension of the PMGKAY for three more months to ensure relief to the crisis-affected families, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-cm-seeks-extension-of-centre-s-food-scheme-till-september/story-DoxngN18W8qNUp6KOtmxsJ.html
26-06-2020||India||CBI teams, complete with PPE kits, raid Ratul Puri in new Rs 780 cr bank loan case||The Central Bureau of Investigation on Friday carried out searches in premises linked to Ratul Puri, the nephew of former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath. The raids are being conducted in Delhi and Noida in connection with a new FIR filed against Ratul Puri and father Deepak Puri, both directors of Moser Baer Solar Ltd, in a case related to alleged loss of Rs 787 crore to a consortium of banks.State-run Punjab National Bank, which had played a lead role in this consortium, had complained to the CBI.“In the view of Covid-19, all precautions regarding health and safety are being taken while conducting the searches including provision of PPE (personal protection equipment) kits to all the search teams”, says RK Gaur, CBI Spokesperson.A CBI official said a fresh case was registered against Ratul Puri on the basis of the Punjab National Bank’s complaint.This is the CBI’s second FIR against him. He was named in a Rs 354 crore bank fraud case in August last year.The Enforcement Directorate had also moved in, accusing him of involvement in bank frauds amounting to Rs 7,900 crore. In its charge-sheet, the Enforcement Directorate had alleged that Ratul Puri misused funds loaned from the bank to maintain a lavish lifestyle including holidays abroad and travel in private jets.Puri, a key accused in the money laundering probe linked to the AgustaWestland VVIP chopper purchase scam, was arrested in August last year and eventually released on bail in December.Former chief minister Kamal Nath had accused the BJP of orchestrating raids by central agencies, claiming that the investigation against Ratul Puri was a victim of political vendetta.The probe agencies, which have attempted to tie Puri to the VVIP chopper scandal, have said they had found print-outs of emails that is alleged to link Puri to corporate entities allegedly created to park money received as kickbacks in the AgustaWestland deal.The AgustaWestland case centres on allegations that bribes were paid to middlemen, perhaps even politicians, when India agreed to buy 12 AgustaWestland helicopters built by Italian defence manufacturing giant Finmeccanica (now known as the Leonardo group) at an estimated cost of Rs 3,600 crore. The helicopters, manufactured by Finmeccanica’s British subsidiary AgustaWestland were for the “Communication Squadron of the Indian Air Force”.The purchase, cleared in 2010 by the previous United Progressive Alliance government, envisaged replacing ageing Mi-8 choppers to ferry VVIPs like the President, vice-president, Prime Minister and the other dignitaries. The deal was scrapped in 2014 over alleged breach of contractual obligations and charges of payment of kickbacks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-raids-premises-linked-to-ratul-puri-in-delhi-noida-in-new-rs-780-cr-fraud/story-BnnsF1Sq0gKtLFelMu6hcL.html
26-06-2020||India||Shivalik forest awaits tiger’s roar, will be UP’s fourth tiger reserve||The proposal to declare Shivalik forest in western Uttar Pradesh as a tiger reserve is gaining support among officials, experts and wildlife enthusiasts.Spread over 33,200 hectares, the forest is located at the foothills of the Shivalik range close to the Rajaji National Park in Uttarakhand on the route to Dehradun from Delhi in the Saharanpur circle.Principal chief conservator of forest (Wildlife) of Uttar Pradesh Sunil Pandey said the proposal for declaring Shivalik forest as a tiger reserve had been received. “After going through it, I can say it has immense potential,” he said.The proposal would soon be forwarded to the central government which alone can take a final decision on the matter, he added.Once the proposal is officially accepted, it would be the fourth tiger reserve of UP and the second one in western UP. Amangarh in Bijnor district is western UP’s first tiger reserve near Jim Corbett National Park. Dushwa and Pilibhit are the other tiger reserves in the state.The Uttarakhand government’s plan to translocate a few tigers in the nearby Motichur range of Rajaji National Park from other places in the hill state would strengthen the proposal to declare Shivalik forest as a tiger reserve due to its proximity, said VK Jain, Saharanpur division’s chief conservator of forests.Jain said direct sighting of tigers were reported in the forest till 2005 and many people claimed such sightings till 2008-09. He is hopeful the region could be transformed into an eco tourism spot.“Proximity to Dehradun and good connectivity by road, train and air would help in attracting wildlife enthusiasts and tourists. This point has also been well taken in the proposal,” he said.Stretching till the boundary of the Kalesar wildlife sanctuary in Haryana and the Simbalbara National Park in Himachal Pradesh, the Shivalik forest includes Badkala, Shakumbhai and Mohand forest ranges of the Saharanpur circle.While man-animal conflicts are reported from other areas, the Shivalik region seldom witnesses such incidents.Saharanpur divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar said developing Shivalik tiger reserve would help in strengthening the rich biodiversity and wildlife conservation in the entire region.The forest department has carried out an intensive six-month trap camera survey in the forest with technical and other assistance from experts of Wildlife Institute of India (WII) and World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF). The survey counted a population of over 50 leopards, different herbivorous animals, civets, snakes and species of birds, which indicates it has a rich biodiversity to support the presence of tigers.After the translocation of tigers in western Rajaji Park, these big cats could venture into the Shivalik forest in the next few years, turning it into a potential corridor for tigers, said Dr Vibhas Pandav, a scientist with the Wildlife Institute of India.“The latest survey of the area suggests it is full of herbivorous and other animals. Therefore, it is perfect for the relocation of tigers,” he added. He, however, highlighted the need for reducing human pressure inside and outside the forest.“The population of Gujjars inside the forest could be moved out and rehabilitated,” said Dr Pandav.Divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar said 400 families of Van Gujjars lived inside the forest and earned their livelihood by selling milk. Each family has its own herd of buffaloes. He said 40 families would be rehabilitated in two months and the process would continue until all families were relocated and benefitted from government schemes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shivalik-forest-awaits-tiger-s-roar-will-be-up-s-third-tiger-reserve/story-1LadebuH7l97vVfTyjyPQM.html
26-06-2020||India||Tribals in 3 states against Centre’s decision to auction coal mines, say it would displace them||Close to 20,000 families would be displaced because of the commercial licenses given for coal mines in Odisha, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh, according to the official estimates of these states.In addition, the officials in these states said that thousands of trees will have to be cut for these mining projects, which could adversely impact the local environment.The central government had, on June 18, approved auction of 41 coal mines for commercial usage to private players. Jharkhand government has filed a petition in the Supreme Court challenging the Centre’s decision saying it will have adverse environmental impact on the tribal areas and revenue generation will also be less than expected.Of the 41 coal blocks, there are nine each in Jharkhand, Odisha and Chhattisgarh. In each state, 8,000 to 10,000 families will get displaced depending on how much land is acquired for the mining purpose, officials of these states privy to the mining work said.The nine coal blocks in Jharkhand is spread over 47.55 square kilometres in 10 districts. Of these, four coal blocks are in Latehar district, and one each in Dumka, Pakur, Palamu, Giridih, Hazaribag and in Bokaro. “About 30-32 villages need to be shifted in the 10 districts of Jharkhand for mining operations, as per the details of exploration documents of various drilling companies engaged to prepare the road maps,” said a Jharkhand government official, who was not willing to be quoted.Eight of the nine mines in Odisha are in Angul district, where about 32,000 hectares of the land will have to be acquired for mining, which could lead to displacement of up to 10,000 families. Odisha steel and mines secretary RK Sharma said the state government is yet to estimate how many people would be finally be affected.Environmentalists say the proposed auctioning of nine coal blocks - Machhakata, Mahanadi, Chhendipada-I, Chhendipada-II, Brahmanbil-Kardabahal combined, Phuljhari (East & West), Radhikapur (East), Radhikapur (West) - in Angul and Kurloi(A) North in Jharsuguda district may turn out to be the largest-ever displacement exercise in eastern India more than 10,000 families are likely to be displaced by the open cast coal mining in these coal mines.“The auction of these coal block at one go would not just devastate the lives of thousands of families, they would alter the landscape for all time to come putting in peril the lives of wildlife in the region. Angul district is already among the most critically polluted areas of the state as per Central Pollution Control Board due to coal mining in Talcher area. Once these 8 blocks are mined, living in Angul would be nothing less than a nightmarish experience,” said noted environmentalist and wildlife activist Biswajit Mohanty.All the nine coal blocks in Chhattisgarh were allotted to different companies before 2015 and have got all relevant clearances of the Union government, said a state government official, who was not willing to be named. The Chhattisgarh government is opposing auction of five coal blocks in Hasdev Arand Forest division as they would lead to diversion of forest land from Lemru Elephant Reserve. Last Friday, Chhattisgarh forest minister Mohammad Akbar had written a letter opposing auctioning of mines in the reserve saying it will destroy the Hasdev Arand forest spanning across 170,000 hectares.The state government officials say a large number of people will be displaced but activists put the number to about 7,000-8,000 people. “As per my estimate around 7,000-8,000 people will be displaced in these area and around 25-30 lakh trees would be logged in this process, if all the nine coal blocks are auctioned,” said Alok Shukla, convenor of Chhattisgarh Bachao Andolan, who is working for tribal rights in these area for last 10 years.However, Chhattisgarh government has no issues with auctioning of other four coal mines - Gare Palema (4/1), Gare Palema (4/7), Shankarpur Bhatgaon (second extension) and Sondhia - which fall in the Surguja region and are not part of Hasdeo Arand forest.In all the three states, opposition at the local level has started against auctioning of these mines and trade unions have called for a three-day strike against the Centre’s decision.Centre for Indian Trade Unions (CITU) leader, D Ramanandan, said it’s a unilateral decision of the Centre to provide the coal blocks to a select group of companies at throwaway prices. He said the trade unions will oppose the decision till the government shelves its plan. Fearing the worst in terms of displacement, large scale impact on environment and livelihood, the leaders of Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha (a people’s organisation), said that the move will adversely impact the ownership right of local leaders. “The decision was taken without consulting the gram sabha (a decision making body of all villagers),” said mahasabha leader Elina Horo.Smita Patnaik, a woman leader who heads an NGO called Nari Suraksha Manch in Odisha’s Angul district, said people will oppose the auction as price for mining was already being paid. “We are already facing the perils of coal mining by Coal India in Talcher as the coal dust is polluting our water-bodies and air. There is already rising number of cancer cases and several respiratory diseases in the district due to coal mining. Once 8 blocks in Chhendipada are mined, the area would literally be hell,” said Patnaik.Environmental lawyer Sankar Pani said the auction will displace the farming community in Angul as 80 per cent of the people in the district are farmers. “These people get two crops a year as there is irrigation facility. What is likely to trigger public opposition is the auctioning of all the coal blocks at one go, rather than in a staggered fashion,” said Pani. In Chhattisgarh, gram sabhas of villages falling in Hasdeo Arand have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi last Tuesday, asking him to stop the auction of five coal blocks in the region for commercial mining as it would hamper their livelihood and culture.“As per my estimate about 25-30 lakh trees are there in the area of these coal blocks. The mining will pollute the Hansdeo river. And the mining will impact the home of elephants in Hansdeo Arand and its catchment area,” said Sudeip Shrivastava, an environment lawyer and activist of Chhattisgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tribals-in-3-states-against-centre-s-decision-to-auction-coal-mines-say-it-would-displace-them/story-ZLV9t7RubQdO6iiYOUqTCM.html
26-06-2020||India||CBI raids Ratul Puri’s premises in connection with alleged loss of Rs 787 crore to PNB and other banks||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is conducting searches at Delhi and Noida premises of Ratul Puri and other accused in a case related to alleged loss of Rs 787.25 crore to Punjab National Bank (PNB) and other consortium of banks.A case was registered on a complaint from PNB against Moser Baer company, where Puri was the executive director till 2012, and others including its directors. Some unknown persons and bank officials have also been named by the PNB.These raids are in connection with the fresh case. Puri is the nephew of senior Congress leader Kamal Nath.“In the view of Covid-19, all precautions regarding health and safety are being taken while conducting the searches including provision of PPE kits to all the search teams,” CBI Spokesperson RK Gaur said.Moser Baer is involved in the manufacture of optical storage media like compact discs, DVDs, solid state storage devices.The latest FIR by the CBI is second against Puri; he was earlier booked in August 2019 in Rs 354 crore Central Bank fraud. In its complaint, the Central Bank had claimed that Moser Baer was taking loans from various banks since 2009 and went for debt restructuring a number of times. When it was unable to pay the debt, a forensic audit was done and the account was declared as “fraud” by the bank on April 20, 2019, it further alleged.In October 2019, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had filed a charge sheet against Puri, alleging that he was involved in bank frauds amounting to Rs 7,900 crore.In its charge sheet, the ED had claimed that Puri was living a lavish lifestyle with the banks’ money, which included holidays abroad, travelling in private jets and visiting night clubs.Puri is a key accused in money laundering probe in AgustaWestland scam as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-raids-ratul-puri-s-premises-in-connection-with-alleged-loss-of-rs-787-crore-to-pnb-and-other-banks/story-9Xi380kIr5tJuSAta0EtVN.html
26-06-2020||India||Courts cannot provide permanent protection against cyber fraud: Bombay High Court to Hindustan Unilever Limited||Mumbai: A single bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has expressed its inability to provide permanent protection to companies such as Hindustan Unilever Limited (HUL) from fraudulent websites that use deceptive or misleading domain names to dupe unsuspecting consumers of reputed brands.“Eternal vigilance is not just the price of liberty; it is also the cost of doing large-volume businesses,” stated the bench of Justice Gautam Patel.The judge, in his 16-page order, also explained that though it is “trivial” to get a domain name registered on the worldwide web, it is extremely difficult to ensure its permanent suspension.“One has to look up the availability of a combination of words and choose a desired top-level or other domain (.in, .com, .net, etc),” said Justice Patel.“The process of registration is automated and requires no manual intervention,” he added.Justice Patel held that it was not possible for permanent suspension of such domain names because the registration is applicable only for a stipulated timeframe.The court also pointed out that blocking access to websites could be circumvented by using a commonly available Virtual Private Network (VPN) to connect to another network and all stringent restrictions could be easily bypassed.Justice Patel, however, expressed his doubt about the popularity of VPN among users, even though the application is now available on all smartphone platforms. He concluded that “blocking access achieves next to nothing” and didn’t want “to lull an applicant into a hollow and faux sense of safety”.Justice Patel suggested that HUL should take up the matter with the domain name registrars concerned for suspending the offender, and could move a fresh plea in the HC, if the matter is still unresolved.Earlier, HUL had moved court, seeking orders for suspending and blocking several websites and e-mail addresses using its generic name or it’s deceptively similar variants.The company had filed the case after it noticed that its name was fraudulently used for duping unsuspecting consumers by fake dealers of HUL products. Some consumers were duped over Rs 70 lakh by a fraudulent website.The court observed that the registration of these domain names was mala fide and an infringement of HUL’s statutory and common law rights.However, the bench rejected HUL’s other plea, urging the court to find a suitable mechanism and pass orders to deal with fraudulent domain names, websites, and e-mail addresses that might cause damage to the company’s business prospects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/courts-cannot-provide-permanent-protection-against-cyber-fraud-bombay-hc-to-hul/story-dL0Rj3awDYRDGQu2hegClK.html
26-06-2020||India||CRPF trooper, 5-year-old killed in terrorist attack in J-K’s Bijbehara||A Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) trooper and a five-year boy were killed on Friday when terrorists attacked a team of security forces in Bijbehara of south Kashmir’s Anantnag district, police said.“Terrorists fired upon CRPF party at #Bijbehara #Anantnag resulting in death of a #minor #boy and a CRPF personnel. Area cordoned off. Case registered,” the police tweeted.The terrorists had opened fire at a road opening party of CRPF’s 90 Battalion near the Padshahi Bagh bridge in Bijbehara area at around 12:10pm, news agency PTI quoted an official as saying.The CRPF personnel and the boy were injured in the attack and were taken to a hospital where both of them succumbed, the official said.He said security forces have cordoned off the area and a hunt has been launched to nab the attackers.In another incident, at least two terrorists were killed by security forces on Friday during a gunfight, which was raging since Thursday evening in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama district, officials said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpf-personnel-child-killed-in-terrorist-attack-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-anantnag/story-3OTvxdwGU5DmXr1dvkeiWN.html
26-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: UP’s effort in tackling Covid unprecedented, praiseworthy, says PM Modi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Uttar Pradesh’s effort in fighting Covid-19 unprecedented, praiseworthy: PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has been working tirelessly and has shown the world the strength of the state in fighting the coronavirus pandemic. Read moreIndia registers highest single-day Covid-19 cases, record recoveriesIndia has been recording daily spikes in the number of coronavirus disease cases. From over 6,000 a day, the daily caseload has now crossed 17,000. On Friday, India recorded 17,296 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease - the country’s highest single-day surge. Read moreChildren as young as 14 are being used by terrorists in J&K: US state deptThe US state department has said in a new report that children as young as 14 are recruited and used by non-state armed groups, referring to terror organisations, against the government in Jammu and Kashmir. Read moreTrump administration asks Supreme Court to axe ObamacarePresident Donald Trump’s administration late on Thursday asked the US Supreme Court to invalidate the law dubbed Obamacare that, introduced by predecessor, added millions of Americans to the country’s healthcare safety net. Read moreAn evening tea party, a random suggestion: The story behind IPL auctionThe Indian Premier League (IPL) is one of the most popular T20 leagues in the world. But before the action goes to the cricket pitch, plenty of drama happens in a hotel auditorium where the franchises spend big money to buy their favourite players. Read moreArjun Kapoor’s most sincere birthday wish is from sister Anshula: ‘You’ve parented me like a father, you are my home’Actor Arjun Kapoor celebrates his 35th birthday on Friday and among those wishing on the occasion was his sister Anshula. Boney Kapoor’s daughter took to Instagram to pen a heartfelt note on her brother. Read moreGoogle and Aclima work towards making cities pollution freeGoogle and Aclima, a firm known for mapping hyperlocal air pollution, have announced that they will give researchers access to new sets of city pollution data in order to combat the larger issue of climate change and unhealthy air. Read moreInternational Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking 2020: History, significance, theme of this dayInternational Day Against Drug Abuse And Illicit Trafficking is celebrated on June 26 every year. The theme for the International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking 2020, Better Knowledge for Better Care emphasises the need to improve the understanding of the world drug problem and how better knowledge will foster greater international cooperation for countering its impact on health, governance and security. Read moreWatch: How Delhi cases compare To Mumbai, Chennai; trains’ suspension extended||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-up-s-effort-in-tackling-covid-unprecedented-praiseworthy-says-pm-modi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-5xMBkVQYSVER1JRIvucScN.html
26-06-2020||India||In Priyanka Gandhi’s double-barrelled attack on UP govt, Mayawati also target||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday asserted she is former prime minister Indira Gandhi’s granddaughter and dared the Uttar Pradesh government to take action against her for “speaking the truth”.She also launched a veiled attack on Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati, calling her an “undeclared BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) spokesperson”.In a series of tweets, Priyanka Gandhi alleged that the Uttar Pradesh government is threatening her through various departments for speaking the truth.“I am Indira Gandhi’s granddaughter and not an undeclared BJP spokesperson like some of the opposition leaders,” she said.The attack came a day after the Uttar Pradesh State Commission for Protection of Child Rights issued a notice to Priyanka Gandhi, asking her to file a reply within three days for her “misleading” comment on the Kanpur shelter home where 57 girls tested positive for Covid-19.In another development, the Agra administration asked her to withdraw a claim about a high number of Coronavirus deaths in the district.In a Facebook post on Sunday, she attacked the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh over a media report about two girls being found pregnant in the state-run child shelter home, saying it showed facts were being suppressed in the name of investigation at such facilities.“As a servant of the people, my duty is towards the people of Uttar Pradesh. And this duty is to put out the truth before them and not to put forth government propaganda. The UP government is wasting its time by threatening me through its various departments,” Priyanka Gandhi tweeted in Hindi on Friday. “They can take whatever action they want. I will keep putting forth the truth.”Though she did not name Mayawati while tweeting about “an undeclared BJP spokesperson”, the target was obvious.Mayawati has repeatedly backed the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government at the Centre on the border standoff with China in Galwan Valley of eastern Ladakh.In one of her tweets last week, the BSP chief said the people of India are confident that the Centre would “take the right decisions to keep the honour, pride and glory of the country intact and never allow anyone to grab even an inch of land”.She had taken a similar stand at the all-party meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 19 to discuss the border situation.Much to the surprise of other opposition leaders, Mayawati has been praising the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh on various issues, including its arrangements to send migrant workers home and its handling of the attacks on Dalits in the state by acting promptly against the perpetrators.While she had described Priyanka Gandhi’s offer of buses to ferry the migrant workers as a “’political ploy”, Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya called her “twitter-wali neta” for her sustained attacks on the state government.The relations between the BSP chief and the Congress soured after a warm and affectionate hug between Sonia Gandhi and Mayawati at the swearing-in ceremony of Karnataka chief minister HD Kumaraswamy in May 2018.Not only did Mayawati field her candidates in Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh during assembly elections in 2018 despite the Congress pushing for a tie-up, she ensured that the grand old party did not become part of a broad-based alliance in Uttar Pradesh for the 2019 Lok Sabha polls after joining hands with arch-rival Samajwadi Party (SP).However, she has been soft on both Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, saying their intentions for a Congress-BSP alliance were honest.The Congress leadership too has so far avoided criticism of Mayawati, with Rahul Gandhi saying he “respected her contribution to the country and considered her a national symbol”.But whether that mutual respect will remain or swords will get further sharpened on both sides will be known in the run-up to assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, given that Priyanka Gandhi is focussed on reviving the Congress in the country’s politically important state. The elections are due in Uttar Pradesh in 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-am-indira-gandhi-s-granddaughter-not-undeclared-bjp-spokesperson-priyanka-s-barb-at-mayawati/story-193rq6CBTgI86ZOf3iQOxN.html
26-06-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh’s effort in fighting Covid-19 unprecedented, praiseworthy: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has been working tirelessly and has shown the world the strength of the state in fighting the coronavirus pandemic.The Prime Minister made the comments as he launched the Atma Nirbhar Uttar Pradesh Rojgar Abhiyan, a job scheme for 1.25 migrants workers in the state, through a video conference.“I am confident that under the leadership of Yogi ji, the way the state has turned a disaster into an opportunity and the way it has engaged with all its might, other states of the country will also get to learn a lot from this scheme and will be inspired by it,” PM Modi said.“The way Uttar Pradesh has shown courage, wisdom and has succeeded and tackled corona by handling the situation, it is unprecedented and praiseworthy,” he said.“Yogi ji and his government understood the seriousness of the situation. He understood what is happening in big countries. In view of this, he and his government worked on a war footing. He used full strength to construct quarantine centres and facilities for isolation.”The Prime Minister said the efforts and achievements of Uttar Pradesh are huge because it is not just a state, but it is a bigger state than many countries of the world. “People of UP are realising this achievement themselves but if you know the figures you will be surprised even more,” he said.He gave the examples of England, France, Italy and Spain, among the countries badly hit by the pandemic and have a population equal to that of the Indian state, and said there are as many people in Uttar Pradesh, which has tackled the crisis well.“The hard work that the government of UP has put in, we can say that in a way it has managed to save the lives of at least 85 thousand people. Today if we are able to save the lives of our citizens, then it is also a matter of great satisfaction,” he said.The Atma Nirbhar Uttar Pradesh Rojgar Abhiyan, which was launched by PM Modi virtually, will provide employment to 1.25 crore migrant workers and cover 31 districts of the state. More than 30 lakh migrant labourers have returned UP following the lockdown clamped in the country. It will be undertaken as part of the Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyan that the Prime Minister started on June 20 for 116 districts in six states in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-s-effort-in-fighting-covid-19-unprecedented-praiseworthy-pm-modi/story-fW1LVjIA0BoluIEBf8P1dN.html
26-06-2020||India||Monsoon covers entire country, 12 days in advance||The monsoon has covered the entire country on Friday, 12 days earlier than expected, with officials saying this would augur well for farmers. The monsoon usually covers the whole country by July 8.Kuldeep Shrivastava, head of the regional weather forecasting centre, said: “Good rains on Friday helped the monsoon current surge further. There was a trough of low pressure running from Punjab and over north Rajasthan, Bihar and West Bengal, which helped the monsoon cover the entire country well in advance. This should be good news for farmers.”There will be a brief lull in monsoon rains now, according to scientists of the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Due to the shifting of the monsoon trough northwards and convergence of strong southerly and south-westerly winds from Bay of Bengal over northeast and adjoining east India, widespread and heavy to very heavy rainfall will continue over northeast and east India during the next three days.Extremely heavy rainfall is likely over Bihar and Assam and Meghalaya during June 26 and 27, and over Arunachal Pradesh and sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim on June 26.“The large-scale features which ensured we have a good monsoon are a neutral El Nino and neutral Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD). At a local level, we had some low-pressure systems developing during the monsoon. We also had a cyclonic circulation over central India, which helped bring good rains and advanced the monsoon current,” said IMD director general M Mohapatra.“Now the monsoon trough is shifting northwards, and so for three to four days, there will be very heavy and widespread rains in the eastern Himalayan foothills, Bihar and the northeastern states. There will be no rain in central India during this period, and the monsoon will advance very slowly. July and August are very important months for agriculture, and we are expecting a favourable monsoon during those two months,” he added.El Nino is a climate pattern characterised by high sea surface temperatures in the tropical Pacific Ocean, which are neutral now. El Nino years in India are linked to below normal monsoon rains, and higher than normal frequency of heat waves.Last year, weak El Nino conditions prevailed, leading to the delayed onset of the monsoon, according to scientists. IOD is characterised by warmer sea surface temperature in the equatorial Indian Ocean, and positive IOD conditions are associated with a normal monsoon over India.A good monsoon, which accounts for 70% of India’s annual rainfall, is critical to the fortunes of the agricultural sector, on which at least 700 million people are dependent for a livelihood. The monsoon is crucial for the yield of rice, wheat, sugarcane and oilseeds in a country where farming accounts for about 15% of the economy but employs more than half of its people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-covers-entire-country-12-days-in-advance/story-V32EyT4UKG9jbmFCuKCwWO.html
26-06-2020||India||India registers highest single-day Covid-19 cases, record recoveries||India has been recording daily spikes in the number of coronavirus disease cases. From over 6,000 a day, the daily caseload has now crossed 17,000.On Friday, India recorded 17,296 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease - the country’s highest single-day surge. This pushed India’s tally to 4,90,401, while the death toll climbed to 15,301 with 407 new fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry update at 8 am.India registered over 14,000 cases for the seventh day in a row and witnessed a surge of 2,99,866 infections from June 1 till 26, according to an analysis of the government data.Our World in Data, quoted by Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan, reported that the number of Covid-19 cases increased by 28.5 per cent in the last one week in India, which is higher than worst-affected US, Brazil and Russia.Of the 407 new deaths reported till Friday morning, 192 were in Maharashtra, 64 in Delhi, 45 in Tamil Nadu, 18 in Gujarat, 15 each in West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh, 12 in Andhra Pradesh, 10 in Haryana, eight in Madhya Pradesh, seven in Punjab, six in Karnataka, five in Telangana, four in Rajasthan and two in Jammu and Kashmir.More than 70 per cent deaths took place due to co-morbidities, the health ministry said.Good news: Record recoveries in IndiaThough the rate of new cases has been increasing since the lockdown has eased, the number of recovered patients has also reached a new high. In fact, of 13,940 patients were declared cured in a single day, according to health ministry data.The number of active cases stands at 1,89,463 while 2,85,636 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, according to the updated figure at 8 am. “Thus, around 58.24 per cent patients have recovered so far,” a health ministry official said. On Thursday, the number of people recovered was 2,71,696.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 77,76,228 samples have been tested up to June 25 with 2,15,446 samples being tested on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-registers-highest-single-day-covid-19-cases-record-recoveries/story-vEIv5ochp4x61ZPn2RtIlI.html
26-06-2020||India||As PM launches Atma Nirbhar UP Rojgar Abhiyan, he seeks a promise||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday sought a promise from a beneficiary of Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana from Uttar Pradesh’s Bahraich district as launched Atma Nirbhar Uttar Pradesh Rojgar Abhiyan, a job scheme for migrants workers in the state.PM Modi asked Tilak Ram, who talked about his experiences and gave feedback, to allow his children to complete their education.“You must promise me to let your children study as much as possible. Will you do it? You must let them study even if you face adversity,” the Prime Minister said.“Will you write to me every year about your children’s education and how your children are faring? So, you will have to fulfil this promise. You must do it for the country’s progress,” he said.The Atma Nirbhar Uttar Pradesh Rojgar Abhiyan, which was launched by PM Modi virtually, will cover 31 districts of Uttar Pradesh, which has seen more than 30 lakh migrant labourers return home following the lockdown in the country. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath was also present during the virtual launch of the Atma Nirbhar Uttar Pradesh Rojgar Abhiyan.It will be undertaken as part of the Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyan that the Prime Minister started on June 20 for 116 districts in six states in the country, Officials have said that the Atmanirbhar UP Rojgar Abhiyan is focused on providing jobs, promoting local entrepreneurship and creating partnerships with industrial associations and other organisations to create employment opportunities.They have said the target of providing work has been given to different departments with a focus on 25 categories of works.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-pm-launches-atma-nirbhar-up-rojgar-abhiyan-he-seeks-a-promise/story-MXQjzOJXXhBUqWOpkIEctM.html
26-06-2020||India||Children as young as 14 are being used by terrorists in J&K: US state dept||The US state department has said in a new report that children as young as 14 are recruited and used by non-state armed groups, referring to terror organisations, against the government in Jammu and Kashmir. The latest “Trafficking in Persons Report 2019”, released on Thursday, also said children aged just 12 are forcibly used by Maoist rebels to handle weapons and improvised explosive devices (IEDs), and in some cases, act as human shields.The report further said Maoist rebels indulge in sexual slavery in their camps, citing several women and girls earlier associated with Maoist groups.The use of “child soldiers” for propaganda was particularly rampant in the left-wing extremism (LWE) affected states of Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand, the report said.Asserting that India doesn’t fully meet the minimum standards for eliminating human trafficking, the US has kept it in the Tier 2 category of countries on the basis of its efforts. India has been placed in the Tier 2 category on human trafficking for almost a decade.To put things in context, Tier 2 ranking is given to those countries which have not fully complied with human trafficking measures but are making efforts. Tier 1 are those countries who have fully complied with the measures. The report said physical violence against trafficking victims – in terms of both forced labour and sex trafficking – is prevalent in India and “some traffickers force women and girls to conceive and deliver babies for sale”.“Traffickers exploit millions of people in commercial sex within India. Traffickers target Indian women and girls but also fraudulently recruit significant numbers of Nepali and Bangladeshi women and girls to India for sex trafficking. Additionally, traffickers exploit women and girls from Central Asian, European, and African countries in commercial sex, especially in Goa,” the report said.It said that “India is a source of child sex tourists and a destination for child sex tourism”.The report added, “Traffickers kidnap and force Indian and Nepali women and girls to work as ‘orchestra dancers’ in India, especially in Bihar state, where girls perform with dance groups until they have repaid fabricated debts. Traffickers exploit women and children in sex trafficking in religious pilgrimage centres and in tourist destinations.”The report pointed out that human traffickers are increasingly using online technology to facilitate sex trafficking and fraudulent recruitment.“Some traffickers kidnap children from public places, including railway stations, entice girls with drugs, and force girls as young as 5 years old in sex trafficking to take hormone injections to appear older,” it said.In this, the report observed, some corrupt law enforcement officers have a major role to play as they “protect suspected traffickers and brothel owners from law enforcement efforts and take bribes from sex trafficking establishments and sexual services from victims”. Not just that, the report noted that traffickers arrange sham marriages within India and West Asian states to subject females to sex trafficking.According to the report, authorities have recently identified Indian forced labour victims in Armenia, Portugal, Gabon, and Zambia, and Indian female sex trafficking victims in Kenya.“Traffickers exploit Rohingya, Sri Lankan Tamil, and other refugee populations in sex and labour trafficking. Traffickers subject some boys from Assam, Bihar, and Uttar Pradesh states to forced labour in Nepal,” it added.Criticising the Indian government, the US state department said that “the government decreased investigations, prosecutions, and case convictions of traffickers, and the acquittal rate for traffickers increased to 83%”.It added, “Law enforcement decreased victim identification efforts, and the government reported it had only identified approximately 313,000 bonded labourers since 1976 — less than four percent of NGOs’ estimates of at least eight million trafficking victims in India, the majority of which are bonded labourers.”It further said: “NGOs estimated police did not file FIRs in at least half of reported bonded labour cases, and inconsistent with NGO reports, 17 of 36 states and territories did not identify any bonded labour victims in 2017 or 2018.” Citing data from the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), the report said that in 2018, the Indian government reported 1,830 trafficking cases under the Indian Penal Code (IPC), a continued decrease from 2,854 cases in 2017 and 5,217 cases in 2016.The US report has a specific mention of the CBI probe into the sexual abuse of girls and boys in shelter homes in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh.The CBI, the report said, completed investigations into the 16 most abusive shelters and filed charges in 12 additional cases. The CBI filed an additional 19 FIRs against some of the 94 other state-funded shelter homes in Bihar.“Despite this action in Bihar, the lack of investigations into suspected trafficking crimes and broader physical and sexual abuse of trafficking victims at government-run and -funded shelters in other states due to widespread negligence created an atmosphere of impunity for shelter employees and government officials to engage in trafficking,” the report said.The report particularly blamed Indian police for widespread impunity for trafficking crimes.“Some police and administration officials maintained the view that society had the right to put lower caste individuals in bonded and child labour, which sometimes impeded identification and investigation of such cases. NGOs across multiple states reported politically connected individuals, including local and state politicians who held workers in bonded labour in agriculture and on brick kilns, successfully avoided prosecution. Some law enforcement reportedly received bribes from sex trafficking establishments and sexual services from victims in exchange for alerting the traffickers of forthcoming raids,” it said.“The lack of sufficient political will across many states to address bonded labour stymied efforts nationwide,” it added.Prakash Singh, a former police chief of Uttar Pradesh, said: “The problem is definitely there. It is an acknowledged fact which has been accepted by the Indian government that Naxals use children for carrying items or even using them as informers.”Singh added, “Yes, Indian police have problems but they have a very thankless task to perform, where they have to follow orders of the political class. But I think Indian police are doing a better job than the US police.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/children-as-young-as-14-used-by-terrorists-in-j-k-us-state-dept/story-1bQurtzlq1zofMqfsFUBdO.html
26-06-2020||India||25-year-old found dead near his home in UP’s Muzaffarnagar district: Police||Police said that a 25-year-old man was found dead near his house in a village in Muzaffarnagar district of Uttar Pradesh.Station House Officer (SHO) Satendra Singh said the man was suspected to have committed suicide on Thursday evening in Hashampur village but his family members alleged that he was killed.The family members of the deceased held a protest and lodged a complaint against three people.Singh said the man’s body was sent for postmortem two hours later due to the protest over his death and added that an investigation was underway.In the neighbouring Shamli district, a 38-year-old man died after shooting himself in Dagrol village on Thursday, SHO Karmvir Singh said.His body was sent for a postmortem examination, the SHO said, adding that the deceased had been depressed for some time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25-year-old-found-dead-near-his-home-in-up-s-muzaffarnagar-district-police/story-iugWGGTNQWaozbFckkUQ8O.html
26-06-2020||India||‘I am Indira Gandhi’s granddaughter’: Priyanka dares UP govt||“I am Indira Gandhi’s granddaughter, not an undeclared BJP spokesperson like some of the opposition leaders,” Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday said, as she alleged that the Uttar Pradesh government is threatening her through various departments for speaking the truth.Priyanka Gandhi’s dare to the Uttar Pradesh government came a day after the Uttar Pradesh child rights panel issued a notice to her, asking her to file a reply within three days for her “misleading” comment on the Kanpur shelter home.The Congress leader in a Facebook post on Sunday had attacked the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh over a media report about two girls being found pregnant at the state-run child shelter home, saying it shows that facts were being suppressed in the name of investigation at such facilities.“As a servant of the people, my duty is towards the people of Uttar Pradesh. And this duty is to put out the truth before them and not to put forth government propaganda. The UP government is wasting its time by threatening me through its various departments,” Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi on Friday “They can take whatever action they want, I will keep putting forth the truth. I am Indira Gandhi’s granddaughter not an undeclared BJP spokesperson like some of the opposition leaders,” she said.Her remarks also come days after the Agra administration asked her to withdraw the claim of high coronavirus deaths in the district.The Congress general secretary in-charge UP East has accused the Yogi Adityanath government of indulging in propaganda instead of dealing with the pandemic.This week, Priyanka Gandhi repeatedly attacked the Uttar Pradesh government over the “high” Covid-19 mortality rate in Agra and on other issues related to the state government’s handling of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-am-indira-gandhi-s-granddaughter-priyanka-dares-up-govt/story-EKkQQfrv8QTiMSnqiXdGZI.html
26-06-2020||India||Indian Railways cancels all regular trains till August 12: Here’s what it means for you||The Indian Railways has said regular time-tabled passenger trains, including mail express, passenger and suburban services which were suspended by the Centre till June 30, will remain suspended till August 12.However, special passenger trains including 200 mail express trains and 30 Rajdhani trains that have been operating from May 12 and June 1 will continue to operate. The latest round of cancellations of trains comes in the background of a surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases across the country. Also Watch | How Delhi cases compare to Mumbai, Chennai; trains’ suspension extendedHere’s what it means for you:* All tickets booked for the regular time-tabled trams for the journey from July 1 to August 12 also stand cancelled and full fares will be refunded.* Officials of the railways ministry officials special trains, including suburban trains along the Central and Western railway zones and Shramik Special trains, will continue to ply.* Passengers who booked from the railway counter will be eligible to apply for a refund from the date of the journey till six months. They will have a file a Ticket Deposit Receipt or TDR at the station. They can submit TDRs within two months to chief claim officer or chief commercial manager refund’s office. The refund will be processed after verification.* People who booked the tickets online, will get an automatic refund on their accounts.* They have said passengers will be informed and bookings will be done, as and when a decision is taken about them.* Indian Railways had on Tuesday also announced the cancellation of all tickets booked for regular trains on or before April 14 and said it would soon start generating refunds for those tickets.* In a notification on May 15, railways had cancelled all trains scheduled for travel till June 30, 2020, and decided to refund the tickets.* Railways ministry officials have said that more special trains in addition to the 230 trains operating during the lockdown period may also be announced soon in a separate notification. * Passenger train services have been suspended since March 22. It was only on May 16 that restricted passenger train services resumed in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-cancels-all-regular-trains-till-august-12-here-s-what-it-means-for-you/story-cU7owgti2VNhx16DBcZYcM.html
26-06-2020||India||PM Modi launches Atma Nirbhar UP Rojgar Abhiyan to provide jobs to 1.25 crore migrant workers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched Atma Nirbhar Uttar Pradesh Rojgar Abhiyan, a campaign to provide employment to 1.25 crore migrant workers and others in Uttar Pradesh, who lost their jobs during the coronavirus pandemic.The Atma Nirbhar Uttar Pradesh Rojgar Abhiyan, which was launched by PM Modi virtually, will cover 31 districts of Uttar Pradesh, which has seen more than 30 lakh migrant labourers return home following the lockdown in the country. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath was also present during the virtual launch of the campaign.It will be undertaken as part of the Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyan that the Prime Minister started on June 20 for 116 districts in six states in the country, Officials have said that the Atmanirbhar UP Rojgar Abhiyan is focused on providing jobs, promoting local entrepreneurship and creating partnerships with industrial associations and other organisations to create employment opportunities.They have said the target of providing work has been given to different departments with a focus on 25 categories of works.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-launches-atma-nirbhar-up-rojgar-abhiyan-a-125-day-campaign-to-provide-employment-to-1-25-crore-migrant-workers/story-WkOGOkFT2C3ifhLhoOXaPI.html
26-06-2020||India||UP firms making bullet proof jackets ditch China, say ‘no trust’: Report||Kanpur, one of the leading centres for making bullet proof jackets for Indian soldiers, has banned Chinese products, Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan reported on Friday.The companies based in Kanpur have turned towards European and American firms to procure raw materials to build body armour and jackets which save lives of soldiers, Hindustan further reported.Earlier this week, Niti Aayog member V K Saraswat had said that Indian companies manufacturing bullet proof jackets should avoid importing raw materials from China because of “inconsistencies in the quality” of the shipments.“Many times raw materials imported from China (to produce bullet proof jackets) are not of good quality... We should avoid importing from Chinese sources because of inconsistencies of the raw material quality,” Saraswat told news agency PTI on Monday.Saraswat, also a former Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) chief, said companies producing bullet proof jackets for the army can get raw material from other sources that are the original equipment manufacturer (OEM) production agencies.The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) had asked Niti Aayog to prepare a road map for “incentivising” domestic manufacturing of lightweight body armours and protective gears. The Bureau of Indian Standards has also finalised quality norms for body armours to be used by Indian forces.The clamour for boycott of Chinese goods has been growing ever since the Ladakh-face off in the Galwan Valley on June 15.These jackets use fibre or filament which are light weight and strong. The bullet proof jackets have two layers. The upper layer is ceramic and the inner most layer is made of ballistic material.When a bullet strikes the jacket, the ceramic layer breaks the pointed head which releases energy. This energy us absorbed by the ballistic layer keeping the soldiers safe.The industrialists Hindustan spoke to, said American and European companies are reliable when it comes to makign such important life-saving jackets and even helmets.“We don’t trust China, especially in a sensitive sector like defence. Therefore, we buy the raw material to make these bulleto proof jackets from Denmark and American companies,” said Mayank Shrivastava, MD, NCFD.India lost 20 of its army personnel, including a colonel, in the violent face-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the biggest confrontation between the militaries of India and China in more than four decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-firms-making-bullet-proof-jackets-ditch-china-say-no-trust-report/story-xrT1gpXmsH6cAiglt55KCM.html
26-06-2020||India||How Delhi crossed Mumbai in grim Covid-19 milestone||Delhi now has surpassed Mumbai in terms of the number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country as the infection tally has spiralled in the Capital.The Capital, which has a population of nearly 18 million, has witnessed 73,780 infections and 2,429 deaths so far. With more than 20 million residents, Mumbai’s case count has gone up to 70,878 and its death toll stands at 4,062. Chennai has 47,650 Covid-19 cases and 694 people have died in the capital of Tamil Nadu.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The national capital had recorded 3,947 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, its largest single-day spike till date. It currently has 26,586 active cases, less than half of the number of cases registered in the city-state.  Delhi had reported its first Covid-19 case on March 2 and has added, on average, more than 3,320 cases in each of the last seven days compared with Mumbai’s 1,134.The Capital’s case fatality rate (CFR) or the proportion of death to the total number of cases till June 24 was 3.36%, that of Mumbai 5.70% and Chennai’s 1.46%.Mumbai has managed to plateau its new cases in the last month and Chennai did so 10 days ago. Delhi, on the other hand, seeing a very steep rise in new cases in the past few weeks.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage India’s financial capital has the doubling time of coronavirus disease cases at 40 days, in Delhi, it is 12.1 days and 19.4 days in Chennai.  India’s infection tally surged to 490,401 after 17,296 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the highest in a single day, were reported from across the country, according to the Union health ministry on Friday.There are 189,463 active Covid-19 cases in the country and the death toll mounted to 15,301 as 407 people succumbed to the respiratory illness between Thursday and Friday morning, the health ministry’s dashboard showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-delhi-crossed-mumbai-in-grim-covid-19-milestone/story-bi0JcuSTgceeuS6FowG5WP.html
26-06-2020||India||Petition in Supreme Court challenges Kerala ban on animal sacrifice in temples||A petition was filed before the Supreme Court on Thursday challenging a Kerala law which prohibits animal sacrifice for appeasement of deity in temples and temple precincts.The petitioners, who are followers of Shakthi worshipping tradition, claimed that appeasing deity through animal sacrifice is an essential religious practice mandated by religious texts and scriptures followed by them and should, therefore, be permitted.“In Shakthi worship as per its scriptures and practices popularly known as “pramanas”, animal sacrifice is essential and unavoidable for the propitiation of the deity”, the petition filed through advocate A Karthik stated.The law in question, Kerala Animals and Bird Sacrifices Prohibition Act, 1968 (Act), therefore, violates the right to equality guaranteed by Article 14 and the right to practice religion and manage religious affairs under articles 25 and 26 of the Constitution, it was submitted.The Act was earlier challenged before the Kerala high court, which on June 16 dismissed the plea. The Act imposes ban on sacrifice of animals and birds in temples for propitiation of deity and criminalises the same. Violation of the law attracts jail term of upto 3 months and fine of Rs. 300.A similar case from Tripura concerning validity of animal sacrifice in temples is already pending before the apex court.The petitioners claimed that the Act violates right to equality because identical practices by other religious communities are not prohibited by the Act.Further, it was also contended that the Act only penalises killing of animals for propitiation of deity and animal or bird sacrifice for all other purposes including personal consumption within temple precincts is not prohibited.“If the object of the law were to ensure preservation and protection of animals, it would demand its uniform application across all religious communities”, the petition stated.The petitioners also submitted that the law enacted by the central government to prevent cruelty to animals, Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act of 1960 specifically permits sacrificing animals as ritual in Hindu temples throughout India.“Kerala Animals and Birds Sacrifices Prohibition Act, 1968 is repugnant to the provisions of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 insofar as the Act operates in the same entry and criminalises an act which the Union Legislation chooses explicitly not to criminalise”, the plea added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petition-in-supreme-court-challenges-kerala-ban-on-animal-sacrifice-in-temples/story-9DYDEHJqyBfrrpQo6LC54J.html
26-06-2020||India||‘Am Indira Gandhi’s grand-daughter’: Priyanka dares UP govt to act against her||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi has dared the Uttar Pradesh government to take whatever action it wants against her, but she will keep highlighting the truth.“As a public servant my duty is towards the people of Uttar Pradesh, and that duty is to bring the truth in front of them. My duty is not to propagate the government propaganda. Uttar Pradesh government is wasting its time in trying to threaten me. Take whatever action you want to, I will keep highlighting the truth. I am the granddaughter of Indira Gandhi, not an undeclared spokesperson of the BJP like some leaders,” she tweeted in Hindi on Friday. .. जो भी कार्यवाही करना चाहते हैं, बेशक करें। मैं सच्चाई सामने रखती रहूँगी। मैं इंदिरा गांधी की पोती हूँ, कुछ विपक्ष के नेताओं की तरह भाजपा की अघोषित प्रवक्ता नहीं।..2/2Gandhi has been attacking the Uttar Pradesh government in various issues, including the spread of the coronavirus disease in the state.On Sunday, the Congress leader in a Facebook post cited a media report to claim that 57 girls tested positive for coronavirus at the state-run child shelter home in Kanpur, with two girls being “found” pregnant, including one HIV positive.She had equated the incident with the Muzaffarpur shelter home case in Bihar, where cases of alleged sexual abuse were reported.The state child rights panel on Thursday issued a notice to Gandhi, asking her to file a reply within three days for her “misleading” comments on the shelter home.On June 22, Gandhi had tweeted to say that 28 corona patients died is Agra hospital after being admitted in 48 hours. She had also said that the Agra model propagated by the Uttar Pradesh government stands exposed. The Congress leader had attached a news report in her tweet.Taking cognizance of the tweet, Agra District Magistrate Prabhu Narain Singh on Tuesday asked the Congress general secretary to withdraw the tweet.But undeterred, Gandhi attacked the Uttar Pradesh government on the same day over the “high” Covid-19 mortality rate in Agra. She said on Twitter that chief minister Yogi Adityanath should clarify within 48 hours who was responsible for “pushing people into these adverse circumstances”.Tagging a media report, she had said the Covid-19 death rate in Agra was 6.8 per cent, which was higher than Delhi and Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/take-whatever-action-you-want-to-priyanka-gandhi-dares-up-govt-over-covid-19-tweets/story-TsvHMTx4vEvcorPa35UnTO.html
26-06-2020||India||‘Brazen fraud’: JP Nadda aims at Sonia Gandhi over PM Relief Fund donation to RGF||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Jagat Prakash Nadda on Friday stepped up his attack on the Congress, particularly the Gandhi family, by accusing party chief Sonia Gandhi of transparency.“PMNRF, meant to help people in distress, was donating money to Rajiv Gandhi Foundation in UPA years. Who sat on the PMNRF board? Smt. Sonia Gandhi. Who chairs RGF? Smt. Sonia Gandhi. Totally reprehensible, disregarding ethics, processes and not bothering about transparency,” he tweeted on Friday. PMNRF, meant to help people in distress, was donating money to Rajiv Gandhi Foundation in UPA years. Who sat on the PMNRF board? Smt. Sonia Gandhi Who chairs RGF? Smt. Sonia Gandhi. Totally reprehensible, disregarding ethics, processes and not bothering about transparency. pic.twitter.com/tttDP4S6bYHe also attached a list of donors to Rajiv Gandhi Foundation in from years 2005 to 2008 along with his tweets.“People of India donated their hard-earned money to PMNRF to help their fellow citizens in need. To divert this public money into a family run foundation is not only a brazen fraud but also a big betrayal of the people of India,” the BJP chief further said in his subsequent tweet.“One family’s hunger for wealth has cost the nation immensely. If only they have devoted their energies towards more constructive agenda. The Congress’ Imperial Dynasty needs to apologise to the unchecked loot for self-gains!” Nadda said sharpening his attack. One family’s hunger for wealth has cost the nation immensely. If only they have devoted their energies towards more constructive agenda. The Congress’ Imperial Dynasty needs to apologise to the unchecked loot for self-gains!The BJP chief has been targeting the Congress party since its attack on the government, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, after the face-off between the Indian and Chinese soldiers in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on June 15.The Congress, and its former chief Rahul Gandhi, has accused the Centre of giving away India’s territory to the Chinese even after a statement by PM Modi at the all-party meeting that there is no presence of the Chinese in the Indian territory and not an inch of country’s land has been taken.Sonia Gandho had said that the current crisis is a result of the “mismanagement” of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government and the “wrong policies” pursued by it.“True to its character, the government is in denial. The intrusion was detected and reported on May 5. Instead of a resolution, the situation deteriorated rapidly and there were violent clashes on June 15-16. Twenty Indian soldiers were martyred, 85 injured and 10 went ‘missing’ until they were returned,” she said at the Congress Working Committee (CWC) on Tuesday.Former prime minister Dr Manmohan Singh said that PM Modi should be always mindful of the implications of his words, a reference to the controversy stoked by Prime Minister Modi’s comments at the all-party meeting on Friday. Dr Singh also said that the government must rise to the occasion to ensure justice for Colonel B Santhosh Babu and other jawans who were killed in action.It was then that Nadda launched a tweetstorm, saying the Congress party should stop insulting the security forces repeatedly and questioning their valour.In a series of tweets, Nadda lashed out at Congress and said it is the Opposition right to ask questions and the all-party meeting with the Prime Minister last week saw healthy deliberations with several opposition leaders giving their valuable inputs. Nadda said they also fully supported the Centre in determining the way ahead. “One family was an exception. Any guesses who?” he tweeted without naming names. A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking investigation in a memorandum of understanding (MoU) entered into between the Congress party and the Communist Party of China in 2008.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-chief-jp-nadda-sharpens-attack-on-congress-questions-sonia-gandhi-over-transparency/story-XCNdaPrPM9zLKWHR4SmpuJ.html
26-06-2020||India||Over 17,000 new Covid-19 cases take India’s infection tally beyond 4.9 lakh; death toll at 15,301||India’s infection tally surged to 490,401 after 17,296 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the highest in a single day, were reported from across the country, according to the Union health ministry on Friday.There are 189,463 active Covid-19 cases in the country and the death toll mounted to 15,301 as 407 people succumbed to the respiratory illness between Thursday and Friday morning, the health ministry’s dashboard showed.It showed that during the last 24 hours, 13,940 Covid-19 patients have been cured. So far, 285,636 patients have been discharged from hospitals, taking the recovery rate to 58.24%.Also read| Covid-19: Order on mandatory centre visits revokedThe government has said cases per lakh population in India currently stand at 33.39 against the world’s 120.21 cases/lakh. It has said deaths per lakh population in the country is currently amongst the lowest in the world with 1.06 deaths/lakh against the world average of 6.24 deaths/lakh.There have been 9.5 million infections and 488,824 deaths across the world so far, according to Johns Hopkins University’s Covid-19 tracker.Among the 28 states and nine Union territories in India, 12 have reported more than 10,000 cases and Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat have the most number of cases pushing the country’s tally beyond the 4.9 lakh-mark.A central team from Union health ministry will visit Maharashtra, Gujarat and Telangana from June 26 to June 29 and interact with state officials to coordinate with them to strengthen ongoing efforts for management of the pandemic, the government has said.Maharashtra, which now has 147,741 Covid-19 cases and 6,931 deaths, has decided to extend some relaxations under its ‘Mission Begin Again’ scheme.Also read: Overcrowded shelter homes in Delhi face new coronavirus challengeAn order, which was issued late on Thursday, said that barbershops, salons and beauty parlours in 19 municipal corporations earmarked as red zones, will open from June 28, while in the rest of the state they shall open from June 27. Delhi, which has overtaken Mumbai to become the worst-hit city in the country, has 73,780 Covid-19 cases and 2,429 deaths so far.Authorities will launch a sero survey to cover 20,000 people across the Capital’s 11 districts over the weekend to determine the spread of Covid-19 as the number of cases have risen in Delhi.The National Centre for Disease Control, under the Union health ministry, and the Delhi government will jointly conduct the survey that will focus on antibody-based blood tests to find out residents’ past exposure to the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19.The sero surveillance is one of the five aspects of Delhi’s revised Covid-19 response plan that was developed after a meeting between Union home minister Amit Shah and Delhi government officials on Sunday. Antibody tests began in Delhi in April but were put on hold after allegations over the quality of Chinese kits used at that time.The government said in a release on Thursday that India now has 1007 diagnostic laboratories, including 734 in the government sector and 273 private facilities.“From limited COVID-19 tests in Jan 2020, 2,07,871 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative tests to 75,60,782,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-17-000-new-covid-19-cases-take-india-s-infection-tally-beyond-4-9-lakh-death-toll-at-15-301/story-8hfOVvn5zU3pajZcuZMyfL.html
26-06-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: Tamil Nadu crosses 70,000-mark, Maharashtra adds another 4,841 cases in 24 hours||India recorded another spike of 17,296 new Covid-19 cases on Friday. The country’s tally now stands at 4,90,401. Among the states performing poorly is Maharashtra which saw 4,841 cases added to its burgeoning tally. The number of coronavirus disease cases in the state now stands at 1,47,741.The other badly-affected states are Delhi, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat.Here’s a look at the worst affected states in the countryMaharashtraThe state Covid-19 tally jumped to 1,47,741 on Thursday. Over 77,453 people have recovered from coronavirus in Maharashtra while 6,931 have died. DelhiThe national capital is the second worst-hit in India with coronavirus cases jumping to 73,780 on Thursday. As many as 44,765 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in Delhi while 2,429 have succumbed to death. Tamil Nadu The state stands third on the tally with 70,977 coronavirus cases. Tamil Nadu has witnessed 911 coronavirus fatalities while 39,999 have recovered. GujaratThe western Indian state of Gujarat has seen Covid-19 cases rise to 29,520 on Thursday. The state has seen 21,498 people recover from coronavirus while 1,753 people have died.Uttar Pradesh The Covid-19 tally here has jumped to 20,193 while the number of recoveries has touched 13,119. The state’s death toll stands at 611.RajasthanThe state has reported 16,296 Covid-19 cases till date. Covid-19 death toll in Rajasthan stands at 379 while 12,840 have recovered. West BengalAs many as 15,648 people have contracted Covid-19 in West Bengal till date. The state has seen 10,190 recover from coronavirus while 606 people have been killed. Madhya PradeshOver 12,596 people have been infected by coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh till date. While the state death toll stands at 542, 9,619 people have been cured or discharged from the hospitals. Haryana Nearly 12,463 have been reported to have been infected by coronavirus in Haryana while 198 have died. The number of Covid-19 recoveries in the state stands at 7,380.Andhra PradeshThe southern Indian state has 10,884 Covid-19 cases till date with 136 succumbing to death due to coronavirus. Over 4,988 people recovered from Covid-19 in the state so far.Telangana and Karnataka recently witnessed their Covid-19 tallies jump beyond 10,000. While 11,364 people are affected by coronavirus in Telangana, Karnataka’s tally count stands at 10,560. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-tamil-nadu-crosses-70-000-mark-maharashtra-adds-another-4-841-cases-in-24-hours/story-DkTZO4V7bz2UTZKhBG8RsK.html
26-06-2020||India||Fuel prices increase for 20th day, petrol crosses Rs 80 a litre mark in Delhi||The prices of petrol and diesel continued their upward trend for 20th day in a row. On Friday, the petrol was retailing at Rs 80.13 a litre in Delhi and diesel price was Rs 80.19 a litre.This was an increase of 21 paise in the price of petrol and 17 paise a litre in diesel price.Except for Wednesday, the petrol price has also gone up across the country since June 7, when the daily revision of prices started after a gap of 82 days due to Covid-19.Diesel prices in Delhi had shot past petrol prices on Wednesday for the first time ever.Chairman of state-run Indian Oil Corp (IOC), Sanjiv Singh, had said on Thursday that higher diesel price in Delhi was a result of a steep hike in Value Added Tax or VAT by the state government.He said VAT is lower in other cities which has meant diesel remains cheaper than petrol. “The Delhi government had increased VAT on petrol from 27 per cent to 30 per cent and that on diesel from 16.75 per cent to 30 per cent on May 5,” said Singh.State-owned fuel firms benchmark retail rates to Arab-Gulf international oil prices and a formula decides them, the IOC chairman said, adding that demand dropped drastically in the aftermath of lockdowns imposed across the globe to curb spread of coronavirus, sending oil prices plunging to multi-year low.This included oil futures falling below zero on one day in US trading. Reducing prices in line with that fall was not “sustainable” as cracks - the difference between crude oil (raw material) and petroleum product (finished goods) prices - were running negative, he said.The Opposition has been relentlessly attacking the government over the fuel price hike. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi said on Thursday that it has become clear that the Centre is only interested in picking pockets of the people even in times of crisis.The Congress will hold mass protests across the country on Monday over the “unprecedented” rise in petrol and diesel prices.Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leaders Tejashwi Yadav and Tej Pratap Yadav along with party workers held a cycle march protest against rising fuel prices in Patna on Thursday.National Congress Party (NCP) leader Supriya Sule urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday to reduce the rates to provide relief to the common man.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fuel-prices-increase-for-20th-day-petrol-crosses-rs-80-a-litre-mark-in-delhi/story-9TiI6xhOJeBYUDGTjgXzBO.html
26-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Petrol now costs over Rs 80 a litre in Delhi as fuel prices increase for 20th day and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Fuel prices increase for 20th day, petrol crosses Rs 80 a litre mark in DelhiThe prices of petrol and diesel continued their upward trend for 20th day in a row. On Friday, the petrol was retailing at Rs 80.13 a litre in Delhi and diesel price was Rs 80.19 a litre. Read more 1 terrorist killed in Jammu and Kashmir’s Tral in an ongoing encounter: PoliceAn unidentified terrorist has been killed by security forces in an ongoing gun battle in Tral area of south Kashmir’s Awantipora police district, police said on Friday. Read more 1.25 crore jobs, 125 days: PM to launch Atma Nirbhar UP Rojgar Abhiyan todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Friday launch a 125-day campaign to provide employment to migrant workers and others in Uttar Pradesh, who lost their jobs during coronavirus pandemic, under various central and state government schemes. Read more Heavy rainfall, thunderstorm warnings for 8 Bihar districtsThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast heavy rainfall, thunderstorm and lightning on Friday in at least eight districts of Bihar, where more than 80 people were killed in several parts of the state on Thursday. Read more 170% salary hike to those building roads in border areas: ReportThe government has decided to give a salary hike to personnel involved in building roads and infrastructure projects along India’s borders. The minimum wage for people working in these areas has been increased by 100 to 170%. Read more Ayushmann Khurrana reveals lesson he learnt from Aamir Khan while interviewing him as MTV presenterActor Ayushmann Khurrana has revealed a professional hack that he learnt from none other than Aamir Khan, while interviewing him during his MTV days. Read more Connor breaches a cricket bastion, named MCC’s first woman presidentMCC’s AGM made a historic decision to appoint former England skipper, Clare Connor, as its first woman president. Connor, the England and Wales Cricket Board’s (ECB) managing director of women’s cricket, will take over on October 1, 2021. Read more Bye handshake, hello Namaste: Risk free greetings to replace handshakes, hugs amid Covid-19The coronavirus pandemic has changed all known ideas and definitions of reality, and every day we learn something new and introduce it to our ‘new normal’ routine. Read more Realme X3, X3 SuperZoom: Here are the best 64-megapixel camera rivalsRealme yesterday dropped two new smartphones in the Indian market, the X3 and the X3 SuperZoom. Among other features, these two are touted for their 64-megapixel cameras. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-1-terrorist-killed-in-ongoing-gunbattle-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-tral-and-all-the-latest-news/story-xRuLDUCiENg9C2ThBgVB6K.html
26-06-2020||India||With aggressive posturing along LAC, China turning bilateral relationship back to 1990s, says India||India has accused China of turning the bilateral relationship clock back to 1990s by trying to foist a war-like situation along the 3,488-kilometre-long Line of Actual Control (LAC) through its aggressive military posture in East Ladakh.Short of saying that Xi Jinping, who is also commander in chief of the PLA, had literally torn the 1993 peace and tranquility agreement to shreds, the Modi government has served a diplomatic ultimatum on him with serious consequences on the bilateral ties. The 1993 agreement signed during Narasimha Rao-Jiang Zemin era makes it amply clear that the military forces have to be kept to a “minimum level” along the LAC.Also Read: China’s dragon act on LAC to be decoded by General Naravane in high-level meet todayThe Indian statement on Thursday carries a sting in the very last line by conveying that all gains made in the bilateral relationship in the past three decades will be lost if China does not de-escalate and disengage the PLA forces from the LAC. “India is quite capable of handling the military to military posture on the LAC but the entire economic relationship will go for a toss if PLA does not de-escalate. It cannot be business as usual for China if this situation continues. It is this call that General Secretary Xi Jinping has to take,” said a senior official. Also Watch | ‘Ban Chinese companies from India’s 5G trial’: Former envoy to ChinaEven though there has not been any military flying by the Chinese Air Force in the past three days, PLA has amassed troops all along the LAC with artillery and missile support. Its posture along the 1,597 km LAC in Ladakh is threatening with troops ready for the red flag to go up. Its military air bases at Kashgar, Hotan, Yarkand, Korla and Gor Gunsa are battle ready.However, the PLA is rather unhappy at the change of military attitude showed by the 16 Bihar Indian Army unit at the June 15 Galwan flare-up and the Indian posture at Daulet Beg Oldi. With the Darbuk-Shyok-DBO road complete, India has made game changing military posture near the Karakoram pass with the deployment of T-90 tanks, Russian BMP amphibious infantry fighting vehicles and American M-777 155mm howitzers.Also Read: At 4-hr long India-China border talks, focus on de-escalation and disengagementWith the Indian deployment of state-of-the-art weaponry at the highest DBO post and all advance landing grounds, including Nyoma active, the PLA will suffer heavy casualties in case it tries to bully across the LAC.The DSDBO road has been the turning point for India as the strategic axis had put paid to all Chinese plans to occupy Ladakh by linking up to Siachen Glacier and virtually make Indian defences untenable in Kashmir. Had the Indian governments in the past agreed to so-called peaceniks who wanted Indian Army to demilitarize Siachen or turn it into a park, the Chinese plan would have become a reality.While the Chinese posture on LAC continues to be aggressive, the clock is ticking on the bilateral relationship as India has made up its mind that it will slam the economic door on Beijing if dis-engagement does not take place within weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-aggressive-posturing-along-lac-china-turning-bilateral-relationship-back-to-1990s-says-india/story-xN6qbIbdxxYDOWirAuRoKJ.html
26-06-2020||India||Second terrorist killed in Jammu and Kashmir’s Tral encounter: Police: Police||Security forces on Friday gunned down two terrorists during a gunfight, which was raging since Thursday evening in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama district, officials said.Sources, however, said three terrorists have been killed in the encounter, which had erupted in Chewa Ullar area of Tral in south Kashmir on Thursday evening.Officials said the first terrorist was killed early on Friday morning and that the operation is now over.Two AK-47 assault rifles have been recovered from the site of the encounter, a spokesperson of the Indian Army said.A joint team of state police, Indian Army’s 42 Rashtriya Rifles and Central Police Reserve Force (CRPF) had launched a cordon and search operation on specific information about the presence of terrorists in the area.Officials said the search operation turned into an encounter after the hiding terrorists opened fire at a search party, who retaliated. The forces maintained a tight cordon throughout the night to prevent them from escaping, they added.The operation launched on Thursday evening was stopped during the night due to darkness and resumed in the morning with a gunfight.In a separate incident, a personnel of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and a five-year boy were injured in an attack along the national highway in Bijbhera of south Kashmir.Security forces have stepped up the offensive in the Kashmir Valley and killed more than 100 terrorists in operations since the beginning of this year. Several of these encounters have taken place in south Kashmir, which is considered the hotbed of militancy in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-terrorist-killed-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-tral-in-an-ongoing-encounter-police/story-JTHaBhiREESfCW3AT5u0dL.html
26-06-2020||India||Followed all procedures to manufacture Covid-19 drug, didn’t advertise: Patanjali CEO||Acharya Balkrishna, chief executive officer (CEO) of Patanjali, said that all procedures were followed to manufacture the medicine, Coronil, and they have not done anything wrong while obtaining the licence.“We have followed all procedures to manufacture the medicine (Coronil). We applied for the licence based on classical evidence of the compounds used in the medicine. We worked on the compounds and put out the results of the clinical trial before people,” Acharya Balkrishna said.“We have not done anything wrong while obtaining the licence. We did not advertise the medicine (Coronil), we just tried to tell people about the effects of the medicine,” he added.This comes after MoS for the Union AYUSH ministry Shripad Naik said that Patanjali Ayurved should not have advertised its newly-launched ayurvedic drugs for Covid-19 before getting final approvals.Also read: Patanjali’s ‘breakthrough’ needs vetting, say experts“They (Patanjali Ayurved) should not have advertised it (Coronil) before getting final approvals. We have asked them to complete the requisite procedures. They have sent it to us and we will make a decision soon,” Naik said.Also read: ‘Anyone found selling Ramdev’s Covid-19 medicine will face action’, says Rajasthan ministerThe AYUSH ministry had said on Tuesday that it has taken cognizance of news in the media about Ayurvedic medicines developed for the treatment of Covid-19 by Patanjali Ayurved Ltd, Haridwar and said the company has been asked to “stop advertising/publicising such claims till the issue is duly examined”.Patanjali Ayurved on Tuesday launched ‘Coronil and Swasari’ claiming it to be Ayurvedic cure for treating Covid-19 and said clinical trials have shown favourable results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/followed-all-procedures-to-manufacture-covid-19-drug-didn-t-advertise-patanjali-ceo/story-lnKMcYlpC3vlYVCsrVAMgN.html
26-06-2020||India||Govt gives salary hike of upto 170% to people working on building roads in border areas: Report||The government has decided to give a salary hike to personnel involved in building roads and infrastructure projects along India’s borders. The minimum wage for people working in these areas has been increased by 100 to 170 per cent, Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan reported.The highest increase has been given to employees involved in building roads in the tense Ladakh sector, Hindustan reported.The new salary structure came into force from June 1. The order has been issued by National Highways & Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (NHIDCL). The order says that the risk allowance of those working in the border areas with China, Pakistan and Bangladesh has been increased by 100 to 170 per cent.After the new order, the salary of an outsourced non-technical staff like data entry operator working in Ladakh has increased from Rs 16,770 per month to Rs 41,440 per month. The same person gets a salary of Rs 28,000 in Delhi. The salary of an accountant too has been increased from Rs 25,700 to Rs 47,360 per month in the Ladakh area.A civil engineering graduate who is working in the Ladakh area will now get a salary of Rs 60,000 from the earlier Rs 30,000 a month. The salary at manager level has been increased from Rs 50,000 to Rs 1,12,800 per month, and a senior manager will now get Rs 1,23,600 a month instead of the earlier salary of Rs 55,000 per month, Hindustan reported.Apart from the salary benefits, the contractual employees will also get a Rs 5 lakh health insurance and Rs 10 lakh accident insurance policy. They will also get other facilities like travelling allowance, dearness allowance, provident fund etc.The employees working in difficult areas have been kept into three categories: The first category comprises of those working in Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura, Sikkim and Uttarakhand. Those working in Arunachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Mizoram and Nagaland are in second category. The people working in the Ladakh region have been kept in the third category - with teh highest risk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-gives-salary-hike-of-upto-170-to-people-working-on-building-roads-in-border-areas-report/story-pFu1xNaNQEILppoIbrONBL.html
26-06-2020||India||Heavy rainfall, thunderstorm warnings for 8 Bihar districts||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast heavy rainfall, thunderstorm and lightning on Friday in at least eight districts of Bihar, where more than 80 people were killed in several parts of the state on Thursday.Siwan, Gopalganj, Sitamarhi, Darbhanga, Supaul, Araria, Kishanganj and Katihar will receive heavy rainfall along with thunderstorm, lightning and squalls on Friday, according to the weather bureau.East Champaran, West Champaran, Gopalgunj, Siwan, Saran, Sitamarhi, Madhubani, Darbhanga, Kishanganj, Katihar, Madhepura, Purnia, Saharsa and Araria will continue to receive heavy rainfall on Saturday.IMD had said earlier that a situation conducive for enhancing rainfall activities is likely to prevail over the foothills of the Himalayas along with Bihar-Nepal border and adjoining areas.Eighty-three people were killed and 30 others injured in the thunderstorm and lightning on Thursday.The Nitish Kumar-led government in the state asked people to adhere to safety norms during bad weather conditions and follow guidelines issued from time to time by the disaster management department.The chief minister secretariat said financial help to those who lost animals and cattle was also being extended.The maximum number of people, 13, died in Gopalganj, eight each lost their lives in Madhubani and Nawada, six each in Siwan and Bhagalpur, five each in East Champaran, Darbhanga, and Banka, three each in Khagaria and Aurangabad, two each in West Champaran, Kishanganj, Jehanabad, Jamui, Purnia, Supaul, Buxar and Kaimur and one each in Samastipur, Sheohar, Saran, Sitamarhi and Madhepura.Reports from Gopalganj said all the victims were farmers from Barauli, Manjha, Vijaipur, Uchkagaon and Kateya areas. The lightning struck them when they were working in their fields.In Khagaria, a woman died and five minors were injured in Choutham locality. More than 15 cattle deaths were also reported.In Darbhanga, which saw five deaths, Pushpesh Kumar, in charge of disaster management, said the fatalities included a woman from Uchhati village who was planting paddy in the field when the lightning struck.Reports from Madhubani said that eight people, including four of a family, besides a farmer and two others, were killed in Phulparas and Benipatti police stations areas.In East Champaran district, a 49-year-old man died and three others were injured at Belwatiya village under Sagauli police station. A 14-year-old girl from Surendra village under Raxaul police station was also killed in the lightning.“Three others injured are undergoing treatment at the local hospital in Sagauli and the body of the deceased has been sent to Motihari Sadar Hospital for autopsy,” Mithilesh Kumar, station house officer of Sagauli police station, said.In neighbouring West Champaran, two villagers were killed in Narkatiaganj.“Widespread rain after a gap causes more thunderstorm and lightning activity. Since it’s a favourable time of crop sowing, more people are out in the fields and they are the most vulnerable to a lightning strike,” Anand Shankar, a weather scientist at Patna IMD centre, said.He said that a similar incident took place in April this year but since people stayed indoors, the damage was less.“MeT has mobile apps like Damini and IndarVajr, which give an early alert of thunderstorm and lightning. People are advised to use this app and stay alert during monsoon,” he said.Last year, lightning had killed 39 people in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-issues-heavy-rainfall-warning-for-8-bihar-districts/story-LUlFbf11hHKqhxXhyw34xL.html
26-06-2020||India||Hyderabad’s Begum Bazar to remain under voluntary lockdown from June 28 to July 5||In wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Hyderabad Kirana Merchants Association has voluntarily announced the lockdown of shops at Begum Bazar from June 28 to July 5.Laxmi Narayan Rathi, president, Hyderabad Kirana Merchant Association, told ANI, “Hyderabad Kirana Merchants Association has decided that from June 28 to July 5, it will voluntarily implement a complete lockdown of the commercial market at Begum Bazar.”“In the meeting conducted today, all the merchants have supported this decision,” Rathi said.Rathi added that the decision was taken for the safety of all the merchants, customers, staff and residents staying in the commercial market zone in view of the Covid-19 situation.“We have voluntarily taken a decision to close all the shops in the commercial market at Begum Bazar. After observing the effect of the lockdown of kirana shops, we shall extend the lockdown of kirana shops in the commercial market at Begum Bazar,” said Mahesh Kumar Gupta, General Secretary, Hyderabad Kirana Merchants Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-s-begum-bazar-to-remain-under-voluntary-lockdown-from-june-28-to-july-5/story-zwxpPXyYn2133qA6QGobVO.html
26-06-2020||India||Toll in flood-hit districts of Assam rises to 13, nearly 1.89 lakh people affected||The flood situation in Assam worsened on Thursday, as water entered four fresh districts affecting a total of 1.89 lakh people, while one more person died, taking the death toll due to the deluge to 13, according to an official report.Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal instructed the authorities of the affected districts to reach out to the flood-hit people on a war footing and adhere to the Covid-19 safety protocols during the relief-and-rescue operations.The deluge claimed one more life in the worst-hit Dhemaji district, where over 91,000 people are affected, according to the daily flood bulletin of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA).The number of flood-hit people in Dhemaji, Jorhat, Majuli, Sivasagar and Dibrugarh districts was 38,000 on Wednesday, while the swirling floodwaters entered Lakhimpur, Biswanath, Golaghat and Tinsukia districts, raising the figure to 1.89 lakh on Thursday.Tinsukia and Dibrugarh districts were also badly affected, accounting for 24,239 and 18,500 flood-hit people respectively, the ASDMA said.The flood has submerged 19,430 hectares of farm land with standing crops.The authorities are running 49 relief camps and distribution centres in five districts, where 11,468 people have taken shelter.The Brahmaputra river is flowing above the danger mark at Neamatighat in Jorhat district, Dhubri town in Dhubri district and Tezpur in Sonitpur district, the bulletin said.Besides damaging roads and other infrastructure, the floodwaters have caused massive erosion at various places.Meanwhile, the chief minister took stock of the flood situation and asked the deputy commissioners to provide essential relief materials to the affected people, according to official sources.He asked the Tinsukia DC to ensure that the fire tenders moving to and from Baghjan, where a gas well has been blazing for the last 30 days, do not face any bottleneck.A bridge on the way to Baghjan was damaged in the flood and a Bailey bridge should be built there for unhindered movement of the vehicles engaged in emergency services, the chief minister said.Sonowal also asked the state-owned power utility, Assam Power Distribution Company Limited, to take steps to avert accidents due to electrocution.In view of the coronavirus outbreak, he directed the DCs to ensure that the district machinery assiduously adheres to the Covid-19 safety protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toll-in-flood-hit-districts-of-assam-rises-to-13-nearly-1-89-lakh-people-affected/story-LkRHDfX2lBpsHLv5MT5vQK.html
26-06-2020||India||1.25 crore jobs, 31 districts, 125 days: PM Modi to launch Atma Nirbhar UP Rojgar Abhiyan today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Friday launch a 125-day campaign to provide employment to migrant workers and others in Uttar Pradesh, who lost their jobs during coronavirus pandemic, under various central and state government schemes.Modi will launch the Atma Nirbhar Uttar Pradesh Rojgar Abhiyan, being undertaken as part of the Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyan that the Prime Minister started on June 20 for 116 districts in six states in the country, virtually.The Prime Minister will also interact with villagers from six districts of Uttar Pradesh at the virtual launch on Friday morning.Villages across all districts of the state will join the event through Common Service Centres and Krishi Vigyan Kendras.Here’s all about the job scheme in UP:* A slogan Rojgar ka naya abhiyan, har shramik ko kaam’ (A new campaign for employment, jobs for all workers) has been given to the Garib Kalyan scheme in Uttar Pradesh that has seen the arrival of over 30 lakh migrant labourers following the recent lockdown in the country.* The Atmanirbhar UP Rojgar Abhiyan is focused on providing jobs, promoting local entrepreneurship and creating partnerships with industrial associations and other organisations to create employment opportunities.* Uttar Pradesh’s 31 districts have been covered under the scheme and the state government is likely to use the occasion to showcase the work it has been doing for the welfare of the workers.* A target of providing work has been given to different departments with a focus on 25 categories of works and 1.25 crore workers or labourers will get work.* This will include work to be given to 60 lakh workers per day and 10.06 crore man-days will be created under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme.* The ceremony will also mark distribution of loan of Rs 5,900 crore to 2.40 lakh industrial units and Rs 3,226 crore to 1.11 lakh new industrial units.* Appointment letters will be also given to 1.25 lakh workers by private construction companies at the programme that will also see the distribution of toolkits to 5,000 workmen under the Vishwakarma Shram Samman Yojana and one-district-one-product scheme.* UP’s 31 districts covered under the campaign include Siddharthnagar, Prayagraj, Gonda, Maharajganj, Bahraich, Balrampur, Jaunpur, Hardoi, Azamgarh, Basti, Gorakhpur, Sultanpur, Kushinagar, Sant Kabir Nagar, Banda, Ambedkar Nagar, Sitapur, Varanasi, Ghazipur, Pratapgarh, Rae Bareli, Ayodhya, Deoria, Amethi, Lakhimpur Kheri, Unnao, Shravasti, Fatehpur, Mirzapur, Jalaun and Kaushambi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-25-crore-jobs-31-districts-125-days-pm-modi-to-launch-atma-nirbhar-up-rojgar-abhiyan-today/story-TCOX73gARDfhp8drQrtQ7O.html
26-06-2020||India||Delhiwale: A teacher expresses her gratitude||It was just another Monday morning for the English teacher in the new normal. Vasudha Dixit, 39, settled down at her desk in the bedroom by 8.15am. She first ran through the school emails. Then she logged onto Microsoft Teams—a software platform used by her school to hold online classes—and quickly browsed through the assignments that her students had sent her. She started her first class of the day at 8.30am with about 23 students (though she can see only nine students at any given time on her laptop screen). She was done with work by 2pm. It was time for lunch.Later in the day, after helping her son, a seventh standard student, with his Hindi homework, Ms Dixit returned to her laptop. Her mind was full of feelings about the unusual texture of life these days. In the next 20 minutes, she wrote a poem.“Life has been very different since March this year,” she confesses, chatting on WhatsApp video. Fond of the poetry of Robert Frost, William Wordsworth and Makhanlal Chaturvedi, Ms Dixit teaches English and EVS (Environmental Studies) to grade II students at a private school in Faridabad. The coronavirus pandemic turned the world upside down for her, her colleagues and her students. The classes are held virtually, which means Ms Dixit no longer has to step out of the pleasant house she shares with her parents and her young son, in south Delhi’s Gulmohar Park.“But I miss those daily interactions in the school,” she argues. She also misses going to movies with her son. It was in February that she last went out with Siddharth to a multiplex in Saket, after which they had pancakes and omelettes filled with bacon and cheese. “I wish I could catch up with my friends in person. However, I am grateful that the lockdown and its aftermath has given me a chance to spend time with family and to keenly observe the daily life of nature.”Ms Dixit shares her poem with us.A TEACHER IN LOCKDOWNIt was in March when it dawned on us that life had to come to a standstill…In a hurry we said our byes, knowing little about the uncertainty that would spill…The school was shut, for we had to adopt social distancing.Stepping out was a big no, we had to learn how to be still.The trees sprouted new leaves, the weather was fair.I started observing the flowers, the butterflies… sighting a plane was rare.I greeted the many birds on the trees around my house, I realised their beauty!The Neem had flowers that intoxicated the senses, even as the Dahlias and Lilies brightened up my spaces.Evenings on the terrace were magical… Venus shone bright even as the Moon completed its cycle!We didn’t let adversity deter us…adapting to technology was the way forward.It was time to meet our students virtually! To start learning and studying remotely!The Sun shines brighter now, the hot loo has made an appearance!The Neem tree has started bearing fruits, while Amaltas brightens up the park!My balcony is full of fragrances…Champa, Roses, Jasmine… it is a heady mix.Even as I go about my daily chores, the rains have now knocked at our doors!I am still at home…with the hope that I would return to the way life was before!However, full of gratitude that I got a chance to see all this and more!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-a-teacher-expresses-her-gratitude/story-IjrDQ7xyJ7r2dLMWcScQOL.html
26-06-2020||India||Assam gas field may have flouted green guidelines||Oil India Limited (OIL)’s gas well number 5 at Baghjan in Assam’s Tinsukia, where a blowout on May 27 triggered a continuing oil and gas leakage near the Maguri Motapung Wetland and Dibru Saikhowa Biosphere Reserve, was not assessed for its wildlife and biodiversity impact, according to Union environment ministry’s documents.No wildlife clearance was obtained for wells in the region including well number 5, which is located barely a kilometre away from the Dibru Saikhowa National Park. The wildlife and biodiversity impact of the wells were not studied for nearly a decade since the ministry granted them environmental clearance. Two environmental clearances were issued to OIL in 2011 years after it was granted the Baghjan petroleum mining lease in 2003. One related to the drilling of six exploratory wells in Tinsukia’s Mechaki area. The second clearance allowed drilling of 41 development and exploratory wells in north Hapjan, Tinsukia and Dhola. Also read | Assam gas well blowout threat to tea industry: TAIThe first environmental clearance letter dated November 2, 2011, seen by HT, was issued on the condition that no other wells apart from the six will be drilled. The other letter dated November 1, 2011, was meant for 41 wells located outside a 10 km radius of any national park, wildlife sanctuary or eco-sensitive area. The letters also stipulated conditions like installation of blowout preventers and an oil spillage and mitigation plan.“The first 5 to 6 wells were drilled in 2003-2004 when even the Environment Impact Assessment notification, 2006, was not applicable. We started applying for some permissions after regulations were drafted and were granted ECs [environmental clearances] in 2011,” said OIL spokesperson Tridiv Hazarika.Baghjan is located at the confluence of the Siang, Dibang and Lohit rivers and is among the few remaining habitats for several endangered and range-restricted species. The blowout led to the uncontrollable flow of oil from gas well number 5 and caused extensive damage to biodiversity and wildlife the region, which includes endangered hoolock gibbons and the Gangetic dolphins.There are 17 oil and five gas wells in the Baghjan oil field. The field is located only 500 metres from the Maguri-Motapung wetland, which is a part of the eco-sensitive zone of Dibru Saikhowa National Park.In a December 2006 ruling, the Supreme Court said all development or mining projects within a 10 km radius of a national park will require National Board for Wildlife’s (NBWL) clearance and assessment. This judgement was ignored in case of Baghjan wells until the eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) was declared for Dibru Saikhowa National Park, carefully excluding the wells. The ESZ was notified in January and extends up to 8.7 km from the park. “Gas wells in the Baghjan block are located outside notified ESZ of Dibru Saikhowa National Park….,” the environment ministry said in response to HT’s queries onwhy the wildlife impact was not considered.Mridupaban Phukon, a wildlife activist, said environmentalists have been demanding that the environmental and wildlife clearance granted to OIL gas wells in Baghjan be placed in the public domain. “We had also written to the Assam Pollution Control Board about this but have not received any response. We have doubts about whether all the wells have EC [environmental clearance]. How could the government allow such projects in an ecologically sensitive area without adequate checks?” Phukon asked.“The area is seismically very active. I wonder if seismicity of the area was assessed. It also happens to be very close to a river and a national park. Any industrial activity of this scale would have an impact on both the river and forests. The landscape is a unique landscape of lowland forests. It is possibly one of its kind left in India. So all precautionary measures should have been taken,” said Qamar Qureshi, senior scientist at Wildlife Institute of India who along with his team is studying the impact of the oil spill and gas blowout on the region’s ecology.Also read | Closure notice to Assam gas field over blowoutOIL insisted it had executed a disaster management plan immediately after the blowout. “For blowouts like this, evacuation of local populace to a safe place is the first priority. Water jacketing of the gas coming out by fire tender is also a priority... BOP [blowout preventer] is a standard safety device used in all our operations,” OIL said in response to HT’s questions.Experts said cumulative impact of drilling in an ecologically fragile area was never assessed because OIL sought clearances in a piecemeal manner.“The regulatory trajectory of OIL’s operations leaves several questions unanswered. The need for comprehensive wildlife approval back in 2011, exemptions from public hearings, a pipeline constructed without all approvals, compliance of environmental safeguards will all need to be examined while investigating the reasons that led to the leak and fire causing the insurmountable ecological and humanitarian impacts,” said Kanchi Kohli, a legal researcher at New Delhi’s Centre for Policy Research. Kohli added that in effect, gas exploration, extraction and transportation have been dealt with in a piecemeal manner and has been allowed to inch closer and closer to the national park.FAIT ACCOMPLI OIL applied for an NBWL clearance in 2012 for the transfer of 114.267 ha of non-forest land falling within 10 km radius of the national park for laying of a crude oil pipeline beneath the wetland and another 304.15 ha for expansion of gas field development.NBWL deputed its members Prerna Singh Bindra and MD Madhusudan for a site inspection after residents and non-governmental organisations accused OIL of violations. Their report highlighted that OIL had started pipeline construction even before it got approval from NBWL.“We strongly disapprove of the current trend of presenting the NBWL with fait accompli situations and seeking post-facto clearances for projects on which work has already been undertaken without the requisite prior permissions. The expenditure thus incurred, in this case, from the public exchequer puts undue and unfair pressure on the NBWL to ratify violations of wildlife and environmental norms,” the report said.The report recommended that OIL provide a legal undertaking about its environmental safeguards and specify the nature and extent of their liability in case of accidents involving oil spillage or gas leakage into the wetland.The expert appraisal committee (EAC) of the environment ministry in meetings on December 30, 31, 2019 and January 1, 2020 recommended environmental clearance for drilling and testing of hydrocarbons at seven locations inside and under the national park.According to the minutes of the EAC meetings, seen by HT, OIL had sought exemption from public hearings multiple times. The EAC agreed to exempt the project from public hearing but the environment ministry did not accept it.EAC wrote to OIL on May 29, 2019 about resubmitting the proposal after conducting a fresh public hearing. A public hearing is mandatory for a project of this nature.But according to the minutes, OIL again requested exemption from the public hearing, saying it had conducted one in Tinsukia in 2016. OIL submitted that there was widespread local opposition to drilling inside the park.“It was informed that conducting a public hearing in the area is a big challenge and couldn’t be completed at times due to unruly acts by the local pressure groups. Due to vulnerability and blockade from local pressure groups production in these areas has been stopped,” according the minutes seen by HT.The EAC cleared the project considering its “national importance” for energy security. The minutes say that every drop of oil production would significantly contribute towards meeting the vision of reducing oil imports by 10% by 2022.Drilling of seven wells was expected to contribute 700,000 litres of oil daily and save Rs 450 crore annually spent on crude oil imports.A Supreme Court judgement of April 2014 restricted any mining within a kilometre boundary of a protected area.OIL filed a petition in 2015 saying it be exempted from the Supreme Court order because it pertained to the mining of minerals and not to drilling of oil wells.OIL managed to get both the court and NBWL clearance on August 9, 2017.Manju Menon, a senior fellow at Centre for Policy Research, who has been tracking this case, cited papers available and said it appears that OIL dodged the public hearing procedures for its expansion. “If a project that has been around for years cannot hold a public hearing, how do regulatory bodies that grant approval to such a project expect it to operate successfully in the midst of local communities? This expectation is totally misplaced when all they have done is to create conditions for conflict.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-gas-field-may-have-flouted-green-guidelines/story-uhmEbSU6w7NUSCqdJmpVLJ.html
26-06-2020||India||App launched for easy access to blood||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan Thursday launched the ‘ebloodservices’ app, in partnership with the Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS), to ease access to blood for those who need transfusions.“This is like placing a request for blood right at your doorstep. I received several complaints over the past few months from people on lack of access to safe blood, especially from those people who need regular blood donation owing to their chronic blood disorders. It will be beneficially in these corona times when commuting has become a problem, and those who need blood may not be able to go from one blood bank to another,” Vardhan said.“This app shall bring transparency in the blood donation programme and minimise the worries of those in dire need of blood. Our blood donors should come forward in large numbers as their contribution is required more than ever now,” he added.To start with, the app will cater to all of Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR), and a user can place an order for up to four units in one go.“Through this app, the availability of blood will be visible right in your phone. Once an order has been placed then the blood bank will keep the request active for 12 hours. The order will be diverted to the next patient only after the original recipient fails to collect it within 12 hours,” said RK Jain, secretary general, Indian Red Cross Society.The app’s scope will be expanded, with plans of linking more blood banks to it and also in other cities. “This is a useful app and there are plans of expanding its reach,” Vardhan said.Jain said that initial few weeks could be challenging for the proper functioning of the app. “We are expecting to face glitches initially for at least 15 days to about a month as we do not know the exact demand of blood in the region as of now. It will take some time before we know how much blood is needed and act accordingly,” said Jain.The Red Cross blood bank had started conducting blood donation camps by sending mobile blood collection units to various localities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/app-launched-for-easy-access-to-blood/story-vKhgaTOgFDuLrrDMv3QQGO.html
26-06-2020||India||Skin whitening cream ‘Fair & Lovely’ decides to drop ‘Fair’ from its name||India’s largest packaged consumer goods firm, Hindustan Unilever Ltd (HUL), said it will drop the word ‘fair’ from its over four-decade-old skin care brand Fair & Lovely—India’s largest selling face care brand—in its attempt to re-brand the skin care range as consumers seek more equitable forms of beauty.India — where sales of Fair & Lovely are 40% of the face care category — will lead the changes being made to the brand name that is still awaiting permissions from a regulator for its new name and identity. HUL’s move comes as more brands are being prompted to market products that are more “inclusive” as opposed to perpetuating social stereotypes and elevating long-held ideals of beauty—that in a market like India is often equated with fairness. “...The new name is awaiting regulatory approvals, and the pack with the revised name will be available in the market in the next few months,” the company said in a statement on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/skin-whitening-cream-fair-lovely-decides-to-drop-fair-from-its-name/story-U3CZl8Y3u7dSCdMdQAvX5K.html
26-06-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Some high-frequency economic indicators — those released more often than a quarter, perhaps every month, even week — could see a sharp rise in June. The lockdown imposed to slow the spread of the coronavirus disease officially ended on May 31, after 68 days, and we are in a phase (till June 30), that the government calls Unlock 1.0. The Prime Minister himself referred to some of these indicators last week.Nomura’s latest India Business Resumption Index, for the week ended June 21, says that almost 70% of business activity in the country has resumed (the base is February). And CMIE data shows that the unemployment rate for the same week was 8.5%, near pre-lockdown levels, and far off the peaks seen in April and May. Sure, urban unemployment is still, at 11.2%, a couple of percentage points higher than the levels before the lockdown, but rural unemployment, at 7.26%, was actually around a percentage point lower than what it was pre-lockdown. That isn’t surprising — the rural job guarantee scheme is in full swing, and sowing activity this year (for the summer or monsoon crop or Kharif) is higher than what it was in 2019. Hindustan Times has been reporting for weeks now that agriculture could be the one (and only) bright spot in the economy this year.REVISING OUTLOOK IMF now expects the Indian economy to shrink by 4.5% in 2020-21. It also predicts that the global economy will contract by 4.9% in 2020. With the pandemic continuing to rage across the world and a cure some distance away, it’s entirely possible that IMF may have to revise these numbers again.Meanwhile, the International Monetary Fund has revised its growth estimates for India. It now expects the country’s economy to shrink by 4.5% in 2020-21, a revision (and also a change in direction) from its previous rosy estimate of 1.9% growth. It also revised its estimate for the following year, 2021-22, from 7.4% to a much more moderate 6%. IMF also predicts that the global economy will contract by 4.9% in 2020 (its previous estimate was a 3% contraction).Also read | The government imposed a flawed lockdown. It has caused immense sufferingWith the first wave of infections continuing to rage across the world, and the number of cases expected to cross 10 million soon (and the number of deaths half a million), and a cure some distance away, it’s entirely possible that IMF may have to revise these numbers again.SLOW RECOVERY The pent-up demand from the 68-day lockdown will soon burn itself out, and in the absence of measures to boost aggregate demand, and a cure for the coronavirus disease this year, the Indian economy’s revival is going to be slow — and painful.The IMF forecast is broadly in line with what most economists have been predicting for India, a contraction of anything between 3% and 5%. Agriculture, many admit, may help cushion the fall, but it will still be a hard landing.It’s a hardness that may not be evident in the numbers. Assuming IMF’s numbers for 2020-21 and 2021-22 prove accurate, the Indian economy, at the end of 2021-22 would be marginally larger than what it was at the end of 2019-20. In effect, it would have lost just a year.A HARD LANDING LIKELYIMF’s forecast is broadly in line with what most economists have been predicting for India, a contraction of anything between 3% and 5%. If IMF’s projections are accurate, the Indian economy in FY22 would only be marginally larger than what it was in 2019-20.Over the past few weeks, I have spoken to a lot of smart people — bankers, venture capitalists, chief executives, economists, start-up founders, even a few people who run small businesses — and the general consensus seems to be that, including the opportunity cost, we have lost at least a decade.Small businesses (and small businessmen) have been hit the hardest; many have gone out of business. At least some start-ups are in shutdown mode. Many large companies are dealing with a sharp dip in business (and revenue). Salaries have been cut; people have been laid off; and there is a lot of pain everywhere. Sure, business activity has resumed, but many of the high-frequency indicators flashing green may be doing so because of pent-up demand (from the 68-day-long lockdown when no one bought anything other than the bare necessities).Also read | Masks, bleach: Europe’s cities gear up for post-coronavirus lockdown tourismThe Covid-19 pandemic, and the lockdown, hit India at a point when the country was already vulnerable — its economic growth was steadily declining at the time, plagued by both structural and cyclical issues and showing a decline in both investment and consumption. Some of those structural factors may have been addressed by the policy changes announced as part of India’s Rs 20-lakh-crore stimulus package (of which just around a tenth is a direct fiscal stimulus), but some have not. The pent-up demand will soon burn itself out, and in the absence of measures to boost aggregate demand, and a cure for the coronavirus disease this year, the Indian economy’s revival is going to be slow — and painful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-oJO3I3gJagRGNXzXoaSsfO.html
26-06-2020||India||Trains’ suspension extended till Aug 12||Passenger trains, including express and suburban services that were earlier suspended till June 30, will not operate till August 12, according to an internal circular of the railway board on Thursday.The 15 pairs of premium Rajdhani trains connecting Delhi with different parts of the country, which began on May 12, and 100 pairs of long-distance trains, which began on June 1, will continue to function.“It has been decided that regular time-tabled passenger services including Mail/Express, passenger and suburban services stand cancelled up to 12.08.2020,” the railway board said in a notification.All tickets booked for the regular time-tabled trains from July 1 to August 12, too, stood cancelled and full fares will be refunded to passengers. “It has also been decided that all the ticket booked for the regular time-tabled trains for the journey date from 01.07.20 to 12.08.20 also stand cancelled,” the circular said.A spokesperson for the railway ministry said no trains that are presently operational have been withdrawn. Shramik Special trains, which are ferrying migrants to their hometown, too, will operate as per requirements.“As far as running of more trains are concerned, all will be informed and bookings will be done as and when a decision is taken about them,” he added. The railway ministry, in a notification on May 15, cancelled all trains scheduled for travel till June 30, and decided to refund the ticket fares. Passenger train services were halted on March 22, three days before the imposition of a national lockdown on March 25 that was aimed at containing the coronavirus disease. Freight and parcel trains have operated in the lockdown period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trains-suspension-extended-till-aug-12/story-iw7LiS3Yhjkt0d0R4jtSkL.html
26-06-2020||India||LAC standoff: Hope India meets China halfway, says Chinese ambassador||Reaching out to New Delhi after raising tensions in eastern Ladakh to a fever pitch, China on Thursday said it was ready to work with India to properly deal with the military standoff, and asked it to meet the halfway, asserting that “suspicion and friction” was a wrong path that goes against the fundamental aspirations of people of the two countries.In an interview to PTI, Chinese Ambassador Sun Weidong said India and China are able to properly manage their differences, but at the same time put the onus on New Delhi to ease the tension, and called upon it to avoid taking actions that may “complicate” the situation in eastern Ladakh.“We hope the Indian side meets the Chinese side halfway, avoids taking actions that may complicate the border situation and takes concrete actions to maintain stability in the border areas,” he said and went on to add that at present, the overall situation in the China-India border areas is “stable and controllable.” The Indian and Chinese armies are locked in a bitter standoff in multiple locations in eastern Ladakh for the last six weeks, and the tension escalated manifold after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a violent clash in Galwan Valley on June 15. The Chinese ambassador said “mutual respect and support” is a sure way and meets the long-term interests of both countries, but asserted that the onus was not on China to ease tensions in the region. “China and India are both large developing countries and emerging economies with more than one billion people, and both have the historic mission of realising our own development and revitalisation,” he said. “The onus is not on China. The Indian side crossed the LAC (Line of Actual Control) for provocation and attacked the Chinese border troops. The Indian forces seriously violated agreements on border issues between the two countries,” he said.In the course of the interview, Sun repeated the Chinese government’s stand -- which has been rejected by India -- that Indian troops are responsible for the Galwan Valley clashes, and indicated that the onus was on India to improve the situation in eastern Ladakh. At a weekly media briefing, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava held China directly responsible for the border standoff saying it has been has been amassing a large contingent of troops and armaments along the LAC since early May and conduct of the Chinese forces has been in complete disregard of all mutually agreed norms.Srivastava also said the deployment of large body of troops and changes in behavior has also been aggravated by “unjustified and untenable claims” including over the Galwan Valley.Emphasising that the path of “suspicion and friction” was wrong and goes against the fundamental aspiration of the two peoples, the ambassador said,”China and India are willing and able to properly manage differences.” In the last few weeks, both sides have held a series of diplomatic and military talks to cool down temperature even as Chinese military has increased its presence in all sensitive areas along the 3,500 km Line of Actual Control (LAC), the de-facto border. Under the guidance of the important consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries, “we are ready to work with the Indian side to properly deal with the current situation, jointly uphold peace and stability in the border areas, and ensure a sound and steady development of bilateral relations.” In their informal summit in Chinese city of Wuhan in 2018, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping underscored the importance of maintaining peace and tranquillity in all areas of the India-China border region in the interest of the development of bilateral relations. The summit had taken place months after a 73-day military face-off between the two armies in Doklam that raised fears of a war between the two Asian giants. After the killing of 20 Indian soldiers in Galwan clashes, India called it “a premeditated and planned action by China” and sent a veiled warning to China saying “India wants peace but if provoked, India is capable of giving a befitting reply”. Referring to talks between foreign ministers of the two countries on June 17, the envoy said both sides agreed to “fairly address” the serious situation caused by the Galwan conflict and vowed to jointly follow the consensus reached at the commander-level meeting on June 6 to ease the situation as soon as possible. Sun said China would not like to see a similar situation like the Galwan clashes, but repeated Chinese foreign ministry’s allegations that India was responsible for it. The Ambassador said the two sides kept peace for decades in Galwan Valley, but alleged that since the beginning of 2020, the Indian side has built facilities at or the crossing of the LAC in the Galwan Valley, thereby “constantly changing the status quo of ground control. On May 6, he claimed the Indian troops crossed the LAC in the Galwan Valley by night and trespassed into Chinese territory. “They resorted to violent means to create a standoff between the two sides and built infrastructures in an attempt to maintain a permanent presence,” he alleged. In his briefing, Srivastava said Indian troops have been patrolling the Galwan Valley for a long time and all infrastructure built by the Indian side has always been on its side of the LAC.Sun said Chinese side lodged representations on multiple occasions to the Indian side through military and diplomatic channels following the incident and that India agreed to withdraw its personnel from the area. The two sides held Lt General-level talks on June 6 during which they agreed on disengagement of troops from all the standoff areas. The ambassador said the Indian side promised in the talks that they would not cross the estuary of the Galwan river to patrol and build facilities, adding the two sides agreed to build observation posts on either side of the Galwan river mouth. “However, after the commander-level meeting, when the situation on the ground was already easing, the Indian border troops copped out on the consensus reached at the commander-level meeting, demanded that China dismantle its observation post,” he alleged. India has been consistently maintaining that Galwan Valley clashes had taken place on the Indian side of the LAC. The envoy also said actions taken by the Indian side are not in consonance with the spirit of several agreements signed by the two countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lac-standoff-hope-india-meets-china-halfway-says-chinese-ambassador/story-qqSpOKMGxKqur8S39GwzXO.html
26-06-2020||India||Assessing impact of US’ H-1B suspension move, says MEA||India on Thursday said the US administration’s decision to temporarily suspending entry of some categories of non-immigrant visa-holders till December is expected to affect the movement of skilled Indian professionals.However, India remains hopeful that its professionals “will continue to be welcomed in the US in future” as that country has always welcomed talent, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly media briefing.US President Donald Trump signed an executive order on June 22 temporarily suspending various categories of visas for immigrants, including the issuance of fresh H-1B visas and L-1 visas (for inter-company transfers), till December 31. This was done because of the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic.Also read | Trump’s visa suspension ‘mildly negative’ for Indian IT firms, says rating agency ICRAIndians are the main beneficiaries of the much sought-after H-1B visa programme to gain entry to the US as skilled immigrants.The temporary suspension of entry of certain categories of non-immigrant visa-holders and their family members is “likely to affect movement of Indian skilled professionals who avail of these programmes to work lawfully in the US,” Srivastava said.“We are assessing the impact of the order on Indian nationals and industry in consultation with stakeholders. People-to-people linkages and trade and economic cooperation, especially in technology and innovation sectors, are an important dimension of the US-India partnership,” he added.Also read: Donald Trump’s anti-immigration move | HT EditorialSrivastava pointed out high-skilled Indian professionals “bring important skill sets, bridge technological gaps and impart a competitive edge to the US economy”.He added, “They have also been a critical component of the workforce that is at the forefront of providing Covid-19-related assistance in key sectors, including health, information technology and financial services.”Indians currently account for more than 70% of the 85,000 H-1B visas given out every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assessing-impact-of-h-1b-move-says-mea/story-HWzl8fWNPeMWiNADVd9MYJ.html
26-06-2020||India||Another charge sheet filed in Delhi riots case||Delhi Police on Thursday filed a their charge sheet in a Delhi court in a murder case related to the north-east Delhi communal riots, which claimed 53 lives and left over 400 injured in February this year. More than 750 cases have been registered in connection with the communal violence that broke out in different parts of north-east Delhi mainly on February 24 and 25. Nearly 100 charge sheets have already been filed in as many cases, so far. In the earlier charge sheets, police have said that some student groups, activists, locals and a local politicians had conspired and mobilised people during anti- CAA protests to start the riots in North East Delhi. The student groups and activists have denied police’s allegations and said that police have launched a witch hunt against anti-CAA voices. Also read | Pregnant Jamia student Safoora Zargar granted bail in Delhi violence caseOn Thursday, the crime branch submitted its charge sheet in a Delhi court in the murder case of 22-year-old Monis, who was waylaid at Brijpuri road and beaten to death by a mob on February 25. The mob had also set several private and public properties on fire. Investigators have arrested and charged seven people, including two who had stolen his cellphone after killing him, in the case, police said in the charge sheet.“All seven of them have been charged for rioting, murder, arson and criminal conspiracy. Monis’s stolen phone was also recovered from two of them through technical investigation. Monis had died due to head and other injuries,” said a senior police officer associated with the probe, requesting anonymity.The police have said in the charge sheet that as a consequence of clashes occurring on February 24, people both in favour of CAA, and against it, came out on the streets of Brijpuri. Also read | Pinjra Tod activist Natasha Narwal’s plea cites jail violence“...soon, slogans with intent to raise feelings on communal lines were also shouted. As the violent mob from both the community started to surge, soon the situation turned ugly and the mobs started to clash, pelting stones and using fire arms...,” the police have mentioned in the charge sheet.Monis, a 22-year-old labourer by profession, was also passing through the Brijpuri Road towards his home, when he was caught and beaten to death. The seven persons arrested in the case are still in jail, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-charge-sheet-filed-in-delhi-riots-case/story-bOgGbz3oGZPiMU0LmtLirI.html
26-06-2020||India||Space activities bill must come into force, says ISRO chief||Private players can start participating in certain space-sector activities now with the formation of Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre (IN-SPACe) being approved, but the Space Activities Bill will have to come into force for them to start launching missions, said ISRO chairperson Dr K Sivan, in an interview to Hindustan Times.He said that an assessment of the impact of Covid-19 would be possible only after the situation returns to normal. The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) had planned several big-ticket missions for the year — India’s first solar mission Aditya L1 in the first half of 2020, another lander-rover mission between November 2020 and the first half of 2021, and the first unmanned mission in December 2020, in preparation for a final manned mission, ahead of the PM’s deadline of Independence Day 2022. Edited excerpts:How will the newly constituted body, IN-SPACe, function?There are various verticals of the department of space, such as the ISRO, the autonomous bodies and the PSUs (Public Sector Undertakings). Now, IN-SPACe will be another vertical under the department that will enable private players to carry out space activities. To do so, definitely some systems, like appropriate policies, are required. The Space Activities Bill should comprise this.We are already working on it — we are trying to modify some existing policies to suit the entry of private players. Also, the frameworks have to be defined.Also read | Govt ‘unlocks’ space sector, says will promote and guide private playersCan the body function independently in the absence of the Bill?Some of the activities can be started without the Bill. By then, the Bill will also come in and the picture will come together. But for space launched by the private sector, yes, the Bill would be required.How has the Covid-19 pandemic affected the missions of ISRO?The outbreak has definitely impacted our activities, which are mostly dependent on the 500 industries spread across the country. The lockdown has had an impact on that and thereby our, missions. But, we can make an assessment only after the situation becomes normal. In the meantime, some of our centres were producing sanitisers and working on creating ventilator systems. Geo-fencing and mapping were also taking place, using space services.Also read | Private players can build and launch space missions, says ISRO chiefWhat about the big-ticket missions like Chandrayaan-3 and Gaganyaan?We are working on these missions, but as I said, we will only be able to say after an assessment, once the situation becomes normal. The training of the selected astronauts is going on in Russia. There was a break due to Covid-19, but it has resumed and is going on without any problems. The training will take another eight to nine months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/space-activities-bill-must-come-into-force-isro-chief/story-l1tQ5Nh5vJsrYE6OYYTZpL.html
26-06-2020||India||Pakistan trying to obtain nuke tech illegally: Germany||New DelhiPakistan and North Korea continue to be involved in efforts to illegally obtain nuclear products and know-how from German hi-tech companies as part of efforts to development their atomic weapons programmes, a new report by German authorities has said.The annual report from the Office for the Protection of the Constitution in Baden-Württemberg, a state in southwest Germany, said the country is an “important area of operation” for clandestine efforts by Pakistan, North Korea, Iran and Syria to obtain nuclear technology as it is a leading industrial nation and home to numerous hi-tech firms.The report for the year 2019 was made public by authorities in Baden-Württemberg on June 16. This is the second time in less than six months that German authorities have expressed concern about Pakistan’s efforts to illegally procure technology used in atomic weapons.The report, which is in German, said: “Iran, Pakistan, North Korea and Syria are still pursuing such efforts. They aim to complete existing arsenals, perfect the range, deployability and effectiveness of their weapons, and develop new weapons systems. They are trying to obtain the necessary products and relevant know-how...through illegal procurement efforts in Germany.”Such countries also “constantly develop and optimise their procurement methods” to circumvent existing export restrictions and embargoes, the report said.“To conceal the actual end user, they can procure goods in Germany and Europe with the help of specially established cover companies and, in particular, transport dual-use goods to risk states. Typical bypass countries include the United Arab Emirates, Turkey and China,” the report added.Potential sources of nuclear know-how are universities, non-university research institutions and research and training departments of companies, the report said.“In order to minimise risks, the State Office for the Protection of the Constitution sensitises those responsible to make them aware of the danger and possible consequences of illegal knowledge transfer,” it added.In a specific section on Pakistan, the report said the country has operated an extensive programme for nuclear weapons and delivery systems for many years. “This is primarily directed against the ‘arch enemy’ India, which also possesses nuclear weapons. For maintenance and further development, Pakistan is dependent, among other things, on the acquisition of Western technology and procedures,” the report said.“In addition to the acquisition of products (dual-use goods), the secondment of scientists to universities, institutes or research establishments is also important. This also applies to institutions in Baden-Württemberg.”In November last year, the German government had responded to a question from several lawmakers of die Linke (Left Party) by saying it believed there has been a “sharp increase” in Pakistan’s activities in recent years to illegally procure technology used in nuclear, biological and chemical (NBC) weapons.The government’s reply dovetailed with concerns expressed by Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz (BfV), the domestic intelligence service, which had said in a 2018 report on proliferation-related matters that there has been a “massive increase” in Pakistan’s attempts to clandestinely procure nuclear goods in Germany and other Western countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-trying-to-obtain-nuke-tech-illegally-germany/story-JvvJ8Iz7bDyHy6pn5CLsPN.html
26-06-2020||India||Covid-19: Order on mandatory centre visits revoked||People who test positive for Covid-19 will not need to go to a government facility for a mandatory assessment, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) led by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal said on Thursday, walking back from a controversial rule for the second time in less than a week after persistent demands for a reversal.Thursday’s decision was welcomed by the Delhi government, district officials, health care workers, and resident welfare associations across the city.Since Saturday, a large chunk of the 3,500-plus people testing positive through swab every day were required to visit a Covid Care Centre (CCC) to be assessed by a doctor for whether they can isolate themselves at home for the period of their recovery, or stay at a CCC, or be taken to a hospital. This protocol was widely seen as burdening stretched health care staff further, and adding to the risk of infection. The issue was discussed at the meeting of DDMA, also known as state disaster management authority, where the LG is the chairperson. “Yes, the L-G has agreed to revert to the old system where a team led by the district surveillance officer (DSO) will visit the house of the Covid positive patient to decide whether home isolation can be recommended,” deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said after the meeting.In recent days, Sisodia and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal made strong appeals to Baijal and the Union home ministry, to which the LG reports, to abandon the protocol. “People were anxious over the rule that required every person who tested Covid positive to be taken to quarantine centre [for assessment of symptoms],” Sisodia said at a digital press briefing on Thursday.Later in the evening, the directorate general of health services formalised the order in a revised standard operating procedures document.  According a spokesperson from the Union home ministry, Thursday’s decisions “have been taken in accordance with the guidance given by the Union home minister in the meeting held on June 21 to further review and strengthen the surveillance mechanism for Covid positive cases in Delhi to prevent the spread of the disease and to provide timely medical care”.Also read | Delhi records 3,390 Covid-19 cases, widens undesired lead over MumbaiBut the latest order means a return to the protocol “applicable till Friday (June 19), which required medical teams to visit the house of person testing Covid patient and do assessments there. The symptoms and condition of residence would decide if the person could be assigned home isolation or taken to a hospital or quarantine centre,” the deputy CM, who also heads the health department temporarily, pointed out. “We requested central government to roll back that order. We are happy that they have agreed. The old system has been restored now,” he added.The rule for mandatory facility assessment was announced on June 20 during what itself was a reversal of another controversial protocol announced by the DDMA on June 19: mandatory facility quarantine for all patients, including those with no or mild symptoms, for five days. Experts welcomed the rethink. “It is a good decision. The rule that require patients to be mandatorily taken to Covid centres for clinical assessment had two issues. First, it was a logistical nightmare. Second, it increased chances of local transmission. The districts in the city can now focus on strengthening the health care system and stress on contact tracing and better surveillance,” said Jugal Kishore, head of community medicines department in Safdarjung hospital. At least three of the 11 districts in the city were not able to switch to it, due to lack of human resources and adequate number of ambulances, the only mode of travel allowed for Covid positive patients under the now-scrapped protocol. The city has 163 dedicated Covid ambulances, and transporting 3,000 people daily would have required at least 18 trips over a 24-hour period by each on average.“We did our best to implement the rule. We succeeded to some extent by managing to send a few people to CCCs for clinical diagnosis. But we were not sure for how long we could carry such a herculean task. Revocation of the order is a big relief,” said a district magistrate who wished to remain anonymous. Delhi on Thursday added 3,390 new cases, taking the total tally of infections in the Capital to 73,780. The number of fatalities stood at 2,429, according to the Delhi government’s daily health bulletin. In a statement on Thursday, the LG office also clarified about the process of assessment: Those testing through antigen kits “will be examined by the medical officer on duty at the testing site to assess the severity of illness... The assessment on site shall effectively constitute an assessment made at the COVID Care Centre”. This was in line with the existing position.For those who have taken a swab test (RT-PCR), a home Isolation team will be sent by the District Surveillance Officer (DSO) which will check for symptoms and assess the residence to see whether home isolation will be possible. Home isolation will be allowed “if the patient is mild/pre-symptomatic/asymptomatic and has a residence of two rooms or a separate room and a separate toilet for the patient. He/she will be provided a contact number for any consultation required by him along with details of CATS ambulance call number for transfer to hospital in case symptoms develop,” according to the statement. For those with moderate or severe symptoms and underlying health conditions that are known to exacerbate Covid-19, the officials will arrange for transport to a CCC, Covid Health Centre or a hospital. Resident welfare groups in the city also welcomed Thursday’s move, saying it would ease concerns and encourage people to get tested.“We welcome the move. People feared the idea of being sent to Covid centres, even if it was for some clinical assessment. But the government must ensure that their health officials visit each patient’s house in time without fail. We have come across a lot of complaints and the government should take note of that,” said BS Vohra, president of the federation of resident welfare associations in east Delhi.(With inputs from Abhishek Dey in New Delhi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/order-on-mandatory-centre-visits-revoked/story-qekPdplvwyQTNpPRUmFhZM.html
26-06-2020||India||4th phase of Vande Bharat from July 3||HT CorrespondentNew DelhiIndia will launch the fourth phase of Vande Bharat Mission, the largest programme for repatriating stranded nationals, on July 3 after bringing back more than 360,000 nationals from around the world.Vande Bharat Mission was launched in May to bring home hundreds of thousands of Indians stranded across the world because of Covid-19-related restrictions, including students, people facing medical emergencies and workers who had been laid off.“In order to continue with our efforts, phase four of Vande Bharat Mission is being firmed up with effect from July 3 and will particularly focus on countries where we still have large numbers of Indians who have registered to return,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly media briefing on Thursday.Over the past seven weeks, a total of 513,047 Indians registered their request for repatriation with Indian missions abroad and 364,209 have returned as of Thursday.A total of 875 international flights were scheduled from more than 50 countries in the first three phases of the mission, and more than 700 flights have reached India with 150,000 nationals.“These flights have been instrumental in addressing the immediate requirements of stranded Indians in many parts of the world. We are committed to bringing back our remaining compatriots, particularly in the Gulf Cooperation Council countries, Malaysia, Singapore and other places,” Srivastava said.Chartered flights under the mission began operating on May 26 and have increased over the past few weeks, he said. These flights have brought back 130,061 people, including seafarers and crews of shipping companies stranded in various places.The government will streamline the process for charter flights as demand for them remains very high, especially in West Asia.More than 84,000 Indians have also returned from Nepal, Bhutan and Bangladesh through land border immigration checkpoints. Naval ships are also bringing back people under the mission. INS Jalashwa reached Bandar Abbas port in Iran on June 24 to bring back a group of Indian citizens, Srivastava said.However, flights by state-run Air India under the mission have run into problems as some countries have demanded that their countries too should be allowed to operate similar repatriation flights to India. The US has said flights under the mission will need to obtain permission 30 days in advance from July 22 as the Indian government has been engaging in “discriminatory” treatment of American airlines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4th-phase-of-vande-bharat-from-july-3/story-ucuFzeUiRH8mtzZzHk12nM.html
26-06-2020||India||Pvt sector will build rockets, says ISRO||New Delhi: Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) chairman K Sivan on Thursday said the private sector will be allowed to provide end-to-end space services, including building and launching rockets and satellites. “The private sector will be enabled to carry out space activities like building of rockets, satellites, providing launch services on a commercial basis. ...[It] can also be part of interplanetary missions of ISRO. This is being planned to be done through the announcement of opportunities,” he said at an online briefing. The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the formation of Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre (IN-SPACe) to open up the space infrastructure to the private sector. IN-SPACe will play a supplementary role to ISRO and will independently evaluate and approve space-related activities.ISRO scientists have so far designed all launch vehicles and satellites and the private players were brought in to manufacture components.Sivan said the Centre’s move to open up the space infrastructure will boost the country’s industrial base and improve access to space-based services. He added ISRO’s activities are not going to be reduced and it will continue to carry out space-based activities, including advanced research and development, inter-planetary and human space flight missions.Sivan said private companies have already approached them for using ISRO facilities and that they were processing the requests under a fast-track mode.He added the mechanism may take three to six months to become operational and private companies can until then apply through the space department. Sivan said IN-SPACe will be an independent body and have its own directorates for technical, legal, safety and security, and activity promotion as well as for monitoring purposes. The IN-SPACe board will have representation from industry, academia, and the government.Sivan underlined the need for new policies and revamping the old ones for the system to function effectively. He added the role of the New Space India Limited, ISRO’s commercial arm set up last year, would be modified to empower it to take over existing launch vehicle and satellite technologies and commercialise them through industry consortiums. It will undertake technology transfer activities, (said Sivan?).Experts have been demanding that the private sector be involved in the routine space activities like launching communication and earth observation satellites to free up resources for exploration.India’s space endeavours have picked up the pace. Another lander-rover mission to moon, solar mission Aditya L1, human spaceflight programme, and a mission to Venus are expected in the next few years.Rajeswari Rajagopalan, who heads Observer Research Foundation’s nuclear and space policy initiative, said if India does not accelerate the pace of privatisation of space sector, other countries will overtake it. “India has a lot of advantage in terms of cost and reliability, but if we do not improve our pace in terms of the number of launches and the kind of missions that we do, others who may not have as much of an advantage will get into the global commercial space market.”Rajagopalan said China does low-cost launches and they are capturing that market. “Other than that, there are several companies such as Space X and Blue Origin which are also going to get into that market space. So unless India gets its act together, we will lose out on our share of the pie.” Rajagopalan said ISRO has not been very enthusiastic about involving the private sector. “ISRO has enjoyed complete monopoly and certain privilege in undertaking space mission so far because they are the only actors and why would they like to bring in competition from outside.”Rajagopalan added ISRO will now be judged against the performance of other players. “We have seen this in telecom and airline industries. It brings in competitiveness but also efficiency. Unless it is a politically pushed measure, ISRO, on its own, does not have any incentive to go ahead with it.”Rajagopalan said there is not much excitement in the industry right now. “It is a wait-and-watch approach because essentially it will all depend on the execution of this announcement into reality. ISRO prefers an outsourcing model. There is no clear sense of how this new body will work. Also, there is a need for an appropriate legislative and regulatory framework that will enable the private sector to have a level playing field.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pvt-sector-will-build-rockets-says-isro/story-ZrXgONt5ekFWuVDfEFMGGL.html
26-06-2020||India||Covid-19 crisis: Sero survey to cover 20,000 people across Delhi’s 11 districts||Health officials will launch a sero survey covering 20,000 people across Delhi’s 11 districts over the weekend to determine the spread of the coronavirus disease amidst a rising number of cases, according to a plan for the national capital. The National Centre for Disease Control, which functions under the Union health ministry, and the Delhi government will jointly conduct the survey that will focus on antibody-based blood tests to find out residents’ past exposure to the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19. The sero surveillance is one of the five aspects of Delhi’s revised Covid-19 response plan that was developed after a meeting between Union home minister Amit Shah and Delhi government officials on Sunday. HT has reviewed a copy of the document, and a Delhi government official has earlier confirmed that the survey will start over the weekend.Antibody tests began in Delhi in April but were put on hold after allegations over the quality of Chinese kits used at that time.The National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune has developed an improved ELISA (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay)-based antibody kit that yielded good results in a pilot sero survey, an official of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said.Also read | Door-to-door survey in Delhi to map coronavirus spread“...we advise people to use these kits for serological testing, apart from other ones that are approved by USFDA (US Food and Drug Administration) and CLIA (Chemiluminescence Enzyme Immunoassays) kits,” the official said.A serological test is meant to detect antibodies in blood. The presence of antibodies suggests a past exposure to the coronavirus. During outbreaks, health authorities conduct serosurveys to find out the prevalence of the infection in a community. In May, ICMR conducted a pilot sero survey across 83 districts in 21 states. The results showed that the percentage of general population to have been infected in the past was 0.73%, with urban areas having shown higher Covid-19 prevalence of about 1.09%. “Depending upon the level of sero prevalence of infection, appropriate public health interventions can be planned and implemented for prevention and control of the disease. Periodic sero surveys are useful to guide policymakers,” said the ICMR official.Delhi recorded 3,390 new cases on Thursday, ending the day with a total of 73,780 cases (26,586 of them active).The NIV-validated kit is called “Covid Kavach ELISA”, a test kit for the detection of Covid-19 Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibody, which is the most common antibody in blood and other body fluids that immune system makes. It takes about two weeks to develop and is indicative of a past infection.The kit’s specificity is 97.9% and sensitivity is 92.37%, according to ICMR. The higher the sensitivity, the fewer false negatives a test will give. Tests with high specificity have fewer false positives.Also read | 182 people covered under Covid-19 sero-survey, 32 found to have developed antibodies“Antibody test sensitivity [to detect true negatives] and specificity [to detect true positives] is usually low,” Dr Ekta Gupta, a senior virologist at Delhi government-run Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS), said.ICMR has partnered with Zydus Cadila, a leading Indian Pharmaceutical company, for the mass-scale production of these test kits. “Our pilot sero survey results conducted from across India were near accurate. The kit is working fine,” said the ICMR official quoted above.Apart from ELISA, experts said the technologically advanced CLIA-based antibody tests were giving better results.“CLIA tests are a step ahead of ELISA assays in terms of technology. Therefore, the results will be more accurate. We are seeing them work better,” said Dr Gupta.Many laboratories in India are using CLIA-based antibody tests, and some private players vouched for CLIA kits. “The CLIA kits that we are using are showing 100% sensitivity and 99.83% specificity — which is very good. An additional plus is that these kits are designed to exclude influenza A and B viruses, so the results are quite accurate,” Gauri Aggarwal, director, Genestrings laboratory, said.Dr Chand Wattal, chairman, clinical microbiology and immunology, Ganga Ram Hospital, said: “CLIA-based tests are proving to be better. Now that we are using these, we can see the difference in accuracy.”Since CLIA kit is new, the consistency will become apparent after at least one week, according to experts conducting covis-19 tests.“We will have to wait for at least a week or so to see whether the performance in terms of both sensitivity and specificity is the same as it is now. It’s a new test and sometimes performance varies batch to batch that needs to be seen before we can really say that these antibody kits are better,” Aggarwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sero-survey-to-cover-20k-across-delhi-s-11-districts/story-wR6GfYqXWv3LM5mkOCMdTP.html
26-06-2020||India||Baghjan blowout: NGT sets up panel, imposes fine on OIL||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has constituted an eight-member committee of experts to probe the blowout, subsequent fire at an Oil India Limited (OIL) well at Baghjan in Assam’s Tinsukia district and the damage it has caused to humans, wildlife and environment. In an order passed via video conferencing on Wednesday, NGT directed OIL to deposit Rs 25 crore with the district administration as interim compensation for the damage.The well is located near the Maguri Motapung Wetland and Dibru Saikhowa Biosphere Reserve, which are among the few remaining habitats for several endangered and range-restricted species. The blowout led to the uncontrollable flow of oil from gas and caused extensive damage to biodiversity and wildlife in the region. The wildlife includes endangered hoolock gibbons and the Gangetic dolphins.The well caught fire on June 9 days after the blowout triggered an uncontrolled release of gas and oil condensate on May 27. The fire has claimed the lives of two firefighters and displaced 1,600 families residing close to the site.Justice (Retd) B P Katakey of the Gauhati High Court will head the panel, which will also include Tinsukia’s district magistrate. The panel will have members from the Central Pollution Control Board, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research.The committee will look into the blowout cause, the extent of losses, and probe whether any contamination of the air, water, and soil has been caused. It will study the impact on Dibru-Saikhowa National Park and Maguri Motapung Wetland, assess compensation for those affected, and suggest preventive and remedial measures.The tribunal has directed the committee to submit its preliminary report “as expeditiously as possible and not later than 30 days” from the date of issue of the order. NGT will take up the matter next on July 29.“In view of the prima facie case made out against OIL on the extent of damage caused to the environment and biodiversity, damage to both human and wildlife, public health and having regard to the financial worth of the company and the extent of damage, we direct OIL to deposit an initial amount of Rs 25 cr with the district magistrate Tinsukia and shall abide by further orders of the tribunal,” NGT said in its order.OIL has said it will take experts about a month to control the fire and plug the blowout. Heavy rainfall in the area since Monday and the collapse of a bridge along the route to the well have hampered the work at the site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/baghjan-blowout-ngt-sets-up-panel-imposes-fine-on-oil/story-CorZiC0XGCaSJFV76CND0O.html
26-06-2020||India||Except Covid-19, don’t see any problem in holding polls in Jammu & Kashmir: GC Murmu||The first lieutenant governor of the Union Territory of Jammu & Kashmir, Girish Chandra Murmu, spoke to Hindustan Times about opening up the political space for parties, setting up the delimitation commission, and holding elections, among other issues. Edited excerpts:President’s Rule is a temporary provision. The Election Commission (EC) has announced members to the delimitation commission, and political parties are conducting outreach programmes -- so, the political process is there. We wanted to have local body elections in February and March but Covid-19 played spoilsport. The EC is the competent authority to take a call on delimitation. Except Covid, I don’t see any problem in holding elections.There is a mechanism to review detentions. Most detainees have been released. Beyond a certain period, you can’t detain politicians. India is a secular, socialist, democratic republic where people choose their leaders. So everyone has a role to play. Any old or new party has an equal right to elect and be elected. There is nothing like a new political landscape. Revoking the temporary provision (Article 370) was a historic decision. It has opened up more opportunities for people to participate and be masters of their destiny. There can be a new or old party, or a combination. They have their own opportunities and challenges, but they have been leaders. People will decide. I’m not aware of an advisory council. Under President’s Rule, the power rests with the governor or LG who takes advice from professionals. In J&K, we have four advisers. I don’t think that kind of arrangement (advisory council) exists anywhere. Maybe it was rumour.There are forces from outside and within aiding and abetting such activities but our security forces are taking on the challenges and have succeeded to a great extent. We are trying developmental programmes for participatory management and growth. I see it as a phenomenon that was there earlier too, and occasionally returns in the form of desperate attempts [to disrupt peace].We want to secure the entire UT and its people. Of course, there is a provision to provide security to vulnerable representatives, depending upon the threat perception, but my intention is to give a general sense of well-being. We have an area domination mechanism in place but yes in rare cases, security cover can be thought of.It’s been going on for the past many years in a bid to destabilise us, but our security forces have been able to contain terrorism. The key is in all-round development. Let there be growth and employment so that everyone, particularly youngsters, gets an opportunity to progress. Unemployment is a global phenomenon, and post-Covid, most nations have suffered. J&K could not build infrastructure earlier and create job opportunities... If things get normal, the global investors’ summit will be held in October. Let’s see how things evolve due to the pandemic but pooja will take place at Amarnath. We will take a decision ...on the Vaishno Devi pilgrimage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/except-covid-don-t-see-any-problem-in-holding-polls-in-jammu-kashmir-gc-murmu/story-dD81Ae4DXW6J6Ht62XB50J.html
26-06-2020||India||Manipur crisis: Rebel NPP MLAs back in fold||Eight days after they withdrew support to the Bharatiya Janata Party-led ruling coalition in Manipur, all four National People’s Party (NPP) legislators pledged their support to the ruling coalition on Thursday. The MLAs met governor Najma Heptulla the Raj Bhawan in Imphal and backed the government. All four are likely to be re-inducted as ministers soon.“A delegation of National People’s Party led by Conrad Sangma along with Himanta Biswa Sarma called on me and all the 4 MLAs gave their letter of support to the BJP led government in the state of Manipur,” Heptulla tweeted.The development came a day after lawmakers, who flew out of Imphal on Tuesday, met Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP president JP Nadda in New Delhi. They were accompanied by NPP chief and Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma and senior Assam minister and convener of North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA), Himanta Biswa Sarma.“Both leaders gave us a very patient hearing and all issues which were there we expressed them all in detail to them. They have understood what the problem is and have assured that all issues will be addressed and taken care of,” Sangma told journalists.But the Delhi meeting may have upset some sections of the state BJP unit with two senior leaders expressing their opposition to any deal struck with the NPP. “They put the party in a spot. They tried to pull out support at the last minute and when they realised the BJP government will not topple, they agreed to come back with conditions,” said a senior party leader on condition of anonymity. A second leader said the BJP was not falling short of numbers and would complete its full term. “There is a problem between the leaders that needs to be sorted out; but for now the CM is unlikely to be replaced. Going forward the national leadership will ensure that concerns of all sides are met,” a senior leader based in Delhi said.The three-year-old ruling coalition ran into a crisis on June 17 when three BJP MLAs resigned and six others — four from NPP, one from Trinamool Congress and one independent -- withdrew support to the N Biren Singh government.The MLAs joined hands with the opposition Congress and formed a Secular Progressive Front (SPF). Leaders from the SPF met the governor twice, seeking convening of a special assembly session to hold a floor test.In the middle of the crisis, the BJP candidate won the Rajya Sabha election on July 19 securing 28 votes to the Congress pick’s 24.On Wednesday, a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team questioned Congress leader and former chief minister O Ibobi Singh in connection with a case of alleged misappropriation of funds.“The only way for BJP to be in power in Manipur is by using CBI against Congress MLAs, maneuvering Raj Bhawan to slow down attempts by Congress to form government along with allies and by giving pressure to Manipur MLAs by calling them to Delhi,” Manipur Congress spokesperson Nignombam Bupenda Meitei said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-crisis-rebel-npp-mlas-back-in-fold/story-FFF4Vml7YayPAkv8QwWMmM.html
26-06-2020||India||Back from Leh, Army chief to brief govt on LAC situation||In the course of his two day visit to Ladakh, Army chief General MM Naravane — who returned to Delhi on Thursday — was briefed on the army’s preparations and ability to respond to threatening actions by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA), and the latest developments along the contested border, said three officers who spoke on the condition of anonymity. The army chief will now brief the top political leadership. The security review of the Ladakh sector, where tensions rose sharply after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a clash in the Galwan Valley on June 15, saw the chief tour forward army bases at Durbuk and Chushul, interact with commanders on the ground and undertake aerial surveys of the army’s deployments in some sensitive sectors, said one of the officers cited above.Also read | India rejects as untenable Chinese claim on Ladakh’s Galwan valleyThe sectors where Indian soldiers hold forward positions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) include Depsang, Gogra Post-Hot Springs, Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Chumar, and military negotiations for disengagement in some of these areas are in progress.Naravane is expected to brief the political leadership on the military’s assessment of the volatile situation along the LAC and steps being taken to ease tensions that could threaten stability in the backdrop of both armies significantly stepping up their military presence, said the second officer cited above.The situation on the ground is tricky, said the third officer cited above. “There’s mutual consensus on disengagement but continuing Chinese military buildup calls into question the PLA’s intent to restore status quo ante in strategic areas,” he said, adding that Naravane’s visit served as a morale booster for forward deployed soldiers.“The army chief’s visit is significant in the wake of recent events that have caused considerable turbulence on the LAC. Also, there has been no concrete commitment by the PLA to stabilise the situation,” said former army vice chief Lieutenant General AS Lamba (retd).Also read | US shifting military to face Chinese threat to India and Southeast Asia: Mike PompeoNaravane, on Wednesday, awarded commendation cards to three soldiers who were part of the outnumbered Indian squad that bravely fought off Chinese soldiers in Galwan Valley. Among other troops who were awarded commendation cards by Naravane were two soldiers who displayed courage and resolve during a violent face-off with Chinese troops near Pangong Tso on May 5-6.Both face-offs saw Chinese soldiers gather in large numbers and attack Indian troops with stones, iron rods and nail-studded clubs.Last week, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria made a low-key visit to Ladakh to review the Indian Air Force (IAF)‘s preparedness in the sector, where the IAF has also raised its guard to deal with any military provocations by the Chinese forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/back-from-leh-army-chief-to-brief-govt-on-lac-situation/story-TsHH2VyANW5u4LyPqbM4WL.html
26-06-2020||India||India-China troops’ disengagement along LAC a ‘Test Match, not Twenty20’||Senior army officers on Thursday said disengagement of forward deployed Indian and Chinese forces from friction areas along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) would be a “cumbersome and long-drawn process”, responding to some news reports of a slight retreat by both armies in Galwan Valley.Disengagement of forces has not begun, said one of the officers with direct knowledge of the border row.“You can say it’s going to play out like a Test match and not T20 cricket. It will be a cumbersome, complicated and long-drawn exercise,” he said, asking not to be identified.Senior Indian and Chinese military commanders reached a consensus -- during an 11-hour meeting on June 22 -- on disengaging from friction points along the LAC, which has been tense since a brutal brawl in Galwan Valley on June 15 led to 20 Indian and an unspecified number of Chinese soldiers dead.“Consensus doesn’t mean the ground situation will change overnight. It may take weeks, or even months, for the border to become stable,” said the second officer cited above, who also spoke on the condition of anonymity.There was no official word from the army on the disengagement process even as army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane flew back from Leh to New Delhi on Thursday after conducting a detailed security review of the Ladakh sector over two days. Top officials briefed him on the latest developments along the LAC.Both officers quoted above said the Indian Army had raised its guard, and was planning and preparing for the long haul. Disengagement will be carried out in phases across different sectors on a verifiable basis, they said.Experts agreed with their assessment of the border row, marked by a significant military buildup on both sides of the LAC at multiple locations -- especially in Depsang, Gogra Post-Hot Springs, Galwan Valley and Pangong Tso.Also read | India rejects as untenable Chinese claim on Ladakh’s Galwan valleyThe disengagement process will be “tough and complex” beyond the shadow of a doubt, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd).“The Indian Army will have to keep its guard up at every stage of the proposed disengagement. We will have to move ahead with caution, given what happened in Galwan Valley during a previous disengagement exercise,” Hooda said.China has not halted — and instead ramped up — its military activity along LAC in eastern Galwan Valley, with a concentration of soldiers, military vehicles, earth-moving machinery, and erection of structures, including near the same point where Indian and Chinese troops clashed on June 15, HT reported on Thursday. Satellite images of the area on June 22, reviewed by China watchers and officials, suggested Chinese buildup in Galwan Valley, where the Indian army observed that a new structure, suspected to be an observation post, has come up near Patrol Point 14, the site of the June 15 clash.The Chinese buildup in other areas along the LAC, including Depsang, Gogra Post-Hot Springs and Pangong Tso, has not thinned either, people familiar with developments said. The army is keeping a strict vigil along the LAC and is fully prepared to respond to any provocation or adventurism by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA), they added.While disengagement in Gogra Post-Hot Springs and the Galwan Valley sectors is believed to be a “low-hanging fruit” and can possibly be achieved in a reasonable time-frame, the “real test” would lie in the restoration of status quo ante in the Finger Area in Pangong-Tso, where the PLA has set up permanent bunkers, pillboxes and observation posts, they said.China has deployed more than 10,000 troops in its “depth areas” across the LAC in eastern Ladakh and the military buildup consists of fighter jets, helicopters, tanks, artillery guns, missile systems and air defence radars. India has matched the neighbour’s military moves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disengagement-like-a-test-match-not-t20-officials/story-V7oaJLE17R01ELNtfDgzYI.html
26-06-2020||India||BJP raises China funds to Cong trust||Questioning the link between China and the Congress, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday alleged that both the Chinese government and the Chinese embassy in India contributed to the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF) — a trust chaired by Congress president Sonia Gandhi — with former prime minister Manmohan Singh, Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi and P Chidambaram as trustees.The BJP, led by Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, also alleged that RGF had pushed for a free trade agreement between the two countries, leading to a huge trade deficit skewed in favour of China, and that the donation led to the Congress supporting China.The Congress, in turn, said the BJP was engaging in diversionary tactics, questioned it on visits and exchanges between the BJP and the Communist Party of China (CPC) over the past decade, alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi shared a “strange bonhomie” with China even as borders were insecure, and claimed that questioning the patriotism of the Congress was “outrageous”.The political war of words between the two parties on the national security intensified with the BJP alleging that RGF’s annual report for 2005-06 showed it received donation from the embassy of the People’s Republic of China and was listed as a donor.“They (Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi) are attacking the Narendra Modi government and supporting China because of these donations to the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation,” Prasad said. “The document clearly shows the embassy as a donor.”“The Congress should explain why such affection for China? There is a Foreign Contribution Regulation Act that says any political party or organisation cannot accept foreign funds, and the RGF was an extension of the Congress party. Did they take permission before taking money? Did they inform the government why they had taken the money?” he asked.Amit Malviya, head of the BJP’s social media team, tweeted: “Not just the Embassy of the People’s Republic of China in India but even the government of People’s Republic of China is a donor to the Rajiv Gandhi foundation.”Addressing a virtual rally in Madhya Pradesh, BJP president JP Nadda said during the 2017 Doklam standoff, Rahul Gandhi was secretly holding talks with China’s ambassador to India in Delhi. “Today, during Galwan Valley clash also Congress is misleading the country,” Nadda said.The Congress, in turn, alleged that PM Modi shared a “strange bonhomie” with China, though India had not benefitted from it.At a virtual press conference, party spokesperson Pawan Khera alleged, “There is a strange kind of bonhomie between Narendra Modi and China, a two-decade-old bonhomie. Why doesn’t the country get the benefit of that bonhomie? Whatever is happening on the border today, is it despite the bonhomie which you have with China, or is it because of the bonhomie which you have with China?”The allegation was echoed by the party’s foreign affairs department chief Anand Sharma, who said that questioning the patriotism of the Congress — which had led the freedom movement — was “outrageous”.Khera also questioned the role of India Foundation, an organisation closely affiliated with the BJP, in strengthening the bonds with China.“Why does India Foundation keep visiting these countries? Who do they meet? What’s the outcome? What’s the role of NSA Ajit Doval’s son — Shaurya Doval? He keeps attending these meetings through India Foundation? These are important questions in the light of what is happening,” he said.HT tried to reach out to Shaurya Doval, but there was no response till the time of going to press.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-raises-china-funds-to-cong-trust/story-iqsPTq6mafUiujINxfCSOO.html
26-06-2020||India||India rejects as untenable Chinese claim on Ladakh’s Galwan valley||India on Thursday squarely blamed China for the standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), saying Beijing had massed troops along the disputed frontier since May, violated a recent understanding to disengage in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley and disregarded all mutually agreed norms for border patrols.The Indian position on the months-old standoff was outlined in a lengthy and sharply worded statement from the external affairs ministry as tensions simmered due to the continuing Chinese military build-up in several sections of the LAC, especially in Ladakh, which has been the focus of the face-off.While accusing China of triggering several face-offs by trying to unilaterally change the status quo along the LAC, the Indian side also rejected the Chinese side’s “unjustified and untenable” claim on the Galwan Valley. The statement also acknowledged both sides “remain deployed in large numbers in the region”.The external affairs ministry’s statement came even as Chinese envoy Sun Weidong said in an interview to PTI that the onus wasn’t on his country to resolve the border standoff. Sun said he hoped the Indian side would meet the Chinese side halfway and avoid any actions that could complicate the situation.The Indian side, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said, had clearly established that China’s actions had led to the increase in tensions and the violent face-off of June 15 in the Galwan Valley that left 20 Indian soldiers dead. Explaining the context of the standoff and the issues the two sides are trying to address, Srivastava said in a statement: “At the heart of the matter is that since early May, the Chinese side has been amassing a large contingent of troops and armaments along the LAC. This is not in accordance with the provisions of our various bilateral agreements, especially the key 1993 Agreement on the Maintenance of Peace and Tranquillity along the Line of Actual Control in the India-China Border Areas.”This agreement states each side will keep its military forces in areas along the LAC to a “minimum level compatible with friendly and good neighbourly relations”. Following the Chinese build-up, India had to make “counter deployments and the resulting tension has thereafter expressed itself”.Referring to the Galwan Valley, the flashpoint in the current tensions, the statement said a meeting of corps commanders of the two sides on June 6 had agreed on a process for de-escalation and disengagement along the LAC that “involved reciprocal actions”. Both sides also agreed to “respect and abide by the LAC and not undertake any activity to alter the status quo”.However, the Chinese side departed from these understandings on the LAC in the Galwan Valley and “sought to erect structures just across the LAC”. The statement added, “When this attempt was foiled, Chinese troops took violent actions on 15 June 2020 that directly resulted in casualties.”Even before these actions, the Chinese side had hindered India’s normal and traditional patrolling pattern in the Galwan Valley since early May. The resulting face-off was addressed by ground commanders in line with the provisions of bilateral agreements and protocols. In mid-May, the Chinese side also sought to change the status quo in other areas of the western sector, and India registered its protest through diplomatic and military channels.The statement said that while there were occasional departures from established mutually agreed procedures and norms for patrolling in the past, “the conduct of Chinese forces this year has been in complete disregard of all mutually agreed norms”.Both sides had developed patterns of patrolling over many years and it is the “reasonable expectation that patrols will not be obstructed in the discharge of their legitimate duties”. However, the Indian side has experienced obstruction to patrolling that is often accompanied by efforts to unilaterally change the status quo along the LAC.Indian troops are fully familiar with the LAC’s alignment in all sectors and abide scrupulously by it. They have also patrolled all along the LAC, including in the Galwan Valley, “for a long time”, the statement said.“All infrastructure built by the Indian side has always been on its own side of the LAC. The Indian side has never undertaken any actions across the LAC and has never attempted to unilaterally change the status quo. However, that has not been reciprocated by the Chinese side and that from time to time has led to face-offs,” the statement added. Peace and tranquillity in border areas is “the basis of our bilateral relationship” and it is “imperative that the established mechanisms are used by both parties to address the current situation”, the statement said.Describing Wednesday’s meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs as “a significant development”, the Indian side also noted that the corps commanders had on June 22 discussed the implementation of understandings reached between them on June 6. The foreign ministers too agreed during a phone conversation on June 17 that the disengagement understanding of June 6 would be implemented.People familiar with developments said India has been insisting on implementing the understanding of June 6 because it includes the removal of structures built by the Chinese along the LAC in the Galwan Valley.“We expect the Chinese side to sincerely follow up on this understanding and ensure the expeditious restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas. A continuation of the current situation would only vitiate the atmosphere for the development of the relationship,” the statement said.Former ambassador Rajiv Bhatia, a distinguished fellow for foreign policy studies at Gateway House, said while there were no immediate indications of a possible conflict between the two sides, a breakthrough on the ground would depend on the actions of the Chinese side.“The candour on the Indian side is welcome because the public is being taken into confidence. The perception is that the army commanders have reached an accord but there is much to be desired in its implementation by the Chinese side,” he said.“We have had talks at the level of generals and diplomats, though the level of negotiations will have to be further enhanced. We will have to wait and see, and much depends on the actual activities on the ground.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rejects-as-untenable-chinese-claim-on-galwan/story-XkMg6yuKz2iB6hLlflKrxO.html
26-06-2020||India||Covid-19: NRI deaths sully Kerala’s Gulf dream||Mohammad Hussein’s family in Kerala was looking forward to his return from Qatar, where he had been working for 20 years, when they received a call in May from a volunteer group working for the benefit of expatriates saying his condition was serious after having contracted Covid-19. A week later the family received photos of Hussein’s burial.Hussein, 47, is among 296 expatriates from Kerala who have died of Covid-19 in West Asia, according to preliminary information with the state government. Migrant rights activists say the number of deaths could be higher and that many of them could have been prevented had the government shown a sense of urgency in evacuating them.“He has four children, all younger than 20. With the breadwinner gone, it will be difficult for the family now,” said Mohammad Ashraf, Hussein’s brother.Some families, who can afford it, are paying to keep the bodies in mortuaries, hoping they can be brought back when commercial flights resume. “My father’s body is in a morgue in Bahrain. And we are paying through our nose. We hope the body can be brought back once the situation improves,” said the daughter of another person, who succumbed to the infection.As many as 4,56, 431 expatriates wanting to return home registered on the government-run Non-Resident Keralites Affairs department website in April. According to the state government data, over 90,000 have so far been evacuated. But the website says only 55, 905 have returned till June 22. An official said the website has not be updated.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday said 98,202 people have returned from abroad to the state. He added 80% of them have flown back from West Asia.There was much outrage this month after the state made Covid-free certificates mandatory for the returnees. The Kerala government stood its ground until the Centre rejected the condition saying tests were infeasible at Indian embassies at the point of embarkation. The state, until as late as June 18, said it was ready to send kits to test people before they board evacuation flights.Many of the non-resident Indians from Kerala, an estimated 1.8 million, work in West Asia. Kerala accounted for 19% of the $ 78.6 billion remittances India received in 2019, according to the World Bank data. Kerala’s remittances crossed ₹one lakh crore, the highest in the country, in 2019.Expatriates have contributed significantly to the state’s economy and stepped in every time Kerala faced natural disasters. They have been praised for their contributions. But many expatriates feel they have been let down badly by both the Centre and state government, which have been busy in a blame game over their evacuations.Expatriates say many lives could have been saved if people had been evacuated in the early days of the pandemic. “We lost golden hours. Many lives could have been saved if we evacuated them in the early months of the pandemic. Now the state government says expatriates can be super spreaders,” said Reji Kuttappan, a writer and migrant rights activist.Indian Overseas Congress convenor Mansoor Paloor echoed Kuttappan. “Even chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the state put restrictions on returnees to check super spreaders. His words sent a wrong message.”Union minister V Muraleedharan, who is from Kerala, said the Centre was ready to provide at least 36 flights daily to the state in May but the local government restricted them to less than 12, saying they do not have facilities to tackle a surge in the number of returnees.Vijayan denied any laxity on the part of his government and said there was a “concerted move” to make expatriates turn against it. “We never blocked any flights. We took such some decisions to check super spreaders and community spreading. More than 90% of the cases in the state are imported...”The Congress-led opposition has criticised the government saying it is more interested in maintaining its record of managing the pandemic well and not in the welfare of stranded people and that led to many deaths. “The government could have brought them home and treated here instead of leaving them to die abroad,” said Congress leader Oommen Chandy.“Expatriates’ contributions are immense. Instead of blame game, both, the state and Centre, will have to alleviate their suffering,” said political observer and columnist G Pramod Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nri-deaths-sully-kerala-s-gulf-dream/story-nMoiqHEL1WLetlflDdVBlM.html
26-06-2020||India||CBI inquiry against former J&K minister||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a preliminary enquiry (PE) against former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Chaudhary Lal Singh for alleged corruption and land grabbing by R B Educational Trust he runs in Jammu & Kashmir’s Kathua, officials said on Thursday. Singh quit as a minister in the then People’s Democratic Party-BJP government in Jammu & Kashmir in April 2018 after he attended rallies in support of the men accused of raping and murdering an eight-year-old girl. He left BJP in February 2019.The officials cited above said the PE, which is the first step before a case is registered, has been lodged to investigate allegations of “illegal gratification and extraneous consideration by the revenue and forest officials of district Kathua in allowing sale and purchase of forest land”.False certificates claiming that the land comes under the exempted category were used to purchase it for trust.HT could not reach Singh for comments as his phone was switched off.An official cited the PE and said trust is in possession of huge tracts of land in gross violation of ceiling prescribed under the Jammu and Kashmir Agrarian Reforms Act, 1976. False information was also submitted allegedly in the Jammu & Kashmir high court in 2015 in favour of the trust.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-inquiry-against-former-j-k-minister/story-xvr8iNW5YFMIrT8vA8qKkO.html
26-06-2020||India||‘5 daughters for son’: Congress leader’s remark stirs row in MP||Ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and opposition Congress in Madhya Pradesh got into a war of words on Thursday and accused each other of being misogynist and anti-Dalit after a former minister likened problems like the economic slowdown to daughters and a Dalit leader was purportedly served food in a disposal plate. Jitu Patwari, the former minister from Congress, provoked outrage when on Wednesday he tweeted: “Five daughters were born namely demonetisation, goods and sales tax (GST), employment, inflation and economic slowdown while anticipating a son called development (vikas).”He deleted the tweet after chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan hit out at him and the Congress and called them anti-woman. Patwari regretted his comments and said daughters are like goddesses. “My tweet was to suggest how people have been waiting for years for development promised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi but they got instead demonetisation, GST, unemployment, inflation and economic slowdown which have broken the backbone of the economy.”Chouhan accused the Congress of insulting women and asked Sonia Gandhi, the party chief, to apologise to the nation and sack Patwari.The Congress accused BJP of being anti-Dalit and said it has a “prejudiced mindset” when a photograph purportedly showing Dalit leader Prabhuram Chaudhary being served food on a disposable plate in front of his upper-caste BJP colleague, Ashutosh Tiwari, who is seen eating from a metal plate, went viral on (social media?). HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the photo. Chaudhary was among the 22 lawmakers whose resignations in March brought down the Congress government in the state and allowed BJP to return to power. He has since joined BJP.Congress leader Sajjan Singh Verma said the difference is clearly seen in how respect was given to the upper caste leader and how Chaudhary was treated. “Being a member of the Dalit community does not mean that the former minister [Chaudhary] can be treated like this.”Tiwari could not be reached for his comments while Chaudhary refused to comment.BJP leader Hitesh Bajpai said Tiwari carries his own plate due to some health issues and now because of Covid-19. “It is unfortunate that Congress jumps the gun without trying to know what really happened. Congress wants to create an issue as it knows it cannot win by-polls without raising non-issues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-daughters-for-son-congress-leader-s-remark-stirs-row-in-mp/story-9RrnlAZdDeWwZ1nUx5duhM.html
26-06-2020||India||Junior foreign minister mocks Kerala CM’s conditions for evacuation of expats||Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan on Thursday mocked Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan saying some of his suggestions on evacuation of expatriates from the West Asian countries were without any logic and MEA cannot chalk out a separate plan for those countries.“Usually people take pickle and chips while returning from Kerala. The CM thinks that test kits can be sent like this. His demands are without any logic or reasoning. We will go by the standard operating protocols issued by the Home and Health ministries,” he said in New Delhi.Last week the CM had suggested that the state was ready to provide TrueNat testing kits to get expatriates tested before boarding their flights. TrueNat test is usually used to detect tuberculosis and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had recently recommended this also for widening the range of options for testing Covid-19 patients. The CM had also said special flights could be arranged for Covid-19 positive passengers.“The CM is coming out with weird demands. No other state has put such conditions before the Centre. We are committed to bring back stranded people. But the state is putting many conditions to delay the process,” he said. Muraleedharan, who also hails from Kerala criticised Vijayan for “terming returnees from the middle-east as super spreaders” of Covid-19 When asked about this, the CM evaded a direct reply saying the junior minister in the MEA has no idea what was happening at the Centre that is why he was raising frequent charges against the state government. He said experts have warned a big surge in cases by August- end and asked people not to lower their guard.Vijayan and Muraleedharan had locked horns on several occasions over the evacuation of expatriates. Muraleedharan had said the state was delaying evacuation by putting “unreasonable conditions” but the state blamed the Centre for the delay. Meanwhile, Kerala recorded 123 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday. It was the seventh consecutive day Kerala reported more than 100 cases. The state’s Covid-19 tally now stands at 3,726. Out of these, 1761 are active cases while 1,941 people have recovered. The state has reported 23 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/junior-foreign-minister-mocks-kerala-cm-s-conditions-for-evacuation-of-expats/story-nk8kVBougbTSwPOZ4hITSP.html
26-06-2020||India||BJP, Cong spar on 45th Emergency anniversary||On the 45th anniversary of Emergency on Thursday, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress traded accusations about lack of democracy in their respective political parties.While Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted that the sacrifice made by the people who fought against the imposition of Emergency will never be forgotten, union home minister Amit Shah attacked the Congress, critiqued the concentration of power in “one family”, and said that the opposition party should ask why the “Emergency mindset” continues. The Congress, in turn, attacked Modi and Shah for “hijacking” the BJP, sidelining elder leaders, centralising all power, and leaving no space for others to express their views. On June 25, 1975, the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi had imposed the Emergency, which saw a suspension of fundamental rights, detention of political leaders, dismissal of a range of state governments, and significant constitutional changes. She announced elections two years later, which led to the defeat of the Congress for the first time in post-Independence India and the installation of the Janata Party-led government. The Bharatiya Jana Sangh, the political predecessor of the BJP, was a part of the umbrella Janata formation. Also read | ‘5 daughters for son’: Congress leader’s remark stirs row in MPIn a series of tweets, Shah made a pointed reference to Tuesday’s Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting, where former union minister RPN Singh was reported to have called for restraint against direct attacks on PM Modi. Singh, who is the party in-charge of Jharkhand affairs, has argued that the Congress leaders should rather criticise the government’s policies and raise people-centric issues.However, he was countered by other leaders, including Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who praised former Congress president Rahul Gandhi for taking on Modi. For his part, Rahul Gandhi said he will continue to attack the Prime Minister, claiming that “it is Modi alone who formulates policies and takes all decisions” in the present government.Shah took a dig at the Congress leadership and the Gandhi family without naming it.“During the recent CWC meet, senior members in younger members raised a few issues. But, they were shouted down. A party Spokesperson was unceremoniously sacked. The sad truth is — leaders are feeling suffocated in Congress”, he tweeted and attacked a link to a media report about the proceedings at the CWC. Shah’s comment was in reference to the removal of Sanjay Jha as the party’s spokesperson, after he criticised the party’s functioning in an opinion piece.In a separate tweet, Shah said, “As one of India’s opposition parties, Congress needs to ask itself: why does the emergency mindset remain? Why are the leaders who don’t belong to one dynasty unable to speak up? Why are leaders getting frustrated in Congress? Else, the disconnect with the people will keep widening.”The former BJP party president went on to say it was due to the efforts of lakhs of people that emergency was lifted, but is still missing in the Congress. “Democracy was restored in India but it remained absent in the Congress. The interests of one family prevailed over party interests and national interests. This sorry state of affairs thrives in today‘a Congress too!” he tweeted.Also read | BJP-led govt in Manipur back in saddle as 4 NPP MLAs withdraw resignationsWhile the Congress vehemently denied these allegations, Shah pinned the blame for the imposition on Emergency on the Gandhi family, without naming names. He said, “On this day 45 years ago, one family’s greed for power led to the imposition of the Emergency and turned the nation in to a prison. The press, the courts, free speech…all were trampled over. Atrocities were committed on the poor and the downtrodden.”Shah’s comments drew a sharp response from the Congress leaders.Rajasthan chief minister and veteran Congress leader Ashok Gehlot hit back at Shah.“I am not surprised to see that out of all opposition parties Mr Modi and Amit Shah are worried only about Congress. Their insecurities and fear is evident because everyone knows including Shah that only Congress under the leadership of Soniaji and Rahulji have the courage and strength to take on the tyranny of the current regime,” he said.“It is shocking that apart from 3/4 ministers, public does not even know who all are there in Modi’s cabinet.” Gehlot alleged that Shah along with Modi had hijacked the BJP and NDA government with no breather for other leaders, and were not fit to question “democratic values of Congress Party and CWC”. “It is no secret that for last three decades’ no one from the Gandhi family has held any position of power. They have always encouraged and empowered the cadre and ground worker of Congress party like me and if at all we are disconnected with public, why is Mr Shah so worried?” Gehlot added.Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala tweeted, “And so spoke those, who occupied present positions by forcibly retiring & humiliating every patriarch & colleague who built them. And the list is long....Sh. L.K.Advani, Sh. M.M.Joshi, Sh. Keshubhai Patel, Sh. Kalraj Mishra, Smt. Sushma Swaraj, Sh. Haren Pandya, Sh. Sanjay Joshi.”Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister and Rajya Sabha member Digvijaya Singh also questioned Shah’s statement and said the Congress party considers the Gandhi family as a binding force.“Who in Congress is opposed to Rahul ji or Priyanka ji? Name one senior leader? Whole Congress unitedly stands with Nehru Gandhi Family. They are the binding force. What is more important is the Ideological clarity among Congress leaders junior or senior which is harming the Party,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-cong-spar-on-45th-emergency-anniversary/story-bchbvPDNFwrPl3PyQkIF7N.html
26-06-2020||India||VVIP Chopper case: ED, CBI hunt for ‘real beneficiaries’||New Delhi: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) are trying to tighten the noose around “real beneficiaries” of the alleged 70-million euro bribe paid in AgustaWestland scam, officials familiar with the development said. Wednesday’s raids on the premises of realty firm MGF’s managiong director Shravan Gupta by ED were focused on the money trail, which passes through several companies over a period of time, the officials said. The CBI is also set to soon file a charge sheet against five government officials and British middleman Christian Michel, for which it has already sought prosecution sanction from the government. Michel, a key accused in the case, was extradited to India from Dubai in December 2018. Officials in both ED and CBI said there will be “major developments” in the case in next couple of months. Shravan Gupta, who was the director of erstwhile Emaar MGF and was earlier questioned by ED in 2016, is under the scanner for appointment of another European middleman Guido Haschke as independent director in the company in 2009, an ED official familiar with the investigation said.“We have got some new leads in the case after which it was decided to raid seven places on Wednesday linked to Gupta and few other people. We are further investigating the real beneficiaries – politicians and bureaucrats – who got benefitted through certain businessmen and private companies,” said an ED officer requesting anonymity. Gupta, this officer said, is likely to be called for questioning soon. According to a second officer from ED, which has already filed multiple charge sheets in the case, kickbacks were made in India by the Anglo-Italian firm, AgustaWestland, through two sets of middlemen – Christian Michel James and Guido Ralph Haschke -- to influence a Rs 3,727 crore deal for 12 VVIP choppers. The kickbacks -- 12% of the deal, which amounts to roughly Euro 70 million, according to the exchange rate at the time -- was a quid pro quo to make the company eligible for the contract of AW-101 helicopters in 2010, the ED has contended. Meanwhile, the CBI, in its charge sheet filed in September 2017, also claimed that AgustaWestland’s competitor for the contract, M/s Sikorsky, quoted the price of around $506 (Rs 2,228 crores at the time) for 12 VVIP/non-VVIP helicopters, while AgustaWestland have quoted Euro 592 million (Rs 3966 crore). This was still approved by the Union government in 2010 with final cost negotiated at Rs 3,727 crore, the agency contended.Gupta or his spokesperson could not be reached for comments by HT. An email sent to MGF remained unanswered. Emaar India issued a statement on Wednesday saying Gupta has no role in the company. “Emaar and MGF had parted ways few years back and Mr Shravan Gupta has no role in Emaar India and is also no longer on the Board of the Company. Emaar India is directly under the control of its parent Emaar Properties PJSC, Dubai, and is fully in compliance with rules and regulations of the law of the land. As a responsible corporate, Emaar India will cooperate with any government agency.”Earlier, in a separate case pertaining to foreign exchange violations, ED seized Gupta’s assets worth Rs 10.28 crore in 2018 for allegedly holding undisclosed deposits in a Swiss bank account.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vvip-chopper-case-ed-cbi-hunt-for-real-beneficiaries/story-VfIv6ooi6foOcGuAhq2OwM.html
26-06-2020||India||Monsoon set in early, has covered most parts: IMD||The southwest monsoon has covered entire Delhi and advanced to most parts of the country, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday, officially announcing the arrival of the rainy season in the national capital before its usual onset date of June 27.The monsoon arrived in Delhi-National Capital Region (NCR) on Wednesday, as reported by HT, though scientists waited till Thursday for an official declaration because there was no rain until 8:30am on Wednesday, the threshold time for the measurement of precipitation.“Monsoon has already covered entire Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, most parts of Punjab, Chandigarh, Haryana and entire Delhi as on Thursday,” K Sathi Devi, head, National Weather Forecasting Centre, said.Cyclone Nisarga, which formed over the Arabian Sea on June 1 and coincided with the arrival of the rains in Kerala, helped the monsoon’s progress, Devi said. So did a low-pressure system over the Bay of Bengal that formed around June 8.According to IMD, the monsoon is early over several states by at least a week. This is only the sixth time in the last 20 years that Delhi has seen monsoon arrive earlier than its expected date. In 2008, it arrived on June 15, and in 2013 on June 16.The monsoon arrived in India on June 1, and only parts of Rajasthan, Punjab and Haryana were untouched as of Thursday, according to scientists. Usually, the monsoon covers the entire country by July 8. Also, the monsoon has been 22% excess of long period average till June 24 this year.“Now, the monsoon trough is shifting northwards; so for three-four days, there will be very heavy and widespread rains in the eastern Himalayan foothills, Bihar and the northeastern states. There will be no rain in central India during this period and monsoon will advance very slowly. July and August are very important months for agriculture and we are expecting a favourable monsoon during those two months,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD.A quicker expansion of the monsoon has spurred hopes of a rural sector-led economic recovery. The June-September monsoon is critical to agriculture and the wider economy. A poor monsoon hits incomes because agriculture employs nearly half of all Indians. The rains are a lifeline for about 60% of the country’s net cultivated area, which have no irrigation.The monsoon impacts inflation, jobs and industrial demand. Good farm output keeps a lid on food inflation. Ample harvests raise rural incomes and spending, helping inject demand into the economy. For instance, nearly half of all motorcycles and television sets in a year are sold to rural buyers. Such purchases keep demand in the manufacturing sectors ticking. Through April and May, sales of key inputs such as fertilizers were 74% higher than that in the corresponding months last year, official data show. As a pandemic-induced threat of recession stares down the Indian economy, the farm sector will be bright spot, growing at least 3% in 2020-21 on the back of good rains, according to a recent Niti Aayog assessment.“Agriculture should do well. But the nature of our crops is such that July rains count the most. Fingers crossed,” said Chinmay Gurjar, a former official of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-set-in-early-has-covered-most-parts-imd/story-Lc99a7RLQfSEfAO7RRyt0N.html
26-06-2020||India||Will of people at heart of Covid-19 fight: Niti Aayog’s VK Paul||The behaviour and will of the people are at the heart of the fight against Covid-19, Niti Aayog Member VK Paul said on Thursday. He added that the government is trying to contain the coronavirus pandemic as much as possible. Paul further said the coronavirus will take its own time till the so-called herd immunity is achieved, which happens when a large segment of the population has already been infected. “But we will not allow this virus to infect so many of us, that is the whole name of the game. “We will contain this disease to the maximum possible, we will push the peak and lower the peak as much as possible,” he said at the virtual launch of Covid-19 behavioural change campaign ‘Navigating the New Normal’. Paul, who is heading an Empowered Group on medical equipment and management plan to tackle the coronavirus outbreak, said the time is ripe for a mass movement for mask-wearing. “The behaviour and will of the people are at the heart of our fight against Covid-19,” he said, adding that how the country mitigates the risk of the coronavirus now depends on people’s actions. “If we create a barrier like a mask in the new normal, it would limit its spread,” Paul said. Speaking at the event, Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said as the country continues to open up, there is higher expectation now than ever before from each Indian to practice safe behaviour. Lyricist and communications professional Prasoon Joshi said through this behavioural change campaign, the government envisions to make mask wearing a part of everyone’s subconscious and part of our everyday life. “The campaign to induce a behavioural change will be led by kids. As responsible citizens, we have to ensure that mask-wearing is an integral part of the new normal,” Joshi said. India registered its worst single-day increase in Covid-19 cases on Thursday, recording close to 17,000 coronavirus infections to push the overall tally to 4.73 lakh as the number of fatalities inched closer to 15,000, according to health ministry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-of-people-at-heart-of-covid-19-fight-niti-aayog-s-v-k-paul/story-o5Ienr99QdqcglzxOhHO6N.html
