28-06-2020||India||Beating Covid, lifting economy our two main goals, says Modi||Defeating the coronavirus disease and strengthening the economy should be the two focal points as India gradually lifts restrictions on movement and activities, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday, appealing to people to remain vigilant, use masks and follow social distancing rules to contain the spread of Covid-19.“...the country has moved out of the lockdown phase to the unlock phase. During this unlock period, one will have to focus deeply on two points — defeating corona and strengthening the economy and bolstering it...,” Modi, who has earlier spoken of striking a balance between lives and livelihood, said in his monthly radio address Mann Ki Baat. “Only your alertness can save you from corona. Always remember, if you do not wear a mask, do not observe the two-yard social distancing norms or do not take other precautions, you are putting others at risk besides yourselves, especially the elderly and children at home...,” he told the countrymen at a time the country is witnessing a steady rise in fresh infections.India recorded 19,541 fresh cases on Sunday. 16,481 people have died in the country due to the infection.After 68 days of lockdown since March 25, India entered the “Unlock 1” phase in June, allowing the resumption of shopping malls, dine-in restaurants and religious places. Before that, the government allowed the gradual opening of shops, and partial passenger railway services and domestic air travel. A call is expected on the reopening of educational institutes in July in the second phase. And in the third phase, the government will decide on resuming international air travel, cinema halls, gyms, swimming pools, bars, and auditoriums, among others.While releasing the guidelines for “Unlock 1” in May-end, the government said the plan will have an “economic focus” as it looked to bring stalled businesses back on track and bolster the third largest economy in Asia, which is in the grip of a slowdown due to the impact of Covid-19 and the lockdown prompted by the pandemic. “...during this unlock phase, many other things are getting unlocked, which had hitherto, shackled the country for decades,” Modi said, referring to the reform measures his government has okayed in the fields of agriculture, space, mining, and other sectors.Not just the pandemic, he said, the country has had to face several other challenges in the recent times. “A few days ago, our east coast had to face the fury of cyclone Amphan; on the west coast, it was cyclone Nisarga. In many states, farmers had to bear the brunt of swarming locusts... many parts of the country have been witnessing intermittent earthquakes,” Modi added. But he stressed that India always transformed adversities into stepping stones to success. “...For centuries, myriad tyrants invaded India, pushing her to the edge of such an abyss of adversities that people once used to feel that the very idea, the fabric of Bharat would be wiped out: her culture would be annihilated. But India overcame the scourge, and more gloriously so,” Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/beating-covid-lifting-economy-our-two-main-goals-says-modi/story-s9xUcLshgTB6R3U8YPrFsJ.html
28-06-2020||India||Eyeing our land earns a befitting reply: Modi||India honours the spirit of friendship but those who have “cast an evil eye” on its territory received a befitting response, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday, remarks that came in the backdrop of a simmering border dispute with China that has strained ties between the two Asian powerhouses.In his monthly radio address Mann Ki Baat, Modi also paid tributes to the 20 Indian Army soldiers who died in a violent brawl with Chinese troops along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley, and said the country is capable of giving an appropriate response to any adversary.“Our brave soldiers have proven that they will not let anyone cast an evil eye on the glory and honour of Mother India,” Modi said without naming China. He stressed that India’s way of life inspires “one and all to serve selflessly”, but at the same time, the country was committed to safeguarding its sovereignty and territorial integrity.Tensions have peaked on the border in the aftermath of the June 15 skirmish, the first deadly conflict between Indian and Chinese soldiers along the LAC in 45 years. According to India’s assessment, the casualties suffered by China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) were twice the deaths on the Indian side. Beijing has not disclosed the number of soldiers it lost.In his radio address, Modi said: “...the entire country comes together in paying tributes to the bravery of our jawans who attained martyrdom in Ladakh. The entire country bows to them in reverence, with gratitude. Just like their family members, every Indian painfully regrets the loss.” He added that India, which is facing multiple challenges including the coronavirus disease pandemic, cyclones and locust attacks, also has had to “deal with the designs of some of our neighbours”.The Prime Minister also appealed to citizens to use indigenously made products, saying being “vocal for local” is also a way to strengthen the country and to serve it. Modi said India’s aim is to become self-reliant, its tradition is trust and friendship, and its spirit is brotherhood. “We will keep moving ahead abiding by these principles,” he said.“A self-reliant India would be a tribute to our martyrs in the truest, deepest sense.”In May, the government announced a ₹20-lakh-crore welfare package to boost the economy and make India “self-reliant” in the face of the disruptions triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic. In his radio address, Modi referred to a woman from Assam, who, he said, wrote that she has resolved to buy only local products after watching the developments in eastern Ladakh. “I am receiving messages on these lines from every corner of the country,” Modi said.Amid the border face-off with China, clamour to boycott Chinese goods has been growing. Backers of the move say this will hurt the neighbouring country economically. An analysis of the World Bank’s World Integrated Trade Solution (WITS) database by HT on February 15 showed Chinese imports had an average share of almost 40% in India’s total capital goods imports, one-fifth of consumer goods imports, and 15% of intermediate goods imports. The analysis was based on import data from 2014 to 2018.In his address, Modi said that before Independence, India’s defence sector was ahead of that in many countries. “There used to be a multitude of ordnance factories. Many countries that lagged behind us then, are ahead of us now. After independence, we should have made efforts in the defence sector, taking advantage of our prior experience… we did not. But today, in the fields of defence and technology, India is relentlessly endeavouring to advance on those fronts… India is taking strides towards self-reliance,” he said.The opposition Congress party, which has been unsparing in its criticism of the government’s handling of the border situation, took a fresh dig at the Prime Minister. “In 33 minutes of Mann ki Baat, he did not take the name of China even once. Why is the PM afraid of China?” the Congress’s chief spokesperson, Randeep Singh Surjewala, said.Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi, too, questioned the Prime Minister over his “18 meetings” with Chinese President Xi Jinping in the last six years. “I implore the Prime Minister to say China is an aggressor,” he said.While the Congress says the government has not come clean on the border situation and ceded ground to China, the Centre accuses the principal opposition party of politicising an issue of strategic interest.Both India and China have significantly reinforced their deployments with fighter jets, helicopters, tanks, heavy artillery and missile systems in the region that has garnered extensive global attention in recent weeks, particularly after the bloodshed along the LAC.Senior Indian and Chinese military commanders reached a consensus on disengaging from friction points along the LAC on June 22. However, China has not halted — and instead ramped up — its military activities in Galwan Valley, Depsang sector and the Finger Area near Pangong Tso, according to satellite images.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eyeing-our-land-earns-a-befitting-reply-modi/story-g5OSwTZfK4VbfgFHynViKJ.html
28-06-2020||India||Tabloid owner accused of rape, trafficking held||Bhopal/Indore: Jitendra alias Jitu Soni, 62, the owner of a tabloid accused of rape, blackmail, extortion, human trafficking, land grab, was arrested from Gujarat on Sunday after remaining on the run for seven months, the Madhya Pradesh police said.Deputy inspector general Harinarayanchari Mishra said of the 64 criminal cases, Soni, an Indore resident, faces, 47 have been lodged over the last six months. He added a local court has remained Soni in police custody for interrogation.Soni had been on the run since escaping during a police raid in December after Harbhajan Singh, an Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) engineer, filed a case against the tabloid owner for defaming him based on “unfounded conversation” and for trying to blackmail him.The tabloid published a transcript of the engineer’s alleged conversation with certain women arrested on charges of luring, trapping, and blackmailing high-profile people in states like Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. It also carried transcripts of purported conversations of two other high-profile people, including a former minister.Indore inspector general Vivek Sharma said six police teams carried out raids at several places to track Soni over the last six months. He added Soni was eventually arrested from his ancestral Dhargni village in Gujarat’s Amreli district when he was about to change his location. Sharma said Soni kept moving from one place to another in Maharashtra and Gujarat. “He has had a criminal history since 1991.” He added there was a Rs 1.50 lakh reward for information leading to his arrest.Sharma said Soni has primarily been arrested in connection with the case filed against him in December. “So far, Soni’s son, Amit Soni, and brother, Mahendra Soni, have been arrested. His other brother Hukum Soni, son Vikki Soni, nephews Jignesh Soni and Lucky Soni, four other members of his family, and 25 other accomplices are yet to be arrested.”IMC and police razed Soni’s two bungalows in Indore and removed illegal structures at his two hotels and a cafe in December as part of an anti-encroachment drive. The demolition began on December 5 when police claimed to have rescued 67 women and several children from the hotel and arrested Amit Soni, his bouncer, and several members of their staff.The Indore administration has cancelled the permission granted to Soni to bring out his daily.(With input from Neha Jain in Indore)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tabloid-owner-accused-of-rape-trafficking-held/story-MfgDOBtIiQEis1BqNVekpI.html
28-06-2020||India||Cong leaders told to intensify protests over fuel prices rise||New Delhi: The Congress has asked its leaders and workers to pull bullock carts, ride cycles, interview taxi drivers and post their comments on social media during the week-long nationwide agitation from Monday against the “unprecedented and continuous” increase in petrol and diesel prices.In a circular, Congress general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal asked them to register a strong protest against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government at the Centre through demonstrations against the “extortionate increase” in fuel rates when people face “unprecedented” economic challenges due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Prices of petrol have been increased by Rs 9.12 paise per litre and diesel by Rs 11.01 a litre since June 7. The price revision was paused for a day on Wednesday after the 17th rate increase in a row. The next day, the price was raised by 16 paise per litre.Petrol is now selling in Delhi at Rs 80.38 per litre and diesel at Rs 80.40 a litre. Retail rates of auto fuels differ from city to city across the country due to variations in local levies.The Congress has been attacking the government over the continuous increase in petrol and diesel prices since the Covid-19 lockdown restrictions were relaxed this month.“It is highly desired that innovative and captivating events like pulling bullock carts, riding bicycles, etc can be held at some of the places in states and Union territories,” Venugopal said in the circular, a copy of which HT has seen.BJP leaders and workers across the country protested against the fuel price increase in 2011 by riding cycles, rickshaws and even pulling bullock during Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) rule.Venugopal also asked Congress leaders and workers to actively participate in the online campaign titled – ‘Speak up on petroleum products’. “It is strongly advised that leaders and workers may conduct interviews by seeking opinions of the common people, including taxi/auto drivers, Uber/Ola drivers, farmers and daily workers and upload the same on social media platforms,” said Venugopal.According to the Indian Oil Company’s website, total taxes on petrol and diesel are more than their basic rates. The basic rate of petrol in Delhi was Rs 22.11 a litre on June 16.Taxes on the fuel (both central excise and state levies) were Rs 50.69 a litre of which central taxes accounted for Rs 32.98. Similarly, the basic price of diesel was Rs 22.93 per litre, but total taxes levied on the fuel were Rs 49.43 per litre, with central taxes accounting for Rs 31.83.Almost all states have raised the value-added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel since mid-March. The Delhi government raised VAT on petrol and diesel to 30% on May 5. Consequently, retail prices of petrol in the state jumped by Rs 1.67 per litre and diesel by Rs 7.10 a litre. Earlier, the state levies on petrol and diesel were 27% and 16.75%. Diesel in Delhi also attracts an additional Rs 250 per kilolitre air ambience charge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-leaders-told-to-intensify-protests-over-fuel-prices-rise/story-YBACrEIxXzJYGfwWOj2qSK.html
28-06-2020||India||India, Japan hold naval exercises||Indian and Japanese warships conducted exercises in the Indian Ocean on Saturday, both navies announced. The Japanese Maritime Self-Defence Force described the manoeuvres as designed to “promote mutual understanding” and consisted of four warships, two from each country. Naval exercises are now routine between India and Japan, but the timing of the present exercise will be bracketed with the military stand-off between India and China in Ladakh. Vice-Admiral Pradeep Chauhan, director-general of the National Maritime Foundation, said: “We are using the exercises for strategic communications.” The navies were “not there for combat purposes but for signalling,” he added. “We need to be proximate with our friends and the Chinese know there is a direct ladder of escalation between Japan and the United States.” The Indian navy training vessels, INS Rana and INS Kulush, were joined by the Japanese navy’s JS Kashima and JS Shimayuki. The Japanese embassy in New Delhi said this was the 15th such exercise in three years. “The content of this exercise is tactical training and communications training,” said embassy spokesperson Toshihide Ando, “with no specific scenario”. The Japanese navy has become one of the principal partners of the Indian Navy. Indian naval ships exercise both bilaterally with their Japanese counterparts and as part of the Malabar Exercises, which include the United States. Chauhan noted Indian Army deployments were “sector specific” but India needed to apply pressure across military theatres. Exercises like these remind Beijing that Indian military can quickly deny air cover for Chinese naval assets in the Indian Ocean – and that such plans are ready. “They are still far away from deploying a carrier in the Indian Ocean,” he added.Japan was one of the few countries who publicly supported India during the Doklam crisis in 2017. New Delhi and Beijing have preferred to let the Ladakh crisis be handled bilaterally, one reason it rejected US President Donald Trump’s offer of mediation. Tokyo has only expressed condolences over the deaths of the Indian soldiers in Galwan Valley and pointedly said nothing about Chinese casualties. The Japanese navy has itself been upgraded and expanded in recent years because of the territorial disputes it has with an increasingly aggressive China. Despite its pacific Constitution, Tokyo has inducted a “helicopter destroyer” that has the some tonnage as India’s aircraft carriers and is now building a “helicopter carrier” which has a full flight deck. Japan has one of the best non-nuclear submarines in the world and cutting edge anti-submarine warfare technology. Masashi Nishihara, head of the Japanese defence think tank, Research Institute for Peace and Security, said, “We are leaders in submarine detection. Not only can we find them, we can identify any variety of submarine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-japan-hold-naval-exercises/story-cbmr1ET9HXReRdXCCUSjEP.html
28-06-2020||India||Locust swarms cloud parts of UP||New Delhi: Swarms of crop-eating locusts on Sunday moved further from Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr to Kasganj, Oraiyya, Farrukhabad, and Hathras after the operation to control them a day earlier when they flew over parts of the National Capital Region (NCR) were ineffective, officials said. Residents banged utensils and played loud music to chase away the pests when they arrived in NCR after surviving a control operation in Rajasthan on June 26.K L Gurjar, the deputy director of Union agriculture ministry’s Locust Warning Organisation (LWO), said they could not control the entire swarms and they flew again early on Sunday morning. “We have arranged for drones, fire brigades, apart from seven teams with sprayer mounted on vehicles. We are trying our best. Control operations will begin again tonight [Sunday]. Teams are moving with the swarms,” said Gurjar.India has been battling invasions of desert locusts, which pose a severe risk to farm economy, since April. Locusts can fly hundreds of kilometres daily and a square-km swarm can eat as much crop as 35,000 people in a single day.The locusts have not so far impacted food security much but LWO has warned that the Kharif crops, especially maize and cotton, are likely to be impacted if the locust threats from the Indian Ocean and their breeding sites in India are not controlled.LWO teams in Rajasthan were trying to control fresh swarms coming in from Pakistan and Iran. “Control operations have been strengthened at the border to ensure swarms do not come in,” said Gurjar.Gurjar on Saturday said breeding of locusts has started in several pockets as the monsoon approaches Rajasthan’s arid regions. “The egg-laying has taken place and hoppers have emerged. But we will manage to control these hoppers immediately.”The UN’s Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) on Saturday warned a general northerly movement of swarms will occur even as control operations continue. Some of the swarms in Kenya were expected to transit through South Sudan to reach the summer breeding areas of Sudan, where it has rained. If the rain is not enough, the swarms could continue to Chad and spread westwards across the Sahel in West Africa. The swarms in Somalia are likely to migrate across the Indian Ocean to the summer breeding areas along the India-Pakistan border.“In Southwest Asia, spring-bred swarms are present along both sides of the Indo-Pakistan border where they are awaiting the onset of the monsoon rains that will start in the coming days and allow the swarms to mature and lay eggs,” an FAO update said. It added locusts were mainly present in Rajasthan but some infestations continue to be reported from Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.“There are successive breeding cycles in the Horn of Africa. Some swarms from there are moving towards west Africa while some are moving towards Saudi Arabia, Oman, and Yemen. These can also come to India in July. Some are expected to directly move to India from the Horn of Africa with the monsoon winds,” Gurjar said.India Meteorological Department director-general M Mohapatra last week said winds were moving from the direction of the Horn of Africa towards India. “The wind direction is south-westerly during monsoon. I will not be able to comment on whether they will carry these swarms with them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locust-swarms-cloud-parts-of-up/story-emRuBMvV0X6V3LxfGGPbyH.html
28-06-2020||India||Over 58% patients cured of Covid in India, recovery rate improving: Centre||India’s Covid-19 recovery rate rose to 58.56% on Sunday with the difference between the recovered and active cases crossing 100,000, the Union health ministry said.“The recovered cases have exceeded the active cases by 106,661 as on Sunday. Thus, so far, a total of 3,09,712 patients have been cured of Covid-19. The recovery rate is 58.56% amongst Covid-19 patients. During the last 24 hours, a total of 13,832 Covid-19 patients have been cured. Presently, there are 2,03,051 active cases and all are under active medical supervision,” said the ministry in a statement.“India’s recovery rate has been steadily going up, which is good news. More than 50% of those having tested positive have recovered and taken out of active medical supervision,” said a senior health ministry official on condition of anonymity.Experts said rising recoveries may suggest that the outbreak was stabilizing.“When the number of those infected in a day is the same as number of people recovering then it usually highlights the fact that the disease outbreak is going to stabilize and start declining in some time, unless some other variables come in such as floating population or new births that change the entire dynamics,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, professor and head, community medicine department, Safdarjung Hospital.The government has focussed on aggressive testing, with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) adding more laboratories and introducing newer testing techniques. India’s current capacity is about 350,000 a day, with 200,000 samples tested daily on average.In the past 24 hours, 231,095 samples were tested in 1,036 diagnostic labs dedicated for Covid-19, including 749 government facilities and 287 private labs. The total number of samples tested stands at 8.2 million since the first sample was tested on January 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-58-patients-cured-of-covid-in-india-recovery-rate-improving-centre/story-4Vy6zup0bvDPIY0KY1QUDN.html
28-06-2020||India||Raj Class 10 boards to go ahead, rules SC||The remaining examinations for class 10 students of the Rajasthan state board will go ahead on June 29 and 30, after the Supreme Court on Sunday dismissed a plea, filed by the mother of a class 10 student, seeking cancellation of the examinations in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.At a special sitting held late evening on Sunday, a three-judge bench of the top court, headed by justice AM Khanwilkar, declined to grant relief to the petitioner, Maghi Devi, who had moved the court on June 27.The bench, which also comprised justices Dinseh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna, observed that the state government has taken necessary precautionary measures and the court was not inclined to interfere at the eleventh hour, when the exams are set to commence on Monday.The same three-judge bench had, last week, paved the way for the cancellation of remaining CBSE and ICSE examinations in view of the coronavirus threat.Devi had cited the same to bolster her case. “The Supreme Court had passed a direction not to conduct examinations for classes 10 and 12 of Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) by order dated June 26, 2020,” she pointed out.More than 1.1 million students are set to appear for class 10 examinations of the Rajasthan state board this year. The examinations had commenced and had taken place till March 18, when it was put on hold due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Subsequently, the Board of Secondary Education of Rajasthan had decided in May that the remaining exams for class 10 will be held on June 29 and June 30.The petitioner approached the Rajasthan high court against that decision but the high court dismissed the same giving green signal for holding the remaining examinations, in strict compliance with the instructions of the central and state governments. Later, Devi had also filed a contempt petition before the high court, alleging that measures to contain Covid-19 have not been satisfactorily adopted by the authorities conducting the examinations. It was argued that there was no thermal screening of students, hand sanitisers were not available and measures have not been adopted to maintain social distancing during the exam. This petition was also dismissed by the high court on June 18, prompting Devi to approach the Supreme Court. She argued that the high court failed to take into account the fact the children will be exposed to the risk of contracting coronavirus. “The high court failed to appreciate that about 120 schools, which are examination centres, were used to quarantine labourers in transit,” the petition stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raj-class-10-boards-to-go-ahead-rules-sc/story-nYGYd2Yp5Lakgy1hta6a6N.html
28-06-2020||India||Timely lockdown helped us combat Covid-19, says Modi||Washington: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said India was able to combat Covid-19 far better than experts around the world believed it could because of the timely countrywide lockdown, which gave it time to ramp up health system significantly. The epidemic also taught India, he added, to be “self-reliant”.“With timely lockdown, India successfully protected the lives of tens of thousands of its citizens,” Modi said in his address to a virtual annual meeting of the American Association of Physicians of Indian Origin. He added it was contrary to fears expressed by experts around the world that India could be in “deep crisis”.The lockdown was imposed from March 25 to check the spread of the disease before the government last month announced the phased plan to lift the stringent restrictions.Modi said Covid-19 fatalities were less than 12 for every million people in India. “Not even 12,” he repeated to emphasise the low number compared to more than 350 in the US and over 600 in the UK, Spain, and Italy. The US is the worst-hit by the Covid-19 in terms of the death toll and infections.“If India today has been able to fight the coronavirus, it is because the lockdown played a very big role in it.” Modi said India was able to increase the number of hospital beds, isolation wards, and labs to test coronavirus infections during the lockdown. He added three months ago, India was an importer of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), testing kits, and even N-95 masks. He added today India produces 4 million PPEs a week and 3 million N-95s. “We used to import earlier, and now we are moving towards exporting them,” he said.He added even ventilators, which are needed for severely ill and hospitalised patients, were mostly imported earlier, whereas 50,000 of them made in India are in the process of being deployed.“It is said that every crisis teaches us something or the other,” Modi said. He added Covid-19 has taught India to be self-reliant and this will help further strengthen the healthcare system.Modi spoke about his government’s approach to health, wellness and initiatives like eradication of TB and mitigation of Kala-azar (black fever.He said India has supplied medicines and medical equipment to over 150 countries and provided training to personnel of 16 countries. He added India sent anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine to deal with the pandemic to many countries, including the US.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/timely-lockdown-helped-us-combat-covid-19-says-modi/story-ggSt0nx9BpQeTYntb0q6OO.html
28-06-2020||India||PM Cares fund received funds from Chinese firms, says Cong||The Congress on Sunday hit back at the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for raising the issue of funding of the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation, alleging that the PM Cares Fund was accepting donations from Chinese firms when the armies of the two countries were engaged in a border standoff in Ladakh.Addressing a virtual news conference, Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his “18 meetings” with Chinese President Xi Jinping in last six years and asked why he has not yet called China “an aggressor”. “I implore the Prime Minister to say China is an aggressor,” he said.“What is most worrying and alarming for national security is the fact of donations received by Prime Minister Modi from the Chinese companies in his (seemingly personal) PM CARES Fund,” he added.“If the Prime Minister will compromise his position by accepting donations of hundreds of crores from Chinese companies in the controversial and opaque fund, how will he defend the country against the Chinese aggression? Prime Minister Modi needs to answer,” Singhvi said.Over the past few days, the Bharatiya Janata Party has released details of contributions made to RGF by various state-owned companies, government departments, and the Chinese embassy. RGF is a private trust while the PM CARES Fund was set up in March this year to deal with any emergency arising due to the Covid-19 pandemic. It has already funded the purchase of around 50,000 ventilators by government hospitals across India.One of the allegations against the Congress, aired repeatedly by various BJP leaders over the past few days, is that the contributions made by the Chinese embassy and the Chinese government to the private trust controlled by the Gandhi family encouraged the party-led United Progressive Alliance government to turn a blind eye to India’s soaring trade deficit with China. The charges and counter charges have come against the backdrop of the stand-off between the two armies in Eastern Ladakh, where, on June 15, 20 Indian soldiers lost their lives in countering a transgression by the Chinese. An unknown number of Chinese soldiers also died in the incident. Singhvi alleged that it was the BJP that has maintained ties with the Communist Party of China (CPC) since 2007 and its presidents, starting with Rajnath Singh, Nitin Gadkari and Amit Shah, have had the maximum number of exchanges with China.“There is no political party in India’s history whose presidents have had so much contact with China in the last 13 years,” he claimed.Giving details, Singhvi said Singh had interactions with the CPC in January 2007 and October 2008, Gadkari in January 2011 went on a five-day official visit to China and Shah sent a large delegation of MLAs at a “party school” gathering of CPC in early 2014.Singhvi said reports suggest the PM CARES Fund has received Rs 9,678 crore by May 20. The Congress spokesperson alleged Huawei has donated Rs 7 crore, TikTok Rs 30 crore, Paytm Rs 100 crore, Xiaomi Rs 15 crore and Oppo Rs 1 crore to the fund. HT couldn’t independently ascertain this. “Does Huawei have a direct connection with People’s Liberation Army, China? Has the Chinese company owning TikTok facilitated a donation of Rs 30 crore to the controversial PM CARES Fund?” he asked.Former finance minister P Chidambaram, too, targeted the government. “PM-CARES fund was set up on 28-03-2020. Chinese-owned companies donated money from that date. Chinese troops began incursions into Ladakh in March-April 2020. Does it require great intelligence to discern China’s motives?” he asked.BJP spokesperson GVL Narasimha Rao reacted sharply to the allegations. “The Congress party, facing stinging criticism from the media and the public for acting as the Indian propaganda arm of China in lieu of apparent kickbacks received in Sonia Gandhi family run foundations, is evading answers to serious questions and instead has come up with silly counters,” he said.“Nation wants an unconditional apology from the Gandhis for the family’s treasonous actions. The Modi government has taken a series of actions against Chinese investments and projects and has signalled its intent. The Gandhi family integrity is under question and running away from questions will not erase the taint.”...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-cares-fund-received-funds-from-chinese-firms-says-cong/story-Sclfgyrkskm12uq5BT4ZCI.html
28-06-2020||India||Shah hits out at Rahul over comments against PM Modi||Union home minister Amit Shah has accused Congress leader Rahul Gandhi of making remarks “liked by” China and Pakistan amidst a Sino-Indian border dispute, and said his government is ready for a debate on the issue in Parliament.In an interview with news agency ANI, he said the government is capable of handling anti-India propaganda, but pointed out it is “painful” that the former president of the Congress party engaged in “ochi rajiniti (shallow-minded politics)” at a time of crisis.Shah particularly took exception to a June 21 tweet by Gandhi that claimed Prime Minister Narendra Modi ceded ground to the Chinese, and referred to him as “Surender Modi”. “#Surender Modi” trended on Twitter after Gandhi’s post.“It is a matter of self-introspection for him [Gandhi] and Congress that his hashtag is being taken forward by Pakistan and China...It is a matter of concern for Congress that the hashtag of their leader is being encouraged by Pakistan and China. You say what China and Pakistan like,” Shah told ANI.Shah said his government was not afraid of a debate. “There will be Parliament session. Come if you want to debate. Let all be discussed — from 1962 to today. No one is afraid of debates,” he said, referring to the 1962 war in which large tracts of land were occupied by the Chinese when a Congress-led government headed by the then Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, was in charge.Shah also said it was not the appropriate time to comment on the situation at the Line of Actual Control, and “briefings were ongoing and that he would answer if need arose”.Shah’s interview came on a day Gandhi took to Twitter again and asked: “When will there be talk of the nation’s defence and security?”Gandhi and his Congress have been critical of the Centre’s handling of the border situation, calling for transparency on the part of the government, and alleging that China grabbed India’s land. The party has also hit out at Modi’s remarks at a June 19 all-party meeting that neither anyone was present in the Indian territory and nor any Indian post was captured by the Chinese. The Congress says China should not be allowed to use the Prime Minister’s words as a vindication of its position that it did not enter the Indian side.The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) later said there was a “mischievous interpretation” of Modi’s comments, and that the Prime Minister was clear that India will respond firmly to any attempts to transgress the Line of Actual Control.The allegations and counter-allegations erupted after the June 15 face-off between India and China along the contested border in eastern Ladakh. Twenty Indian Army soldiers and an undisclosed number of Chinese troops died in an ugly brawl in Galwan Valley, ratcheting up tensions between the neighbours amidst a military build-up on both sides. In his ANI interview, Shah said that under Modi’s leadership, India would win the war against the coronavirus disease and also deal with its border troubles with China successfully. “You are saying the country will win the two battles against corona and China under the leadership of Mr Modi. But please tell the reality to the nation. Isn’t it a fact that in three months only, India reached the fourth number in terms of coronavirus cases and these are continuously increasing? This government has no intention, no policy, no direction, no thought and no way to fight the coronavirus,” Congress’s chief spokesperson, Randeep Singh Surjewala, said.“Coming to China, the Prime Minister is saying no one has occupied Indian territory. Isn’t it a fact that Chinese army has occupied Galwan Valley where 20 Indian soldiers sacrificed their lives?” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shah-hits-out-at-rahul-over-comments-against-pm-modi/story-6YZBXVD4hJcK2QtNUuLo4I.html
28-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand’s Covid 19 recovery rate jumps to 71%, highest so far||With the discharge of 106 Covid 19 patients from hospitals in Uttarakhand on Sunday, the total number of recoveries in the state reached 2,018, taking the recovery rate to 71.48% for the first time since the first case was reported in the state on March 15.The rate of doubling of cases, based on the last seven days, stands at 32.77 days in the state.Meanwhile, a 65-year-old Covid-19 positive male patient from Nainital died on Sunday, taking the Covid-19 casualties toll to 38.The health bulletin mentioned, “One death of a 65-year-old Covid-19 positive male was reported in district Nainital. As per the information received, the deceased was admitted in Neelkanth hospital, Haldwani with gastric complaints. A death summary is awaited.”For Coronavirus Live UpdatesOn Sunday, 32 fresh Covid-19 cases were also reported taking Uttarakhand’s tally to a total of 2,823 cases. A healthcare worker from All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Rishikesh was among those who tested positive today along with seven contacts of earlier detected positive cases.All the other newly-detected patients had returned to the state from places like Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, and Delhi-NCR.Most new cases were reported from Nainital (14), followed by Dehradun (10), Tehri Garhwal (4), Chamoli (2) and one each from Champawat and Rudraprayag districts.BJP government protecting Ramdev, targeting us: Uttarakhand CongressDehradun with 677 cases, Nainital with 468 cases, Tehri Garhwal with 416 cases and Haridwar with 313 cases, are the worst affected districts in the state. Champawat district with 54 cases has the lowest number of Covid-19 cases in the state.Uttarakhand has so far tested over 64,000 samples of which results of over 3,700 are awaited. More than 10,000 tests were conducted in the last week, the highest so far. The state has 112 containment zones in five districts, including 69 such zones in the Haridwar district, 29 in Dehradun, three in Udham Singh Nagar, 10 in Tehri Garhwal district and one in Uttarkashi district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-jumps-to-71-highest-so-far/story-8VTXBgqVmnZ1JaFkJJM5iJ.html
28-06-2020||India||KCR to recommend former PM Narasimha Rao’s name to Centre for Bharat Ratna||The Telangana government will recommend to the Centre to honour former Prime Minister P V Narasimha Rao with the Bharat Ratna, the highest civilian award of the country as a tribute to the leader, who was instrumental in heralding economic reforms in India.The state government will also request the Centre to rename the University of Hyderabad, a Central university, after the former Prime Minister.“The state cabinet will adopt a resolution requesting that the Centre confer Bharat Ratna on Narasimha Rao. A similar resolution will be passed in the state assembly as well. I personally will take a delegation to the Prime Minister and submit the proposals,” Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said on Sunday.KCR was addressing a select gathering of invitees at P V Gyan Bhoomi; the samadhi of the former Prime Minister, at Necklace Road on the banks of Hussain Sagar in Hyderabad, inaugurating the latter’s birth centenary celebrations.Describing Narasimha Rao as a multifaceted personality, the chief minister said the fruits of economic reforms introduced by the former Prime Minister were being enjoyed by present generations.“It requires a lot of conviction, commitment and knowledge to undertake reforms. Narasimha Rao had displayed these qualities in undertaking reforms in every field that he had been entrusted with. His reforms with regard to land rights, education and economic policies had shaped the country’s future,” he said.KCR called upon the PV centenary celebration committee headed by Rajya Sabha member K Kesava Rao to highlight the “360 degree personality” of the former PM during the year-long worldwide celebrations.“We will keep the committee open ended so that many more people who have knowledge about Narasimha Rao can join and contribute. We will reprint earlier books written by him. The Telangana Sahitya Academy will also take up publication of his unpublished work,” KCR said.He also announced that the state government would establish a foundation at the Kakatiya University, Warangal, to study the economic reforms brought in by the multi-talented leader.He said that five bronze statues of Narasimha Rao would be erected in Karimnagar, Warangal, Vangara, Hyderabad and in Telangana Bhavan in New Delhi. He said a portrait of the former PM would be placed in the Assembly and efforts will be made to see that Parliament also has a portrait of the former PM along with other former Prime Ministers of the country.Earlier, the chief minister offered floral tributes to the portrait of P V Narasimha Rao at the latter’s memorial. Several cabinet ministers, state assembly speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy, opposition party leaders like PCC chief N Uttam Kumar Reddy and family members of the former Prime Minister were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kcr-to-recommend-former-pm-narasimha-rao-s-name-to-centre-for-bharat-ratna/story-YCBfGRwYtE867xkspzxotM.html
28-06-2020||India||UP Governor Anandiben Patel given additional charge of Madhya Pradesh||Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel has been given the additional charge of Madhya Pradesh during the absence on leave of incumbent Lal Ji Tandon, according to a Rashtrapati Bhavan statement on Sunday. Tandon, 85, has been undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Lucknow since June 11. “The President of India is pleased to appoint Anandiben Patel, Governor of Uttar Pradesh, to discharge the functions of the Governor of Madhya Pradesh, in addition to her own duties, during the absence on leave of Lal Ji Tandon,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-governor-anandiben-patel-given-additional-charge-of-madhya-pradesh/story-m21BFvkJMsB3n2VAMYxIRL.html
28-06-2020||India||BJP government protecting Ramdev, targeting us: Uttarakhand Congress||The Uttarakhand state Congress on Sunday accused the BJP-led Central and state governments of going soft on Patanjali’s Swami Ramdev for allegedly claiming falsely to have found the ayurvedic cure for Covid-19, while it was busy filing cases against Congress leaders and workers for staging a political protest without permission. Congress vice-president Suryakant Dhasmana alleged that Swami Ramdev and Balkrishna had violated the norms and regulations of the National Disaster Management Act (NDMA), 2005 and Drugs and Cosmetics Act by making unverified claims of finding a cure for Covid-19 disease. Two cases have been filed against Ramdev, Balkrishna and other members of Patanjali Ayurveda in separate incidents in Rajasthan and Bihar over their Coronil claim. FIR in Rajasthan against Ramdev, aides over ‘Coronil“It clearly signals that both the Centre and the state government are hand in glove with Patanjali due to which they are not taking any major action against Swami Ramdev and Balkrishna, who had openly claimed to have found a cure for Covid-19 with Coronil,” said Dhasmana. He said the duo violated the circular issued on April 1 by Centre’s AYUSH department prohibiting advertising of any medicine as cure for Covid-19, citing the NDMA.“The circular had clearly prohibited anyone from advertising a medicine or cure for Covid-19 and termed such an act as a crime under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act with appropriate punishment. However, both Ramdev and Balkrishna, in complete violation of the circular and the guidelines of Covid-19, held a press conference in Haridwar and announced the launch of their medicine Coronil, while making a false claim that it can cure Covid-19. Despite this brazen act of theirs, they have not been booked either by the Centre or the state government under the NDMA,” said Dhasmana. The Congress leader lashed out at the state government for booking Congress leaders instead. “On one hand, it is taking no action against Patanjali for making false claims and on the other hand, it is busy booking Congress leaders in false cases for raising relevant issues of public. If the government is not colluding with Patanjali, then it should legally issue a denial of Coronil and take proper action against them,” he said. Also Read: Uttarakhand liquor traders want to surrender their shops amid huge lossesUttarakhand police on Thursday (June 25) had booked Congress state president Pritam Singh, senior vice president Suryakant Dhasmana and 163 other party workers for staging a protest in Dehradun without permission and adherence to social distancing norms.Responding to Congress, Patanjali Ayurveda’s CEO Balkrishna said that Patanjali registered Coronil as a drug after the clinical control trials in Jaipur’s National Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS).“The clinical trials of a medicine made from Ashwagandha, Giloi, Tulsi and other Ayurveda components were held successfully on patients in NIMS. The results of the trials were put in public on June 23. Later for better compliance by the patients, we got our drug Coronil registered as per the norms and regulations. Before that Patanjali never called it a medicine for Corona’s cure, both clinically and legally.”He added that there was “absolutely no scope of any dispute” over the clinical control trials conducted under the clinical trial registry of India (CTRI) provisions.State BJP rubbished Congress allegations.“It seems Congress has lost its mental balance because it is under attack on various issues including their leadership’s relation with China and misuse of PM Relief Fund during their rule. It has no idea how to react to these attacks, hence these baseless allegations,” Devendra Bhasin, BJP state vice-president said.He said that Congress’ charge of “collusion” of BJP governments with Ramdev was bereft of logic.“If our government both at the Centre and the state was in collusion with Swami Ramdev, then why would they stop him from advertising Coronil with immediate effect? I think the Congress leaders should rather take Ayurvedic medicine to improve their intelligence,” said Bhasin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-government-protecting-ramdev-targeting-us-uttarakhand-congress/story-Ubg5asuukdR4yhKvJ7TXYJ.html
28-06-2020||India||Manipur extends lockdown by 15 days to contain spread of Covid-19||Manipur Chief Minister N Biren Singh on Sunday announced the extension of the lockdown by another 15 days from July 1 to contain the spread of Covid-19.The ongoing lockdown is scheduled to end on June 30. Manipur’s Covid-19 tally on Sunday stood at 1,185 including 730 active cases while 455 people have recovered.“Considering the present situation, the lockdown will be extended for another 15 days,” Biren Singh said at a press conference.But despite extending the lockdown, the government is also preparing to resume inter-district bus services.“Steps are on to resume inter-district bus services with the strict enforcement of SoP (Standard operating Procedure) besides maintaining social distancing,” he said.Other public transport systems will be allowed during the lockdown. The CM also said that a special train carrying 1,258 people stranded in Bengaluru will be arriving in the state soon. Till date 22,000 people have returned to Manipur by trains.“Likewise five flights will be arriving here on a daily basis from tomorrow (Monday) onwards,” he said. “Preparatory measures for the new arrivals in the state are underway.”The government is adding 750 beds for treatment of Covid-19 patients while the testing capacity has already been improved immensely, he said.Those who have tested positive for Covid-19 are presently being treated at three Covid care centres - Regional Institute of Medical Sciences, RIMS (100 beds) and Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences, JNIMS (150 beds) and UNACCO school Meitram (350 beds).With the installation of new machines, around 2,600 samples (against 100 in the recent past) can be tested for the Covid-19 in a day in the state and test results can be provided within 24 hours, he said.Three new testing centres were opened at Senapati,Tamenglong and Ukhrul district headquarters apart from the existing laboratories at RIMS and JNIMS.So far 50,000 samples have been tested in the state. As on June 28, the recovery rate of the Covid-19 cases has increased to 40%, he said.Singh said there is no community transmission of Covid-19 in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-extends-lockdown-by-15-days-to-contain-spread-of-covid-19/story-UhjDZBeBiPs5ysSD4tCJVO.html
28-06-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 cases soar for 5th straight day, but govt sees silver lining as recoveries rise||On a day when another surge of almost 20,00 new cases took India’s Covid-19 tally past 5.28 lakh, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh announced a door-to-door survey like Delhi, Goa, Odisha and Jharkhand to contain the rising number of infections.It was for the fifth straight day that Covid-19 cases in the country rose by more than 15,000.Maharashtra continues to be the state with the highest Covid-19 tally at 1,64,626 followed by Delhi at 83,077.Out of a tally 5.28 lakh, 3.09 lakh people have recovered. The recovery rate now stands at over 58.5%. The Centre said that recoveries have overtaken active Covid-19 cases by over one lakh because of “proactive steps”Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“The graded, pre-emptive and proactive steps taken by the Government of India along with the states and UTs for prevention, containment and management of Covid-19 are showing encouraging results,” the Union Health Ministry said in a statement.The number of active cases stands at 2,03,051, while 3,09,712 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, according to the updated data.Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his Mann Ki Baat radio address that India will have to focus on defeating coronavirus and bolstering the economy as it enters the “unlock” phase. He underlined the need to remain more vigilant.“Always remember, if you do not wear a mask, do not observe the two-yard social distancing norms or do not take other precautions, you are putting others at risk besides yourselves, especially the elderly and children at home,” he said.In Mumbai, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray ruled out lifting restrictions after June 30 because the crisis is not over.“Lockdown will not be lifted after June 30 as the risk of infection is not over yet. We are extending our relaxation step by step,” Thackeray said in an address.The unlock process, dubbed Mission Begin Again by the state government, is being gradually implemented to put the economy back on track, Thackeray said.Mumbai, which has over 75,000 cases continues to be under severe restrictions with movement beyond a two-km radius allowed only for attending office or medical emergencies.Some salons opened in Mumbai on Sunday after a gap of three months as the government eased curbs under Mission Begin Again.In Delhi, the number of Covid-19 containment zones has risen to 421 after a re-mapping of such areas -- an increase of 141 zones -- in the last two days.A serological survey is currently on in the national capital and is scheduled to end on July 6 after screening every household.“We have screened around two lakh people for Covid-19 in a house-to-house survey being conducted across the city. Also, 45,000 people have been screened in Covid-19 containment zones,” an official told PTI.Telangana, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka are the other states with more than 10,00 cases.Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh will also conduct house-to-house surveys.Uttar Pradesh’s Additional Chief Secretary (Medical and Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said the state will launch a large-scale campaign from Meerut division in July, where house-to-house survey will be undertaken similar to the pulse polio immunisation. “It will be carried out in containment and non-containment zones,” he said.The Madhya Pradesh government said it will launch a 15-day ‘Kill Corona’ campaign from July 1 to control the spread of Covid-19 in the state.During a virtual review meeting Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said a door-to-door survey will be conducted and citizens would be tested for other diseases as well.A total 2.5 lakh tests will be carried out and 15,000 to 20,000 samples would be collected daily, the MP government said in a press release.In Karnataka, which recorded more than 1,000 cases for the first time on Sunday, police said criminal cases will be filed against those who do not wear masks and flout social distancing rules. In a series of tweets, Bengaluru Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao issued those warnings in a series of tweets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-cases-soar-for-5th-straight-day-but-govt-sees-silver-lining-as-recoveries-rise/story-UAFxc4WmdyyZYzeme2ZhYJ.html
28-06-2020||India||Karnataka logs 1,267 new Covid-19 cases, record surge for second successive day||Karnataka for the first time recorded more than 1,000 Covid-19 positive cases since the first case in the state was registered on March 8. On Sunday, the state recorded 1,267 new coronavirus cases with Bangalore (urban and rural) accounting for a whopping 910 of those new cases. The state till date has recorded 13,190 Covid-19 cases which include 207 deaths and 7,507 people being discharged after being cured.Revenue minister R Ashoka on Sunday announced a new tagging system whereby anybody under quarantine will have to compulsorily wear it for two weeks. If anybody tries to remove the tag, it will send such data to a central monitoring system. “We are working on this and it would be implemented shortly to ensure that nobody in quarantine jumps it by leaving their cell phone at home.”This is said to be similar in technology to ones used in ankle monitors in the USA though the minister refused to provide further information on this.ALSO READ | Karnataka student who appeared for board exams with 19 others tests Covid-19 positiveOn the record spike in the state, a worried health department official who did not want to be named – as he is not authorised to speak to the media – said that while increased testing seems to be one of the reasons for the spike, on the other hand in the state capital Bangalore at least ‘it looks like it has reached community transmission stage’.The state government has taken a number of measures over the last couple of days including sealing four major parts of the city, closing some busy market hubs, ordering full curfew from dawn to dusk on Sundays and various other measures.Meanwhile, leader of opposition in the assembly and former CM Siddaramiah demanded a white paper from the state government on Covid-19 management. Alleging that there were irregularities to the tune of Rs 3,300 crores in the procurement of medical equipment required to combat and contain the pandemic he urged the government to release full details of all purchases made and money received from the Centre.Claiming that there has been irregularities in purchase of PPE kits, masks, oxygen cylinders and ventilators, Siddaramiah claimed that these purchases have been made at double the market price “The finance department has objected to the same and the CM should clarify on the issue,” he claimed in a release.He also said that the number of tests done has reduced in the state from 16,000 per day to 11,000 per day over the last 15 days. Stating that while 9,200 ventilators were required on an emergency basis he claimed that only 1,500 are available. “The state had asked for 33,000 ventilators from the Centre but only 90 have been provided.” State government officials were not available for comment on Sunday to respond to Siddaramiah’s charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-logs-1-267-new-covid-19-cases-record-surge-for-second-successive-day/story-sWosCW5RRxsR6KwuMXLyiI.html
28-06-2020||India||DGCA issues show cause notice to AirAsia India executive after pilot alleges safety violations||The aviation regulator DGCA has issued a show cause notice to a top executive of AirAsia India two weeks after one of its pilots, who runs a popular YouTube channel called Flying Beast, alleged violations of safety norms by the low-cost airline, senior officials said on Sunday. “A show cause notice has been issued to Manish Uppal, Head of Operations, AirAsia India after the pilot’s allegations,” the DGCA officials said. An AirAsia India spokesperson said, “AirAsia India confirms receipt of the notice and we are assisting the regulator in its fact finding process. We will fully cooperate with the regulator.” Captain Gaurav Taneja, a popular Youtuber, tweeted on June 14 that he has been suspended by AirAsia India “for standing up for safe operations of an aircraft and its passengers”. On June 15, he posted a detailed video on YouTube titled “Reasons behind suspension from my pilot job”. Taneja alleged in the video that the airline has asked its pilots to do 98 per cent of landings in “Flap 3” mode, which allows it to save fuel. He said if a pilot does not do 98 per cent of landings in “Flap 3” mode, the airline considers it a violation of its standard operating procedure (SOP). Flaps are part of wings of an aircraft and they are engaged to create a drag during a landing or a take-off. Taneja gave the example of the Imphal airport, where the plane descends more steeply as compared to other airports when approaching for landing. He said when an aircraft is coming down steeply, it needs to have a drag so that it remains slow, and in these circumstances a pilot has to do a “Flap full” landing. “In order to achieve targets, what would people do? They will do Flap 3 landings without giving consideration whether it is safe or unsafe. This directly impacts the passenger safety,” he said in his YouTube video.  If something happens during a Flap 3 landing, then the question would be asked to the pilot if he or she cares more about saving fuel or 180 passengers’ lives, Taneja said. On June 15, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said on Twitter that it had taken note of the concerns raised by some stakeholders “against a particular airline and its approach to safety”. “DGCA has already started an investigation into the issues flagged and shall take appropriate action based on the outcome of the said investigation,” it added. Senior DGCA officials had confirmed on June 15 itself that AirAsia India was under investigation after Taneja’s allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgca-issues-show-cause-notice-to-airasia-india-executive-after-pilot-alleges-safety-violations/story-zEZ8fwZ4CAjdVVgHw1HRnL.html
28-06-2020||India||Covid 19 battle is big, no individual can deal with it alone: Manish Sisodia responds to Amit Shah||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday responded to Union home minister Amit Shah’s interview and said that Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal believed the fight against coronavirus in Delhi was very big and no individual agency or person could deal with it alone.Earlier today, Amit Shah had spoken about Centre’s assistance in arresting a state of panic in Delhi over fears surrounding a sharp increase in coronavirus cases in the capital following Dy CM Manish Sisodia’s public declaration of a possibility of coronavirus cases reaching 5.5 lakh mark by the end of July, based on one of the assessments made by experts.Shah said that following Sisodia’s remark, he was directed by the Prime Minister to take initiative and help the Delhi government. He added that Delhi will be in good condition by July 31st because of the stress on preventive steps including more tests and contact tracing taken after Centre and state joined efforts.Also Read: ‘Delhi won’t have 5.5 lakh Covid-19 cases by July end, Manish Sisodia’s comments created fear’: Amit ShahSisodia highlighted Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal’s role in bringing everyone together in efforts to contain the spread of disease.“CM Arvind Kejriwal believes that the battle against #COVID19 is very big and no individual person or agency can deal with it alone. In this spirit, CM has brought everyone together and his efforts seem to be paying off,” a statement released by Sisodia on his Aam Aadmi Party’s twitter handle said.He added that the situation in Delhi had improved from the first week of June when “domain experts” had predicted a scenario of Coved 19 positive cases reaching 5.5 lakh mark by July end.“We are hopeful that the situation will improve in the coming weeks and will certainly not be as bleak as it looked in the first week of June when domain experts predicted 5.5 lakh cases in Delhi by 31st July,” Manish Sisodia said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesHe added that the Delhi government got tremendous support from the Central government and every other agency.“Our chief minister Arvind Kejriwal sought the help and support of every agency to battle Corona in Delhi. We got tremendous support from the Central government, religious organisations like Radha Swami Satsang, Akshardham Temple trust, Terapanthi, various hotels, banquets halls, private hospitals and NGOs like Doctors for U etc.” his statement said.Amit Shah in his interview earlier today had said that there was coordination between the Centre and the Delhi government and Delhi CM was kept in the loop and decisions are taken by involving him also.He had also spoken about some shortcomings in Delhi’s planning, noticed in a coordination meeting called by the Centre, following which a decision to hold house to house survey in capital’s containment zones and ramping up overall testing and treatment facilities were taken up.Sisodia concurred that things were looking up in the last week or so.“Last week saw things stabilising-recovery rate has increased to 62%, today more patients are recovering in Delhi than those who are falling ill, number of deaths are coming down, positivity rate is decreasing rapidly,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-battle-is-big-no-individual-can-deal-with-it-alone-manish-sisodia-responds-to-amit-shah/story-2wMOykDYqClTYkqugNmskO.html
28-06-2020||India||British pharma major AstraZeneca ahead in global race for Covid-19 vaccine: All you need to know||With the Covid-19 pandemic showing no signs of ebbing in nearly 185 countries across the globe, the race for a coronavirus vaccine is continuing at a frantic pace among global scientists and researchers. The China National Biotec Group (CNBG) said on Sunday that early human test results for a coronavirus vaccine candidate suggested it could be safe and effective, the second vaccine candidate from the firm to show encouraging results in a clinical trial.Chinese researchers have been allowed to test eight vaccine candidates in humans at home and abroad, making the Asian giant a major front-runner in the race to develop a vaccine against the virus that has killed nearly 500,000 people globally. The experimental shot, developed by a Beijing-based unit of CNBG, has induced high-level antibodies in all the inoculated participants in a Phase 1/2 clinical trial involving 1,120 healthy people, according to preliminary data of the trial. Earlier this month, CNBG, said that another vaccine candidate produced by its Wuhan-based unit also triggered high-level antibodies safely in clinical trial participants.Currently, there are more than 13 experimental vaccines in clinical trials among the 140 being developed to fight Covid-19.ALSO READ | Delhi, Maharashtra among 5 states likely to get first lot of Covid-19 drugGlobal health watchdog, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has identified the candidates developed by Oxford University-AstraZeneca and Moderna Inc as the front-runners in the race to find an effective vaccine for the viral infection. AstraZeneca’s experimental Covid-19 vaccine is probably the world’s leading candidate and most advanced in terms of development, the World Health Organization’s (WHO) chief scientist said on Friday.The British drugmaker has already begun large-scale, mid-stage human trials of the vaccine, which was developed by researchers at the University of Oxford.News agency Reuters quoted WHO chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan as saying,“Certainly in terms of how advanced they are, the stage at which they are, they are I think probably the leading candidate.” British pharma major AstraZeneca, which has already begun Phase III human trials of its AZD1222 (formerly known as ChAdOx1 nCoV-19) vaccine candidate, signed its tenth supply-and-manufacturing deal earlier this week. Brazil announced on Saturday it had signed a $127 million agreement to start producing locally the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine. The country is slated to initially produce 30 million doses of the vaccine — half by December and half by January of next year, according to a Reuters report.ALSO READ | Over 80k new cases since Monday in India; AstraZeneca, Moderna emerge as top vaccine contenders: Covid-19 week wrapEarlier this month, the AstraZeneca CEO told a radio station that the vaccine candidate would likely provide protection against Covid-19 for one year.US firm Moderna Inc, which has already started Phase II trials for its vaccine candidate mRNA-1273, has partnered with drugmaker Catalent Inc to produce 100 million doses starting in the third quarter of 2020. Under the deal, Catalent will also provide packaging and labeling, storage and distribution services to support Moderna’s late-stage clinical trial for the vaccine. Catalent is already in partnership with Johnson and Johnson as well as AstraZeneca.Closer home homegrown pharma major Hetero has started delivering the generic version of antiviral drug Remdesivir to states across the country for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. Sold under the brand name Covifor, the drug has been priced at Rs 5,400 per vial and will be available at hospitals to treat the coronavirus infection.Delhi and Maharashtra -- the two worst-hit states in the country by the coronavirus pandemic will be the first to receive the first batch of the antiviral medicine. The Hyderabad-based drugmaker has dispatched 20,000 vials of Covifor to five states. Besides Maharashtra and the national capital, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu are the other two states that will receive the first batch of the drug. Telangana, which has seen a sudden surge in coronavirus cases in the last one week, is the fifth state that will receive the first batch of the medicine.India on Saturday allowed the use of dexamethasone as an alternative to methylprednisolone to treat coronavirus patients with moderate and severe symptoms. The World Health Organization had called for a rapid increase in production of dexamethasone, after British clinical trials found it had life-saving potential for critically-ill coronavirus patients.The Union Health Ministry put out a revised version of the Clinical Management Protocol: COVID-19 - a document published for use by health professionals as a reference. Earlier this month, the ministry had added the loss of smell and taste as new symptoms of the infectious disease in the manual.The use of dexamethasone, which is used to reduce inflammation in other diseases such as arthritis, has been cleared for patients in critical need of oxygen support and those who have excessive inflammatory response, the document states.India has recorded successive highest single-day spikes of 18,552 fresh cases on an average, pushing the total number of cases well over the 5 lakh-mark, the latest data from the Health Ministry shows. India now has the fourth-highest number of coronavirus cases among 10 nations worst-hit by the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/british-pharma-major-astrazeneca-ahead-in-global-race-for-covid-19-vaccine-all-you-need-to-know/story-wAc0QNcBaul7VyDUzOie8J.html
28-06-2020||India||UN 75th anniversary draft declaration phrase changed after India, 5 others object||UN General Assembly President Tijjani Muhammad-Bande has changed a phrase in the draft declaration to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the United Nations after India along with countries including the UK and the US raised objection to the sentence, understood to be similar to wording used by the Chinese Communist Party.Muhammad-Bande circulated the draft declaration to UN Member States under silence procedure, under which if no Member State raises any objections to the draft within a specified time period, the text is adopted.According to United Nations Association–UK (UNA-UK), a charitable company focusing on UK action at the UN, Britain’s acting ambassador Jonathan Allen broke the silence procedure on June 24 “on behalf of the members of the ‘five eyes’ intelligence community - the UK, US, Australia, New Zealand, Canada and India.It said that the six countries objected to one phrase towards the end of the declaration that read - “to realise our shared vision for a common future”.The countries wanted this wording to be replaced with “to realise our shared vision for a better future as envisaged in the preamble of the UN Charter.” With the suggested wording, the paragraph in the draft declaration would have read, “What we agree today will affect the sustainability of our planet as well the welfare of generations for decades to come. Through reinvigorated global action and by building on the progress achieved in the last 75 years, we are determined to ensure the future we want. To achieve this, we will mobilise resources, strengthen our efforts and show unprecedented political will and leadership. We will work together with partners to strengthen coordination and global governance for the common good of present and future generations and to realise our shared vision for a better future as envisaged in the preamble of the UN Charter.”  The UNA-UK said in a statement that it has heard from a number of sources that the reason the six countries objected to the phrase “to realise our shared vision for a common future” is because ‘shared vision for a common future’ has some “similarity to wording used by the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) to describe its foreign policy aspirations.” It said the phrase was used in a report by former Chinese Communist Party General Secretary Hu Jintao to the 18th CCP congress in 2012. “Thus, the language needs to be viewed in the context of the current great power rivalry between the USA and China, with the UK firmly allying with the US,” it said.Following the objection, Muhammad-Bande wrote to UN Member States on June 25 proposing a re-worked phrase to substitute the sentence on which silence was broken.“We will work together with partners to strengthen coordination and global governance for the common future of present and coming generations,” the new phrase proposed by the UNGA President read.On the evening of June 26, Muhammad-Bande said that there was no objection to the proposed new phrase.However, he said he was “notified of an issue regarding a particular element of the final draft declaration, which would require further clarification in order to conclude the process.” The declaration by the “Heads of State and Government representing the peoples of the world” to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the UN is to be adopted on September 21, 2020 and takes note of the COVID19 pandemic that “continues to reverberate around our world.” “The COVID-19 pandemic has reminded us in the most powerful way that we are closely interconnected and only as strong as our weakest link. Only by working together and in solidarity can we end the pandemic and effectively tackle its consequences.  “Only together can we build resilience against future pandemics and other global challenges. Multilateralism is not an option but a necessity as we build back better for a more equal, more resilient, and more sustainable world. The United Nations must be at the centre of our efforts,” the declaration says.The declaration also underscores that armed conflicts and threats against international peace and security must be urgently resolved through peaceful means. “The United Nations must better address all forms and domains of threats. Terrorism and violent extremism conducive to terrorism are serious threats to international peace and security,” it says.The declaration also emphasises on the need to “upgrade” the UN, saying that “we commit to instil new life in the discussions on the reform of the Security Council and continue the work to revitalise the General Assembly and strengthen the Economic and Social Council. The review of the peacebuilding architecture has our full support.”  It is noteworthy that reform of the multilateral system and fight against terrorism are among the key priorities for India as it prepares to sit in the Security Council for a two-year term beginning January 1, 2021 as a non-permanent member after overwhelmingly winning the UNSC election this month.Termed as NORMS, India’s focus will be on ‘New Orientation For A Reformed Multilateral System.’ India’s priorities include new opportunities for progress, effective response to international terrorism, reforming multilateral systems, comprehensive approach to peace and security and technology with a human touch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/un-75th-anniversary-draft-declaration-phrase-changed-after-india-5-others-object/story-MKsZcU1cB3qPc0uBNvDOQP.html
28-06-2020||India||Flood situation in Assam grim; over 9 lakh in 23 districts affected, 20 dead||The flood situation in Assam turned grim on Sunday with more areas in the state getting submerged affecting over 9.26 lakh people.According to Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), 2,071 villages in 67 revenue circles in 23 of the 33 total districts of the state have been affected by floods.Two more deaths due to drowning were reported from Dhemaji and Udalguri districts taking the total deaths due to floods this season to 20. Over 27,000 people are taking shelter in 193 relief camps.Most rivers in the state except those in Barak Valley witnessed rise in water levels and Brahmaputra and several of its tributaries flowed above the danger mark at many places, according to Central Water Commission bulletin.Union Home Minister Amit Shah called up Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal and health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Sunday to take stock of the flood situation in the state and hardships caused by landslides and erosion. He assured all possible help to Assam in tackling the situation. Nearly 60% area of the Kaziranga National Park spread over 430 sq km has been inundated due to flooding from heavy rains in the past few days. The Burhapahar and Bagori ranges of the park are most affected.According to ASDMA, 90 of the 183 forest camps spread across the park, the largest habitat of one-horned rhinos in the world, have been affected. Two of the camps, which are used by forest personnel to monitor activities in the park, have been vacated.“Flooding is not grave yet and it is normal to have such inundation due to rising water levels in the Brahmaputra, which flows nearby,” P Sivakumar, director of the park.“Some animals have started moving to higher areas and we have put in measures to control speed of vehicular movement on the national highway that passes close to the park to ensure animals crossing the road to reach the hills of Karbi Anglong are safe,” he added,On Saturday, forest officials found the carcass of an aged rhino which died due to drowning in the Diphlu River. The carcass was disposed of after check up and its horn was removed.Floods hit gas well firefighting opsEfforts to control the fire at Oil India Limited’s (OIL) natural gas well in Tinsukia district have also suffered due to flooding. On Saturday all work at the well and nearby areas was called off as it was considered unsafe.The gas well located in Baghjan had witnessed a blowout on May 27 and caught fire on June 9 killing 2 firefighters. OIL has earlier stated that it would take about a month to plug the blow out and control the fire, but with rains affecting the work it could get further delayed.“Due to heavy rainfall, the area has been inundated with flood water. Dangori River (close to the well) is overflowing. All connecting roads to the site are submerged with flood water,” OIL said in a statement on Sunday.“Bridge on Doomdooma-Baghjan road is broken. Flood water has entered the debris area, Kill Pump area and CMT water pump area making the areas unsafe for carrying out operation,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flood-situation-in-assam-grim-over-9-lakh-in-23-districts-affected-20-dead/story-FbCXcSeYLaPg04S0p2tXoJ.html
28-06-2020||India||14-day lockdown begins in Guwahati, other areas of Assam’s Kamrup Metro district to curb Covid-19 spread||A 14-day long ‘total lockdown’ began in all areas falling under Assam’s Kamrup Metro district including Guwahati from 7 pm on Sunday in a bid to arrest the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the state.According to the health department, the lockdown, which will be very stringent during the first seven days with only pharmacies, hospitals and medical labs allowed to operate, will be over at 6 pm on July 12.All offices - government and private - will remain closed during the lockdown, all shops and business establishments and industries will also remain shut, private and public vehicles will not be allowed to ply, all hotels, educational institutions and religious places will also remain shut, said a government order.No functions of any kind will be allowed and only 20 people can take part in the last rites or funeral. No grocery, fruit and vegetable shop and establishments selling meat-poultry products will be allowed to open.Exemptions to these curbs include movement of defence and police personnel, government officials involved in important duties, fire services, disaster management, electricity, water supply, garbage disposal, health workers, banks (with skeletal staff), ATMs, milk supply, baby products, medicines, telecommunication, print and electronic media and train and air services.Only those hotels used for quarantine and by crew of airlines will be allowed to operate, government directorates and secretariat will function with skeletal staff and petrol pumps allowed to open.Till Saturday, Assam had recorded 7,165 Covid-19 positive cases with nine deaths and 4, 814 recoveries. In the past two weeks Guwahati has recorded over 800 positive cases and more than 700 of them are of people with no travel history.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-day-lockdown-begins-in-guwahati-other-areas-of-assam-s-kamrup-metro-district-to-curb-covid-19-spread/story-ciycYLKOZgY9tCx0txcKnI.html
28-06-2020||India||Maharashtra records highest single day Covid-19 spike for the 4th straight day with 5,493 new case||Maharashtra has recorded the highest single day Covid 19 spike for the fourth straight day with 5,493 new cases reported on Sunday, according to the state health department. The total number of coronavirus infections in the state has now reached 1,64,626 including 7,429 casualties, 156 of those were reported in the last 24 hours. A total of 86,575 have recovered so far including 2,330 on Sunday. The state has also conducted 9,23,502 tests to detect coronavirus patients.Maharashtra has been setting a new record for daily cases for since Thursday, when 4,841 new Covid-19 cases were recorded. The figures on Friday-5,024 infections—overtook Thursday tally and on Saturday the state created a new grim record by registering 5318 new infections.The cases in Mumbai, however have registered a marginal decline over the last two days. 1, 287 new cases were reported in the Maximum City taking the cumulative toll to 75,539 including 4,371 deaths. 87 casualties were recorded in the last 24 hours, the health bulletin said.On Saturday, Mumbai had posted 1,402 new cases.Maharashtra Police adds 150 new Covid-19 cases in 48 hours, another cop diesEarlier today, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had hinted at providing more relaxations in the restrictions after June 30, when the fifth phase of lockdown and the first phase of Unlock 1 ends. However, he ruled out complete withdrawal of lockdown restrictions. He even pointed out incidents of violations of restrictions in some of the worst-hit cities by the virus and said the implementation of lockdown measures was largely dependent on people.“I have been getting requests from a few civic authorities for the permission for imposing stricter lockdown owing to the rising numbers. There are cases of violations of the curbs in some cities like Mumbai, Pune and even in rural areas,” Thackeray said during his live cast on Facebook.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesHe said unless the residents abided by the current norms and curbs, the state will be left with little choice but to go for a stricter lockdown again to contain the rise of coronavirus cases.Thackeray also predicted a spike in infections in the next few weeks more activities are allowed and added that the state government was ready to meet the challenge by having augmented its health infrastructure, which he claimed was at par with “national and international” levels.Maharashtra government has received permission for the use of remdesivir and favipiravin, the antiviral drugs, and they will be made available to people free of cost once the adequate stock has been procured, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-the-highest-single-day-covid-19-spike-for-the-4th-straight-day-with-5-493-new-case/story-uWho3MR4Pd3AmqItSI3HdL.html
28-06-2020||India||SC junks plea to cancel remaining Class 10 exams of Rajasthan state board||The remaining examinations for class 10 students of Rajasthan state board will be held as per schedule on June 29 and 30 after the Supreme Court on Sunday declined a plea by the mother of a class 10 student to cancel the exam in view of Covid-19 pandemic.At a special sitting held late evening on Sunday, a 3-judge bench of the top court headed by justice AM Khanwilkar declined to grant relief to the petitioner, Maghi Devi who had moved the court on June 27 seeking urgent relief in view of the fact the exams are scheduled to commence from Monday.The bench which also comprised justices Dinseh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna observed that the state government has taken necessary precautionary measures and the court was not inclined to interfere at the eleventh hour when the exams are set to commence on Monday.The same three-judge bench had, last week, paved the way for cancellation of remaining CBSE and ICSE examinations in view of the Coronavirus threat.Devi cited this aspect to bolster her case.“The Supreme Court had passed a direction not to conduct examinations for classes 10 and 12 of Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) by order dated June 26, 2020”, she pointed out.More than 1.1 million students are appearing for class 10 examinations under the Rajasthan state board this year. The examinations had commenced in March and were held up till March 18 when it was put on hold due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Subsequently, the Board of Secondary Education of Rajasthan had decided in May that the remaining exams for class 10 will be held on June 29 and June 30.The petitioner approached the Rajasthan high court against that decision but the high court dismissed the same giving a green signal for holding the remaining examinations in strict compliance with the instructions of the central and state government. Later, Devi had also filed a contempt petition before the high court alleging that measures to contain Covid-19 have not been satisfactorily adopted by the authorities conducting the examinations. It was argued that there was no thermal screening of students, hand sanitisers were not available and measures have not been adopted to maintain social distancing during the exam. This petition was also dismissed by the high court on June 18 prompting Devi to approach the Supreme Court. She argued that the high court failed to take into account the fact the children will be exposed to the risk of getting infected by Coronavirus jeopardizing their health.“The high court failed to appreciate that about 120 schools which are examination centres were used to quarantine people for labourers in transit”, the petition stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-junks-plea-to-cancel-remaining-class-10-exams-of-rajasthan-state-board/story-rCakjaihoLd22dhcqphcHO.html
28-06-2020||India||Kerala to increase Covid-19 tests as infections surge with 118 new patients||With Covid-19 cases increasing steadily in Kerala, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday asked all departments engaged in the fight against the pandemic to co-ordinate their work effectively and take quick measures to contain the spread of the disease.What really worries the state is the number of people with no known source of infection, is on the rise. In state capital Thiruvananthapuram and Malappuram in north Kerala, many such cases have come to light. Medical workers say in such cases it is difficult to trace their primary contacts and source of origin.The state has also decided to increase the number of tests after people returning to the state have gone up considerably. On an average, 40 flights are arriving in the four international airports in the state, all from the Gulf countries.There was criticism that the state is keeping its tests very low to keep its records but the government has denied it. The CM said from next month, at least 15,000 samples will be tested every day. Now the daily average tests are between 5,000 and 5,500 but many experts said it has to increase its testing rate immediately.“We have started anti-body tests at all airports for returning expatriates. This will help in containing imported cases. We will increase tests by next month,” said state health minister K K Shailaja.After NRIs and people stranded in other states returned and the government relaxed lockdown norms the state witnessed a steady increase in coronavirus cases but contrary to initial efforts it failed to ramp up its testing, experts said. As on Sunday 2,16,780 people were tested but they are very low when compared to other states..Meanwhile, the total number of cases went up to 4,189 with the 118 new patients on Sunday. Out of this, 2,150 have recovered and active cases are now 2,015. At least 1,75, 734 people are under observation. The state has reported 23 deaths so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-to-increase-covid-19-tests-as-infections-surge-with-118-new-patients/story-wyr1rnJJ0s2O0C5YYpMj1O.html
28-06-2020||India||Boycott China Call: Bihar cancels tender of mega bridge project involving Chinese companies||The Bihar government on Sunday announced the cancellation of a tender awarded for construction of a new mega bridge parallel to Patna’s iconic Mahatma Gandhi Setu because two of the four contractors selected for the project had Chinese partners, said state minister for road construction Nand Kishore Yadav.“2 of the 4 contractors who were selected for construction of a new bridge parallel to Mahatma Gandhi Setu, had Chinese partners. We asked them to change their partners but they didn’t, so we cancelled their tender. We have called for applications again,” Yadav was quoted as saying by news agency ANI in Patna.China Harbour Engineering Company and Shaanxi Road Bridge Group Company (JV) were among the bidders for the project, which was cleared by the Union government’s cabinet committee on economic affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi in December last year.Maha govt puts MoUs worth Rs 5,020 crore signed with Chinese firms on holdBihar government’s decision comes in the wake of outrage against Chinese aggression in eastern Ladakh that resulted in the deaths of 20 Indian Army soldiers on June 15. This has led to calls for boycott of Chinese products and business entities.Earlier this week, Maharashtra government had temporarily put on hold the memorandum of understanding (MoU) worth Rs 5,020 crore recently signed with three Chinese companies and demanded the Centre to come up with a clear policy on the matter in the context of the “boycott everything Chinese” call.The MoUs with three Chinese firms are worth Rs 5,020 crore, including Hengli Group (Rs 250 crore), Great Wall Motors (Rs 3,770 crore) and PMI Electro Mobility Solutions, a joint venture with Foton (Rs 1,000 crore).Majority of China’s BRI projects abroad adversely affected by Covid-19: OfficialThe 14.500 km long project in Bihar includes the construction of a 5.634 km bridge which runs parallel to the existing four-lane Mahatma Gandhi Setu across the Ganga river on NH-19 at Patna. It also includes four vehicular underpasses, one rail-over- bridge (RoB), 1,580 mtr long one viaduct, four minor bridges, five bus shelters and 13 road junctions. The capital cost of this was estimated at Rs 29.26 billion initially and it was supposed to be completed in 3.5 years.A confederation of Indian traders, CAIT had recently released a list of over 500 Chinese products and called for their boycott in India.The Swadeshi Jagran Manch, affiliated with the RSS had also demanded that the Central government cancelled a tender for construction of an underground stretch of Delhi-Meerut Regional Rapid Transit System awarded to Shanghai Tunnel Engineering Company Limited (STEC). Government officials had then clarified that it was not possible to cancel the contract as the project was funded by the Asian Development Bank and was against the rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boycott-china-call-bihar-cancels-tender-of-mega-bridge-project-involving-chinese-companies/story-oDdOTXT8CnRURde65Wz6JP.html
28-06-2020||India||Actors are exploring new avenues, says Pavleen Gujral||‘Angry India Goddess’ and ‘Marzi,’ star Pavleen Gujral is raring to go back to the sets and resume work. She is happy for herself as well as all the other actors who are able to find work in this tough phase. Pavleen shot for an advertisement at her home recently and also got offers for new projects that will happen in coming months, “Actors are attentively exploring new avenues. Earlier, brands were largely tapping bloggers and influencers for their digital promotions. But now, actors are able to find time for the same which they earlier preferred to give a miss. So it’s a win win for both the brand as well as the artiste. Though the payments made are not that big an amount but then we too need to keep on working and get going.”Besides, money it is also about reinventing ones craft. “Every day we get to see so many cooking and workout videos being posted by actor and other celebs. It’s not only about money always, as actors we also need to keep ourselves active and busy. It’s about keep working on your craft and propagating your talent,”She feels such projects where you get to connect with audience is great for mental health too particularly during this phase. “I started a #railchallenge which was about reading something from a book and posting online. It was such a fun task. The situation is bad for everyone. We are still better off than many other professionals who are struggling in every aspect of life.”Pavleen is not a part of second season of ‘City of Dreams-2’ but will be shooting for ‘Made in Heaven-2’ and ‘Marzi-2’. Talking more about her projects she said, “MiH-2 as well as the other series were supposed to be shot abroad. Besides, I am getting queries for a late-July shoot for a web series and another in October. Also, I am happy that my film ‘Bhor’, which was screened at many festivals, will release on OTT soon.”The Delhite has shot for travel show ‘Bazaar’ in Lucknow. “I shot extensively at Hazratganj, Aminabad and Chowk. I remember going to Ram Advani bookstore, savouring basket chaat and indulging into chikankari shopping. I visited the place again to shop for my brother’s wedding. I love the language of the city which is so beautiful. During the travel show I got to explore another side of Lucknow.”She now hopes to go back to work soon. “It’s great to be with family but we actors are workaholic and it is high time to go back to our normal work. We are longing to go back to the sets but don’t know when things will get normal and the shoot will resume on the sets.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/actors-are-exploring-new-avenues-says-pavleen-gujral/story-2x7cQoPSfmnrVBeg6WXc6J.html
28-06-2020||India||In Maharashtra’s Akola Jail, 68 inmates test positive for Covid-19||Sixty-eight inmates of the Akola district jail and 28 others in the area in Maharashtra tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, the health department said.The district jail currently has nearly 300 prisoners, a jail official said, adding that the facility has not taken in any new inmate recently.On Sunday, reports of 78 people, including 68 male prisoners of the district jail, came out positive, an official from the Government Medical College and Hospital said.ALSO READ | Maharashtra Police adds 150 new Covid-19 cases in 48 hours, another cop diesWith this addition, the total number of coronavirus cases in Akola district has gone up to 1,498, the official added.Earlier on June 24, 18 prisoners of the district jail had tested positive for coronavirus.Akola district has so far reported 76 deaths due to the viral infection. Till date, there are 378 active Covid-19 cases, while over 1,000 patients have been discharged after recovery, the official said. In the state, one policeman succumbed to the infectious Covid-19 disease in the last 48 hours, taking the death toll in the Maharashtra Police to 57, officials said on Sunday.With 150 new coronavirus infections detected in the force over a period of two days, the number of Covid-19 positive cases in Maharashtra Police has risen to 4,666 and is inching closer to the 5,000-mark.Barely three days ago, on Thursday, three more Maharashtra Police personnel had died of the infectious disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-maharashtra-s-akola-jail-68-inmates-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-Y0u3xNDiBdFNJatGFFuQFL.html
28-06-2020||India||No storm can continue forever: Venkaiah Naidu on Covid-19 pandemic||Asserting that the Covid-19 pandemic cannot continue forever, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday urge people to take all precautions to keep the killer virus at bay as the country emerges from the nationwide lockdown and enters the “unlock” phase. In a Facebook post, he appealed to the people to stay calm and have a firm belief that “no storm can continue forever.” Naidu noted that most of the countries have ended the lockdowns and have started focusing on economy. He said the government is taking continuous measures to boost the economy and asked everyone to support it by taking necessary precautions and following the guidelines. Calling upon the people to collectively fight against this unprecedented health crisis, the vice president said India’s strength lies in its faith in spirituality and trust in science. He advised people not to press the “panic button” but reach out for the “prevention and protection buttons”. Maintaining that the solution to Covid-19 lies in precautions, the vice president listed simple steps such as the use of face masks, practising safe distancing and washing of hands frequently as the only known ways of staying safe. Along with these steps, he also suggested the use of traditional foods, herbal and medicinal plant preparations that have proved to be great immunity boosters. Asking people to stay connected with family and friends, he wrote that technology can help them enjoy the feeling of togetherness. Cautioning people not to get carried away by sensational news or “panic-inducing” social media posts, Naidu asked them to refrain from forwarding unfounded and unverified messages. The vice president also opined that there could not be an easy or definitive answer to questions such as ‘how long will the restricted lifestyle last and when will we return to our normal lifestyle?’ “We have to probably live with both the uncertainty of the duration of the pandemic and the stress it has induced,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-storm-can-continue-forever-venkaiah-naidu-on-covid-19-pandemic/story-Z1SzgqOY4Eq7jDCf48jQvL.html
28-06-2020||India||Delhi’s Covid-19 tally rises by 2,899 on Sunday to reach 83,077 cases||Delhi recorded 2,889 fresh coronavirus cases on Sunday taking the tally to over 83,077 cases including 2,623 casualties so far, according to the health department’s daily bulletin. The capital saw more discharges on Sunday—3,306 – taking the total number of recoveries to 52,607, which roughly translates into a 63% recovery rate compared to the national average of 58.5%. A total of 65 deaths were registered in the last 24 hours.On June 23, the national capital had reported the highest single-day spike of 3,947, cases till date.The capital has been scaling up its testing capacity consistently to reach 20,080 tests conducted in the last 24 hours. The total number of tests conducted so far are only a touch shy of the 5 lakh mark at 498,416. Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu have conducted close to 8 lakh tests in comparison.As on Sunday, the total number of containment zones in Delhi stand at 417.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe capital currently has close to 13,000 hospital beds available for treatment of Covid patients out of which 6,014 are occupied and 7,397 are vacant. In dedicated Covid care centres, out of 5,909 beds, 1,558 are occupied while the remaining 4,351 are available.The Delhi government has issued an order for additional creation of hospital beds by identifying banquets capable of housing at least a 100-bed facility in every district and attached it to hospitals in the city for management and daily operations.An order has also been issued regarding operationalization of 450 beds in Burari hospital in phased manner, according to the health bulletin.Earlier today Union home minister Amit Shah had sought to allay fears over Coved cases in Delhi reaching alarming stage and ruled out a scenario of 5.5 lakh cases by the end of July as was predicted by one of the models which was quoted by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia. Shah said that situation had been controlled with the joint efforts of central and Delhi governments enforced through a series of multi-agency meetings to improve coordination at various levels.Amit Shah says cases in Delhi will not reach 5.5 lakh by July end as was feared by Delhi government“We will be in good condition (By July 31st) because we have laid stress on preventive steps including more tests and contact tracing,” Shah had told ANI in an interview on Sunday.Shah also ruled out fears of community transmissions having begun in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-covid-19-tally-rises-by-2-899-on-sunday-to-reach-83-077-cases/story-wbHMWXQ0D2EqIsLPQcg2BK.html
28-06-2020||India||45 home guards quarantined in Uttarakhand after 2 constables test Covid-19 positive||Two days after two woman constables tested positive for Covid-19 from Udham Singh Nagar district, over 45 home guards were quarantined and tested in the same district.On Friday, two women constables tested Covid-19 positive from ITI police station in Kashipur area of Udham Singh Nagar district after which the police station was sealed, informed officials.More than 45 home guards were found to have come in contact with the coronavirus positive patients during the contact tracing process.Dr. Shailaja Bhatt, chief medical officer of Udham Singh Nagar district said that the sampling process of all the contacts was being done on Sunday which included the homeguard personnel.“We are taking samples of all the close contacts of the patients. Soon after the police staff tested positive, the police station was sealed by the administration and no movement is allowed in that area,” said the chief medical officer. Officials are looking for more people who are likely to have come in contact with the patients.Rajesh Bhatt, additional superintendent of police Kashipur said that the concerned building has only been sealed for complete sanitization and it has not been declared a containment zone.Till date, Udham Singh Nagar district has reported 229 Covid-19 positive cases, with 97 active cases in the district till Saturday evening. The district has also reported the death of three patients due to the disease.With these two fresh cases, a total of nine police staff have tested positive for Covid-19 in Uttarakhand.As per official records, two police staff tested positive from Haridwar district, one from Dehradun, two from Champawat, one from Pauri Garhwal, two from Udham Singh Nagar and one was a State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/45-home-guards-quarantined-in-uttarakhand-after-2-constables-test-covid-19-positive/story-QIMGY1ME1pyUTZUh0wRRQJ.html
28-06-2020||India||Bihar minister and wife test positive for Covid-19||A Bihar minister and his wife tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, district administration said. He is the first minister in the state to contract the virus.District magistrate Kanwal Tanuj while confirming the reports said the minister and his spouse have been sent into an isolation ward at a city hotel.A doctor said “The minister and his spouse have symptoms and on that basis they had undergone tests and on Sunday the test reports came. The condition of both is stable.”The minister who had come from Patna a week ago and was busy in his constituency distributing the Prime Minister’s letter to the people ahead of Assembly polls.Authorities have begun contact tracing after the minister tested positive.Click here for Covid-19 full coverage.“The matter is serious as the minister after coming from Patna has undertaken a tour of his assembly area” a senior officer said adding “Several people may have come into his contact. We are taking details of the minister’s visit to the areas and all the people coming into his contact will have to undergo similar tests.“Soon after I came to know about the result of the test I along with my wife went to Katihar medical college and from there we were shifted to a hotel,” the minister said over phone.The constituency of the Bihar minister in the Seemanchal region is facing a flood threat with the Mahananda river inundating several places following torrential rain.This is the first case when a Bihar minister has tested positive for Covid-19. Earlier on June 22, a sitting BJP MLA tested positive for the virus. A senior RJD leader had also tested positive for the virus.Seemanchal comprising four districts-Purnia, Katihar, Araria and Kishanganj has registered over 1,000 confirmed cases of Covid-19. Over 80% of the patients have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-minister-and-wife-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-C6WOwyJMeLV6HWVRAiOcUO.html
28-06-2020||India||Telangana likely to reimpose lockdown in Hyderabad, surroundings as Covid-19 cases surge||The Telangana government is planning to reimpose lockdown in Greater Hyderabad municipal corporation limits for at least 15 days in the wake of a sharp spike in the number of Covid-19 positive cases.A decision to this effect will be taken in a couple of days after discussing the proposal in the state cabinet meeting, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said, after a high-level meeting on Sunday.According to a statement from the chief minister’s office (CMO), health minister Eatala Rajender pointed out that several medical and health department officials and medical experts were asking for another 15-day lockdown under the GHMC limits.Already, several shops, commercial establishments and markets had shut down their business operations voluntarily in view of the sharp rise in the Covid-19 cases in the city.With the highest single-day jump of 1,087 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, Telangana’s tally crossed 13,000, overtaking Madhya Pradesh and Haryana, according to a news agency. Of the fresh cases, 888 were reported in Greater Hyderabad, the biggest hotspot, it added.“Hyderabad is a metropolitan city with a population of nearly one crore. It is but natural that like other cities in the country, the spread of Corona is also high in the city. People started moving around after the lockdown was lifted. This led to the spread of the virus,” the minister pointed out.Jobless Telangana teachers turn to manual labourIn Tamil Nadu’s Chennai, lock down was re-imposed to contain the spread of the virus. Other cities in the country are also thinking on these lines. The medical and health department have also said that the re-imposition of lock down in Hyderabad will be good, Rajender said.However, the chief minister said re-imposition of lock down was a very major decision, which had to be discussed in the state cabinet. The government machinery and people should be prepared for this, especially the police department, he added.“A decision on lock down should be taken by soliciting views from all the concerned. Let us examine the situation keenly for two to three days. If need be, a cabinet meeting will be convened in three to four days to discuss the proposals for the lockdown, alternatives and other related issues and a decision will be taken,” KCR said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe chief minister, however, said that there was no need to get anxious or entertain fear about the increasing number of positive cases in the city as the government had made all the arrangements for proper treatment of the needy.The health minister said that compared to the national average, the death rate in Telangana was less and there was no need to fear. “We have kept thousands of beds ready in both government and private hospitals and colleges. Patients who are in critical conditions are treated in the hospitals. Asymptomatic patients are given treatment in their homes,” Rajender explained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-likely-to-reimpose-lockdown-in-hyderabad-and-surroundings-as-covid-cases-spike/story-ch34ShtPSM4ljUGq4LnDuO.html
28-06-2020||India||Major fire at chemical unit in Ghaziabad, 15 tenders rushed to the spot||A major fire broke out at a chemical factory in Pandav Nagar area of Ghaziabad on Sunday afternoon and the fire department had to rush at least 15 tenders to douse the fire. The officials said that the fire started due to probable short circuit at around 1.45pm and could be doused after two hours of hectic efforts.The officials said that the factory is located under the jurisdiction of Kavi Nagar police station area and used for manufacturing of chemicals. The fire department officials said that fire engulfed the entire factory as well threatened nearby residential house due to storage of chemicals.“We got a call around 1.45pm and our teams rushed to the spot. We also had to call up fire tenders from the Hindon airbase, Gautam Budh Nagar besides our own fire tenders. The factory had storage of about 200 containers, filled with 200 litres each of chemical. Many of them caught fire. The fire also threatened nearby residential area and a factory opposite to it,” said Sunil Kumar Singh, chief fire officer.“So, our personnel evacuated about 50-100 local residents and shifted them to safe distance while 4-5 workers in the factory came out on their own initially. In all, it took us two hours to first control the fire and later to completely douse fire and smoke in the internal area of the factory. The cause of the fire will be investigated as the unit was closed due to Sunday,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/major-fire-at-chemical-unit-in-ghaziabad-15-tenders-roped-in/story-wn9GtCsEMYCqUzX7HpXEGI.html
28-06-2020||India||Bengal Safari to open after taking Covid safety measures: Minister||The Bengal Safari, a state government-run wild animals park, in Darjeeling district and other tourist spots under the forest department will be opened after taking all precautionary measures to check the spread of coronavirus, a minister said on Sunday.“We don’t want a spike in coronavirus cases. We will not open the Bengal Safari and other tourist spots hastily,” Forest Minister Rajib Banerjee said.The government closed the tourist spots under the department in March in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.A meeting will be held on Monday on this issue, the minister said.Banerjee was talking to reporters during a visit to a beat office under Belakoba Forest Range of Baikunthapur forest in Jalpaiguri district.He donated a wheelchair to a person and handed over rice, eggs and other items to local people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-safari-to-open-after-taking-covid-safety-measures-minister/story-9t5vv14UW35NCmE5slanAM.html
28-06-2020||India||UP’s Covid 19 recovery rate at 68% against national average of 58.5%, 606 new cases on Sunday||Uttar Pradesh has recorded 606 new Covid 19 positive cases in the last 24 hours taking the total number of infections to 21,549. However, the state has fewer active cases than most at 6,679 since more than double that number of patients--14,808 have been discharged so far, while 660 patients have succumbed to the disease, according to the data released on Sunday by state principal secretary, health, Amit Mohan Prasad.Uttar Pradesh is among the top 10 worst-affected Indian states along with Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Telangana, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal.It is also one of the top states with the highest percentage of recoveries from the disease. In absolute numbers, Maharashtra with 84,245, Delhi with 49,301, Tamil Nadu with 44,094 and Gujarat with 22409 are the only states ahead of Uttar Pradesh’s recovery tally of 14,808.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesOn Saturday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had commended the state officials for reaching the capacity to daily test 20,000 samples for the disease mark and set a new target of 25,000 tests each day, an official said.The state health department officials on Saturday said that they are working on a plan in western Uttar Pradesh districts to break the chain of Covid-19 infections.The six districts of Meerut, Baghpat, Bulandshahr, Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar and Hapur account for 26.74% of total cases and 28.65% deaths in UP, according to state control room figures of June 26.While the state has claimed to have gained considerable success in its coronavirus containment efforts, the opposition has not been very impressed. Samajwadi Party leader and party national president Akhilesh Yadav had, a few days ago, told Hindi daily Hindustan that the UP government is not conducting enough number of Covid-19 tests and its claims of having 1 lakh beds for treatment of the infected was misleading.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19“Coronavirus disease will never peak in the state of Uttar Pradesh because the honourable chief minister of the state is not getting enough tests conducted. How is it possible to assess when the disease is going to peak if enough tests are not conducted. Look at Delhi, they are going to conduct tests,” Akhilesh said drawing a comparison.However, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has been working tirelessly to contain the spread of the virus and has presented an example to others.“The way Uttar Pradesh has shown courage, wisdom and has succeeded and tackled corona by handling the situation, it is unprecedented and praiseworthy,” he had said during the launch of Uttar Pradesh Rojgar Yojana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-at-68-against-national-average-of-58-5-606-new-cases-on-sunday/story-OI85ZMFTpnBaTTyeeV4VSO.html
28-06-2020||India||‘Will transfer father-son police custodial deaths case to CBI after HC nod’:Tamil Nadu CM||Amid an outrage over the death of a father-son duo in Tuticorin allegedly due to police torture on June 23, the Tamil Nadu government on Sunday decided to transfer the probe into the case to the CBI.“Tamil Nadu government has decided to transfer to CBI probe into death of father-son duo in Tuticorin following alleged police torture,” Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami was quoted as saying by PTI“After getting approval from Madras High Court the case will be transferred to CBI,” he said.The two men, Jayaraj and his son Fennix, who were arrested for allegedly violating lockdown norms by keeping their mobile phone shop open beyond the approved business hours, died at a hospital in Kovilpatti on June 23. Relatives alleged that they were severely beaten at the Sathankulam police station by policemen. Following a furore, the Tamil Nadu government suspended four policemen including two sub-inspectors.Tamil superstar Rajinikanth spoke to Jayaraj’s widow over the phone and conveyed his heartfelt condolences, the actor’s publicist said in a tweet on Sunday, according to PTI.Also Read: ‘Our George Floyds’: Outrage at custodial deaths in Tamil NaduCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in tweet on Sunday condemned the alleged police torture leading to the death of the two men.“It’s time for all of us to raise our voices against police brutality. We see it again and again, in every state, all over India. It is unacceptable, cruel and completely unlawful. The families of Jairaj and Fenix deserve justice. They deserve for all of us to stand up for them and put an end to heinous crimes being committed under the garb of the law,” she wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-transfer-father-son-police-custodial-deaths-case-to-cbi-after-approval-from-madras-hc-tamil-nadu-cm-palaniswami/story-CtKY5O7Ct1OgXKT5zKetpN.html
28-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: Andhra’s case count jumps to 13,098 as state records 813 new Covid-19 patients and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.With 813 new Covid-19 patients, Andhra’s tally jumps to 13,098Andhra Pradesh on Sunday continued to record a high number of Covid-19 cases with 813 fresh patients being detected in the last 24 hours. The new coronavirus cases have pushed the state’s tally to 13,098. Read moreMalls to reopen in Gurugram and Faridabad from July 1 after more than 3 monthsAfter more than three months, malls will reopen in Gurugram and Faridabad on July 1, according to the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) issued by the Haryana government. Read moreAbsconding tabloid owner accused in 60 crimes in Indore, held in GujaratAbsconding for more than six months and accused of being involved in rape, blackmailing, extortion, human trafficking, grabbing of land among other crimes, a tabloid owner Jitendra alias Jitu Soni was arrested from Gujarat and brought to Indore on Sunday, police said. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput’s audition for Kai Po Che, PK shared by Mukesh Chhabra: ‘A boy who never failed in any audition’Casting director and friend Mukesh Chhabra has shared a special video tribute for actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Sushant died on June 14 at the age of 34. Read moreMumbai Police says dino from Google’s T-Rex game is ‘dino-snoring’. Here’s whyThe plan is simple, to hit the space bar and help the cute T-Rex jump over the approaching cacti so it can live and continue its endless run. By now, you must have guessed that we are talking about Google’s hidden gem – the dinosaur game. Read moreMask it up: DIY masks to rejuvenate your skinHaven’t we all dreamt of a day when we wake up looking prettier than last night? Instead, the health of our skin only tends to deteriorate with the pollution and rising stress levels. But during the lockdown, netizens shared a lot of DIY beauty secrets, making face masks wildly popular. Read moreXiaomi Redmi Earbuds S review: More than just bare minimumXiaomi, a brand which is better known for its ‘Redmi’ products these days, is into smartphones, home appliances, wearables and other IoT devices, all of which serve just one purpose - to build an ecosystem. Read more‘He was much calmer by 2013 Champions Trophy’: Irfan Pathan explains how MS Dhoni’s captaincy changed over the yearsIrfan Pathan has opened up about the captaincy transformation in MS Dhoni between 2007 and 2013, explaining how the former India captain had started trusting and backing his bowlers more and their judgements by the time the Champions Trophy was held in England. Read more‘Not right to blame one section’: Sonu Sood on Sushant Singh Rajput’s deathActor Sonu Sood spoke on the tragic death of Sushant Singh Rajput and said that it is not fair to blame one section of Bollywood. He also spoke on the raging insider versus outsider debate in the industry and opened up on his experiences on the issue.Watch this video for all the details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-andhra-s-case-count-jumps-to-13-098-as-state-records-813-new-covid-19-patients-and-all-the-latest-news/story-R9wLENaFIEu0DB3nSnXoGM.html
28-06-2020||India||Maharashtra Police adds 150 new Covid-19 cases in 48 hours, another cop dies||One policeman succumbed to the infectious Covid-19 disease in the last 48 hours, taking the death toll in the Maharashtra Police to 57, officials said on Sunday.With 150 new coronavirus infections detected in the force over a period of two days, the number of Covid-19 positive cases in Maharashtra Police has risen to 4,666 and is inching closer to the 5,000-mark.Barely three days ago, on Thursday, three more Maharashtra Police personnel had died of the infectious disease.ALSO READ | 3 more cops die of Covid-19 in Maharashtra, force’s death toll climbs to 54Till date, nearly 3,400 police personnel have been cured and discharged and another 900-odd more security personnel are undergoing treatment for the pathogen.Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh announced on Saturday that bravery awards will be given to policemen working in the frontline of the battle against Covid-19, during a visit to Solapur district.The minister was reviewing the law and order situation in the district in view of the Ashadhi Ekadashi celebrations next week.“The Maharashtra Police have done a good job working in the frontline. They will be given bravery awards for their work,” Deshmukh, who was accompanied by state health minister Rajesh Tope, said.ALSO READ | In highest single-day surge, Pune’s coronavirus count crosses 20,000-markDeshmukh also indicated that families of police personnel dying of the deadly pathogen will get Rs 65 lakh assistance and they can stay in their official quarters till the deceased’s date of retirement in the normal course.He said there are dedicated Covid Care hospitals in each district for police personnel.State health minister Rajesh Tope said the government will also conduct antigen tests, which give results in an hour, giving priority to frontline Covid-19 workers.The Maharashtra government has also decided to undertake rapid antibody tests, which will help find out whether a person has contracted Covid-19, the minister said. Tope added the district administration has been asked to increase the number of isolation beds in most districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-police-adds-150-new-covid-19-cases-in-48-hours-another-cop-dies/story-qjh1ABMFlgpsEBDnEZLqPJ.html
28-06-2020||India||No work for them under MGNREGA, UP villagers take up canal-cleaning project on their own||Unable to find work under the MGNREGA, a group of villagers here have started on the laborious task of cleaning a canal so that water reaches its tail-end. About 70 labourers from Naugava village in Naraini tehsil have decided to do it for free – a “shramdaan” to give life again to land turning barren. Authorities now want to pay them for the job they have taken upon themselves, but the villagers have turned down the offer. They all say they could not find work under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act. Shyamlal, one of the workers, says a stretch of the 40-km-long canal between Guhala Kalan and Divli villages was not cleaned for years. “Due to this, the fertile agriculture land was becoming barren. I was sitting idle since I did not get any job under the MGNREGA. Then I thought that I should clean the canal so that water reaches its tail-end and we are able to grow foodgrains to feed our children,” he says. Another labourer, Ramswaroop, says people from nearby villages have donated food to them, which is being cooked by women involved in the “sharmdaan”. Gulabrani, Mamta, Sumitra and Rani are among the women taking care of the task. They have named their kitchen “Shramdaan Rasoi”. At present, 65-70 people are involved in the initiative, says Gulabrani. “Till a few years ago, crops were irrigated by water from this canal. But for the past two to four years due to the non-cleaning of silt, there was a shortage of water,” she says. Sumitra, who is also cooking food with Gulabrani, says if every agriculture field gets water, crops can be produced and people will not have to “go to other places to earn a living”. Meanwhile, the Executive Engineer of the Irrigation Department in Banda, Sharad Singh, said, “As we got news on Saturday of labourers doing the ‘shramdaan’, a departmental staffer was sent.” “We spoke to them over the phone. Their work is praiseworthy. We offered to pay wages but they did not agree to it,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-work-for-them-under-mgnrega-up-villagers-take-up-canal-cleaning-project-on-their-own/story-SyCOd5qS38jfYI4UlHxF2M.html
28-06-2020||India||Uttarakhand liquor traders want to surrender their shops amid huge losses||Amid losses due to the Covid-19 pandemic, many liquor traders in Uttarakhand have applied to the government for surrendering their licenses to run wine shops. In their applications, the traders have cited low sales and huge losses along with the ‘pressure’ of paying the Minimum Monthly Guaranteed Duty (MMGD) every month.There are about 650 wine shops in the state and the sale of alcohol is one of the major sources of revenue for the government which rakes in over Rs 3,000 crore annually.The government gives licenses on a yearly basis every year to liquor traders.Baburam Jaiswal, a prominent liquor trader in Nainital said, “The condition of liquor traders in the state is bad since the pandemic started. First, we had zero sales during the lockdown period from March 22 to May 3 and now in Unlock 1.0, the demand is lower than usual. It has hugely affected our earnings.”Jaiswal claimed that at least 90 liquor traders have applied for surrendering their shops, added, “On top of the losses, we have the pressure of MMGD which is a monthly fixed duty that we have to pay to the state excise department irrespective of the sales we make. It ranges from Rs 40 lakh to Rs 1 crore depending on the sales and the location of the shop. These are the reasons that many of us have applied for surrendering the shops but are yet to get any reply from the authorities concerned.”Citing other reasons he claimed that earlier the earning share in the liquor sales for the traders was “20 pe rcent which has now been reduced by the government to 14.5% after the Corona tax was implemented on liquor.”Another liquor trader who wished to be identified only by his last name Bansal, said, “At present, there are several issues being faced by the liquor traders in the state including a shortage of labour in shops and low sales.”“First we suffered in the lockdown and now when the shops have opened the sales are very low because there are no tourists and almost no weddings in the state. Despite this, we have to pay the monthly revenue to the government,” said Bansal.He wanted the government to provide liquor traders some respite.“The government should only take tax on the sales we make and not the MMGD or else we won’t be able to survive,” Bansal said.The state government in an effort to give some relief to the liquor traders, had earlier decided to waive off the tax on the unsold liquor during the lockdown period in which the shops were closed. The waived off tax is about Rs 230 crore.However, a few days ago a petition was filed in the Uttarakhand High Court against the government move alleging that the ‘government favoured the liquor traders by waiving off the tax.’ The HC while hearing the petition, issued notice to the government demanding reply on the same in three weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-liquor-traders-want-to-surrender-their-shops-amid-huge-losses/story-GejcWTEYd3cJBXx3IAj7xL.html
28-06-2020||India||Maharashtra likely to become biggest state to conduct plasma therapy on large scale: CM||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said that the state government will be inaugurate a centre for plasma therapy on Monday following which Maharashtra is likely to become the biggest state to conduct plasma therapy on a large scale. “Tomorrow we will be inaugurating a centre for plasma therapy after this it is likely that we will be the biggest state to conduct plasma therapy at this level. Those who got cured shall come forward and donate plasma to fight this pandemic. With plasma therapy nearly 90 per cent patients are getting cured,” said Thackeray. “Day after tomorrow we will be observing National Doctors’ Day. They are fighting for us, I offer my gratitude to them. Covid-19 is not over yet, we will tackle this issue together,” he added. Further, he said that the process to waive off farm loans has been delayed due to the model code of conduct during local body elections and Covid-19 pandemic in Maharashtra.“Now, we have decided to waive off loans of the remaining farmers,” he added.Maharashtra CM thanked people belonging to all religion for staying indoors amid Covid-19 crisis while many festivals have passed. “Soon we will have Ashadi Wari, I am attending this year’s Wari. I will pray to god Vitthal to get us out of this pandemic. I want to thank all Dahi Handi organisers, they have canceled this year’s Dahi Handi without even speaking about it to anybody,” said CM Thackeray. “I have also requested all Ganpati Utsav organisers that this time, as a part of social duty they shall keep their Ganpati idol height four feet only and make sure social distancing is being followed. During the meeting all the organisers assured to follow the government’s directions,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-likely-to-become-biggest-state-to-conduct-plasma-therapy-on-large-scale-cm/story-oogx9EjUfLJYojr6jSTgkL.html
28-06-2020||India||New normal in AC trains, breathe in operation theratre-like fresh air||The Railways’ air conditioned trains will now have operation theatre-like fresh air pumped into its coaches, replacing the circulated air which raises the chances of spread of infections, officials have said.The experiment, started with 15 pairs of air conditioned trains being run by the Railways on the Rajdhani routes since May 12, will be replicated in all AC trains as part of the national transporter’s preparations for post-Covid operations.“The Roof Mounted AC Package Unit (RMPU) system of Indian Railways AC coaches replaces air more than 16-18 times per hour just like in OTs,” officials said.Previously, these AC trains had air change six to eight times per hour and 80 per cent of the air that was pushed into coaches was recirculated air, while 20 per cent was fresh air.However, with the increase in the number of air changes, there has been a 10 to 15 per cent increase in energy consumption. “This is the price one has to pay for the safety of passengers. This is the new normal. The way an AC works is that it uses recirculated air so that it gets cooler faster. When we use fresh air it takes more time to cool, so there’s additional energy consumption,” an officer said.The Railways has also increased the centralised AC’s temperature from the usual 23 degrees to 25 degrees as passengers are no longer being provided linen.Officials said that on the advise of the health experts, the Railways’ has modified its non-AC coaches as isolation coaches for treating mild coronavirus cases and said that they have also applied health ministry guidelines to modify the ac units on board the special Rajdhani trains to ensure that the disease does not spread.As per the Ministry of Health guidelines, centralised AC is acceptable provided complete air change inside an AC coach takes place at least 12 times per hour, officials said.So far, only a study by Chinese researchers has concluded that droplet transmission was prompted by air-conditioned ventilation. Not many other studies, however, have associated AC use with coronavirus spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-normal-in-ac-trains-breathe-in-operation-theratre-like-fresh-air/story-Z1YWy7qCddvdscdzkpdWMN.html
28-06-2020||India||PM CARES Fund received money from Chinese companies: AM Singhvi||The war of words between the Congress and the ruling Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) over Indo-China border clashes further escalated on Sunday with a fresh round of accusations and counter accusations levelled by leaders from both sides. First, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi poked PM Narendra Modi raising the issue of “national security” after his monthly ‘Mann Ki Baat’ radio address, then Union home minister Amit Shah accused Congress leader Rahul Gandhi of shallow politics aligned with Pakistan and China’s interests. It has now been followed with a verbal attack by Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi, who has alleged that the PM CARES fund received money from a Chinese firm associated with their military. He has also alleged that several BJP presidents over the years have toured China and interacted with their ruling Chinese Communist Party (CCP).“No president of any political party in this country has had to continuous exchanges with CCP like BJP Presidents right from Rajnath Singh to Gadkari ji to Amit Shah. There have been visits and delegations between BJP and CCP, repeatedly,” Singhvi said on Sunday.Also Read: ‘You say what China and Pakistan like’: Amit Shah’s scathing attack on Rahul GandhiOn Saturday BJP had accused the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation, chaired by Congress President Sonia Gandhi of having received funds from the Chinese Embassy between 2005 and 2009 during the Congress-led UPA government’s tenure apart from other allegedly dodgy contributions and transactions into the fund. The Congress had issued an explanation later in the day and claimed that the BJP was dragging Rajiv Gandhi Foundation to distract attention from the government’s handling of the current border crisis with China that saw 20 Indian Army soldiers killed in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).Singhvi built on the theme by alleging that despite some pointed questions by the party on the Chinese incursions since May 2020, the government was sidestepping them.“In last few days we’ve given you maps, points, locations, satellite images, photos but answer has only been- Rajiv Gandhi foundation. I am deliberately making a statement which I need not & I dare PM, govt & ruling party to falsify my next statement,” Singhvi was quoted as saying on Congress party’s official website. He went to raise questions over the alleged donations to the PM CARES Fund, established recently by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to mobilize relief money to deal with crises such as the coronavirus pandemic.“Rs 7 crore in this fund has been received from Huawei. Everyone knows Huawei is the alter ego of People’s Liberation Army (PLA) hence the Chinese government. 30 crores has come from Chinese company tiktok. Paytm with 38% Chinese controlled shareholding has donated,” Singhvi was quoted as saying on the official website of the Congress party.Earlier today, in an interview to news agency ANI, Amit Shah said that the NDA government was ready for discussion on the Indo-China border conflict in the Parliament.“There will be Parliament (session). If you want to discuss, we will. Let everything be discussed from 1962 to today. No one is afraid of discussion. But when the soldiers of the country are making efforts, the government is taking solid steps after taking a stand, at that time, making statements that please Pakistan and China should not be done,” said Shah.Also Read: When will there be talk of nation’s security? Rahul Gandhi asks PM ModiHe also hit out at Rahul Gandhi for alleging that PM Modi had ‘surrendered” Indian territory to China by denying Chinese incursions and occupation of Indian territory in the last two months. “It is a matter of self-introspection for him (Rahul Gandhi) and Congress that his hashtag is being taken forward by Pakistan and China. It is not for me. It is a matter of concern for Congress that the hashtag of their leader is being encouraged by Pakistan and China. You say what China and Pakistan like. And at this time of crisis,” said Shah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-cares-fund-received-money-from-chinese-companies-am-singhvi/story-4Dd0P4f9LVdASslXkdeyfP.html
28-06-2020||India||Absconding tabloid owner accused in 60 crimes in Indore, held in Gujarat||Absconding for more than six months and accused of being involved in rape, blackmailing, extortion, human trafficking, grabbing of land among other crimes, a tabloid owner Jitendra alias Jitu Soni was arrested from Gujarat and brought to Indore on Sunday, police said. Confirming his arrest, Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of police Harinarayanchari Mishra said, “Of about 60 criminal cases he is facing related to rape, human trafficking, blackmailing, extortion, grabbing of land etc, 45 were lodged against him in the past six months while about 15 cases were registered earlier. He was arrested on Saturday. We will give more details about the arrest within hours,” the DIG said.Soni escaped during a police raid at his premises on December 3, after an engineer from Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) Harbhajan Singh lodged an FIR against him accusing Soni of defaming him based on ‘unfounded conversation’ and trying to blackmail him.The FIR was preceded by Soni’s tabloid Sanjha Lokswami publishing a transcript of the engineer’s alleged conversation with certain women who were arrested earlier on charges of luring, trapping and blackmailing high-profile people in Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and certain other states, according to police. The tabloid also published transcripts of two other high-profile people, including a former minister.In a joint operation with the Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) and police, the Indore district administration razed two bungalows of Jitu Soni-- one at Kanadia Road and another at Shanti Kunj besides removing illegal structures in his two hotels and a cafe in the first fortnight of December. The estimated cost of the damaged properties during the anti-encroachment drive was said to be more than Rs 20 crore, as per an administrative official.The demolition began on December 5 with police claiming to have rescued 67 women and several children from the hotel and hub of Soni’s operations. His son Amit Soni, his bouncer and several members of the staff have been arrested.The district administration cancelled the permission granted to Soni to bring out his daily while the amount of reward on his arrest was increased from Rs 30,000 to Rs 100,000.Jitu Soni’s son Amit Soni was arrested in connection with the Arms Act and certain other cases. Jitu Soni, another son, two brothers and nephews also face criminal cases and they all had been absconding. One of his brothers was arrested from Gujarat a few days ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/absconding-tabloid-owner-accused-in-60-crimes-in-indore-held-in-gujarat/story-OtHuq3aIuXlpsjiaUEbirK.html
28-06-2020||India||‘Corona Kavach’: IRDAI asks insurance companies to offer health policy for Covid-19 by July 10||Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDAI) has asked all life, general and health insurance companies to offer two health policies for Covid-19 from July 10 as the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have surged in the country. Both of the policies have been designed by IRDAI.“General and Health Insurers shall ensure that this product is compulsorily offered on or before 10th July, 2020,” the IRDAI guideline said.According to the guidelines issued by the insurance regulator on Saturday, general and health insurance companies will have to offer one short-term Covid-19 policy—Corona Kavach Policy—which will be a standard health policy.The Corona Kavach Policy would have tenure period ranging from three and half months to six and a half months, and nine and a half months.The mode of payment would be a single premium, the guidelines said.“The premium under this product should be pan India basis and no geographic location/zone based pricing is allowed,” it said.The policy would also include the cost of treatment for any comorbidity or pre-existing disease along with the treatment of Covid-19.The second one, Corona Rakshak, is a standard benefit policy.According to the guidelines, the minimum sum insured for the Corona Kavach Policy will be Rs 50,000 and the maximum Rs 5 lakh. While in the Corona Rakshak Policy, the minimum sum insured is 50,000 and the maximum limit has been set at Rs 2.5 lakh. Expenses for hospitalisation, home care treatment, AYUSH treatment and pre- and post-hospitalisation, will also be covered in both the policies. At home, treatment would be covered for up to 14 days per incident, according to the IRDAI guidelines. India on Sunday recorded the highest surge in Covid-19 infections in the last 24 hours as it reported 19,906 new patients, which took the final tally to 528,859. The number of people succumbing to the disease stood at 16,095 with 410 new deaths.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/corona-kavach-irdai-asks-insurance-companies-to-offer-health-policy-for-covid-19-by-july-10/story-uRtSjS2qrpvLqcSQwIUutM.html
28-06-2020||India||Top US health body adds 3 new symptoms of Covid-19||The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has added three new symptoms of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to its existing list. Congestion or runny nose, nausea and diarrhoea have been added to the US health protection agency’s list of 12 symptoms now. Fever or chills, cough, shortness of breath or difficulty in breathing, fatigue, muscle or body aches, headaches, loss of smell or taste and sore throat are the symptoms that are already in CDC’s list.“This list does not include all possible symptoms. CDC will continue to update this list as we learn more about COVID-19,” the agency said on its website.People who have contracted Covid-19 could exhibit a varying combination of symptoms and the severity of the illness may differ from case to case, according to the website.Symptoms may appear 2-14 days after exposure to Sar-Cov-2 virus, which causes the coronavirus disease, the health agency has warned.CDC’s list of symptoms was limited to fever, cough, and shortness of breath a the onset of the ongoing coronavirus. It added six new symptoms — chills, muscle pain, headache, sore throat, and new loss of taste or smell in April.Shortness of breath was later updated to ‘shortness of breath or difficulty breathing’.“Anyone can have mild to severe symptoms. Older adults and people who have severe underlying medical conditions like heart or lung disease or diabetes seem to be at higher risk for developing more serious complications from COVID-19 illness,” it said.The number of Covid-19 cases is inching closer to the 10 million-mark and over 499,000 deaths have been recorded over the last few months across the world, according to Johns Hopkins University’s tracker. India has recorded more than 5.28 lakh infections and over 16,000 deaths till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-us-health-body-adds-3-new-symptoms-of-covid-19/story-PUGeVQEvcVtAnFMbhW1BeK.html
28-06-2020||India||With 813 new Covid-19 patients, Andhra’s tally jumps to 13,098||Andhra Pradesh on Sunday continued to record a high number of Covid-19 cases with 813 fresh patients being detected in the last 24 hours. The new coronavirus cases have pushed the state’s tally to13,098.Twelve more people succumbed to the infection in the state, increasing the death toll to 169. The state now has 7,021 active Covid-19 cases after more than 5,000 patients have recovered from the infection and been discharged till date.ALSO READ | Covid-19: As India records highest daily spike, Govt underlines recovery rate at 58%Amid the rising number of cases, Andhra Pradesh Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh on Saturday said that the state government is planning to reopen schools by the end of August. He also announced a project for the renovation of all government schools. The minister said, “In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, we are also shifting to online education, and once schools reopen the children will definitely feel a good atmosphere.” He also released a toll-free number for addressing grievances of students during this period.A huge single-day surge of 19,906 Covid-19 cases on Sunday pushed India’s tally to 5,28,859, while the death toll rose to 16,095 with 410 people succumbing to the infection in the last 24 hours, according to Union Health Ministry data.This is the fifth consecutive day that coronavirus infections have increased by more than 15,000.There has been a surge of 3,38,324 infections from June 1 till date. The country’s active cases stand at 2,03,051, while 3,09,712 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, according to the ministry.India’s recovery rate has climbed to an encouraging 58.56 per cent over the last three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-813-new-covid-19-patients-andhra-s-tally-jumps-to-13-098/story-gkoxfYWvzqNHlKC4VlEosL.html
28-06-2020||India||26/11 plotter Sajjid Mir lives under ‘highest level of ISI protection’ in Pakistan||In its annual Country Reports on Terrorism, the United States has accused Islamabad of not prosecuting 2019 Pulwama attack Jaish-e-Mohammed mastermind Masood Azhar and 26/11 Mumbai attack master planner Sajjid Mir aka Majid despite their “widely believed” presence in Pakistan.While the Imran Khan government continues to deny the presence of these killers in Pakistan, Mir and Azhar live under highest level of ISI protection that country. Sajjid Mir, the handler of American national David Coleman Headley, lives in Garden Villa Housing Society, Adiala Jail Road, Rawalpindi, Pakistan or 27, C-Block, Al Faisal Town, Lahore or Ganda Nala area of Lahore in Pakistan.Carrying a reward of US $5 million on his head, 44-year-old Mir was the man who directed the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists to take the head shot at Holtzberg couple at Chabad House in Mumbai during the 26/11 massacre. Responsible for security of LeT’s operations chief Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi till 2010, Mir was not only responsible for recruiting terrorists abroad and training in terror camps in Pakistan but also was part of the ISI’s Indian Mujahideen operation or what was identified as the Karachi project.While the Indian intelligence has kept track of Mir, the terrorist has level seven protection, which is normally given to heads of state by the ISI in Pakistan. He underwent plastic surgery after the 26/11 attacks.Similarly, the architect of the 2016 Pathankot air base and 2019 Pulwama attack, Masood Azhar, lies bed-ridden at JeM headquarters at Markaz-e-Usaman-o-Ali, Railway Link Road, in Bhawalpur in Pakistan’s Punjab province. While Azhar plans the attack against India, the strike is executed by his brother Maulana Rauf Asghar and his team. The veteran terrorist is also known to stay in Madarassa Bilal Habshi, Kotka Imam Shah, Gareha Shah Jahan, P S Mandan, Bannu, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KPK) or Madrassa Masjid-e-Luqman, Lakkitajazai Road, Lakkimarwat, KPK.While Sajjid Mir was declared a global terrorist in 2012, Masood Azhar was declared a global terrorist on May 1, 2019, after much delay with China blocking his designation by the UNSC 1267 committee four times. Azhar continues to remain active as a terror leader of Pakistan but Sajjid Mir has gone below the radar at the instructions of ISI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/26-11-plotter-sajjid-mir-lives-under-highest-level-of-isi-protection-in-pakistan/story-YD37EtMDzTOGkddqufHHmJ.html
28-06-2020||India||Air India to operate 170 flights under phase 4 of Vande Bharat Mission||Air India will be conducting 170 flights to and from 17 countries between July 3 and 15 under the fourth phase of the Vande Bharat Mission, according to an official document.The government started the mission on May 6 to help stranded people reach their destinations using special repatriation flights. Scheduled international passenger flights have been suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic.Under the fourth phase of the mission, Air India will be conducting 170 flights connecting India with Canada, the US, the UK, Kenya, Sri Lanka, Philippines, Kyrgyzstan, Saudi Arabia, Bangladesh, Thailand, South Africa, Russia, Australia, Myanmar, Japan, Ukraine and Vietnam, as per the airline’s document accessed by the PTI.These 170 chartered flights under the fourth phase are scheduled to be operated between July 3 and 15, it stated.A total of 38 flights and 32 flights will be operated on Indo-UK and Indo-US routes, respectively, as per the document.The national carrier will operate 26 flights between India and Saudi Arabia, it added.Air India is scheduled to operate 495 chartered flights to and from various countries in the third phase, which began on June 10 and it will end on July 4. The first phase was from May 7 to 16, following which the second phase began.The US Department of Transportation announced on June 22 that it has barred Air India from operating chartered flights between India and the United States from July 22 without its prior approval, in an apparent retaliation for the Indian government not allowing American carriers to operate between the two countries. Therefore, on June 23, the Aviation Ministry had said that it was considering establishing “individual bilateral bubbles” with the US, the UK, Germany and France allowing airlines of each country in the pact to operate international passenger flights. After nearly two months of suspension to combat the coronavirus outbreak, the government resumed scheduled domestic passenger flights from May 25 but in a curtailed manner and by placing lower and upper limits on airfares depending upon the flight duration. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on June 20 said that the government will start thinking on resuming scheduled international passenger flights in mid-July, when it expects the domestic air traffic to reach 50-55 per cent of the levels before coronavirus. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said last Friday it is extending the suspension of scheduled international passenger flights in the country till July 15 but added that some international scheduled services on selected routes may be permitted on a case-to-case basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-to-operate-170-flights-under-phase-4-of-vande-bharat-mission/story-87CvsvY6JEDdOMbl8mN6oK.html
28-06-2020||India||As salons and beauty parlours open in Maharashtra, officials say spike in Covid-19 cases likely by July 15||Salons and beauty parlours opened up across Maharashtra on Sunday after more than three months even as the state witnessed a spike in daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) over the last four days.The Maharashtra government had on late Thursday allowed salons and beauty parlours to reopen in the state with certain riders. As per the guidelines, the establishments can carry out select services like haircut, hair dyeing, waxing, threading, among others, excluding skin-related services.The state government has also made it mandatory for employees to wear protective gear such as gloves, aprons and masks.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Salon owners in Mumbai said they are allowing customers with prior appointments.“We have started our operations with all safety precautions, however, customers can come only with prior appointment. The appointment is being given one day in advance,” a salon owner said.“We will also soon issue guidelines in form of safety precautions that salon owners are expected to take in Mumbai,” an official of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said.Maharashtra recorded 5,318 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday—the fourth day in a row that the state saw a record single-day jump in infections and the second consecutive day of more than 5,000 cases. Additionally, the state reconciled 1,050 cases from all districts and municipal corporations between March 9 and June 7, taking its tally to 159,133. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Mumbai on Saturday reported 1,402 new Covid-19 cases and 675 old cases, which were reconciled, taking its day’s total to 2,077—the highest number of cases reported in a day in the city.“Maharashtra is behind Mumbai and it will peak somewhere around July 15. In Mumbai, the cases might have plateaued but it has not yet in Maharashtra. However, we are in a better situation now, our recovery rate is good, social distancing is good, quarantining is better and further, it will all depend on how we will unlock,” Dr Shashank Joshi, Maharashtra Covid-19 task force member, said while speaking to HT earlier this week. The state recorded 167 fatalities on Saturday, taking the toll to 7,273. The case fatality rate (CFR) in the state stands at 4.57%. Of the deaths reported in the state on Saturday, 86 occurred in the past 48 hours and 81 deaths were from before that.These include five in Jalgaon, four in Dhule, two each in Ahmednagar and Nashik, one each in Vasai-Virar, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Jalna and Latur, data from the state health department revealed. Mumbai recorded 41 new fatalities in the past 48 hours, while 64 fatalities from earlier weeks were reconciled, taking the city’s death toll to 4,284.The situation in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) continued to remain grim with a further rise in cases in the satellite cities around Mumbai. Thane city and Kalyan-Dombivli continued to record a surge in cases.Thane city and Kalyan-Dombivli recorded their highest single-day spikes of 410 and 514 new cases, respectively. Navi Mumbai recorded 164 new cases, Thane district recorded 235 new cases. Bhiwandi and Vasai-Virar recorded 110 and 170 new cases, respectively.“Not only Mumbai, but we also need to control the number of cases in MMR. The economy of Mumbai is dependent on MMR, and there is a lot of travelling between Mumbai and MMR. Hence, we also need to have control over the cases being reported in the MMR region,” Dr Joshi had said earlier. The MMR region including satellite cities neighbouring Mumbai constitutes over 70% of the total cases and deaths in the whole of Maharashtra.Meanwhile, 4,430 patients were discharged on Saturday across the state, taking the total number of discharged people to 84,245. The state’s recovery rate is 52.94% and its active case tally stands at 67,600. Maharashtra has so far tested 896,874 samples and has a positivity rate of 17.74%. Currently, 565,161 people are in home quarantine and 36,925 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-salons-and-beauty-parlours-open-in-maharashtra-officials-say-spike-in-covid-19-cases-likely-by-july-15/story-bqMN3r9BPjStS0XtmG9rLO.html
28-06-2020||India||Maharashtra lockdown won’t be lifted after June 30, says Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday ruled out lifting the lockdown in the state which continues to grapple with a huge surge in Covid-19 cases.“Lockdown will not be lifted after June 30 as the risk of infection is not over yet. We are extending relaxations step by step,” Thackeray said in an address.Maharashtra remains the worst-hit state by the Covid-19 pandemic with a tally of almost 1.6 lakh out of which more than 74,000 cases are in Mumbai. Ten major cities including Mumbai continue to be in red zones with strict restrictions including no public transport. More than 7,000 people have died of Covid-19 in the state so far.“There will be a spike in cases owing to relaxations in lockdown curbs,” the chief minister warned.As the state battles to contain the rampaging spread of the virus, Thackeray said the government’s approach and treatment for Covid-19 has been at par with all developed countries.“We are keeping a track of developments across the globe and our approach and treatment for Covid-19 has been at par with all developed countries. For instance when it comes to medicines we have been using all medicines from dexamethasone to Remdesivir as well as therapies like plasma therapy. But for using medicines like Remdesivir, we need Centre’s approval. We had sought approval at the end of April and got it only last week,” he said.As part of its efforts to ease restrictions under fourth phase of its Mission Begin Again, the Maharashtra government on Sunday allowed barbershops, salons and beauty parlours to reopen after more than three months of shutdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-lockdown-won-t-be-lifted-after-june-30-says-uddhav-thackeray/story-mi16FYfzL0Og0BRe28XK1K.html
28-06-2020||India||‘You say what China and Pakistan like’: Amit Shah’s scathing attack on Rahul Gandhi||Union home minister Amit Shah made a scathing attack on former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, accusing him of indulging in “shallow politics”.“We are fully capable of handling anti-India propaganda but it does pain when a former president of such a big political party does ‘ochhi rajiniti (shallow politics)’ at a time of problems,” Shah said in an interview to news agency ANI.Gandhi has been leading the Congress attack on the face-off between Indian and Chinese soldiers in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed. He even accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of surrendering India’s territory to China using the words ‘Surender Modi’ for him on Twitter. Also Watch | ‘Congress should introspect’: Amit Shah on Rahul Gandhi’s ‘Surender Modi’ tweet“It is a matter of self-introspection for him and Congress that his hashtag is being taken forward by Pakistan and China. It is not for me. It is a matter of concern for Congress that hashtag of their leader is being encouraged by Pakistan and China. You say what China and Pakistan like. And at this time of crisis,” said Shah.He also said that the government is ready for discussion on the issue in Parliament. “There will be Parliament (session). If you want to discuss, we will. Let everything be discussed from 1962 to today. No one is afraid of discussion. But when the soldiers of the country are making efforts, the government is taking solid steps after taking a stand, at that time, making statements that please Pakistan and China should not be done,” said Shah.He also took on Congress for not appointing anyone apart from the members of Gandhi family its president. “After Advaniji, Rajnathji, Nitinji, Rajnathji again, I became (party president) and now Naddaji. Is there a member of the same family? After Indiraji, tell me a Congress President who is outside the Gandhi family. What democracy they talk about?” said Shah.Gandhi and the Congress party have been attacking the government since the June 15 skirmish. On Friday, Gandhi posted a video and said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should tell “the truth” as several accounts were saying that China has made incursions in Eastern Ladakh.His mother and Congress president Sonia Gandhi accused the PM Modi-led central government of “mismanagement” which led to a full-blown crisis on the borders with China.“True to its character, the government is in denial. The intrusion was detected and reported on May 5. Instead of a resolution, the situation deteriorated rapidly and there were violent clashes on June 15-16. Twenty Indian soldiers were martyred, 85 injured and 10 went ‘missing’ until they were returned,” she said at a virtual meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision-making body.Today again, the Congress party accused the government on Twitter of “giving in” to intruders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-say-what-china-and-pakistan-like-amit-shah-s-scathing-attack-on-rahul-gandhi/story-me1Tb7a7a5j3c17S8xOgVL.html
28-06-2020||India||Recovered Covid-19 patients exceed active cases by over 1 lakh: Health Ministry||The gap between recoveries and active cases of Covid-19 has crossed 1,00,000, the Union health ministry said on Sunday as coronavirus cases in India mounted to 5,28,859 and the death toll rose to 16,095.The recovered cases have exceeded the active cases by 1,06,661 as on Saturday, the ministry said.A total of 3,09,712 patients have been cured of Covid-19 so far with 13,832 patients having recovered in the last 24 hours, it said.“The recovery rate is 58.56 per cent amongst Covid-19 patients,” the ministry said.    “The graded, pre-emptive and pro-active steps taken by the Government of India along with the states and UTs for prevention, containment and management of Covid-19 are showing encouraging results,” it said in a statement.Presently, there are 2,03,051 active cases and all are under active medical supervision, it said.India now has 1,036 diagnostic labs dedicated to Covid-19. This includes 749 in the government sector and 287 private labs.  “Daily more than 2,00,000 samples are being tested. The samples tested in the last 24 hours have further increased to 2,31,095. The total number of samples tested, as on date, is 82,27,802,” the statement stated.As on June 28, the Covid related health infrastructure has been strengthened with the availability of 1,055 dedicated Covid Hospitals with 1,77,529 isolation beds, 23,168 ICU beds and 78,060 oxygen supported beds, it said.Also, 2,400 dedicated Covid Health Centres with 1,40,099 isolation beds, 11,508 ICU beds and 51,371 oxygen supported beds have also been operationalised.Besides, 9,519 Covid Care Centres with 8,34,128 beds are now available to combat Covid-19 in the country, the ministry said.The Centre has also provided 187.43 lakh N95 masks and 116.99 lakh Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) to the states, UTs and central institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/recovered-covid-19-patients-exceed-active-cases-by-over-1-lakh-health-ministry/story-Ocu3KIGQlGw2oZa93HrlZN.html
28-06-2020||India||‘We long for those great leaders’: Congress’ latest attack on govt over Ladakh face-off||The Congress party kept the heat on the government by once again accusing it of “giving in to intruders” in reference to the face-off between the Indian and Chinese soldiers in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley.“India once had leaders with great courage & fortitude. Leaders that never backed down from threat or adversary. Today, as our govt gives in to intruders, we long for those great leaders & the India they made,” the Congress said on Twitter on Sunday. India once had leaders with great courage & fortitude. Leaders that never backed down from threat or adversary. Today, as our govt gives in to intruders, we long for those great leaders & the India they made. pic.twitter.com/fVlCyPluBaThe party attached a video with the tweet which talks about India giving a befitting reply to the Chinese in the 60s which shaped the Indo-China relations in the years to come.The Opposition party has been attacking the government since the June 15 clashes. It has accused the government of giving away Indian territory to China after the incident, a charge launched by the Congress after the all-party meeting on June 19 where Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that not an inch of India’s territory has been taken by the Chinese forces.The attack has been led by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, his son and former party president Rahul Gandhi and former prime minister Manmohan Singh.Two day ago, Sonia Gandhi, son Rahul and daughter Priyanka released three video messages back-to-back in which they stepped up attacks on PM Modi over the India-China border standoff and asked the government to take people into confidence on the extent of territories being occupied by Chinese troops.Sonia Gandhi recalled PM Modi’s statements that China hasn’t crossed into our territory. But, she said, Chinese forces do appear to have occupied Indian territory according to defence experts, satellite images and statements emerging out of the foreign ministry.The Gandhi family’s relentless attack on the government has been countered by the top leadership of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) with allegation that Congress’ Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF) was beneficiaries of donations from the Chinese government and its embassy in New Delhi.Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad alleged that the donation had led the Congress to support China. He also said RGF had pushed for a free trade agreement between the two countries, leading to a huge trade deficit skewed in favour of China, and that the donation led to the Congress supporting China.BJP chief JP Nadda even put out excerpts from annual reports of Rajiv Gandhi Foundation to allege that the PM Relief Fund, which receives donations from the public, had gone ahead to donate money to the RGF, when the Manmohan Singh-led coalition was in power.The Congress insists that PM Modi’s concluding statement at the all-party meeting that Chinese troops were not present in Indian territory contradicted the earlier statements made by the Army chief, the defence Minister and the foreign ministry. The party asked if no Chinese troops had crossed the Line of Actual Control (LAC), what was the reason for the face-off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-long-for-those-great-leaders-congress-latest-attack-on-govt-over-ladakh-face-off/story-wtQIuGX0eC1DofgbIGlBMM.html
28-06-2020||India||‘It’s a great service to the nation’: PM Modi urges people to go vocal about local||People must lend their support in making India self-reliant and become vocal for local as a way to serve the country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday during his monthly Mann Ki Baat radio programme.As he focussed on several aspects, PM Modi also talked about his “vocal for local” campaign in which he has called for the promotion of indigenous products to make India self-reliant during the coronavirus pandemic.“People from all over India are writing, reiterating their support to the movement to make India self-reliant,” he said.Before Independence, India was ahead of several other countries in defence production and the country had several ordinance factories. Also read| In Ladakh, India gave a befitting reply to those coveting our territories: PM Modi on Mann ki Baat“But many countries that were behind us in defence production are now ahead of us. After Independence, we did not take the required steps or take advantage of the past experience but now we are making relentless efforts to become self-reliant in defence and technology,” the PM said.Modi said no mission can be completed or succeed without the people’s participation and therefore, the determination, dedication and cooperation of every citizen is very essential in making a self-reliant India. Also read| Have to be even more careful during Unlock phase: PM Modi stresses on Mann ki Baat“If you will buy local and be vocal for local, you will be playing your role in strengthening the country. This too is a service to the country in a way,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-s-a-great-service-to-the-nation-pm-modi-urges-people-to-go-vocal-about-local/story-RdigyNtXj9fa9hxxmf4seL.html
28-06-2020||India||When will there be talk of nation’s security? Rahul Gandhi asks PM Modi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi when he would address India’s security issues.“When will there be talk of nation’s security?” Gandhi tweeted after the Prime Minister in his Mann Ki Baat praised Indian soldiers for giving “a befitting reply to those coveting our territories”.Referring to the violent face-off between Indian and Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on the night of June 15 that left 20 Indian soldiers the commanding officer of the Bihar Regiment dead, Modi said, “Our brave soldiers have shown that they will not let any harm be done to Mother India’s pride.” The Congress has been hammering away at the PM and the government for inconsistent stands on the actual situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh amid the standoff with the Chinese.On Saturday, Congress leader Kapil Sibal claimed that the Chinese have intruded 18 km across the LAC at once location and asked PM Modi to “condemn the brazen Chinese occupation in Ladakh”.Sibal had targeted the PM for his statement at an all-party meeting that “no one intruded into Indian territory” that was in stark contrast to the statement of the Indian ambassador in Beijing who said China should de-escalate and disengage by “moving back to its side of LAC”. Sibal showed photographs to claim that the Chinese have intruded into several places in Indian territory and have cut off Indian patrols at five patrol points in the Ladakhi outback along the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-will-there-be-talk-of-nation-s-security-rahul-gandhi-asks-pm-modi/story-eEM4HoGFtS2QIysOhKMXeM.html
28-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: After Gurugram, locust swarm seen in UP’s Kasganj and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Locust swarm seen in Gurugram now in UP’s KasganjThe swarm of locusts which was seen in different parts of Delhi NCR including Gurugram and south Delhi on Saturday has reached Kasganj in western Uttar Pradesh after an unsuccessful attempt to control it, a top official of the Locust Warning Organisation said on Sunday. Read moreIn Ladakh, India gave a befitting reply to those coveting our territories: PM Modi on Mann ki BaatPrime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday India has shown the world its sense of fraternity during the coronavirus pandemic as well its strength and commitment to protecting its sovereignty and borders as he addressed Mann Ki Baat, his monthly radio programme. Read moreApple’s Craig Federighi explains why there’s no native Calculator and Weather app for iPadApple’s senior vice president of everything software, Craig Federighi was the star of this year’s WWDC 2020 keynote presentation (like every other year). He talked about a lot of things including the upcoming iOS 14, macOS, tvOS, watchOS and iPadOS updates. Read moreAmitabh Bachchan shares rare family pic of 3 generations in one frame, features son Abhishek and grandson AgastyaActor Amitabh Bachchan on Saturday posted a throwback picture with his son Abhishek and grandson Agastya. He also wrote how inadvertently they all posed in a similar fashion. Read moreDavid Beckham shows off his new talent with DIY beehive during quarantineIf they were to ever make a show about ‘Keeping up with the Beckhams’, it would certainly be one that I would keep up with. David Beckham has been the epitome of manhood in personality, looks, and fitness since his early days with Manchester United. Read more‘Probing every angle behind Sushant Singh Rajput’s suicide’: Mumbai PoliceMumbai Police updated on Sushant Singh Rajput’s suicide. Deputy Commissioner of Police Abhishek Trimukhe said that Bandra police has recorded statements of 27 people so far in connection with the death case of the Bollywood actor. Read moreNot from India, from New York: Chef Vikas Khanna’s reply to news anchor on his sense of hunger wins InternetMichelin-star chef Vikas Khanna has already won people over by conducting massive food distribution drives amid Covid-19. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-after-gurugram-locust-swarm-seen-in-up-s-kasganj-and-all-the-latest-news/story-QSnFeFL2to7qC6sjoAfa1L.html
28-06-2020||India||Locust swarm seen in Gurugram now in UP’s Kasganj||The swarm of locusts which was seen in different parts of Delhi NCR including Gurugram and south Delhi on Saturday has reached Kasganj in western Uttar Pradesh after an unsuccessful attempt to control it, a top official of the Locust Warning Organisation said on Sunday.“We couldn’t control the entire swarm. They flew again early on Sunday morning. We have arranged for drones, fire brigades, apart from seven teams with sprayer mounted on vehicles. We are trying our best to control it. Control operations will begin again tonight. Teams are moving with the swarm,” said K L Gurjar, deputy director, Locust Warning Organisation.LWO also has several teams in Rajasthan that are trying to control fresh swarms coming in from Pakistan and Iran. “Control operations have been strengthened at the border to ensure swarms don’t come in,” Gurjar said. Meanwhile with monsoon approaching the arid regions of Rajasthan, breeding of locusts have started in several pockets, Gurjar had said on Saturday. “Locusts have laid eggs and hoppers have emerged. But we will manage to control these hoppers immediately.”The Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) released its Desert Locust Situation update on Saturday evening where it said that although control operations continue, a general northerly movement of swarms will occur in three countries. Some of the swarms in northwest Kenya are expected to transit through South Sudan to reach the summer breeding areas of Sudan where some rains have already started. If these rains are not enough, there is a risk that swarms could continue to eastern Chad and spread westwards across the northern Sahel of West Africa. Swarms that accumulate in northern Somalia are likely to migrate across the Indian Ocean to the summer breeding areas along the Indo-Pakistan border.“In Southwest Asia, spring-bred swarms are present along both sides of the Indo-Pakistan border where they are awaiting the onset of the monsoon rains that will start in the coming days and allow the swarms to mature and lay eggs. Control operations continue,” the update said adding that swarms and adult groups in India are mainly present in Rajasthan west of Jaipur but some infestations continue to be reported in parts of Madhya Pradesh and southern Uttar Pradesh.“There are successive breeding cycles in the Horn of Africa. Some swarms from there are moving towards west Africa while some are moving towards Saudi Arabia, Oman and Yemen. These can also come to India in July. Some are expected to directly move to India from the Horn of Africa with the monsoon winds,” Gurjar said.“The winds are moving from the direction of the Horn of Africa towards India. The wind direction is south-westerly during monsoon. I will not be able to comment on whether they will carry these swarms with them,” M Mohapatra, director general, India Meteorological Department had said last week.While so far, the impact on food security due to locust invasions hasn’t been much, LWO said the Kharif crop especially maize and cotton is likely to be impacted if the two locust threats—from Indian Ocean and from breeding sites in India aren’t controlled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locust-swarm-seen-in-gurugram-now-in-up-s-kasganj/story-CwZyS7PKV5OTOnMlQsQQ7L.html
28-06-2020||India||‘Delhi won’t have 5.5 lakh Covid-19 cases by July end, Manish Sisodia’s comments created fear’: Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah has said he disagrees with Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia that the national capital will have 5.5 lakh Covid-19 cases by the end of July.“Around the second week of June, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said that by July 31 there will be 5.5 lakh persons infected with the virus. He said that there will be no place left, no beds left and the situation will be difficult. This created a lot of fear in the minds of people in Delhi,” Shah said in an interview to news agency ANI.“I do not want to go into whether estimate was right or wrong. But a situation of fear arose and some people started mulling an exodus (out of Delhi),” he added. Also Watch | ‘Manish Sisodia’s 5.5 lakh Covid cases by July remark spread fear’: Amit ShahShah also said that there is no community transmission in Delhi. “I have talked to three senior-most officials - Dr Paul (from Niti Aayog), ICMR chief Dr Bhargava and Dr Guleria (AIIMS New Delhi Director). This situation has not come to Delhi. Such situation appeared because of the total tests done, earlier 30 per cent turned out to be positive and that was happening because tests were done at the last moment. Now that we have started doing 20,000 tests on average, this condition is not there. I have held technical discussions on this...today this situation is not there in Delhi. There is no need to fear,” the home minister told ANI.On June 9, Sisodia had said that the cases in Delhi would rise to 2.5 lakh by July 15 and the government would require 33,000 beds. He further told mediapersons that till July 31, there will be 5.5 lakh cases in the national capital.Sisodia was addressing a press briefing after a meeting called to discuss if there was community transmission of Covid-19 cases in Delhi.“I can say now with confidence that situation of 5.5 lakh cases will not come on July 31,” Shah said on Sunday, adding that a crucial meeting was called after Sisodia’s comment.The Centre stepped in after the spike of Covid-19 cases in the national capital. Shah held a series of meetings with Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and even the civic officials of the national capital to understand the situation and launch a programme to check the rapid spread of the coronavirus disease.A revised plan to combat Covid-19 was formulated and the Delhi government started door-to-door surveys which are expected to complete by June 30. The Centre had emphasised on increasing testing and formulating a plan for containment zones.A serological survey also began in some parts of Delhi on Saturday - the announcement was made by the Union home ministry spokesperson on Thursday. Blood samples will be taken from randomly selected people as part of the survey, which involves rapid tests for antibodies, to study the scale of undetected infections.Samples of 20,000 people will be tested by July 10 to ascertain the population-level presence of the IgG antibody, which indicates past infection.Kejriwal, meanwhile, announced that his government was deploying “five weapons” - testing and isolation, providing oximeters and oxygen concentrators, plasma therapy, screening, and survey - in the fight against the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-won-t-have-5-5-lakh-covid-19-cases-by-july-end-manish-sisodia-s-comments-created-fear-amit-shah/story-3CXgLTgNaIiC30CzMaQUkJ.html
28-06-2020||India||‘Great political leader and scholar’: PM Modi pays tribute to PV Narasimha Rao||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said former prime minister PV Narasimha Rao remained on the forefront of raising his voice against injustice as he paid tribute to the Congress leader on his birth anniversary.In his monthly radio broadcast Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi said Rao joined the freedom movement in his teens and began to raise his voice against injustice from an early age.“He left no stone unturned to raise his voice,” the Prime Minister said.“Narasimha Rao also understood history very well. His rise from a very simple background, his emphasis on education, his tendency to learn, and, with all this, his leadership ability - everything is memorable,” he said.“I urge that, in the birth centenary year of Narasimha Rao, all of you, try to know as much as possible about his life and thoughts. I once again pay my tribute to him,” he added.This is not the first time that PM Modi and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have paid tribute to PV Narasimha Rao. The BJP has repeatedly raised the issue of Rao not being given due honour by the Congress party after his death.“Remembering Shri PV Narasimha Rao Ji on his birth anniversary. A great scholar and veteran administrator, he led the nation at a crucial juncture of our history. He will be remembered for taking pioneering steps that contributed to national progress,” PM Modi had tweeted last year when he was in Japan for the G-20 Summit. The Congress on its part had accused the BJP of indulging in divisive politics.On Sunday, tributes poured on social media for the former PM known for ushering in the policy of economic liberalisation in 1991.“Remembering former Prime Minister, Shri P V Narasimha Rao on his birth anniversary today. A pioneer of economic reforms which set India firmly on the path of economic recovery. He was an astute administrator and a multifaceted personality—a scholar, writer & polyglot,” vice president M Venkaiah Naidu tweeted.“He had translated famous Telugu novel, ‘Veyyipadagalu’ into Hindi. He promoted mother tongue as a medium of instruction upto college level. He will always be remembered for his invaluable contribution to the country’s growth and development,” he also said.The Congress party also paid tribute.“We honour P. V. Narsimha Rao, a visionary leader who oversaw major economic transformations of the Indian economy. His contributions to the nation shall never be forgotten,” it posted on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/great-political-leader-and-scholar-pm-modi-pays-tribute-to-pv-narasimha-rao/story-tpRUmGOsDIYcpDfFGohiwJ.html
28-06-2020||India||Have to be even more careful during Unlock phase: PM Modi stresses on Mann ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi once again stressed on the importance of wearing masks and following social distancing norms to keep up India’s fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) during the Unlock period as he addressed his monthly radio programme.“We have to be more cautious during the Unlock phase than we were in lockdown. Your alertness will protect you from corona,” PM Modi said during the 66th episode of Mann Ki Baat.Follow latest update on coronavirus here “Always remember that if you do not wear a mask, do not follow the two-yard rule, or do not take other necessary precautions, you are putting yourself as well as others at risk particularly the children and elders of the house,” he said.“Therefore, I request all the countrymen and I make this request again and again and I request that you do not be negligent, take care of yourself, and others too.”Before this, the Prime Minister had in his last Mann Ki Baat episode on May 31 cautioned that the battle against the coronavirus pandemic is a long one as he warned against complacency and reiterated the need for social distancing and wearing masks.Since then the number of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases have surged from 182,143 to more than five lakhs and the death toll has mounted to over 16,000 from 5,164. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage According to the Union health ministry data on Sunday,India recorded another biggest single-day jump in Covid-19 cases with more than 19,900 infections recorded in the last 24 hours, pushing the tally to 528,859.There were 19,906 Covid-19 cases between Saturday and Sunday morning and 410 patients succumbed to the disease during that time. The death toll is now 16,095.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-to-be-even-more-careful-during-unlock-phase-pm-modi-stresses-on-mann-ki-baat/story-hrHTxOATToojpC2FtneJSO.html
28-06-2020||India||PM Narendra Modi reiterates his appeal to citizens for buying ‘Made in India’ products||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday reiterated his appeal to citizens for buying ‘Made in India’ products and said that if people buy local products and become ‘vocal for local’ then they are playing a role in strengthening the country. “If you buy local and become vocal for local, then you are playing your role to make the country strong - this is also a type of service to the nation. Be it any profession, there is scope for service to the nation,” the Prime Minister said while addressing the nation through the 66th episode of his monthly programme ‘Mann Ki Baat’.The Prime Minister said that India is continuously making efforts to move forward in the field of defence and technology sector.“Before independence, our country was ahead of many countries in the defence sector. We had several ordinance factories. Some countries which were behind us are ahead of us. After independence, we could not take advantage of our experiences. However, today India is continuously making efforts to move forward in defence and technology sector. India is moving towards self-reliance,” he said.“India’s resolve is to protect its self-respect and sovereignty. India’s goal is ‘Atma Nirbhar Bharat’. India’s tradition is trust and friendship. India’s spirit is fraternity,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-reiterates-his-appeal-to-citizens-for-buying-made-in-india-products/story-6nVGzHbSmvi5IvqvgqLr8O.html
28-06-2020||India||Every Indian should have soldiers’ resolve: PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday the entire country is paying tributes to the valour and bravery of soldiers who were killed in Ladakh and is indebted to them during his Mann Ki Baat programme.Twenty Indian soldiers, including the commanding officer of the 16 Bihar Regiment, were killed on June 15 during the hours-long violent face-off between Indian and Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley. “Just like their family members, every Indian is grieving the loss of the soldiers. The price in the sacrifices and the feeling for the country is the real strength of the country,” the Prime Minister said. The proud parents of those soldiers killed in Ladakh, he said, also want their other sons and children to join the armed forces.Also read: ‘2020 a year of challenges, need to continue our march’, says PM Modi on Mann ki Baat“Martyr Kundan Kumar’s father from Bihar said that he will send his grandsons to armed forces to protect the country. This is the spirit of every martyr’s family. The sacrifice of these families is worth worshipping,” he said“Every Indian should make it their life’s goal the same resolve with which our soldiers sacrificed their lives. Our efforts should be in that direction to make the country stronger, more capable and self-reliant,” he added.“This will be the real tribute to our martyrs.”This is the 66th episode of the Prime Minister’s Mann Ki Baat, the monthly radio programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/every-indian-should-have-soldiers-resolve-pm-modi-on-mann-ki-baat/story-f4kqxj7NRCWPJqiypyAmxK.html
28-06-2020||India||4 magnitude earthquakes strike Andaman and Nicobar and Manipur||Two earthquakes were reported in the country on Sunday, the National Centre for Seismology (NCS) reported.The first earthquake struck near Diglipur, in Andaman and Nicobar islands at 8:56 am at a depth of 45 kilometre, the NCS said. It was a 4.1 magnitude quake, it further reported.The second earthquake - with magnitude 4 - was reported near Ukhrul in Manipur at 11:24 am at a depth of 60 kilometre.Two quakes were reported from Rohtak in Haryana and Hanle in Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday. These are the series of quakes the country has been experiencing in the last few months.National capital Delhi has recorded more than 16 earthquakes in two months. Most of these, however, were very mild and only recorded by seismographs.The string of earthquakes or tremors have sparked concerns that a bigger quake could strike the national capital region. Seismologists say the increased frequency does not necessarily imply that a major one is coming but stress that monitoring them is key to being prepared. Unlike many other natural disasters, earthquakes cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty.The NCS said that most of the small earthquakes recorded around Delhi since April this year were along lineaments.A lineament is a linear feature corresponding to a fault - such as a valley or a mountain range. There are several faults in and around Delhi: Mathura fault, Moradabad fault, Delhi-Haridwar ridge, Delhi-Sargodha fault, Mahendergarh and Dehradun fault.Delhi falls under the fourth-highest zone in India, making it vulnerable to earthquakes. But there haven’t been too many earthquakes which have its epicentre in the national capital. Delhi mostly experiences tremors when a quake hits regions as far as central Asia or the Himalayan ranges, known to be a high-seismic zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-magnitude-earthquakes-strike-andaman-and-nicobar-and-manipur/story-6kRCJMpvrgTGu8Zc2hb9oI.html
28-06-2020||India||In Ladakh, India gave a befitting reply to those coveting our territories: PM Modi on Mann ki Baat||India gave a befitting response to those who eyed Indian territory in Ladakh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday referring to the violent stand-off between India and China along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh without naming China. Indian and Chinese troops had clashed in Galwan Valley on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army soldiers, including the commanding officer of 16 Bihar Regiment, were killed. India has shown the world its sense of fraternity during the coronavirus pandemic as well its strength and commitment to protecting its sovereignty and borders, PM Modi said as he addressed Mann Ki Baat, his monthly radio programme.“In Ladakh, a befitting reply has been given those coveting ur territories. India knows how to maintain friendships but it can also look someone in the eye and retaliate and give an apt reply,” PM Modi said during the 66th episode of Mann Ki Baat. “Our brave soldiers have shown that they will not let any harm be done to Mother India’s pride. India bows to our brave martyrs. They have always kept India safe. Their valour will always be remembered,” he added. This is the first Mann Ki Baat episode after the face-off in Ladakh. The Prime Minister also extended his condolences to the families of the soldiers who were killed in the Galwan Valley clash.“The inner sense of pride that families feel on the supreme sacrifice of their brave sons and their sentiment for the country, constitutes the true power and the might of the country.”The external affairs ministry has squarely blamed China for the standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), saying China had massed troops along the disputed frontier since May, violated a recent understanding to disengage in Galwan Valley and disregarded all mutually agreed norms for border patrols.Accusing China of triggering several face-offs by trying to unilaterally change the status quo along the LAC, the Indian side rejected the Chinese side’s “unjustified and untenable” claim on Galwan Valley. The statement also acknowledged both sides “remain deployed in large numbers in the region”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-ladakh-india-gave-a-befitting-reply-to-those-coveting-our-territories-pm-modi-on-mann-ki-baat/story-U0p89jm5o8Dw1AgkJ8RpYN.html
28-06-2020||India||‘2020 a year of challenges, but we have to continue our march’: PM Modi on Mann ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that India has always converted its problems into opportunities and exhorted the people of the country to keep marching forward.“India has always converted its problems into opportunities. With this in mind, we have to continue our forward march fighting the challenges. If 130 crore Indians will march forward with this feeling, then this year can transform into the year of achievements,” PM Modi said in his monthly radio address Mann ki Baat.“The country can achieve new goals, take new strides and touch new heights,” he added.The prime minister started his address by highlighting the problems faced by the country in the year 2020. He said that not just Covid-19, earthquakes, cyclones (Amphan and Nisarga), locust attack and border face-off were also reported this year. “One rarely has heard or seen as many disasters of such magnitude taking place at the same time,” said PM Modi.But he asked people to not give up hope. “Problems and crisis do come in our lives but should we label the year 2020 as a bad year because of these challenges? Is it correct to believe that the whole year will be as the first six months? Not at all. My dear countrymen, absolutely not,” said the prime minister.“It was thought that India will lose its identity and culture. On the contrary, it added to the brilliance and glory of the nation which was guided by its strong cultural ethos,” added PM Modi.He also talked about the Ladakh face-off in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed and said that though India knows how to fulfil its commitment in friendship, it has given befitting reply in Ladakh to those who eyed its territory. “The world has seen India’s commitment to protecting its borders & sovereignty. In Ladakh, a befitting reply has been given to those coveting our territories,” the prime minister said on Mann ki Baat. He also paid tributes to the soldiers and hailed the bravery shown by the martyrs’ families.He also highlighted the importance of being self-reliant, saying it is an important lesson.In his last Mann ki Baat address on May 31, PM Modi cautioned that the battle against the coronavirus pandemic is a long one as he warned against complacency and reiterated the need for social distancing and wearing masks. He once again asked the people of the country to be careful as economy is being relaxed.The number of day-on-day new Covid-19 cases have risen since then from over 8,000 a day to almost 18,000 cases a day, with the national tally touching over five lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2020-a-year-of-challenges-but-we-have-to-continue-our-march-pm-modi-on-mann-ki-baat/story-AbvuIVJMCnDInK4JiMKxQI.html
28-06-2020||India||PM Modi’s ‘Mann ki Baat’ highlights: ‘Learn from the experiences of your grandparents’, PM tells children||PM Narendra Modi addressed the nation on his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat. This was the 66th address of his monthly radio programme. Here are the key highlights from his speech:• PM Modi said there is no reason to believe that the rest of the year 2020 will be as bad as the first half• PM Modi said India has turned crisis to opportunities of growth previously in its long history and encouraged the citizens to make the best of 2020 despite the hardships it has presented in the first half of the year. • PM Modi said India knows how to be friends, but also knows how to look at its enemies in the eye. He was referring to the recent incident of PLA forces trying to encroach into Indian territory in Galwan Valley, Ladakh. • PM Modi highlighted that India and its citizens will not forget the gallant nature and valour of its armed forces. He saluted the army men for their sacrifices in Galwan Valley and said that the valiant armed personnel stationed in those frigid zones of Himalayas did not allow the intruders to tarnish the glory of Mother India. • ‘People’s participation is necessary for any movement’, said PM Modi stressing on the current need to promote locally manufactured products while he congratulated a citizen from Assam and Tamil Nadu as they vowed to be vocal about the usage and promotion of local products. • India needs to be strong to forge global peace and unity, said PM Modi. • PM Modi said that as the nation is unlocking citizens need to be more alert. He advised citizens to maintain social distance, wash their hands and maintain personal hygiene in order to defeat coronavirus. • The coal industry has also undergone a phase of unlocking said PM Modi. He outlined that this unlocking of the coal sector will help spur growth. • ‘Our migrant labourers have achieved remarkable feats and we have heard stories of human excellence that inspires us to fight the pandemic’, said PM Modi. • ‘Pandemic has taught us to value life, our familial relations and helped us rediscover ourselves’, said PM. • ‘We need to promote India’s indoor games and we need help startups which will promote India’s indoor games. It is necessary to help India’s traditional games and step aside slightly from playing other online games as we try to be vocal about local in these fields as well’, said PM. • PM Modi said that rainwater harvesting is necessary and a school in Rajasthan has been exemplary as it built a facility that stops wastage of close to 10,000 litres of water. • PM Modi said that Europe and North America are importing more Indian spices in order to boost immunity as coronavirus continues to affect people across the planet. • PM Modi asked citizens to exercise caution during the monsoon season and told them that amid the pandemic it is necessary to remain safe as monsoon gradually advances to cover the entire nation. • PM Modi had a special request for his younger fans in his Mann Ki Baat episode. He asked children to interview their grandparents and other elderly relatives. He requested children to save these interviews on their devices and create a video album. He said these video interviews can help us prepare for a better future as the experiences of the elders in any household is necessary for the growth of a young individual.• PM Modi wished former Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao on his 99th birth anniversary. He highlighted that the former PM had vowed that he would give his entire life to the service of the nation when he was a teenager. Modi also added that his predecessor was multilingual and had interests in a wide range of subjects like literature, philosophy and science.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-address-to-the-nation-in-66th-episode-of-mann-ki-baat/story-h1sZShMSIY2Ty7Y15nXHaL.html
28-06-2020||India||Rajasthan family invites over 50 guests for wedding, 15 test Covid-19 positive||A fine of over Rs 6 lakh was slapped on a family in Rajasthan’s Bhilwara district for inviting more than 50 guests in a marriage function amid the restrictions in place to combat the coronavirus threat, officials said on Saturday. Ghisulal Rathi, a resident of Bhadada Mohalla, had arranged a function for his son’s marriage on June 13. He had invited over 50 guests, violating the guidelines for the management of Covid-19. After the event, 15 guests tested positive for Covid-19 while one died of the disease, District Collector Rajendra Bhatt said.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here A case was registered against Rathi in this regard on June 22, he said. The state government incurred a loss of Rs 6,26,600 for arranging isolation and quarantine facility, testing, food, ambulance for these guests. To recover the said amount, the family has been asked to deposit the money in the CM Relief Fund, Bhatt said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-family-invites-over-50-guests-for-wedding-15-test-covid-19-positive/story-340l3s60ylzH9A5OAkiEfI.html
28-06-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 recoveries exceed active cases by over 1 lakh: Health ministry||The number of people who have recovered from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has exceeded that of active cases by more than a lakh, the Union health ministry data showed on Sunday.There were 13,832 patients who were sent home in the last 24 hours pushing the number of recovered to 309,712, according to health ministry data. The country’s recovery rate, the ratio of the number of patients recovered to the number of patients infected, now has climbed to 58.56%. The recoveries have been more than the active Covid-19 cases since June 10 when 135,205 patients were declared cured and 133,632 people were infected with Sars-Cov-2, which causes the coronavirus disease.The top 10 states in terms of absolute numbers of Covid-19 recoveries are Maharashtra with 84,245, Delhi with 49,301, Tamil Nadu with 44,094, Gujarat with 22409, Uttar Pradesh with 14,215, Rajasthan with 13,367, West Bengal with 10,789, Madhya Pradesh with 9,971, Haryana with 8,472 and Karnataka with 7,287.This comes on a day India recorded another biggest single-day jump in Covid-19 cases with 19,906 infections in the last 24 hours, pushing the tally to 528,859.The health ministry’s data showed 410 patients succumbed to the disease between Saturday and Sunday morning, pushing the death toll to 16,095.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-recoveries-exceed-active-cases-by-over-1-lakh-health-ministry-data/story-iReNJcErFavfoKYtgE9YlO.html
28-06-2020||India||Private hospitals can’t deny treating Covid-19 patients, those with symptoms in Karnataka||The Karnataka government on Saturday issued an order, directing private hospitals not to deny treatment to patients with coronavirus and Covid-19 like symptoms.“Non-compliance of this order will attract punishment under sections of Disaster Management Act 2005,” an order read.Follow latest updates on coronavirus hereMeanwhile, people coming from Maharashtra will be placed in seven-day institutional quarantine followed by seven-day home quarantine in Karnataka, the state government said.People coming from other states will need to undergo 14-day home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-hospitals-can-t-deny-treating-covid-19-patients-those-with-symptoms-in-karnataka/story-HwOUa6VSRnXpXysluzggMN.html
28-06-2020||India||Lauded for ‘Bhilwara Model’, Rajasthan city records 15 Covid-19 cases in a day||Bhilwara in Rajasthan is known for its ruthless containment to check the spread of the coronavirus disease. The Rajasthan government had even said that Bhilwara Model can be tweaked to contain the spread of the disease in other hotspots.But now, the city is battling a surge in infection after a family invited more than 50 guests in a marriage function despite the restrictions in place. The function was organised by Ghisulal Rathi, a resident of Bhadada Mohalla, for his son’s marriage on June 13.After the event, 15 guests tested positive for Covid-19 while one died of the disease, District Collector Rajendra Bhatt said. A case was registered against Rathi in this regard on June 22, he added.“The state government incurred a loss of Rs 6,26,600 for arranging isolation and quarantine facility, testing, food, ambulance for these guests. To recover the said amount, the family has been asked to deposit the money in the CM Relief Fund,” said Bhatt.Bhilwara was among the 10 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hotspots in the country, but the ruthless containment model helped it check the spread of the diease. The state had even received praise from cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba for successfully implementing the model.The Bhilwara model of containment worked in phases. The first task was to isolate the district, second was screening strategy in city and rural areas and third was quarantine and isolation wards, followed by monitoring mechanism for rural areas, according to government officials.Discussing the success of the model, Rajasthan’s additional chief secretary of medical and health department Rohit Kumar Singh had told Hindustan Times in April, “The Bhilwara model is a typical containment strategy. It starts with lockdown, and lockdown means lockdown - no movement, no exemptions. Of course, you have to make arrangements for the essentials.”Rajasthan has so far reported 16,944 Covid-19 positive cases, according to the Union ministry of health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lauded-for-bhilwara-model-rajasthan-city-records-15-covid-19-cases-in-a-day/story-eMqRJkLgcoU2VWNvikWM0N.html
28-06-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: Delhi crosses 80,000-mark, 3 states have less than 500 cases||India on Sunday recorded more than 19,000 new cases of the coronavirus disease, which pushed its tally closer to 5.30 lakh.As far as the states are concerned, Maharashtra continues to be battered by the coronavirus disease. On Saturday, the state recorded 5,318 fresh Covid-19 cases - the fourth record single-day jump in infections and the second consecutive day of over 5,000 cases.Delhi also crossed the 80,000-mark with Tamil Nadu at close third.Here’s a look at the statewise coronavirus situation across the country. MaharashtraThe state Covid-19 tally jumped to 1,59,133 on Sunday. Over 84,000 (84,245 to be exact) people have recovered from the disease in Maharashtra while 7,273 have died. DelhiThe national capital, already the second worst-hit in India, saw its tally rise to 80,188 after 2,948 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in the last 24 hours. So far, 49,301 have bene cured or discharged in Delhi and 2,558 have lost their lives. A serological survey began in some parts of Delhi on Saturday to determine the extent of the coronavirus disease’s spread.Tamil Nadu The state stands third on the tally with 78,335 coronavirus disease cases. Tamil Nadu has witnessed 1,025 fatalities due to Covid-19 while 44,094 have recovered. GujaratGujarat’s tally of Covid-19 disease reached 30,709 on Sunday, according to Union health ministry figures. The state has seen 22,409 people recover from coronavirus while 1,789 have died.Uttar Pradesh The Covid-19 tally in Uttar Pradesh has jumped to 21,549 while the number of recoveries has reached 14,215. The state’s death toll stands at 649. Though the state is at number five in the list of states affected by the coronavirus disease, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday praised the state government for keeping the fatalities low despite the huge population.RajasthanThe state has reported 16,944 Covid-19 cases till Friday, the health ministry website showed. Covid-19 death toll in Rajasthan stands at 391 while 13,367 patients have recovered. West BengalAs many as 16,711 people have contracted Covid-19 in West Bengal till date. The state has seen 10,789 recover from coronavirus while 629 people have died.Haryana The coronavirus tally in Haryana has touched 13,427 while the death toll stands at 218. Over eight thousand four hundred people have recovered from the contagion in Haryana.Madhya PradeshOver 12,965 people have been infected by coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh till date. While the state death toll stands at 550, 9,971 people have been cured or discharged from the hospitals. Telangana The state stands at the tenth spot on the Covid-19 tally with 13,436 coronavirus cases. While 4,928 people have recovered from the disease, the Covid-19 death toll has jumped to 243 in the state. Situation in other statesKarnataka has witnessed 11,923 coronavirus cases till date while the number stands at 12,285 in Andhra Pradesh. Bihar has recorded 8,931 Covid-19 cases, while in Jammu and Kashmir the tally stands at 6,966. In Odisha, cases have jumped to 6,350 while Assam has reported 6,816 cases till date. Punjab’s Covid-19 tally is 5,056. The number of Covid-19 cases in Kerala is 4,071.States with less than 3,000 casesUttarakhand, Ladakh, Jharkhand, Tripura, Manipur, Goa and Himachal Pradesh and Puducherry have less than 3,000 Covid-19 cases.Mizoram, Chandigarh, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh have reported under 500 Covid-19 cases or less. In states like Meghalaya, Sikkim and Andaman and Nicobar Islands have less than 100 Covid-19 cases. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-delhi-crosses-80-000-mark-3-states-have-less-than-500-cases/story-8nqYYTPrmy3U6Vc6ziEyQI.html
28-06-2020||India||With nearly 20,000 new Covid-19 cases in biggest single-day jump, India’s infection tally over 5.28 lakh||India recorded another biggest single-day jump in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with more than 19,900 infections recorded in the last 24 hours, pushing the tally to 528,859, Union health ministry data showed on Sunday.According to the health ministry’s dashboard, there were 19,906 Covid-19 cases between Saturday and Sunday morning and 410 patients succumbed to the disease during that time. The death toll is now 16,095.The number of people discharged from hospitals continued to be higher than the active cases of Covid-19. There were 309,712 patients who have been cured of the disease and 203,051 people are infected. The recovery rate has climbed to 58.56%.Also read: Global Covid-19 cases cross 10-million mark, two-third infections reported in May-JuneThe health ministry has said eight states account for 85.5% of the active Covid-19 caseload and 87% of the deaths due to the disease in India.Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Telangana, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal are the high disease burden states in terms of Covid-19 cases and deaths.As key focus areas, the states have been asked to follow strict containment measures and surveillance, use full testing capacity, focus on monitoring of the co-morbid and elderly population and predicting emerging hotspots leveraging digital tools such as Aarogya Setu. They have also been asked to ensure seamless patient admission processes, fatality mitigation through effective clinical management, focus on infrastructure preparedness such as critical care beds, oxygen, ventilators and logistics and ensure that non-Covid-19 health care services are not impacted.Also read: Timely lockdown helped India fight Covid-19, PM Modi tells US doctors of Indian descentThe global number of Covid-19 cases stood at over 9.9 million, while more than 498,000 lives have been lost, according to the Johns Hopkins University’s tracker.After the United States, Brazil has the highest number of Covid-19 cases at 1,313,667 and 57,070 deaths. Russia follows with 626,779 infections and 8,958 deaths. India is at the fourth spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-nearly-20-000-new-covid-19-cases-in-biggest-single-day-jump-india-s-infection-tally-over-5-28-lakh/story-oOn1QvNUkUvK2WxRtlCY9O.html
28-06-2020||India||‘Godzilla dust cloud’ travels 5,000 miles from Sahara to US, engulfs Florida, Texas||A massive dust storm from the Sahara desert engulfed parts of the mainland United States on Saturday, travelling over a distance of 5,000 miles.NASA, which is tracking the plume of dust, said that such storms travelling across the Atlantic Ocean are nothing new but the one has been quite expansive.The 3,500-mile-long cloud was dubbed the “Godzilla dust cloud” by climatologists.An animation of various images gathered by NASA satellite shows the dust plume streamed from Africa’s west coast over the Atlantic into the Caribbean Sea and up through the Gulf of Mexico.“It’s a really dry layer of air that contains these very fine dust particulates. It occurs every summer,” said National Weather Service (NWS) meteorologist Patrick Blood.This year, the dust is the most dense it has been in a half a century, news agency Reuters reported quoting several meteorologists. Saharan dust is causing unhealthy air quality across large sections of the South and Ohio Valley. Another bad air quality day is ahead tomorrow: https://t.co/PQW8IyqAeQ pic.twitter.com/pWidUnZnHcThe current dust storm is expected to hang over the region until the middle of next week, deteriorating the air quality in Texas, Florida and other states where the number of Covid-19 cases has recently spiked.“There’s emerging evidence of potential interactions between air pollution and the risk of Covid, so at this stage we are concerned,” said Gregory Wellenius, a professor of environmental health at Boston University’s School of Public Health.Air pollution can be especially detrimental for people who are at risk for or suffer from cardiovascular and respiratory illnesses, Wellenius added. Heart and lung problems heighten the risk of severe Covid-19.The plume created hazy skies and lower visibility, according to the pictures shared by many residents of FLorida, Texas and other US States. Sahara dust arrives in New Orleans#SaharanDust #SaharanAirLayer #DustPlume pic.twitter.com/vyuU8ikMVV The #SaharanDust has arrived in Galveston, Texas! 👀 No spectacular, colorful sunrise this morning. 😕@Plume_Labs says air quality has dropped to unhealthy levels at the coast. ☁️ We’ll have another #SaharanAirLayer live report at 8:30a EDT / 7:30a CDT on @accuweather 📺 pic.twitter.com/p9SgnGDAyxOn June 18, NASA noted the thickest parts of the dust storm appeared to stretch about 1,500 miles across the Atlantic Ocean. By June 24, the plume extended over 5,000 miles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/godzilla-dust-cloud-travels-5-000-miles-from-sahara-to-us-engulfs-florida-texas/story-YrvJs4RmbkG0sSPdldMXRL.html
28-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Salons, parlours to reopen in Maharashtra after more than 3 months of shutdown and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Prior appointments, hygiene guidelines must as salons, parlours reopen in Maharashtra todayBarbershops, salons and beauty parlours will reopen in Maharashtra on Sunday after more than three months of shutdown as the state government allowed them to function under the fourth phase of its Mission Begin Again. Read moreNo increase in petrol, diesel prices today after being hiked for 21 daysPrices of petrol and diesel were not raised on Sunday for the first time since June 7 when state-run oil marketing companies resumed the daily revision of fuel rates after 82 days. Read moreCong urges PM to retract June 19 statement on LAC clash with ChinaThe Congress on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to “retract” his statements made at the all-party meeting on the Galwan Valley skirmish with China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) that left 20 Indian Army soldiers dead on June 15. Read moreJobless Telangana teachers turn to manual labourPayili Satyanarayana, 32, taught at a private school in Telangana’s Suryapet town until the Covid-19 pandemic turned his life upside down. Read more4 men charged in attack on Andrew Jackson’s statue near White HouseFederal authorities have charged four men in connection with a failed effort last week to pull down the statue of President Andrew Jackson near the White House. Read more‘He is hardest working cricketer I have seen’: India batting coach’s huge praise for Virat KohliVirat Kohli is among the best players in modern-day cricket. The India captain not only has the ability to defend in the middle and help his side chase down heavy totals, but also possesses the talent to play quick innings whenever required. Read moreCybercriminals? Naah! Parents are more worried their kids will see their private dataKids often hide their online activity from their parents, but it seems that parents do the same thing. In fact, a survey by Kaspersky shows that parents in the Asia Pacific region (APAC) are more worried about their kids (and spouses) seeing their online activity and private data than they are worried about cyber criminals. Read moreLife Hacks: Be like Holmes, and WatsonEvery night, a ritual plays out at our home. When the day is done, the missus slumps into bed and I, all droopy-eyed, make a brave attempt to read. Read moreWatch: Delhi gets world’s largest Covid care centre; Amit Shah, Arvind Kejriwal visit||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-salons-parlours-to-reopen-in-maharashtra-after-more-than-3-months-of-shutdown-and-all-the-latest-news/story-AcwnVWMgUfKVG5qb79p0IP.html
28-06-2020||India||Timely lockdown helped India fight Covid-19, PM Modi tells US doctors of Indian descent||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that India was able to tackle Covid-19 far better than experts around the world had believed it could because of the timely country-wide lockdown, which gave it time to ramp up its health system significantly. The epidemic also taught India, he added, to be “self-reliant”.“With timely lockdown India successfully protected the lives of thousands and lakhs of its citizens,” the prime minister said in a video address streamed live to a virtual annual meeting of the American Association of Physicians of Indian origin. “Contrary,” he had said earlier, “to fears expressed by experts around the world that India could be in deep crisis.”PM Modi said that Covid-19 fatalities were less than 12 for every 1 million people in India - “not even 12”, he repeated to emphasise the low number - compared, in his telling, to more than 350 in the United States and more than 600 for the UK, Spain and Italy. The United States leads the world in both the death toll and infections with over 1,25,000 and 2.4 respectively, and they are both growing.“If India today has been able to fight the coronavirus (he used the shorter form “corona”) so much better,” the prime minister said, adding, “the lockdown played a very big role in it.” He spoke mostly in Hindi.While fighting the pandemic, India used the time period of the lockdown to “ramp up” its healthcare system, he said. It was able to expand the number of hospital beds for special Covid-19 treatment and isolation chamber, grow the number of labs to test coronavirus infections from one to more than 1,000, the prime minister said detailing the outcomes. He added that till three months ago, India was a net importer of Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs), testing kits and even N-95 masks. Today, India produces four millions PPEs a week and three million N-95s.“We used to import earlier, and now we are moving towards exporting them,” he said.Even ventilators, which are needed for severely ill and hospitalised patients, were mostly imported earlier, whereas 50,000 of those made in India are in the process of being deployed.“It’s said that every crisis teaches us something or the other,” Modi said, adding, “corona has taught India to be self-reliant.” And this will help further strengthen the healthcare system.The prime minister went on to give a detailed account of his government’s approach on health and initiatives such as on eradication of tuberculosis (TB) and mitigation of Kala-azar (Black Fever, also called visceral leishmaniasis).“Our pehchan (identity),” he said, “is linked to manawta (humanity) not money.”As the Covid-19 epidemic spread around the world, India supplied medicines and medical equipment to more than 150 countries and provided training to personnel of 16 countries, he said, adding, India sent hydroxychloroquine to many counties “including America”.India was now working with many countries on finding a vaccine for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/timely-lockdown-helped-india-fight-covid-19-pm-modi-tells-indian-descent-us-doctors/story-kppk81Lj2L27kYyPAD3UsL.html
28-06-2020||India||Global Covid-19 cases cross 10-million mark, two-third infections reported in May-June||The number of coronavirus disease acorss the world crossed the 10 million mark late on Saturday night. According to Worldometre, the number is 51 more than 10 million.The grim milestone has been reached in about six months since the emergence of this novel coronavirus in China’s Wuhan in December last year.The virus as defied belief that the spread will slow down in the summer season. In June alone this year, 1.25 lakh Covid-19 patients are surfacing everyday, an analysis of the data done by Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan showed.In fact, nearly two-third of total infections were reported in the months of May and June.The highest number of fatalities was reported in March - around 1.9 lakh. The coronavirus disease was at its peak in Italy, Spain and France in March and the United States too came under its grip. Though the number of cases has increased in May and June, the number of fatalities has gone down to some extent.There are 38 countries which have either defeated Covid-19, or are very close to it. These include small island nations like Tuvalu, Vanuatu and Solomon Islands. New Zealand surprised the world when it announced last week that it has become Covid-19 free, though some cases wre reported later.Indian neighbours Bhutan and Sri Lanka are nearly free from the coronavirus disease. While there is no Covid-19 patient in Bhutan, Sri Lanka has nine Bhutan one, according to Hindustan.The Americas have been badly affected by the spread of the coronavirus disease. After ravaging north America and Canada - which have nearly three million patients - the disease is now spreading in South America. Brazil, Peru and Chile together have more than two million cases. Brazil has registered about 1,275,000 confirmed cases of the virus and over 55,950 deaths.The Americas are reporting more than 40,000 cases daily.The coronavirus, now spreading through the smaller towns of Brazil’s interiors, risks returning to major cities in a so-called “boomerang effect”, as a lack of specialised medical treatment forces patients into larger urban centres, according to health experts in the country.The impact of a potential second wave of new cases in urban centres could complicate attempts to reopen businesses and get the economy going again, experts said.In China, the capital city of Beijing on Saturday issued new containment guidelines as the city reported 17 confirmed cases for Friday, up from 11 for the day before and the most since June 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/global-covid-19-cases-cross-10-million-mark-two-third-infections-reported-in-may-june/story-s9X32YGP5KxyPR9wOLiDEI.html
28-06-2020||India||BJP MLA calls Sharad Pawar Maharashtra’s ‘corona’, gets a reply from Ajit Pawar||Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Saturday took a swipe at BJP legislator Gopichand Padalkar over his controversial comment about NCP chief Sharad Pawar.Padalkar, a member of the state Legislative Council, is under fire over his alleged remark that “(Sharad) Pawar was a corona that has infected Maharashtra”. “Every person should speak keeping in mind his own worth. People should respect each other. This is our culture.This is what late Yashwantrao Chavan (first chief minister of Maharashtra) taught us and we should adhere to it,” Ajit Pawar said.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The senior NCP leader who is a nephew of Sharad Pawar was speaking to reporters after reviewing the Covid-19 situation in the Satara district.“You can check what he (Padalkar) had saidabout (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi in the past,” Ajit Pawar further said, apparently referring to Padalkar’s alleged statements when he was not with the BJP.Also read: Sharad Pawar calls for action against private hospitals charging high feesPadalkar had lost his deposit from the Baramati Assembly segment in the election last year, said Pawar, who had defeated him.Pawar also recalled late BJP leader Arun Jaitleys comment that the whole country will be developed if it has 100 towns like Baramati, a bastion of the Pawar family.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage  “He (Jaitley) was seen as second-in-command after Modi. All respect (Sharad) Pawar saheb. Some cheap people think they will become famous by talking against big people,” the deputy chief minister said.Pawar, who holds the finance portfolio, also informed that he had instructed the authorities to set up a Covid-19 testing laboratory in Satara district hosptial in the next three to four days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mla-calls-sharad-pawar-maharashtra-s-corona-gets-a-reply-from-ajit-pawar/story-XQKanX8MX0jMeUiJxZnCMN.html
28-06-2020||India||Prior appointments, hygiene guidelines must as salons, parlours reopen in Maharashtra today||Barbershops, salons and beauty parlours will reopen in Maharashtra on Sunday after more than three months of shutdown as the state government allowed them to function under the fourth phase of its Mission Begin Again.An order issued late on Thursday stated that the barbershops, salons and beauty parlours in 19 municipal corporations earmarked as red zones, will open from Sunday.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here India’s worst-hit state has reported 152,765 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 7,106 people have died so far.The Maharashtra government has extended the lockdown till June 30 and issued directives to ease restrictions under Mission Begin Again.Here’s what you will have to keep in mind:* Barbershops, salons, and beauty parlours have been mandated to entertain customers with prior appointments and putting up the notice describing the rules prominently in the premises.* As per the guidelines, the establishments can carry out select services like haircut, hair dyeing, waxing, threading, among others, excluding skin-related services.* The state government has also made it mandatory for employees to wear protective gear such as gloves, aprons and masks.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage * All workstations must be sanitised after every service and all common areas and floors must be sanitised after every two hours.* The guidelines suggest salon owners must use disposal towels and napkins for customers.* Sterilisation and sanitisation of non-disposable items every time has also been made compulsory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prior-appointments-hygiene-guidelines-must-as-salons-parlours-reopen-in-maharashtra-today/story-RJoaLxvXsC6kdvmx1BBH5J.html
28-06-2020||India||Fire breaks out at chemical factory in Gujarat’s Anand, 15 fire tenders at spot||A major fire broke out at a chemical factory in Khambhat of Anand district on Sunday morning.Fifteen fire tenders were present at the spot to douse the fire.No casualties have been reported yet. Due to the blaze, the administration has evacuated the surrounding areas.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-at-chemical-factory-in-gujarat-s-anand-15-fire-tenders-at-spot/story-VRnW4IloICHbsk1JNpOoEI.html
28-06-2020||India||India first nation to control locusts through drones: Agriculture Ministry||The Union Ministry of Agriculture on Saturday said that India is the first country to control locusts by using drones.“India is the first country to control locust by using drones after finalising the protocols and getting all statutory approvals. Major operations are concentrated in Rajasthan where maximum resources are committed,” the Agriculture Ministry said in a release.According to the information given by the ministry, all the groups of locust swarms are being tracked by teams of the state agriculture departments of Rajasthan, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, local administrations and officials of the Central Locust Warning Organisation, and control operations are underway.More control teams from Rajasthan have been moved to Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to help control operations being carried out to ward away locusts in these two states, the release said.Ground control teams are constantly tracking them and will undertake major control operations once they settle down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-first-nation-to-control-locusts-through-drones-agriculture-ministry/story-EkFk3wrIWZxYCoNRdIEzTJ.html
28-06-2020||India||Man kills his 3 children, dies by suicide in Maharashtra’s Palghar, say police||A man allegedly died by suicide after killing his three children in Nalasopara of Maharashtra’s Palghar district on Saturday, police said.According to the information received from the spokesperson of Palghar Police, the man killed his 12-year-old son and two daughters -- one aged 8 years and the other aged 5.“Police reached the spot and sent the body for post-mortem. It is difficult to tell what is the reason behind the incident. The police have started investigating the case,” police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-kills-his-3-children-dies-by-suicide-in-maharashtra-s-palghar-say-police/story-Z7Tyk0Aw1PluLKXRcEAMyI.html
28-06-2020||India||PM Modi to address his Mann Ki Baat programme today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation through his monthly radio programme, Mann Ki Baat, on Sunday as the country is battling a surge in the number of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases.During the 66th episode of Mann Ki Baat at 11am, PM Modi is expected to talk about the country’s progress in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic and his views on the road ahead.PM Modi has primarily focused on India’s fight against the coronavirus pandemic, highlighted the role of frontline workers and talked about the experiences of people who have recovered from the disease in the last few episodes of Mann Ki Baat.In May, his radio address was broadcast a day after the government unveiled guidelines for what it termed as Unlock 1.0 — in contrast to consecutive phases of the lockdown which was first declared on March 24. It also came a day after he completed the first year of his second term in power, The Prime Minister in his last Mann Ki Baat episode on May 31 cautioned that the battle against the coronavirus pandemic is a long one as he warned against complacency and reiterated the need for social distancing and wearing masks.Modi had also said although every section of the society has been affected by the viral pandemic but the pain felt by the poor cannot be measured in words.The number of day-on-day new Covid-19 cases have risen since then from over 8,000 a day to almost 18,000 cases a day, with the national tally touching over five lakh.Sunday’s broadcast will originate from All India Radio (AIR) Delhi and be relayed by all AIR stations, AIR FM channels, including FM Gold and FM Rainbow, local radio stations and all five community radio stations.It will also be broadcast on Doordarshan and streamed live on the YouTube channels of DD News, AIR, Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) and information and broadcasting ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-his-mann-ki-baat-programme-today/story-Rv3yg9Nv5JlGXBq2KAWEYN.html
28-06-2020||India||‘Protection is must’: Experts call for following guidelines as India’s Covid-19 cases surpass 5 lakh||India’s Covid-19 tally crossed the five lakh mark on Saturday and it stands at 5,08,953, with the death toll at 15,685 according to Union health ministry. On the other hand, Delhi has 28,329 active cases with the total count reaching 80,188 and 2,558 deaths.In this regard, medical experts told ANI that the rise in cases in India is still not high as compared to other countries but said that people should follow Covid-19 guidelines such as wearing face masks.Dr Suresh Kumar, Medical Director, Lok Nayak Jai Prakash (LNJP) Hospital said that urban mobility is a likely cause in the spike in cases.Also read: Eight states account for 87% of Covid-19 deaths, 85% active cases“I think as the numbers are rising, protection is must and we must follow the guidelines by the government wholeheartedly. There is a lot of urban mobility, especially in Delhi and Mumbai which may be a cause for the spike. The population density increases the chances of spreading the infection further. However, our recovery rate is also steadily rising which is encouraging,” Dr Kumar said.Dr SP Byotra, Chairman, Department of Medicine, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital said, “We are yet to reach the optimum number of cases. However, there has been flouting of rules by people. We have been continuously insisting that wearing masks is of foremost importance and mandatory. We should be more responsible as a nation until there is specific treatment/vaccination available.”Also read: The science behind Delhi’s five-pronged fight against Covid-19In addition, Dr Byotra said, “One more important factor is testing. Now, almost 20,000 tests are being conducted which is helping in the detection of cases and ascertain whether they are symptomatic or asymptomatic.”The Delhi government, in its media bulletin, stated that 19,180 tests were conducted on Saturday taking the total tests to 4,78,336. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Dr Randeep Guleria, Director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), told ANI, “Rise in cases in India is still not as high as compared to other countries. In the United States, there have been almost 40,000 cases per day in the last two days. Compared to that, our numbers are not that high.”“Cases per million population continues to be low and we still have low mortality. Considering the size of our population, the number of cases will be large in absolute terms. But if we are able to keep mortality down, it will be a big success for the country,” he said.Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan stated that the Covid-19 recovery rate has surged over 58% in India with around three lakh cured and discharged patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protection-is-must-experts-call-for-following-guidelines-as-india-s-covid-19-cases-surpass-5-lakh/story-JvvBcAWZCfWhLrapNphdJN.html
28-06-2020||India||Covid-19 pandemic prompts a changed world order||The world was in flux before the coronavirus pandemic. Central tenets of the international order that were institutionalised after the Second World War in 1945 and reinforced — with greater gusto — after the end of the Cold War in 1991, were up for question. And, each nation was revising its own political and philosophical approach to the world, and its own place in it. The United States (US) took an unprecedented inward turn with the election of Donald Trump as president in 2016, retreating from the very institutions, economic principles and military outreach that helped it become a superpower and sustain its power. China, under President Xi Jinping, had shown signs of giving up on the principle laid out by Deng Xiaoping to build its internal strength and bide its time on the international stage, by launching the most aggressive global initiative in modern times — the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), expanding its definition of “core interests”, and projecting power both in its vicinity and beyond. Russia, dismissed after the collapse of the Soviet Union as a “has been” power re-emerged as a key player, expanding its influence, expanding its territorial reach, playing a more active role in West Asia, and deepening its partnerships with new actors such as China. The United Kingdom went through Brexit and formalised its exit from the European Union, posing an existential question to the most audacious transnational political-economic-security arrangement ever conceived in the continent that had seen nationalism lead to devastating wars. It was not just actions of particular states, but the fundamentals of international cooperation that were up in the air. The relatively liberal economic regime — premised on the free flow of goods and services, regional and bilateral trading arrangements, and greater openness to movement of people reflected in immigration — was cracking. Surprisingly, or perhaps not so surprisingly, the attack on it came from the same western powers that conceptualised it in the first place, but were now unwilling to bear the costs as economic activity shifted elsewhere. Technology became the new frontier of cooperation and competition. It had connected the world as never before, and changed the way individuals led their lives, companies conducted their businesses, and states interacted. But it also became an additional tool in the diplomatic and military arsenal of the big powers, and control over key technological infrastructure — from the cyber commons to 5G — became a site of global contestation. The pandemic has not changed the world and ushered in a new era. What it has done is intensify and expedite underlying trends which were visible in international politics, and made the world confront a new reality in a period of a few months what would have taken several years. Also read | Eight states account for 87% of Covid deaths, 85% active cases THE “CHINA VIRUS”With Covid-19 originating in Wuhan, as the pandemic spread, US president Donald Trump took to calling Sars-Cov-2 the “China virus”. This was seen as an attempt to deflect his own failures in managing the pandemic on to an external rival; it also reflected the tensions in the US-China relationship. While there remains a widespread consensus that China needs to be called out for its initial missteps in handling the disease, the dominant international view is that it is important not to politicise the pandemic by naming it after China, for it will only deepen divisions and can lead to social tensions. What, then, are these trends? First, the return of nationalism. At a time when Covid-19 is ravaging the world and reflecting the cross-cutting, cross-border, transnational nature of threats to humanity — one case in a city in China has now led to over nine million people getting infected, and close to half-million deaths, worldwide — nationalism has returned with a vengeance. Instead of the pandemic bringing home the message of inter-connectedness and that all countries need to swim together, or they will all sink, the pandemic has brought home another message: you are on your own. The national lockdowns; the prolonged interruptions to international travel; the search — desperate search — in each country for testing kits, hospital beds, personal protective equipment and related health infrastructure tools; the reliance on the local or national, over the international, to sustain supply chains have all made borders the most salient feature of international politics again. THE WHO CRISISThe World Health Organization is in the middle of its most serious crisis since its founding in 1948. And it is just not because of the serious health emergency that has hit the world. Seen as complicit in China’s initial attempts to underplay the disease, the WHO director general, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, has come under particular criticism for the delay in officially alerting the world about the existence of the pandemic, issuing conflicting advisories on health protocols, among other steps. The United States, under Donald Trump, has taken on the WHO — first cutting funding, and then announcing a decision to walk out of the body. Borders never went away; they are in fact the very foundation of the sovereign international state system. But those who thought that borders would become irrelevant can bid adieu to their dreams. From Trump’s decision to tighten immigration rules to India’s decision to launch an economic campaign for self-reliance, nation-states have returned as the most powerful unit in the world order. Second, the death-blow to multilateralism. International cooperation rests on states ceding a degree of their sovereign rights of decision making to conform to an internationally agreed upon set of norms. With the return of nationalism, and intensified conflicts, states are unwilling to cede any authority to a supra-national body. Before the pandemic, this was reflected in Trump’s disdain for the United Nations or the collapse of the dispute settlement mechanism of the World Trade Organization. But it has become far more acute in the wake of the pandemic, reflected most starkly in the politics around the World Health Organization (WHO). THE PANDEMIC IN THE US As the pandemic spread, developed democracies in the west — particularly United States and United Kingdom, but also other nations in Europe — were badly affected. The surge in cases and deaths exposed the governance weaknesses of these states. US president Donald Trump, in particular, swung from underestimating the perils of the disease to encouraging protesters against curtailed movement and economic activity, which led to more cases. Many observers see the moment as the beginning of the end of the US dominance in international politics.By any yardstick, WHO should be the most important organisation at a time when the world is facing its most severe health emergency in a century. But, and here is the paradox, rarely has the WHO been as mired in controversy. Seen as partisan to China, WHO lost its credibility as an impartial stakeholder. Trump’s decision to first cut the funding, and then an announcement that US would walk away from WHO, only eroded its capital further. The world, therefore, lacks an effective body that has the respect of all sides and authority and power to ensure peace and security (the UN Security Council is weak); it lacks an effective body to govern international economic arrangements (WTO’s power is deeply curtailed); and it lacks an effective transnational health organisation. The pandemic’s second message, therefore, is don’t look to the world for support. BELLIGERENT BEIJINGEven as the international community sought accountability from China for the pandemic, Beijing — after focusing on tackling the disease in the first few months of the year — decided to use the moment to both turn internally more repressive and externally more assertive. It stepped up its offensive against Taiwan, eroded Hong Kong’s autonomous status, allegedly launched a cyber offensive against Australia, attacked a Vietnamese vessel in the South China Sea, and encroached on Indian territory. Third, the retreat of globalisation. This again is a paradox for global economic integration is possibly the best way to recover from the global recession. But the fact that there has been brewing resentment in the West — particularly among the working class — about the perceived loss of opportunities due to these interlinkages had already led to the rise of economic nationalists.Trade wars had broken out before the pandemic itself but the pandemic brought home both the importance of securing one’s own supply chains, generating employment through manufacturing at home, and reducing dependence on China. States are now developing a new attitude. Foreign investment is okay — as long as it is coming to me. Trade is okay — as long as it is skewed in my favour. Technological cooperation is fine — but I will not cede control of my critical infrastructure. Migration is fine — but only within bounds, in a very restrictive manner, and only if those who come are sorely needed. The third message from the pandemic is, therefore, build your economy yourself. THE INDIA-CHINA CLASH One of the most significant events in the last 100 days has been the border clash between India and China in eastern Ladakh on June 15, when 20 personnel of the Indian Army and an unconfirmed number of Chinese People’s Liberation Army personnel were killed. The clash came in the wake of China attempting to change the facts on the ground at the Line of Actual Control, breaching past agreements. The episode has the potential to alter the Asian balance of power, push India closer to the United States, and deepen India-China rivalry across the board. Finally, and perhaps most importantly, the pandemic has led to China signalling that it would no longer be constrained by international norms, past agreements and the idea of its “peaceful rise”, and assert its power. The paradox here is that it was in China that the coronavirus disease originated but China may end up emerging as the most powerful entity after the pandemic. It has eroded Hong King’s autonomous status through a repressive national security legislation; it has launched cyber offensives against Australia; it has yet again asserted its claims in the South China Sea, attacking Vietnamese and Malaysian vessels; it has stepped up its offensive against Japan; and, of course, it has attempted to change the facts on the ground on the border with India, violated past agreements, and killed, brutally, 20 personnel of the Indian army. THE END OF GLOBALISATION?US president Donald Trump decided to suspend work visas affecting a wide range of sectors of the US economy and foreign nationals. The move was a reflection of the acceleration in the inward turn of countries. While global movement of people was always more restrictive than the flow of goods and services, Trump’s move is in line with his general approach to global economic interlinkages. But it is not just him. Countries have turned more protectionist, encouraging local industry, and stepping back on WTO commitments, with implications for global supply chains. Also read | ‘Serious problem’: China, US battle threat of new wave of Covid-19 casesThe world increasingly faces a choice. Will countries give into these Chinese attempts to overturn the international order, accept Beijing’s actions, and subscribe to all that comes with it — its authoritarian structure, its disdain for individual freedom, its sense of exceptionalism where all others are lower down the hierarchy and the Middle Kingdom is at the top, its attempts to dominate on land and sea the rest of Asia, and its semi-imperial enterprise of the BRI? Or will they come together to contain China’s untrammelled use of power — even while engaging with it — and force it to continue subscribing to the basic precepts of the liberal international order? The fourth, and the most significant, message of the pandemic is, therefore, simple — accept China’s hegemony or get ready for a long battle ahead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-pandemic-prompts-a-changed-world-order/story-pJslWpzI3z4Ub71nsEHkiM.html
28-06-2020||India||Prasar Bharati issues a letter to PTI over reporting||Public broadcaster Prasar Bharati is reconsidering its equation with the Press Trust of India (PTI) and is learnt to have sent a letter to the news agency over its reporting.According to a person familiar with the matter, a strong letter has been sent by the public broadcaster, expressing displeasure over the kind of reporting done by the agency. The person said there were concerns that the reporting was “anti-national”.Prasar Bharati is one the largest subscribers of PTI, a premier news agency. HT couldn’t immediately establish the quantum of business Bharati gives PTI. A recent PTI interview of the Chinese ambassador ran into controversy with some analysts raising questions. “We have received a letter from the Prasar Bharati this afternoon. We are examining it and will respond in due course with the facts,” a statement released by PTI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prasar-bharati-issues-a-letter-to-pti-over-reporting/story-z2OCnurEOpS2nID8YM8vsJ.html
28-06-2020||India||Cong urges PM to retract June 19 statement on LAC clash with China||The Congress on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to “retract” his statements made at the all-party meeting on the Galwan Valley skirmish with China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) that left 20 Indian Army soldiers dead on June 15. Addressing a virtual press conference, senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal said, “It is not too late for the PM to retract his ill-advised misstatements. When India’s security is in issue no Prime Minister should hesitate to state facts to build trust. Otherwise the Chinese will use his statement to their advantage which will hurt us persuading our friends globally.” The PM’s statements must be based on facts and instil confidence, he said. During the all-party meeting on June 19, the PM had said, “No one has intruded into our territory. No one is present in our territory. None of our posts are in possession of anyone.”Sibal said, “But yesterday Indian Ambassador to China in an interview said that India hopes China will realise its responsibility in de-escalation and disengagement by moving back to its side of the LAC.”Sibal was referring to Indian ambassador in Beijing, Vikram Misri, comments made during an interview to news agency PTI on Friday. Misri said, “India hopes China will realise its responsibility in de-escalation and disengaging by moving back to its side of LAC.”The Congress had earlier sought a clarification on the PM’s remarks alleging that both the defence and the external affairs ministry had acknowledged the presence of Chinese troops on the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-urges-pm-to-retract-june-19-statement-on-lac-clash-with-china/story-LIvvEPJwLmJz21cM8i7NqK.html
28-06-2020||India||Jobless Telangana teachers turn to manual labour||Payili Satyanarayana, 32, taught at a private school in Telangana’s Suryapet town until the Covid-19 pandemic turned his life upside down. He was forced to return to his village in Nalgonda district with his wife and eight-month-old son when the lockdown imposed to check the pandemic spread forced the closure of the school and left him jobless. Satyanarayana was paid one-third of his salary in March before the school management said it could no longer pay him. Left with no other source of income to survive, Satyanarayana enrolled under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme under which at least one member of every rural household is guaranteed 100-day manual work annually. “I was paid ₹150 daily for desilting work at a local tank. But that was hardly enough. Later, I joined as a labourer in cotton fields, where I am getting around ₹300 daily,” said Satyanarayana, who has a master’s degree in Telugu literature.He said he worked as a teacher for a paltry salary of ₹15,000 a month. “Yet, it was a noble profession with respect in society.” He said if he starts thinking about his qualification, he would die of starvation.Satyanarayana’s situation mirrors that of many like Zaheer Ahmed Sheik, 40. Sheik worked as a Hindi teacher but is now forced to eke out a living loading and unloading gas cylinders at a warehouse for ₹500 weekly.Sheik, who is from Mancherial district in Telangana, earned ₹15,000 monthly till the pandemic left him jobless. “Since I could not survive in Hyderabad without a job, I returned to my town and have been working at the warehouse... I have also been painting buildings. In all, I am earning ₹5,000 a month,” said Zaheer, a father of two. “When I think about the future, I get scared.”Tumki Praveen, a mathematics teacher from Jagitial town, ended up as a fruit seller after losing his private school job. “What else could I do? I do not have money even to do a petty business.”Telangana Private Teachers Federation president Sheik Shabbir Ali said there are 11,700 recognised private schools in the state and most of their teachers have lost jobs. “As per the official statistics, 1,20,350 teachers were working in these schools, but unofficially the number is more than 250,000.”Ali said many prestigious schools have resumed online classes but they too have engaged fewer teachers. “In many districts, several big schools have formed groups and are engaging common teachers to take online classes...”Telangana private school managements’ association president Papi Reddy said the private schools were aware of the plight of the teachers but they were also helpless because of the uncertainty in Covid-19 pandemic.“There is no possibility of the schools being reopened even partially, unless the Covid-19 cases come down to a minimum level. The government is also not willing to take risk in allowing students. Many private schools are facing the threat of closure due to huge financial losses because of lockdown,” he said.He admitted that there were schools which evaded payment of salaries to the teachers but hastened to add that they would have certainly paid the arrears after the reopening of the schools.In the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, too, the situation is no different. Many private school teachers have been forced to sell vegetables and even work as construction and daily wage workers.“I earned a lot of respect among students as a maths teacher and principal of a private school. But now, I have lost my job and am forced to go from street to street to sell eggs,” said Nageshwara Rao from West Godavari district.Andhra Pradesh Private School Teachers’ Union president Didde Ambedkar said there are over 12,000 recognised private schools in the state that employed 125,000 teachers. “Many schools have not paid salaries to their teachers since February, much before the lockdown was imposed.”While school education secretary Chitra Ramachandran could not be reached for comment, an officer on special duty in the department said the state government was not in a position to take any decision on reopening of schools due to rising Covid-19 cases. “We are awaiting a direction from National Council of Education Research and Training (NCERT). We shall take a call after seeing the guidelines of the NCERT,” he said.National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE) executive committee member Dr K Ramdas said neither the private schools nor the government could be blamed for the present situation. “As I understand, it is not possible to open schools, at least primary schools, till December, because no parent will be willing to take risk by sending his children to the school,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jobless-telangana-teachers-turn-to-manual-labour/story-5vrtE6OfHGkNueNWydqhNJ.html
28-06-2020||India||OPDs in Delhi’s Ganga Ram to reopen from July 1||Sir Ganga Ram hospital will reopen its outpatient clinics July 1 onwards, with precautions to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The clinics were closed on March 22, days before the national lockdown was announced.The hospital used to receive around 1,700 to 1,800 patients in its clinics every day before the lockdown. The clinics will be operated in a “Covid Safe Area” between 8am and 8pm.“We are taking sufficient precautions to safeguard the health of patients. All our chambers are located in the ‘Covid Safe Area’. Our hospital will ensure the best infection control measures,” said Dr DS Rana, chairman of the board of management of Sir Gangaram Hospital.The government has dedicated 80% of the hospital’s beds for the treatment of Covid-19. Several hospitals in the city—government and private —had closed their out-patient services in view of Covid-19. Some had re-opened them from April 14.Others, like Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, are still in the process of reopening their clinics while ensuring patient safety.The hospital has about 40 chambers on the ground floor which is completely segregated and has a separate entry from the Covid areas. Only one person will be allowed in one chamber at a time, according to the hospital.“There is a screening tent outside the OPD entrance where the patient’s temperature and symptoms will be checked and we will allow only the patient to go inside. We will allow a family member inside only in dire situations. Once a patient receives a consultation and leaves the room, it will be sanitised before another patient is allowed inside,” a hospital staff personnel said.All the doctors in the clinics will be in complete personal protective gear, including full-body suits. Patients will need no appointment at the OPDs.The hospital- one of the busiest private hospitals in the city- has been working at nearly 45% of the doctor strength in its OPDs for the past couple of months.“From 45 OPDs running six days in a week, with about 40 to 50 patients per OPD, we have reduced consultations to about 10-12 patients per OPD. There are no more than 15 OPDs running two-three days in a week. We have been extra cautious,” said Mili Sehgal, OPD in-charge at the hospital.Several patients have been suffering due to the shutdown of the OPDs as well as the delay in surgeries.The state government had asked the hospital to convert itself into a Covid facility last month, and the hospital has been working to make the required arrangements, causing delays, and inconvenience to patients as a result.Patients said they felt the panic among hospital staff. “There is too much panic; you can see the staff being extra cautious, which is understandable as this disease is highly infectious. We are grateful that at least our patient was admitted and treatment was started here. There were other smaller hospitals in our area but we had heard they weren’t admitting Covid patients, and that’s why we came here,” Rakesh Kumar, whose uncle, an unconfirmed Covid-19 case, is undergoing treatment in the intensive care unit, said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opds-in-delhi-s-ganga-ram-to-reopen-from-july-1/story-kk52fh6TVjzNoCpXdk20wN.html
28-06-2020||India||Delhi cop shoots colleague inside police station in fight over their beats||A Delhi police constable has been arrested in a case of attempt to murder for allegedly firing at his colleague with his service revolver at the Seemapuri police station in Shahdara, officials said on Saturday.The constable has been identified as Ravinder Nagar, while the victim, who is now battling for life at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences’ Trauma Centre, has been identified as Amod Bhadana.According to officials, the incident happened on Friday night following an altercation between the two constables over a work-related issue.Nagar was caught at the crime scene and is being questioned on what triggered him to use his service revolver, said deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) Amit Sharma.On Friday night around 10.30 pm, Bhadana eating on the first floor of the police station when the two started arguing. Nagar then took out his service revolver and fired at Bhadana, DCP Sharma said.“The bullet hit Bhadana’s chest and he collapsed. He was rushed to the nearby Swami Dayanand Hospital from where he was referred to AIIMS Trauma Centre. He has undergone surgery. His condition is still critical,” the DCP said.“What went wrong between them is being probed. The exact sequence of the events leading to the firing can be known only when the injured constable recovers and record his statement. Nagar is not saying anything on it,” he said.Another police officer privy to the incident said that the two constables first had an altercation at a tea stall near the police station in the evening, which was resolved by some other officials.Meanwhile, some officials said that Nagar was upset about a recent change in Bhadana’s charge. “Bhadana had been recently given the charge of a police beat falling under the territorial jurisdiction of the Seemapuri police station after Nagar was removed from that beat by senior officers. Nagar was unhappy about this,” said a police officer, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-cop-shoots-colleague-inside-police-station/story-8CmU15evIQBf7W3VYhQzbI.html
28-06-2020||India||‘Our George Floyds’: Outrage at custodial deaths in Tamil Nadu||Outrage over the death of a father-son duo in police custody in Tamil Nadu’s Sathankulam mounted on Saturday, with political leaders in the state promising swift action in the case that has been compared to the killing of a black American in alleged police brutality in the United States.P Jayaraj, 59, and J Fennix Immanuel, 31, were tortured and brutally thrashed by the police, which resulted in rectal bleeding and eventual death, according to a letter to government officials written by Jayaraj’s wife J Selvarani. According to a first information report, the two were arrested on June 19 in Sathankulam in Thoothukudi district for allegedly violating lockdown norms by keeping their shop open for longer hours and defying the night curfew. They were remanded in judicial custody and lodged in Kovilpatti jail in the town on June 21.Fennix died on Monday after complaining of breathlessness and his father died a day after at the Kovilpatti government hospital, chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami, who oversees the police in the state, said in a statement on Wednesday. “We will take action over this incident as per the law,” Palaniswami said.Four policemen, including two sub-inspectors, have been suspended over the incident, reported news agency PTI.Hundreds of social media users, celebrities and political leaders condemned the incident, which was among the top Twitter topics trending in the country on Friday and among the top 30 trending globally.“The George Floyds of India are far too many... Will Indians march on streets in thousands, like America?” wrote Gujarat legislator Jignesh Mevani, referring to events following the death in police custody on May 25 of George Floyd, a black American, in Minneapolis last month. Bollywood actor Priyanka Chopra Jonas wrote on Twitter she was absolutely “stunned” and “angry” over the incident, adding: “The guilty must not be allowed to go unpunished. We need facts. I cannot even begin to imagine what the family must be going through.” The only way to handle this is through a swift, fair, transparent investigation & the equally swift delivery of justice, Mahindra Group chairman Anand Mahindra said in a tweet on Saturday.Amid furore over the incident, the ruling All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) said in another statement on Friday the government will ensure justice is delivered even as the opposition DMK targeted the administration for allowing the police to take the law in their own hands. DMK chief and Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly MK Stalin also said those responsible for the “barbarity” should be punished and that his party would support all legal action against the guilty. Both the parties also announced compensation of ₹25 lakh each for the family of the victims.The incident triggered demonstrations across the state, with traders shutting shops on Friday in protest against the alleged police brutality. Political parties led by MK Stalin of the DMK held a protest rally, a day after party leader and Rajya Sabha member MK Kanimozhi visited the family.On Friday, Thoothukudi superintendent of police Arun Balagopalan also submitted a status report to the Madurai Bench of the Madras high court, which had taken suo motu cognizance of the matter on June 24. The next hearing is scheduled to be held on June 30.Nearly 15 cases of custodial violence and torture were reported in every day on average, with nine people dying in judicial or police custody every 24 hours, according to the latest annual report by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) for the year 2017-18. The NHRC said in its report that some custodial deaths were reported after considerable delay or not reported at all, adding violence in custody was so rampant “that it has become almost routine”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/our-george-floyds-outrage-at-custodial-deaths/story-aZ8RZ4DkmDF4g0kUvXOSKJ.html
28-06-2020||India||Sero survey in Delhi begins to map exposure to coronavirus||A serological survey began in some parts of Delhi on Saturday to determine the extent of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)’s spread, even as chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said his government was deploying “five weapons” – testing and isolation, providing oximeters and oxygen concentrators, plasma therapy, screening, and survey – in the fight against the infection. Blood samples will be taken from randomly selected people as part of the survey, which involves rapid tests for antibodies, to study the scale of undetected infections. Samples of 20,000 people will be tested by July 10 to ascertain the population-level presence of the IgG antibody, which indicates past infection. The activity will take place along with door-to-door screening in the Capital and increased testing for Covid-19.On Saturday, Delhi began the study in the Central district, which conducted about 700 blood tests. The Capital reported 2,948 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total infections in the city to 80,188. Delhi has reported 2,558 deaths so far from the infectious disease. The number of fresh cases across the nation surpassed the 20,000 mark for the first time, with 20,179 new infections.The results of the current study will be used as baseline data and such drives will be conducted periodically to monitor the trend of the infection in the community, according to the training material provided by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), which is spearheading the study. The survey is part of a new Covid-19 response plan prepared by the Delhi health department, in accordance with the recommendations of a committee headed by NITI Aayog member VK Paul. The Centre and the Delhi government agreed on deploying a revamped strategy against the disease in the Capital at a recent meeting chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah.Also read | Covid-19 pandemic prompts a changed world orderTeams of lab technicians and auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs) posted at government dispensaries and mohalla clinics will visit households and draw blood samples in all 11 districts of the Capital.On the first day of the survey, the Central district created 30 teams for the exercise, which is also called sero-surveillance. The other districts were in the process of arranging logistics, training the ground staff, and surveying their respective areas to select households. A senior revenue department official with the Delhi government said on condition of anonymity: “We are in the process of making arrangements and training the staff for it. We have started with the Central district and will scale it up from tomorrow (Sunday). From Monday, it will start in all the districts.”The New Delhi district, which will collect the lowest number of samples (169) based on the size of its population, will begin the exercise on Monday. The highest number of samples will be collected by the Northwest.In the East and West districts, the staff that will be deployed for sample collection were being trained on Saturday. “There is a protocol which has to be followed. We have formed close to 25-plus teams, one per dispensary, to carry out the survey. The areas where the teams will go have been finalised as per the guidelines provided to us,” said a senior official with the East district, requesting anonymity.The exercise is being jointly carried out by NCDC, which functions under the Union health ministry, and the Delhi government. “The serological survey has started from Saturday and will cover 20,000 people. The survey is being conducted door to door and will reveal the extent of coronavirus spread in Delhi,” chief minister Kejriwal said.He said Delhi was waging a difficult war against the Covid-19 pandemic and will emerge victorious, but it will take time. The Delhi government is combating the pandemic by augmenting hospital beds, increasing the number of tests, providing oximeters and oxygen concentrators to patients in home isolation, providing plasma therapy to patients, and through survey and screening, the CM said.Also read | The science behind Delhi’s five-pronged fight against Covid In the past one month, the number of beds was raised significantly at hospitals and now there was no lack of beds; out of 13,500 available, 7,500 were vacant, he added. Deputy CM Manish Sisodia tweeted: “Sero Testing has been started from today in the fight against Corona in Delhi. Under this, 20 thousand blood sample will be taken from all over Delhi. This test will prove to be very effective in the Delhi government’s campaign against Corona.” Explaining the process of the serological survey, a doctor with the West district said: “Our teams will be sent to 10-15 points or areas identified by us.”In the North district, five teams have been formed. Each team will have a lab technician, a pharmacist, ANMs and ASHA workers. The teams will be supervised by a doctor, a senior doctor with the district said, asking not to be named. For random selection of the households, each ward in Delhi will be divided into four areas and the households will be selected using a list of homes available with the dispensary in the area. In the absence of such a list, the teams have been directed to stand in the middle of the areas designated to them and identify one household at random. The next household will be selected at an interval of about 5 or 10 houses, according to the methodology. “We have been given a ward-wise break-up of the number of households that have to be included for the study. We have to randomly select these households – for example, if we start from one point of a locality, then we collect samples from house number 1, 5, 10… like that. If a house is locked or people do not consent to be a part of the study, we will move to the next house,” a doctor from the Central district said on condition of anonymity.At least 30% of the samples from each ward have to be from children (1 to 18 years of age). For the study, only those people who have been living in the city for at least six months will be included.The teams have to carry a questionnaire (about the health of the participant, travel or contact history), consent forms, blood collection kits, boxes that are used for vaccinations, appropriate personal protective equipment and bags for the disposal of biomedical waste. Each team has to collect up to 40 samples. For every five survey teams, there will be a supervisory team consisting of medical officers from the dispensaries or mohalla clinics, along with an intern or final-year postgraduate student and a nodal officer from NCDC. Earlier this month, the Indian Council of Medical Research revealed the result of its pilot sero-surveillance study of 26,000 people from across India. The overall percentage of general population that was found to have been infected in the past is 0.73%, with urban areas having shown higher Covid-19 prevalence of about 1.09%, the study had revealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sero-survey-in-delhi-begins-to-map-exposure-to-coronavirus/story-WLyV0eADZWIQSikAD49b5J.html
28-06-2020||India||UN experts seek anti-CAA protesters’ release||The Office of United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) has asked India to immediately release activists arrested for protesting against the new Citizenship (Amendment) Act , or CAA.“These defenders, many of them students, appear to have been arrested simply because they exercised their right to denounce and protest against the CAA, and their arrest seems clearly designed to send a chilling message to India’s vibrant civil society that criticism of government policies will not be tolerated,” OHCHR said in a statement.In December, parliament passed a law to fast-track grant of Indian citizenship to six religious minorities from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan -- Hindus, Buddhists, Sikhs, Jains, Parsis, Christians. A large number of groups and political parties have termed the law discriminatory because it left out the Muslims. Protests have taken place all across India since November last year demanding its withdrawal. In February,communal rioting erupted over CAA in Delhi in which 53 people were killed.The government has repeatedly claimed that CAA will be implemented at any cost and that opposition parties were spreading misconceptions about the new law which it said wouldn’t affect Indian Muslims.The OHCHR statement mentioned the case of pregnant Delhi student Safoora Zargar, who was released on bail on June 23.It said – “…Zargar was detained for over two months having allegedly been kept in conditions equating to solitary confinement, denied regular contact with her family and legal representative, and having not been provided adequate medical care or diet. She was finally granted bail on June 23, in her sixth month of pregnancy, on humanitarian grounds.”Others named by UN office in its statement included Meeran Haider, Gulfisha Fatima, Asif Iqbal Tanha, Devangana Kalita, Natasha Narwal, Khalid Saifi, Shifa Ur Rehman, Dr Kafeel Khan, Sharjeel Imam and Akhil Gogoi, who have been arrested over the past six-seven months.“Many of the 11 individual cases include serious allegations of human rights violations, several relating to due process failings during arrest and detention, as well as allegations of torture and ill-treatment,” it said.“Authorities should immediately release all human rights defenders who are currently being held in pre-trial detention without sufficient evidence, often simply on the basis of speeches they made criticising the discriminatory nature of the CAA,” the statement said.It said that the authorities were invoking counter-terrorism or national security legislation, and using procedural police powers, to deny bail to protesters and issue charges carrying heavy sentences.“Although demonstrations ended in March due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and India’s Supreme Court issued a recent order to decongest jails because of health concerns related to the pandemic, protest leaders continue to be detained. The reported spread of the virus in Indian prisons makes their immediate release all the more urgent,” the UN said.The UN, the statement said, was in contact with the Indian government on the matter.BJP MP Rakesh Sinha said: “CAA is law under Indian Constitution and provides relief to victims of religious majoritarianism in Pak Bangladesh and Afghanistan. I condemn the statement as unwise and against the international customs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/un-experts-seek-anti-caa-protesters-release/story-zK8yklFw2p5AkvsKhtOGPL.html
28-06-2020||India||Striking down NJAC flawed, says former AG Mukul Rohatgi||The 2015 Supreme Court judgment striking down the National Judicial Appointments Commission (NJAC) -- a body conceived by the Narendra Modi government for appointing judges to the Supreme Court and high courts -- is flawed and goes against the will of the people and the Constitutional mandate, senior counsel and former attorney general (AG) Mukul Rohatgi said on Saturday.Rohatgi, who argued the case on NJAC for the central government when he was AG, said the constitution empowers the President of India to appoint judges of the Supreme Court and high courts in consultation with the Chief Justice of India (CJI). But the Supreme Court interpreted the word “consultation” in the Constitution to mean “concurrence’ so as to give primacy to the CJI when it comes to judicial appointments, he said.“How can the line ‘President shall appoint a judge of Supreme Court in consultation with CJI’ mean ‘concurrence with CJI’? Dr.{Bhim Rao} Ambedkar would be turning in his grave (at the Supreme Court’s interpretation)”, Rohatgi said at a webinar, where he spoke on former Union minister late Arun Jaitley’s perspectives on justice dispensation and expectations of the judiciary.The NJAC, which was the brainchild of Jaitley, had sought to replace the Collegium system of appointing judges.The Collegium is a body of five senior-most judges of the Supreme Court which recommends the names of candidates for appointment as judges of the Supreme Court and high court. The names recommended by the Collegium are binding on the central government.The collegiums system itself was introduced by the Supreme Court through its 1993 judgment in the second judges case in which it held that the power to appoint judges is vested with the CJI and the central government cannot appoint a person as judge without the concurrence of the CJI and the four senior-most judges of the Supreme Court. This body of judges came to be called the Collegium – a system in which judges appoint judges.After the Modi government came to power in 2014, one of the first changes it brought to the Constitution was to include a new Article providing for the NJAC, a body comprised of representatives of the government and judiciary to appoint judges.“He (Jaitley) was clear that nowhere in the world, judges appoint judges. But our Supreme Court, interpreted ‘consultation’ as ‘concurrence’. NJAC may have had some flaws but not enough for Supreme Court to strike it down”, Rohatgi said, adding that Jaitley felt bitter about the court’s interpretation which he believed went against the will of the people.Rohatgi also expressed hope that the Supreme Court would realize its mistake and overturn its 2015 judgment.“In the Puttaswamy case (of 2017), Justice DY Chandrachud overturned his father’s judgment in ADM Jabalpur. I believe the Supreme Court will overturn its judgment on NJAC in the next two years”, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/striking-down-njac-flawed-former-ag/story-ZLbuOyqGcsQKZrmy9AMO7O.html
28-06-2020||India||Nitin Gadkari highlights need for import substitution in MSMEs||Union minister for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) Nitin Gadkar on Saturday said “import substitution”, a term policy-makers use for economic self-reliance, was important for the country, underscoring the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government’s tilt toward a model of growth that seeks to boost exports and minimise imports. Gadkari, who spoke via videoconference at the launch of a report on MSMEs here, said the Covid-19 pandemic would likely end once a vaccine was found.“We are 100% going to win the Covid war. A vaccine will come. But the economic war is a long one...import substitute (substitution) is important.”“When I look at Varanasi, I get worried that it is importing silk from China. We have a good sericulture sector,” he said, adding local handloom and handicraft units needed a boost.On the occasion of MSME Day, Gadkari launched a report, Improving Economic Dynamism and Accelerating MSME Growth, brought out by the Global Alliance for Mass Entrepreneurship, a not-for-profit.Import substitution was the country’s main economic and industrial policy during the first few five-yearly plan periods. Such a policy focuses on replacing foreign imports with domestically produced goods. He said the government planned to have one industry in each panchayat, boost exports and rely on “import substitution” for growth and jobs. Gadkari said boosting exports of small and rural industries, creating a sustainable economy, with less pollution, decongestion of cities and building industrial hubs along 22 green expressways were priorities of the government. “Our 117 aspirational districts are low on many indicators. We are focusing on creating sustainable development in these districts,” the minister said.Small enterprises are the backbone of Indian manufacturing. They account for 29% of the country’s gross domestic product (GDP), have 22% share in exports and employ over 100 million people. The report on MSMEs launched by Gadkari recommends simplified communication of government schemes in local languages and easier access to funds for first-time borrowers.It also sought “an enabling business environment through simplification, digitization and decriminalization of compliances.” The lockdown imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19 has hit small businesses the most and 57% of these units are out of cash, the non-for-profit GAME said. The recommendations were made by a task force composed of corporate leaders, policy-makers, MSMEs representatives and academic experts, according to the report.“COVID is an existential threat particularly to smaller, informal firms. Estimates suggest that 30-40% may cease to exist. The sector urgently requires financial and regulatory support to keep businesses afloat,” Ravi Venkatesan, founder of GAME said. Venkatesan is a former chairman of Microsoft India. Participants in the conference included Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma, Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa and Punjab education minister Vijay Inder Singhal. Gadkari said his ministry would “work on” the report to finalise an agenda to implement the recommendations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gadkari-highlights-need-for-import-substitution-in-msmes/story-hHXAJBtuRfMATcfk41uBWI.html
28-06-2020||India||RSS wants govt to work on improving ties with Nepal||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) has expressed concern over the strain in the ties with Nepal and wants New Delhi to focus on rebuilding people-to-people ties with Kathmandu people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. The ideological fount of the BJP, the RSS, has however backed India’s response to China following the violent face-off between the armies of the two sides in Ladakh on June 15.Both issues were discussed at a meeting between the RSS top brass and the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) leadership earlier this week in New Delhi, the people cited above added.  RSS leaders present at the meeting, the people said, expressed concern that the government and the intelligence agencies were blindsided by developments in the neighbourhood and were worried at the deterioration in Indo-Nepal relations. “The meeting which was chaired by the RSS general secretary Suresh Bhaiyaji Joshi and attended by several RSS leaders, BJP president JP Nadda and BJP’s general secretary, organisations BL Santhosh was called to assess the situation brewing on the borders and to prepare for the ‘post- Covid’ developments,” said one of the people. He added that the meeting also discussed the possibility of opponents of the Citizenship Amendment Act launching another “Shaheen Bagh like protest” after the pandemic dies out. The reference is to an area in New Delhi where protestors against the law took over a road for months on end. The protest was effectively brought to an end by the pandemic. While the RSS has always advocated a muscular foreign policy to deal with Pakistan and China; it is concerned that India and Nepal have not been able to resolve issues through dialogue.Earlier this month Nepal’s Lower House of Parliament passed a constitutional amendment Bill revising the Coat of Arms and amending the country’s map to incorporate Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura areas, traditionally claimed by India. The RSS leadership has weighed in favour of revisiting trade ties with China; and after the clashes in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley that led to the killing of 20 Indian soldiers there is a concerted campaign to push the government to reset trade links and also elicit support from people for the same. But as far as Nepal is concerned, the Sangh wants the emphasis on people-to-people ties.“What started off as internal politics in Nepal has taken the shape of acrimony (between the two sides). There is a sense (in the RSS) that the bureaucracy took precedence over political engagement, which resulted in communication slip ups,” said a second person familiar with what transpired at the meeting. Referring to Nepal Army chief General Purna Chandra Thapa’s visit to inspect a security post in Kalapani, the second person added: “The Sangh does not favour any military l face-off between India and Nepal. It is concerned by the developments, but believes that these are being triggered at the behest of China. So it wants relations to be normalized between the two countries.”Sanjay Kumar of the Centre for Developing Studies said the RSS’s push for better relations with Nepal stems from the ideological similarities between the two countries. “There is an ideological connect between the Sangh and Nepal, a Hindu nation. Also, amending ties with them is easier than (doing so with) China.”Social equations between Indian and Nepalese also play a key role in pushing for friendly ties Kumar said. “There are family ties, marriages take place between the people on both sides and that plays an important role in establishing friendly relations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-wants-govt-to-work-on-improving-ties-with-nepal/story-EWI1BA4EKnKQKaNjk823uO.html
28-06-2020||India||Covid-19: New software in focus for registry of deaths||To address the need for realtime reporting of deaths caused by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), several states plan to use the e-mortality recording software developed by an institute under the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).After Karnataka directed all hospitals to use the death registry software, Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan are also finalising plans to adopt the software developed by the ICMR-National Centre for Disease Informatics and Research (NCDIR), based in Bengaluru.“We have been using this software for a couple of years to record cause of death at our registry sites in 25 hospitals across India. It has been quite effective in documenting exact cause of death in a scientific manner,” said Dr Prashant Mathur, director, NCDIR. “The plan was to ask states to take this software up for registering all cause mortality but then Covid happened and many states approached us on their own showing interest in making use of this software. It will streamline the whole process,” Mathur added.The deaths that will be recorded through the software include deaths at hospitals and homes to primarily strengthen the way death statistics are recorded in India.The software, even though it will make registration of deaths easier, does not aim to replace the existing system of death registration. “All deaths must be recorded and certified with cause of death by a medical doctor,” said the a document on the software.The software will help facilitate death registration for families; hospitals that can record a death and maintain death register, and even conduct mortality audits; and it can also help in research and public health by strengthening cause of death statistics; vital event registration, and help in planning and implementation of health care services, among other things.The software can be used by all clinics, nursing homes, hospitals and medical institutes that can register with ICMR-NCDIR. General physicians, who certify death at home, can also participate to make the overall data collection robust.The institute will provide technical assistance to strengthen the quality of cause of death information and strengthen the Medical Certificate of Cause of Death (MCCD) system in hospitals; facilitate statistical tables for administrative and research needs of hospitals; and generate statistical tables in accordance with MCCD reports of the Registrar General of India reports.Data transmitted through online software is encrypted and securely stored and not shared with any third party.“Not everyone will get access to the data; it will remain for restricted use to protect the identity of the deceased,” Mathur added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-software-in-focus-for-registry-of-deaths/story-vkI73C8ZLNqUTPlMom20KI.html
28-06-2020||India||High alert sounded in south, southwest Delhi for potential locust attack||Delhi’s environment minister Gopal Rai on Saturday issued a high alert in south and southwest districts of the city because of a potential locust attack threat after a small portion of a locust swarm moving towards Palwal in Haryana entered the Asola Bhatti area. The city-state’s agriculture department issued advisories to all district magistrates, sub-divisional magistrates, the forest department and municipal corporations to prepare for locust swarms.After scattered groups of locusts entered Delhi’s border areas including Aya Nagar and Mehrauli, Rai called an emergency meeting at noon on Saturday to discuss the locust threat. The forest department was directed to take measures such as creating high-decibel noise through beating of drums or loud music to scare away the locusts. All district magistrates were asked to remain in touch with the fire department to make arrangements for chemical spraying to save vegetation from the voracious pests.“The DMs have also been asked to deploy adequate staff to make all possible arrangements like Munadi in the villages to guide the residents to distract the locals by making high decibel sound through banging of utensils, beating drums, playing DJs or burning of neem leaves,” the advisory said. Residents of some parts of south Delhi were taken aback when they saw the skyline turning brown around noon.Sanat Swain, a mechanical engineer who was driving to his workplace in Gurugram, saw a large number of locusts near the Indian Institute of Technology flyover. “I was driving and I couldn’t believe what was happening. The sky above me had turned dark brown suddenly,” he said.Northwest India is bracing for more such swarms. Several swarms have flown in from Pakistan and Iran in the past 10 to 15 days after breeding took place there nearly all year round, the Locust Warning Organisation said.The swarm, which had originally started from Pakistan, came via Jhunjhunu in Rajasthan and Rewari in Haryana and reached Gurugram around noon. Before heading towards Palwal, parts of the swarm crossed several stretches of south Delhi. According to the LWO, during locust control operations in Rajasthan, this particular swarm survived the insecticides sprayed on them so they started moving from there and headed towards Gurgaon with the wind direction being predominantly westerly.On Saturday afternoon, the swarm reached Bulandshahr in Uttar Pradesh and a few scattered groups remained in Delhi. LWO’S seven ground control vehicles were headed towards Bulandshahr where control operations are likely to take place. “These vehicles are mounted with machines that have sprayers. Drones and tractors or fire brigades will also be used. We will spray Malathion 96, Lambda Cyhalothrin and Chlorpyrifos to control the swarm at night in UP,” said KL Gurjar, deputy director, LWO.“We can’t conduct our control operations until they settle down. They could settle in some remote areas around 8 pm,” said JP Singh, joint director, LWO. Spraying of pesticides could take place only after midnight.Meanwhile, with the monsoon approaching the arid regions of Rajasthan, breeding of locusts has started in several pockets, Gurjar said. “Egg laying has taken place and hoppers have emerged. But we will manage to control these hoppers immediately,” Gurjar added.Last week, the Food and Agriculture Organisation had warned that Ethiopia, South Sudan, Pakistan, and India should remain on high alert during the next four weeks for fresh locust invasions. Any swarms in northern Somalia can migrate across the Indian Ocean to the summer breeding areas along both sides of the Indo-Pakistan border.“There are successive breeding cycles in the Horn of Africa. Some swarms from there are moving towards west Africa while some are moving towards Saudi Arabia, Oman and Yemen. These can also come to India in July. Some are expected to directly move to India from the Horn of Africa with the monsoon winds,” Gurjar said.“The winds are moving from the direction of the Horn of Africa towards India. The wind direction is south-westerly during monsoon. I will not be able to comment on whether they will carry these swarms with them,” said M Mohapatra, director general, India Meteorological Department.LWO said the Kharif crop, especially maize and cotton, is likely to be impacted if the two locust threats—from the Indian Ocean and from breeding sites in India -- aren’t controlled||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-alert-sounded-in-south-southwest-delhi/story-7If9O41g5d6zhw3pjunLvO.html
28-06-2020||India||India’s locust control wing is oldest in world||India has the world’s oldest desert locust control programme. The British government established the Locust Warning Organisation (LWO) in 1939 in Karachi following a deadly locust plague between 1926 and 1931.Between 1939 and 1946, the main function of the organization was surveillance in the Thar desert and issuance of warnings to the then Indian states about the possibility of desert locust swarms, their movement and breeding, according to the LWO’s Ready Reckoner. In 1946, the LWO moved to Delhi under the directorate of plant protection, quarantine and storage under the ministry of agriculture and farmers welfare.There were locust outbreaks of different intensities in India in 1812, 1821, 1843-44, 1863-67, 1869-73, 1876-81, 1889-98, 1900-1907, 1912-1920, 1926-1931, 1940-1946, 1949-1955, 1959-1962, 1978, 1993, 1997, 2005, 2010 according to the LWO.Also read | ‘Shut your windows’: Delhi advises people as locusts enter Delhi from GurugramToday, the LWO has 250 employees who survey locust populations and issue bulletins every fortnight that help farmers prepare for a locust invasion. LWO carries out locust surveys or population monitoring activities in line with a survey schedule finalized at the beginning of every locust season, prepares and submits the locust survey reports for the department of agriculture and cooperation; organizes and supervises locust control operations as and whensorequired; coordinates with state governments and the Border Security Force (BSF) for locust control operations, among others.LWO also organises the Indo-Pak locust officers border meeting for exchange of information on locusts, situation in their respective countries during locust season (June to November), the Ready Reckoner says. “Even when there is no locust attack as such, we are surveying and making reports. We also coordinate with the Food and Agriculture Organisation to prepare for possible outbreaks,” said KL Gurjar, deputy director, LWO.Keith Cressman, senior desert locust officer at the FAO, said at a webinar organised by the Centre for Science and Environment last month: “India is well equipped. It has the oldest national locust programme” and so wasbetter prepared to handle the invasions during the current locust upsurge.According to the FAO Commission for Controlling the Desert Locust in South-West Asia publication, the five-year invasion from 1926 to 1931 was estimated to have caused damage to crops alone of Rs 2 crore. Damage was also caused to fodder and pastures, resulting in heavy mortality among cattle, goats and sheep.The report states that South West Asia has experienced several locust plagues in the past. Locusts are mentioned in Sanskrit literature, including the Mahabharata. It also finds mention in the Iranian Zoroastrian Vendidad, the tenth chapter of the Book of Exodus in the Bible and in the Al-Araf chapter 7 of the Quran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-locust-control-wing-is-oldest-in-world/story-gqNQeO3kSCtKAUJKhOOJeO.html
28-06-2020||India||Locust swarms reach NCR, race over to UP||Columns of desert locusts, menacing crop-eating pests, which survived a control operation in Rajasthan on June 26, flew over parts of the national capital region on Saturday, including rural west Delhi (Dwarka), Gurugram and Faridabad, as residents kept their windows shut, banged utensils or played loud music to chase the insects away. Swarms appeared over the skies of Delhi and its satellite cities, Gurugram and Faridabad, on Saturday at mid-morning. The national capital region has likely escaped a major attack because the swarms don’t settle during the day and were racing towards Uttar Pradesh, an official of the agricultural ministry said, requesting anonymity because he is not authorised to speak to the media. Locusts fly constantly during daytime and settle down at nightfall.Officials at Delhi’s airport, which falls close to areas over which the locusts flew, were being updated by locust control authorities of the agriculture ministry so that pilots can be briefed, the official cited above said.India is battling an invasions of locusts, which can flatten whole farms overnight, after they appeared earlier than anticipated this year in April in the border areas of Rajasthan. Also read | ‘Shut your windows’: Delhi advises people as locusts enter Delhi from GurugramThe Horn of Africa has been witnessing large breading by locusts since 2019 due to frequent cyclones possibly linked to climate change and swarms have invaded several regions from there, according to the UN’s Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO). The FAO has warned that locust invasions pose a “severe risk” to India’s farm economy this year. In a June 23 update, the FAO said India was among five nations that cannot lower their guard against the locusts for the next four weeks. Desert locusts can fly hundreds of kilometres a daily and a one square-km swarm can eat as much crop food as 35,000 people in terms of weight in a single day, according to the FAO Desert Locust Information Service manual. “As of now, no locust swarms are active in any city. Authorities are tracking their route. The locusts have reached Uttar Pradesh flying over parts of the national capital,” the official cited above said. The swarms may descend somewhere near Agra by nightfall, according to inputs received from tacking teams. On Saturday, expert teams scoured areas which lay under the locust flight path.The country has deployed drones, locally developed sprayers and modified fire tenders to spray malathion, the main pesticide that is effective against the desert locust. India this month shipped 20,000 litres of malathion to Iran to curb breeding there. Controlling the pests in Iran helps India because Iran lies on a west-east corridor the locusts take to enter India through Rajasthan. People living in Gurugram and Faridabad posted pictures and videos showing clouds of pests in their areas. “It was around noon. We heard a humming noise and saw the entire sky covered. The insects must have been several feet up in the air,” said Kuldeep Gurjar, a farmer and the head of Manesar Farmers’ Producer Organisation near Gurugram’s Manesar. “Ground control teams are constantly tracking them and will undertake major control operations once they settle down,” an official statement said. Well-equipped teams in UP are on alert and ready for overnight operations, the official cited above said. Officials are also on alert in Delhi, Rajasthan and Haryana.The locust invasion of the national capital region Saturday was from a large offshoot of pests that survived an elimination operation by agriculture officials in Rajasthan’s Jhunjhunu on the morning of June 26, according to a locust status report. About a third of the pests from that operation is estimated to have survived. These swarms reached Rewari in Haryana on June 26 evening, destroying some crops. Local teams from the locust control organisation, under the farm ministry, undertook control operations there. A group that survived the control operations in Haryana then flew out in three separate formations, each containing millions of locusts. “One of columns headed into Gurugram. It flew in a route that took them over Faridabad and onwards to Uttar Pradesh,” the official said.Another formation flew past rural Dwarka in Delhi towards Daulatabad, Faridabad and Gurugram. “That is why there was a very large presence in Gurugram,” the official cited above said. This swarm too entered UP by afternoon Saturday. A third group headed towards Palwal in Haryana and is also reported to be moving towards UP. If not checked, locust attacks are known to cause considerable drops in food output.The official cited above said all the formations are being tracked by teams of state agriculture departments of Rajasthan, Haryana and UP. More control teams from Rajasthan were being moved to Haryana and UP to launch operations.Locust authorities have ramped up containment since May. The area under control currently stands at about 114,026 hectares, up from about 49,000 hectares in May. One hectare is roughly 2.4 acres.The most threatened states where locust control operations are under way are Rajasthan, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra and UP.“India has experience of fighting the pest from two previous outbreaks in 1950 and 1993. We have better technology now. If need be help can be taken of the air force for aerial spraying,” said JN Thakur, a former chief of locust monitoring at the agriculture ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locust-swarms-reach-ncr-race-over-to-up/story-7wBmpNNgpTIk5VjqIkRGtI.html
28-06-2020||India||Covid-19: New protocols prescribe use of dexamethasone||The Union heath ministry on Saturday revised clinical management protocols for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), and added the steroid dexamethasone for use on patients with progressive deterioration of oxygenation indicators, rapid worsening on imaging and excessive activation of the body’s inflammatory response.“The updated protocol includes the advice to use Dexamethasone as an alternative choice to Methylprednisolone for managing moderate to severe cases of Covid-19. The change has been made after considering the latest available evidence and expert consultation,” the ministry said in a statement.The dosage recommended is 0.2-0.4 mg/kg/day for a period of 3-5 days.Health secretary Preeti Sudan has written to state governments to follow the updated protocol, and to make necessary arrangements for availability and use of the drug in all hospitals.A cheap and widely available steroid drug, dexamethasone can save one in three critically ill Covid-19 patients, according to the results of a scientific scrutiny by the University of Oxford published in a preprint journal on Monday.Also read | Eight states account for 87% of Covid deaths, 85% active cases “Dexamethasone is a corticosteroid drug used in a wide range of conditions for its anti- inflammatory and immunosuppressant effects. The drug has been tested in hospitalized patients with COVID-19 in the RECOVERY clinical trial and was found to have benefits for critically ill patients and has been shown to reduce mortality by about one third for patients on ventilators, and by about one fifth for patients being maintained on oxygen therapy. It is manufactured in India, costs a few rupees, and has been used for 60 years to treat inflammatory diseases and sceptic shock,” a statement by the health ministry read.Dexamethasone is the first treatment to prevent death from Covid-19. Although antiviral remdesivir has been shown to shorten the time to recovery in hospitalised patients, no therapeutic agents have been shown to reduce mortality.“The drug has shown promise in Covid treatment in the interim results, which is why it has been taken up for use,” said Dr Anurag Agrawal, director, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi.The drug is also a part of the National List of Essential Medicines (NLEM).Also read | Sero survey in Delhi begins to map exposure to coronavirusThe ministry last updated clinical management protocols for Covid-19 on June 13 to include the antiviral drug remdesivir (under emergency use authorisation) and immunosuppressant tocilizumab (off label).Another therapy that received approval for off label use is convalescent plasma therapy in which plasma of recovered individuals is transfused to patients who are not improving.“There is no specific medication for Covid-19 at the moment and world over these medicines are being tried in hospitalized patients currently. However, there are certain contraindications in use of these medicines so the medicine is not for everyone and needs to be started under strict medical supervision,” said Dr Yatin Mehta, chairman, critical care department, Medanta Hospital.The World Health Organization (WHO) has also cautioned that dexamethasone must only be used on patients with severe or critical disease, under close clinical supervision, and could cause harm if given too early in the disease stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-protocols-prescribe-use-of-dexamethasone/story-avRSxVRIgRcJD0LwO1uQPP.html
28-06-2020||India||Eight states account for 87% of Covid-19 deaths, 85% active cases||Eight states in India account for 85.5% of the active coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, and also 87% of total deaths caused by the pandemic in the country, the group of ministers (GoM) overseeing the fight against the public health crisis was informed on Saturday.The group, headed by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, held its 17th meeting since February, when it was constituted by the Prime minister Narendra Modi to manage and review the evolving outbreak.The high disease burden states in terms of Covid-19 cases and deaths are Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Telangana, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal.The Centre has rushed 15 teams consisting of public health experts, epidemiologists, clinicians and a senior joint secretary level official to provide technical support to the states.Another team of experts from the Centre, led by joint secretary Lav Agarwal, is currently visiting Gujarat, Maharashtra and Telangana to review the Covid-19 situation and assist the states to plug the gaps in disease containment and treatment.“The main focus of the government is to reduce the number of deaths due to Covid-19. India’s death rate is the lowest globally, but each life counts. Even a single death is too much so efforts are being made to devise measures that will help us save lives,” said a government official, requesting anonymity.Also read | Sero survey in Delhi begins to map exposure to coronavirusThe key focus areas that are being communicated to all states are strict containment measures and surveillance; utilising full testing capacity; focus on monitoring of comorbid and elderly population; predicting emerging hot spots leveraging digital tools such as Aarogya Setu; ensuring seamless patient admission processes; fatality mitigation through effective clinical management; focus on infrastructure preparedness (critical care beds, oxygen, ventilators and logistics); and ensuring that non-Covid health care services are not impacted.The director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Dr Balram Bhargava, gave a detailed presentation to the GoM on the testing strategy of ICMR. There are 1,026 laboratories conducting Covid-19 testing, including 741 in the government sector and 285 private labs. The samples tested in the past 24 hours increased to 220,479, from about 200,000 samples a couple of days earlier, taking the total cumulative number of samples tested to 79,96,707 since January 22, when first sample was tested for Covid-19 in India.Also read | The science behind Delhi’s five-pronged fight against CovidIndia has 1,039 dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, with 1,76,275 isolation beds, 22,940 intensive care unit (ICU) beds and 77,268 oxygen supported beds. There are 2,398 dedicated Covid health centres, with 1,39,483 Isolation beds, 11,539 ICU beds and 51,321 oxygen supported beds.The number of Covid care centres is also growing, with 8,958 centres and 8,10,621 beds currently available in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eight-states-account-for-87-of-covid-deaths-85-active-cases/story-hJw0DGuddowJCmY4ySMvJP.html
28-06-2020||India||BJP, Congress trade fresh barbs||A war of words between the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress over the Sino-India border dispute and alleged links between China and the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF), a trust chaired by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, intensified on Saturday with allegations and counter-allegations flying thick and fast on both sides. BJP president JP Nadda asked the principal opposition party a series of questions, reiterated allegations that RGF received donations from the Chinese embassy when the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) was in power at the Centre, said his party will leave no stone unturned in “exposing double-faced politicians”, and alleged that fugitive economic offender Mehul Choksi gave donations to the trust.The BJP says both the Chinese government and the Chinese embassy in India have contributed to RGF, and even the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF) donated money to the trust when the Congress-led UPA was in power.“I want to tell Sonia Gandhi that under the garb of China and Covid-19 crisis, one should not shy away from answering the questions the nation wants to know... It’s a shame. It’s a sacrifice of national interest by accepting money from foreign powers in personal trusts,” Nadda said in a statement.He alleged that RGF received donations from the Chinese embassy between 2005 and 2009 and from “tax havens” such as Luxembourg between 2006 and 2009. NGOs and companies with “deep commercial interests” also donated to the foundation, he said.“Congress and corruption are synonymous,” Nadda said, asking the opposition party to come clean on its “links” with China and the details of its MoU (memorandum of understanding) with the Communist Party of China. He said India’s trade deficit with China soared to $36.2 billion in 2013-14 from $1.1 billion in 2003-2004, and asked if it was a “quid pro quo”. The Congress-led UPA was in power between 2004 and 2014.Nadda also targeted former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, accusing him of allocating Rs 100 crore to the foundation as the finance minister in 1991, when India was going through its “worst financial crisis”.Singh and Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi and P Chidambaram are trustees of RGF, which was set up in June 1991. “RGF not only takes money from scams but also gives dodgy donations to their own organisations. Why did it turn donate money to Rajiv Gandhi Charitable Trust controlled by the family and Christian Missionary organisations like World Vision?” Nadda asked, referring to the Nehru-Gandhi family.He alleged that RGF worked with the China Association for Internationally Friendly Contact, “which is just a vehicle of the Central Military Commission of China to infiltrate and influence top voices in other countries”. He said the UPA government forced multiple ministries, including the home ministry and the health ministry, and public sector units such as SAIL, SBI, GAIL, and ONGC to donate to RGF. He also wondered how RGF, a private charitable trust, could function from Jawahar Bhawan, a prime location in the heart of Delhi. “Why was a Congress man’s company auditing PMNRF? PMNRF auditor’s name is Thakur, Vaidyanathan and Aiyyar Co, founded by Mr Rameshwar Thakur (who was a Rajya Sabha MP for two terms, former MoS finance, and the governor of four states),” Nadda said. In its reply, the Congress dared the ruling party to ask the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) — the BJP’s ideological mentor — and think-tanks Vivekananda International Foundation and India Foundation —considered pro-BJP — to disclose their source of funding and donors. “Will the BJP disclose the source of funding, amounts received, name of donors [including of Chinese origin] for “Overseas Friends of BJP [OF-BJP]”?” Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala asked. “...What is the connection of Shri Rajkumar Naraindas Sabnani alias Raju Sabnani to OF-BJP?” he added. Sabnani is a businessman based in Hong Kong.Surjewala said neither did RGF receive any donation from Choksi, wanted in the Punjab National Bank fraud case, and nor did it give him any loan to him. But the foundation received “a modest donation of Rs. 10 lakh from Naviraj Estates Pvt. Ltd. in 2013, of which Shri Choksi was one of the Directors”.S Gurumurthy, the chairman of Vivekananda International Foundation (VIF), said on Twitter its trust deed prohibits receipt of foreign donations. “...It permits donations from people of Indian origin associated with VIF. As yet no one has got associated and no donations have been received,” he said.Earlier on Saturday, former Union minister P Chidambaram targeted Nadda in a series of tweets, a day after the BJP chief accused the Congress of committing a “brazen fraud” by diverting public money in PMNRF to a “family-run foundation”.PMNRF was set up in 1948 by India’s first Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, entirely with public contributions. It does not get any budgetary support. PMNRF resources are utilised primarily to give relief to families of those killed in natural calamities, and to victims of major accidents and riots, according to its website.Chidambaram said Nadda “specialises in half-truths”, and pointed out that Surjewala “exposed his half-truths”.In his rebuttal on Friday, Surjewala issued a statement saying the BJP and the central government “keep referring to a 2005 grant of Rs 1.45 crores” from the Chinese embassy to RGF for a disabled persons’ welfare programme and research on Sino-India relations. The statement also said after the 2004 tsunami, RGF received Rs 20 lakh from PMNRF for relief activities in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands.“What has the grant to RGF 15 years ago got to do with China’s intrusion into Indian territory in 2020 under the watch of the Modi government? “Suppose RGF returns the Rs 20 lakh, will PM Modi assure the country that China will vacate its transgression and restore status quo ante?” Chidambaram asked.The allegations and counter-allegations come against the backdrop of a face-off between India and China along the contested border. Twenty Indian Army soldiers and an undisclosed number of Chinese troops died in a brawl in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on June 15, ratcheting up tensions between the neighbours amidst a military build-up on both sides of the disputed border. While the Congress accuses the government of ceding ground to the Chinese, the ruling BJP says the opposition party is playing with issues of national security. The Congress also says the BJP is raking up the RGF donation issue to divert attention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-congress-trade-fresh-barbs/story-n6bY08DnJpxefd6FnMdd9O.html
28-06-2020||India||India deploys air defence systems in eastern Ladakh||As part of its military readiness plan to deter any aggressive move by Chinese forces in eastern Ladakh, India has deployed its air defence weapon systems in the sensitive sector where tensions rose sharply after a brutal brawl in Galwan Valley left 20 Indian troops dead, people familiar with the developments said on Saturday on the condition of anonymity.The June 15 clash left an unconfirmed number of Chinese troops dead.“In this heightened state of readiness, necessary measures have been taken by all services working in an integrated environment to ensure that we are ready for all eventualities,” said one of people cited above.The air defence weapons in the Indian military arsenal include the indigenous Akash, the Israeli SpyDer and Soviet-origin Pechora and OSA-AK systems. Air defence systems can engage targets such as fighter jets, helicopters and unmanned aerial vehicles.Both India and China have significantly reinforced their deployments with fighter jets, helicopters, tanks, heavy artillery and missiles in the region that has garnered extensive global attention in recent weeks, particularly after the bloodshed along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Galwan Valley.Also read | India waits for China’s PLA to disengage at Ladakh, says won’t allow a ‘new normal’“We have strengthened our deployments responding to the military buildup on the Chinese side. We are keeping a strict vigil along the LAC and are fully prepared to respond to any threatening action by the PLA,” said the second official cited above. Senior Indian and Chinese military commanders reached a consensus on disengaging from friction points along the LAC on June 22. However, China has not halted — and instead ramped up — its military activity in Galwan Valley, with a concentration of soldiers, military vehicles, earth-moving machinery, and erection of structures, including near the same point where Indian and Chinese troops clashed on June 15.“When the end state of a situation cannot be predicted, military prudence says you should be prepared for the worst,” said Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd), a former Northern Army commander. India has moved thousands of additional troops to the Ladakh sector along with air, artillery and armour support to cater to any eventuality, said a third official.The Indian Air Force and the Indian Army have deployed their air defence systems in eastern Ladakh even as the People’s Liberation Army Air Force has activated several of its bases in both Xinjiang and the Tibet Autonomous Region with Chinese fighter jets regularly making a show of strength in the Aksai Chin area, said the first official cited above.Also read | China, the common link between Ladakh and 3 US super carriers in the Indo-PacificAir defence refers to protecting military assets from an aerial threat by the enemy. India is working on setting up an air defence command to enhance military synergy and optimally utilise the resources of the armed forces.The IAF has raised its guard to deal with any military provocation by the Chinese forces and forward bases have been ordered to be on their highest state of alert, the first official said. Apart from Sukhoi-30s and upgraded MiG-29 fighter jets, the IAF is operating Apache AH-64E attack helicopters and CH-47F (I) Chinook multi-mission helicopters --- both imported from the United States --- in the region.The Indian Army has deployed its new US-origin M777 ultra-light howitzers, which can provide accurate artillery fire support in mountainous terrain, in eastern Ladakh, said the second official cited above. The 155 mm/39-caliber M777 howitzers can be sling-loaded to helicopters and swiftly deployed to high-altitude areas. India ordered 145 howitzers from the United States for $750 million in November 2016. The howitzers have a range of 24-30 km.Disengagement of Indian and Chinese forces from friction areas along LAC is likely to be cumbersome and long-drawn, and it could take weeks, or even months, for the border situation to improve, as reported by Hindustan Times on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-deploys-air-defence-systems-in-eastern-ladakh/story-51A8hRvCzVCHIykilm8ELO.html
28-06-2020||India||Govt using five weapons against Covid-19, says Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||Acknowledging that the spike in Covid-19 cases in Delhi after the lockdown ended had been steeper than he anticipated, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday that his government’s strategy to tackle pandemic has been to increase the number of hospital beds and ensure timely oxygen supply for people infected by the virus, ramp up testing, expand plasma therapy trials and screen every household for symptoms of the disease.At a digital press conference, Kejriwal said the Delhi government was using “five weapons” in the fight against the coronavirus disease in the capital, where he traced the start of the outbreak to the arrival of 35,000 people from other countries in March. The chief minister added that it was a conscious decision by his government not to impose another lockdown in the city because it was not a “long-term solution”.Delhi added 2,948 cases of the disease on Saturday, taking the total to 80,188, of whom 2,558 have died.The first weapon, he said, was increasing the number of Covid-19 beds across the city. Kejriwal said Delhi now has around 13,500 beds available, out of which nearly 7,500 were vacant as of Saturday afternoon. He said Covid deaths increased in Delhi sometime around the first week of June because people were struggling to get a hospital bed in the city.  “But, now there is no such problem. We will continue to augment beds even if they are lying vacant, so that we are prepared for any kind of emergency,” he said.“In the past one month, we scaled up the availability of Covid-19 beds in the city’s hospitals. Our first decision was to reserve at least 40% beds in all major hospitals of Delhi for Covid patients. Second decision was to convert some government and private hospitals into dedicated Covid facilities. Thirdly, we attached several hotels to hospitals. The hotels were against the move and went to court. We won the legal battle and now 3,500 beds are ready in various hotels across Delhi,” Kejriwal said.The chief minister said another 2,000 beds are now available at a temporary Covid facility in South Delhi’s Radha Saomi Satsang Beas Centre. The facility will have over 10,000 beds for Covid-19 patients.In addition to this, the government is also readying 450 beds at its hospital at Burari which has a total capacity of 1,500 beds.The second weapon, Kejriwal said was testing. Compared to first week of June, when around 5,000 Covid tests per day were being conducted in Delhi, testing has increased by four times, government data showed. The chief minister said Delhi is currently doing over 20,000 tests per day, which is the highest in the country.“We aggressively testing people in every nook and corner of the city and the positive or suspected ones are being isolated. I want to thank the Central government for allowing us to do rapid antigen tests and providing the first batch of kits. Now Delhi government has on its own purchased 6 lakh antigen detection kits,” he said.The third weapon, Kejriwal said, was providing pulse oximeters to every Covid patient under home isolation. He also reiterated the government’s decision to provide oxygen concentrators to every district so it can be sent to a patient’s home if his or her health deteriorates. “Our goal is to equip ever Covid bed in the city with an oxygen concentrator. We have procured around 4,000 oxygen concentrators,” he said.The fourth weapon, he said, was plasma therapy. Delhi was the first city in the country to start trials of plasma therapy, using the blood plasma of recovered Covid-19 patiets. It does not help serious patients, but plasma therapy has quickened the recovery of patients with moderate symptoms of the coronavirus disease, Kejriwal said. On Friday, the chief minister had said that the therapy helped reduce the death rate by more than 50% in Lok Nayak Hospital.Eight hospitals in Delhi are conducting plasma therapy trials. They include Lok Nayak, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital, which come under the Central government, and five prominent private hospitals.Lastly, Kejriwal said his government was relying on surveys and screening to curb the pandemic. “We will take it (the survey) to every home in Delhi to check the extent to which this virus has spread. It will help us decide our future course of action,” he said.Three major tasks are currently underway in Delhi which include a house-to-house survey to identify people with symptoms, a serological survey which started on Saturday and redrawing of the perimeters of the containment zones in the city. All three exercises are currently underway simultaneously.“Increasing the bed strength and testing or providing pulse oximeters are important steps, but the focus is still on infrastructure and purchase. What about the human resource? If the government wants the PGs to work, they have to be given some incentive. Otherwise why would a student say from Tamil Nadu want to come to Delhi just to work in a Covid-19 area?” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-using-five-weapons-against-covid-19-kejriwal/story-GtFWJ0MhpBkIndaN8oyZkJ.html
28-06-2020||India||The science behind Delhi’s five-pronged fight against Covid-19||Declaring a war on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), armed with hospital beds, testing kits, pulse oximeters, oxygen concentrators, and surveyors with pens and notebooks, may sound laughable on the face of it, but in the absence of a vaccine or cure, these are the most effective tools to save lives and stop the spread of a pandemic that has infected 529,485 and killed 16,101 in India.Fortunately for us, these work when used in combination with self-protection measures, such as frequent handwashing, wearing a mask, and social distancing of at least two metres in public places.Here’s why these five weapons are part of Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s arsenal.BedsAround 22% of Covid-19 deaths in Delhi occur within 24 hours of hospital admission, and another 40% within 48 hours of admission, which indicates that people are seeking treatment in severe or critical disease stages, when treatment options are limited. The Union health ministry on Saturday asked the Delhi government to analyse data for all Covid-19 deaths to find out why people were reaching hospitals too late for treatment, which was happening for many reasons, including delays in admission because of bed shortages, fear of infection, and poor disease assessment, among others. To ensure everyone who needs treatment get it, Delhi now has 13,335 Covid beds, and plans to add another 1,000 next week in a field hospital in Dhaula Kuan run by army doctors and paramedics.Patients with moderate disease can be treated with a battery of newly approved treatments, including the antivirals remdesivir and favipiravir, the steroids dexamethasone and glucocorticoids, and convalescent plasma therapy, which is an experimental therapy available at some hospitals.Testing kitsDelhi has ramped up testing from around 5,000 tests two weeks ago to over 21,000 tests a day, with the state government adding rapid antigen testing to conventional reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction ( RT-PCR) tests for quicker results. It has placed orders for 600,000 rapid antigen tests to top up the 50,000 kits it had acquired from the Centre.Also read | Delhi’s Covid-19 count soars past 80,000-mark with 2,948 fresh cases“Testing and isolation stops disease transmission and protects those around us from infection. Asymptomatic, pre-symptomatic people and those with mild disease can also infect and sicken others, which can only be prevented by widening testing so that people are aware of their positive status and take measures to stop infecting others,” said Dr Dileep Mavalankar, director, Indian Institute of Public Health, Gandhinagar.Pulse oximeters and oxygen concentratorsA key clinical sign of Covid-19 is extremely low blood oxygen level, which can lead to hypoxia or death from oxygen starvation. The healthy range of SpO2 (peripheral oxygen saturation) is between 95% and 100%, but in people with Covid-19, it may fall below 90% without inducing symptoms of breathless, chest discomfort, lethargy or confusion. This condition, called “silent” hypoxia, results in people not realising they are oxygen-starved till their lungs collapse.Doctors recommend that the moment symptoms begin, oxygen levels must be checked frequently with a pulse oximeter, which is a small device that measures SpO2 at the finger tip. Low oxygen levels are a red flag for hospitalisation, where oxygen support can help save lives. “Higher SpO2 levels after oxygen supplementation were associated with reduced Covid-19 mortality independently of age and sex,” according to study published in Mayo Clinic Proceedings in June.“Pulse oximeter is working as a security cover for Covid-19 patients. It helps them check oxygen levels at frequent levels and alert us if there’s anything serious…,” Kejriwal said on Saturday.Convalescent plasma therapy“Plasma therapy is being used by many now. This doesn’t work for patients who are on ventilators or who have multi-organ failure but helps those with moderate symptoms,” said Kejriwal. The chief minister is partly right. Plasma therapy is recommended for patients with moderate disease but its effectiveness is still under review, which makes this experimental therapy “hopeful but unproven” at best.Also read | Govt using five weapons against Covid-19, says Delhi CM Arvind KejriwalPlasma from the blood of a recovered patient, which carries specific antibodies that can neutralise the new coronavirus, are transfused into a sick Covid-19 patient to reinforce the immune system. Convalescent plasma has been used to prevent and treat infections since the 1890s, and immunoglobulin IgE serum is still injected in people with animal bites to prevent rabies, and varicella-zoster immunoglobulin is given to pregnant women who have been exposed to chickenpox, to prevent pregnancy complications. The therapy has no serious adverse reactions, but scientists say there is need for larger randomised-controlled clinical trials to establish efficacy.Surveys and screeningIdentifying undiagnosed infection in people who may have missed getting tested because they were asymptomatic, had mild symptoms, or testing wasn’t accessible, helps to calculate the real number of people affected. “People with mild illness go out and spread infection, so even asymptomatic and pre-symptomatic close contacts of a positive case must quarantine themselves even if you don’t feel ill. If you don’t, you become part of the chain and transmission doesn’t stop,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-science-behind-delhi-s-five-pronged-fight-against-covid/story-CNo9uNt7FtVktaYvWYQDPO.html
