29-06-2020||India||Maha extends lockdown till July 31 with stricter curbs||Mumbai: The Maharashtra government on Monday extended the Covid-19 lockdown by a month till July 31 while imposing stricter restrictions like reduced time allowed for shopping. The extension came a day after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray warned people of stricter curbs if lockdown violations continued.A notification issued on Monday said jogging, running is restricted to neighbourhoods as part of the new norms. It added people will be allowed to travel within the Mumbai Metropolitan Region to only attend offices and for essential services and not for shopping.The Covid-19 cases in the state have continued to increase significantly. With 5,257 cases reported on Monday, the number of people infected has gone up to 1,69,883. Thackeray on Sunday announced that the lockdown will not be lifted on June 30 although the state government will extend a few relaxations in a calibrated manner. He expressed unhappiness over overcrowding at public places. The government on May 31 allowed non-essential shops to operate during regular working hours (9 am to 9 pm) on alternate days from June 4 under Mission Begin Again. The timings have now been restricted till 5 pm for the non-essential shops. The notification said the permission for physical activities like jogging since June 3 are allowed only in the neighbourhoods. The government has given powers to district collectors, civic commissioners, police commissioners to impose stricter norms as per the situation and if they feel necessary. An earlier order on XXX had mandated local authorities to consult with the state government in case any such need arises. The government is also considering deferring the proposed relaxations by at least a couple of weeks given the surge in Covid-19 cases. “...[Thackeray] spoke about the relaxations in his address on Sunday, but they are unlikely to come through at least for the next two weeks. The cases are rising rapidly and most of them are due to the opening up of the activities. We are at a crucial stage of the fight against the pandemic and in such a scenario immediate relaxations would not be wise,” an official said after fresh rounds of meetings on Monday, requesting anonymity. Officials said the government was planning further relaxation to the industrial and commercial activities and more transport facilities to support them. It was also planning to allow more staff in government and private offices. Chief secretary Ajoy Mehta issued the notification on Monday under the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act citing the continued threat of the virus. The government has also continued its demarcation of the areas as Red and Non-Red zones on the basis of the spread of the disease. Areas governed by 19 municipal corporations, including 9 under Mumbai Metropolitan Region, continued to be under the Red Zones with stricter lockdown norms. Maharashtra has 27 municipal corporations.The notification said the relaxations will be notified in the due course. “The relaxations will be given by issuing separate notifications like issued for earlier four phases, with due care and very cautiously,” said a second official requesting anonymity. Mall, theatres, multiplexes, schools, colleges, gymnasiums, swimming pools continued to remain shut across the state. ANY REACTIONS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-extends-lockdown-till-july-31-with-stricter-curbs/story-G72j6ZyPXPCa7JFzpVOuQL.html
29-06-2020||India||Doda ‘militancy free’ declare J&K police||Srinagar: The Jammu & Kashmir police on Monday declared the Union territory’s Doda district “totally militancy free”, saying the region’s last surviving Hizbul Mujahideen commander was killed in a counter-insurgency operation along with two Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists in adjoining Kashmir Valley’s Anantnag district.Dilbag Singh, the Jammu & Kashmir police chief, called Masood Ahmad Bhat’s killing “a big success”. “Masood, a so-called commander of terrorist group Hizbul Mujahideen, was killed by security forces in an encounter in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Monday morning. He was the last surviving terrorist from the Doda district which is [now] totally militancy free,’’ Singh said.The three were killed after they fired on security forces and triggered a five-hour gunfight during a cordon and search operation in Anantnag’s Khulchohar area. In a statement, Jammu & Kashmir police said they were tipped about the presence of the three in the area. “During the search operation, the hiding terrorists fired on the joint search party. The fire was retaliated leading to an encounter. In the ensuing encounter, three terrorists were killed and their bodies were retrieved from the site of encounter,’’ the statement said. It added the other two terrorists could not be immediately identified.The statement said the bodies of the three have been sent to Handwara, around 100 km away, for their last rites after conducting medico-legal formalities. ‘’In case any family claims the killed terrorists to be their kith or kin, they can come forward for their identification and participation in last rites at Handwara.’’ Slain terrorists have been buried away from their native places in Baramulla, Handwara, and Ganderbal due to Covid-19 restrictions over the last two months, which have coincided with an escalation of violence in the region.Security forces have stepped up operations and killed over 100 terrorists this year mostly in South Kashmir. As many as 46 terrorists have been killed in June, the highest in a month since 39 were killed in November 2018. The 46 include commanders of Jaish-e-Mohammed, Lashkar-e-Taiba and Hizbul Mujahideen. Inspector general of police (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar said Monday’s operation was clean and that there was no collateral damage as security forces exercised maximum restraint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doda-militancy-free-declare-j-k-police/story-HCyRPnmWj0uS4Avjq3j7QP.html
29-06-2020||India||Geelani resigns from Hurriyat, cites internal rift, Art 370 move as reason||Srinagar: Kashmiri separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani, 90, has resigned from his faction of the Hurriyat Conference, 17 years after he was chosen as its lifetime head, citing the inability of the leaders of the grouping to raise their voice against the Centre’s move to divest Jammu & Kashmir of its special status in August last year as one reason. He also blamed internal bickering, financial irregularities within the grouping’s Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK) chapter, and attempts by its leaders to seek positions of power.In an audio message released on social media on Monday, Geelani said he has apprised leaders of the constituents of his Hurriyat faction about his decision to quit through a detailed letter. Later, the letter also surfaced on social media.Geelani criticised the Jammu & Kashmir-based constituents of the grouping saying he tried hard to reach those leaders, who were not jailed in August last year, despite his detention so that they could raise their voice against the Centre’s move. He added the leaders were unavailable then. “Now that today you have felt the heat of being questioned, that the veil is slipping off your financial irregularities, you have started to convene meetings and support an unconstitutional decision thereby setting a strange example of unity,” Geelani said in the letter.It wasn’t immediately clear as to who would succeed Geelani who, along with the Hurriyat itself, has increasingly become a fringe player in Kashmir, especially after the Centre abrogated Article 370 and split the erstwhile state of Jammu & Kashmir into two union territories. Geelani is currently under house arrested and could not be reached for comment.Geelani, who served as a member of Jammu & Kashmir assembly before joining the separatist movement in the late 1980s, said the constituents were free to make decisions about their parties and the future. He added he will continue to struggle against India until his last breath. The Hurriyat is a grouping of around two-dozen separatist and spiritual organisations. Geelani, who has been under house arrest since August last year and was instrumental in organising massive street protests since 2008, has been ailing from some time. A cancer survivor, Geelani has also undergone kidney and gallbladder removal surgeries.Almost all separatist leaders were detained in August 2019 when Article 370 was nullified to divest Jammu & Kashmir of its special, semi-autonomous status. Three former chief ministers, Farooq Abdullah, Omar Abdullah, and Mehbooba Mufti, were also among hundreds of people, who were detained to prevent protests against the Centre’s move. Mufti still remains under detention although the Abdullahs have been released.A communications blackout and a lockdown were imposed in Kashmir last year in August when Jammu & Kashmir was also divided into two Union territories.The separatist leadership has since maintained a low profile even as Geelani has occasionally been releasing statements. Mirwaiz Umar Farooq leads the other Hurriyat faction. Mirwaiz is under house arrest.In his letter, Geelani cited several complaints about the PoK chapter of the grouping over the last two years. “The leaders there were trying to be part of government and ministries. There were internal bickering, fear of losing posts, financial irregularities, and many other issues. Recently after investigations, some people were expelled and as the investigations were going on against other people, the representatives of your parties started calling separate so-called meetings which led to the dissolution of the chapter till further orders,’’ said Geelani.Ishfaq Ahmad, a political analyst, said it is still unclear why Geelani quit. “We came to know about this decision through the audio clip and the letter. So it is premature to say whether it is end of his politics, but yes, this could be a start for a process of new leadership.”The Bharatiya Janata Party lashed out at geelani, with its general secretary Ram Madhav saying he “was responsible for ruining the lives of thousands of Kashmiri youth and their families” and that the resignation would not absolve him of his “past sins”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/geelani-resigns-from-hurriyat-cites-internal-rift-art-370-move-as-reason/story-93ZCNjqTvGNq4jBe4MQNmI.html
29-06-2020||India||Woman digs 15-feet well at home to help ailing mother fetch water||Kolkata: As a child, Bobita Soren, 24, would helplessly see her mother, Nina, struggle to fetch water in West Bengal’s Asansol. Nina often braved extreme weather to walk to the nearest water source to get it, leaving Soren to wonder how could she come up with a permanent solution until she thought of digging a well. The Covid-19 lockdown allowed her to finish digging the well that she began in late 2019 as she returned home after her college and hostel were shut. She had left the work half done during a holiday break.Soren has dug the 15-feet well inside her house to ensure her 50-year-old ailing mother does not have to walk to get water 200 m away several times daily under the scorching sun and after standing in queue for 30 minutes.“My mother Nina Soren suffers from anemia and is very weak. Since I was a child, I used to see her work very hard to fetch water. I used to become very sad. She had to walk under the scorching sun and stand in a queue to bring water. I was trying to come up with a permanent solution. Suddenly it struck me that I can dig a well,” said Soren, who has completed her MA in Political Science and is pursuing BEd from Burdwan district.Soren’s effort has drawn parallels with Dashrath Manjhi, famously known as the Mountain Man, who become famous for digging a road through a hillock in Bihar using only a hammer and chisel in memory of his wife. Manjhi’s wife died in their remote village for the want of medical care as they could not reach the nearest town with a doctor. He died in 2007.Soren said her father and brother helped her by tying the ropes tightly with which she would go down and dig whenever she got time from household chores. “This continued for the last two to three weeks, until I hit the water table. Sometimes my sister helped me to bring out the soil but she had her job to sustain,” she said.Soren, who usually does all the paperwork for her family, initially thought of contacting the village panchayat but then backed out as her family would have been unable to bear the cost for digging the well. Also because of the lockdown, labourers were unavailable and it would have taken time.Her father, Hapna, works in a local factory, while her brother is a driver. Her elder sister works in a local garment shop. Senior officials of the local administration rushed to her house on Sunday when they got to know about her feat.“We were awestruck when we saw the well. We have assured her that the administration will dig the rest and make it a 30-feet deep well so that they can get proper drinking water and make it a concrete one. We will also pay her the money it takes to dig a well. Within this week, she will get a laptop and we are also trying to give her a job,” said Tapas Banerjee, the local legislator and chairman of the Asansol Durgapur Development Authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-digs-15-feet-well-at-home-to-help-ailing-mother-fetch-water/story-1R8y4jGKWeBivhR04gPFLN.html
29-06-2020||India||SC: Those unable to take CA exam in July may do so in Nov||New Delhi The Supreme Court on Monday assured lakhs of students appearing for the chartered accountancy examinations scheduled from July 29 that due to the Covid-19 situation, if any student fails to take all examinations, they will be given the benefit of appearing in the next cycle of tests in November this year.To formalize this relief, a three-judge bench headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar asked the examination conducting body - Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) - to come out with a notification specifying this provision by Thursday. The ICAI agreed to bring the proposed notification to Court following which it will be notified to all students.Nearly 3.46 lakh students have registered to take the CA examinations scheduled from July 29. In view of the Covid-19 situation, the ICAI came out with an “Opt-Out” scheme by which students could opt out of the examinations in July and attempt the same in November this year. Students had to indicate their preference for this scheme by June 29 to be eligible for this relief. The ICAI had proposed this scheme realizing the practical difficulties faced by students situated in containment zone, or who are unable to travel due to lockdown restrictions.This scheme was challenged in Supreme Court by one Anubha Shrivastava Sahai who alleged that those opting for ‘Opt-Out’ should not be left at a disadvantage due to the situation. The petition argued by advocate Alakh Shrivastava sought more examination centres so that students willing to write the examination are not forced to travel distances.The bench, also comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna asked ICAI whether it was possible to extend the opt-out scheme to even those students who did not register this choice in advance but were later unable to take the examination due to Covid-related reasons.“The present situation is dynamic. You have to be flexible to change according to requirement of each area and concerns of students in that area,” said the bench. ICAI represented by senior counsel Ramji Srinivas accepted the suggestion and said that if any student is unable to take the examination, all examinations in that cluster or group will be cancelled and the student will have an option to take the exams in November. ICAI secretary Rakesh Sehgal told the court that increasing examination centres at this stage was not possible. Out of 3.46 lakh candidates, only 57,000 had chosen “Opt-Out” scheme, ICAI counsel stated.The court further asked ICAI to ensure that the time to exercise Opt-Out scheme should be extended by one week beyond June 29. The bench further sought the ministry of home affairs guidelines for conducting CBSE examinations to be adopted by ICAI. With these incorporations, ICAI is expected to submit a revised notification to Court on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-those-unable-to-take-ca-exam-in-july-may-do-so-in-nov/story-vczwbpMrgZtV3tSXAYsEvO.html
29-06-2020||India||Indian, Chinese armies set for Ladakh meeting||NEW DELHI: Indian and Chinese army delegations, led by corps commanders, will hold a meeting at Chushul in Ladakh on Tuesday in their third attempt to make some headway in implementing a daunting disengagement plan aimed at gradually reducing tensions aggravated by a significant military build-up on both sides of the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), people familiar with developments said on Monday, speaking on the condition of anonymity.The two delegations, led by an Indian lieutenant general and his Chinese counterpart, last met on June 22 --- exactly a week after the brutal Galwan Valley clash --- and hammered out a consensus on disengaging from friction points along the disputed border.The “mutual consensus to disengage” from all “friction areas” reached a week ago at the meeting between Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region, has not resulted in any form of disengagement or thinning of the military build-up by rival forces in the region, said one of persons cited above.In what was seen as a rare meeting, the two senior officers first met on June 6 to reduce border tensions. The limited military disengagement that began in some friction areas after the first meeting was derailed after the bloodshed in Galwan Valley on June 15.On Tuesday, the Indian side is expected to reiterate its demand for the pullback of Chinese troops from the friction points and seek the restoration of status quo ante (early April) in key areas including Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley and the strategic Depsang plains, said a second person.Experts were not optimistic about what the latest meeting could potentially achieve, especially against the backdrop of continuing Chinese military buildup observed on the ground and captured by satellite imagery. “The purpose of these meetings is to initiate disengagement on the ground at the military level before de-escalation can happen at the strategic level through diplomatic channels. The Chinese are playing hardball and one can’t exactly predict the outcome of these meetings between senior commanders,” said Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd), a former Northern Army commander.The June 30 meeting is expected to begin at 10.30 am at Chushul on the Indian side of the LAC, said the second person. The previous two meetings were held at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC.China has not halted — and instead ramped up — its military activity in Galwan Valley, Depsang Plains and the Finger Area near Pangong Tso after the senior officers met on June 22, he added.Both India and China have significantly reinforced their deployments with thousands of soldiers, fighter jets, helicopters, tanks, heavy artillery, missiles and air defence systems in the region that has garnered extensive global attention in recent weeks, particularly after the Galwan skirmish that left 20 Indian and an unconfirmed number of Chinese soldiers dead.India is especially concerned about the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) holding positions in the Finger Area of Pangong Tso where the PLA has set up permanent bunkers, pillboxes, tented camps and observation posts in areas New Delhi considers its territory, said a third person.The situation is equally critical from the Indian standpoint in the Depsang sector as the PLA has mobilised troops, weapons and other military equipment in sensitive areas, with its forward presence disrupting the army’s patrolling patterns there, he added.The Depsang plains lie south of Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO) in a strategic area near the Karakoram pass that the military calls Sub-Sector North and any military moves here by the Chinese forces could threaten a key stretch of the Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldi road, experts said.The Chinese buildup in other areas including Galwan Valley and the Gogra Post-Hot Springs sector hasn’t thinned either. Satellite imagery dated June 22, released by US firm Maxar Technologies, shows not only is the PLA holding ground in Galwan Valley but has also shored up its military positions in the area, as reported by Hindustan Times on June 25.The PLA’s armoured vehicles and artillery units remain deployed in Chinese areas facing the Gogra Post-Hot Springs area along the contested border. The Indian military is keeping a strict vigil along the LAC and has raised its guard to respond to any eventuality, the third official cited above said....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-chinese-armies-set-for-ladakh-meeting/story-x3OzLgiugR26Ei0A4MLz4J.html
29-06-2020||India||Not wearing sindoor sign of refusal to accept marriage: Gauhati HC||New Delhi: The refusal to wear “sakha” and “sindoor” by a woman married according to Hindu rituals and customs signifies her refusal to stay married to her husband, the Gauhati high court has said while granting a husband’s plea for divorce.Sakha is a bangle made of conch shells that is worn by newlywed women in some customs, while sindoor is vermillion that some Hindu married women apply on their heads.A categorical refusal by the wife to wear sakha and sindoor points towards her unwillingness to continue her married life, a bench of chief justice Ajai Lamba and justice Soumitra Saikia ruled. “Under such circumstances, compelling the husband to continue to be in matrimony with the wife may be construed to be harassment,” the court added in its June 19 order.A family court earlier, in December 2018, had rejected husband’s plea for divorce on these grounds.But the high court observed that the husband alleged before the lower court that the wife refused to wear sakha and sindoor, and that this contention was not disputed by the wife. “The same remained uncontroverted and is therefore an evidence material for the purpose of this proceedings. Under the custom of Hindu marriage, a lady who has entered into marriage according to Hindu rituals and customs, and which has not been denied by the respondent in her evidence, her refusal to wear ‘ sakha’ and ‘sindoor’ will project her to be unmarried and/or signify her refusal to accept the marriage with the appellant,” the high court ruled.The couple was married in February 2012. According to the plea filed by the husband, after a month of living together in the husband’s house with his relatives, the wife raised the demand to live with the husband separately in another house. The relationship deteriorated following this, leading to frequent quarrels, and the woman left the matrimonial home in 2013. She filed a case against the husband and his family members for cruelty and dowry harassment under section 498A of the Indian Penal Code, according to the petition.The husband and relatives were acquitted in that case, and the husband, by then, filed a suit for divorce on the ground of “cruelty” by the wife.She contested the plea alleging harassment at the hands of husband and in-laws for dowry, and that she was denied food and medical treatment.The family court turned down the husband’s plea, but the high court overturned the family court verdict that said that there was no cruelty against the husband and his family members by the wife. The high court relied on the fact that the wife had filed a frivolous complaint against the husband and his family members alleging cruelty in which all of the accused were later acquitted. “The allegation of subjecting the wife to cruelty was not sustained. Such acts of lodging criminal cases on unsubstantiated allegations against the husband and/or the husband’s family members amounts to cruelty”, the high court order said, making that also a ground for granting divorce.“Customs like wearing Mangalsutra or sindoor could be a pointer towards whether a woman is interested in the marriage or treats the marriage as valid. The court is not completely wrong in using it based on other circumstances to determine whether or not the woman is interested in the marriage. It can, however, be considered a parochial way of looking at a marriage and a woman’s interest in the relationship. While judging the relationship between two persons there’s no one size fits all approach. Even if we say it is parochial, it might not be true for someone from a rural background, but it could be so for a person from an urban background. So the court’s enquiry should always be based on the cultural and mental set up of the parties”, said Shreya Srivastava, assistant professor at Institute of Law, Nirma University, Ahmedabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-wearing-sindoor-sign-of-refusal-to-accept-marriage-gauhati-hc/story-dB6wHDkzK65wWbiUXln2nJ.html
29-06-2020||India||NE to receive heavy rainfall in next few days, warns IMD||New Delhi: Several parts of North-east and eastern India are experiencing a flood-like situation as multiple weather stations in Assam, Sikkim, Meghalaya, Bihar and sub-Himalayan West Bengal have reported extremely heavy rains (above 20cm in a day) continuously for the past two to three days.According to officials from the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the eastern end of the monsoon trough continues to run along the Himalayan foothills, with the convergence of strong southerly and south-westerly winds from the Bay of Bengal over North-east and east India. This is likely to lead to heavy and widespread rain in many parts of North-east India in the next four to five days. “Assam is reporting floods. Bihar is also in a flood-like situation. Cherrapunji, which is known to receive a lot of rain at this time, has recorded as much as 50-55cm in a day. This pattern of continuous heavy rain will gradually reduce from June 30; from July 2, rains will increase in central India; and from July 5, we can expect rains to resume over north-west India,” said M Mohapatra, IMD’s director general.Heavy rains are expected in Bihar, east Uttar Pradesh, sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim during the next five days. Widespread rain is also expected over Madhya Pradesh for the next five days, and over Chhattisgarh and Vidarbha on June 29 and 30. There will be widespread rain in the west coast also this week, IMD said in its bulletin, adding that rains will be subdued for now over north-west India and the western Himalayas.The Central Water Commission has, meanwhile, warned of “above-normal” flood situation in Dharamtul, Brahmaputra, Dhubri, Goalpara and others, and “severe” flood situation in Kopili and Kampur in Assam. ‘Severe flood situation’ is where water level is touching or exceeding the danger level but below the highest flood level (HFL) and ‘above normal flood situation’ where water level is touching or exceeding the warning level but below the danger level.The restoration operations at Baghjan gas well No 5 -- there was a blowout on May 27 and a fire on June 9 -- was hampered for two to three days because of flooding, according to an Oil India Limited spokesperson. The well continues to leak gas and oil condensate.Monsoon covered the entire country on June 26, 12 days in advance of its usual pattern. Till June 28, the monsoon rains in the country are 20% in excess of the long period average (LPA) -- 36% over central India, 8% over north-west India, 4% over the southern peninsula, and 20% over east and North-east India.LPA is the average of rainfall received in the area over a 50-year period between 1961 and 2010, which is 88.06cm for the entire country. IMD has predicted a normal monsoon this year at 102% of LPA.A good monsoon, which accounts for 70% of India’s annual rainfall, is critical to the fortunes of the agricultural sector, on which at least 700 million people in India are dependent for a livelihood. It is crucial for the yield of rice, wheat, sugarcane, and oilseeds in a country where farming accounts for about 15% of the economy but employs over half of its people.“There is water everywhere. Gas has been leaking from the OIL well for a month now. Work couldn’t be taken up because of incessant rains and flooding. Roads and bridges are destroyed here. Kaziranga downstream will also start flooding,” said Mridupaban Phukon, a wildlife activist in Baghjan.Nineteen houses and an old hostel of a senior secondary school have been damaged in a flash floods in upper Djongu region of North Sikkim district, properties at Passidang village and its surrounding areas on Saturday, PTI reported.Many parts of Delhi NCR received good rains on Monday following three days of intense heat. “The monsoon trough had shifted northwards so hot westerly winds from the land were blowing over Delhi. Now the monsoon trough has shifted southwards marginally so we have started getting moist easterly winds again. There was a lot of heating, maximum temperature was above 40 degree C for last 3 days,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava. The maximum temperature on Monday was 40.2 degree C, 3 degree C above normal. Monsoon arrived in Delhi on June 24, three days in advance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ne-to-receive-heavy-rainfall-in-next-few-days-warns-imd/story-JHk1pVL0dheM1l5VeLtLSO.html
29-06-2020||India||France to advance Rafale deliveries after IAF request||New Delhi: Acting on a special request by the Indian Air Force (IAF) to speed up deliveries of Rafale fighter jets in the wake of heightened military tensions along the disputed Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China, France is reworking the schedule for supplying the planes at a faster pace, people aware of the matter said on Monday.Six Rafale fighter planes are likely to land at their home base in Ambala on July 27--instead of four that were originally planned to be delivered--as France steps up efforts to meet IAF’s immediate requirements, said one of the persons cited above on condition of anonymity. An IAF spokesperson declined comment.India ordered 36 Rafale jets from France worth Rs 59,000 crore in September 2016 as an emergency purchase to arrest the worrying slide in the IAF’s combat capabilities.“We are aware that around 10 Rafale jets are ready at aircraft manufacturer Dassault Aviation’s Merignac facility. Preparations are on to fly six Rafale jets to India in July-end with a stopover at Al Dhafra airbase near Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates. The jets will be flown by Indian pilots,” said a second person, also on condition of anonymity.All the 10 fighters are not being delivered as some jets are needed in France to train IAF crews, he said.The French air force will refuel the Indian fighters using its Airbus A330 multi-role tanker transport aircraft on their way to Al Dhafra from where aerial refueling support is expected to be provided by the IAF’s Russian IL-78 refuellers, the second person said.Experts said accelerating the deliveries of Rafale jets is a significant development amid the ongoing border tensions with China.“It is good that the Rafale delivery is being expedited as its operationalisation here would get advanced. Since we are in for the long haul on our northern borders, their availability with the IAF would add to its offensive potential,” said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies.Future deliveries of Rafale fighters are also being expedited, said the first person cited above.According to the original delivery schedule, the first 18 jets (including the four in the first batch) were to be delivered to IAF by February 2021, with the rest expected in April-May 2022. France handed over to India its first Rafale fighters during a ceremony attended by defence minister Rajnath Singh and his French counterpart, Florence Parly, in Merignac on October 8, 2019, which coincided with the IAF’s 87th founding day and the Hindu festival of Dussehra.IAF has raised its guard to deal with any military provocation by the Chinese forces and forward bases have been ordered to be on their highest state of alert. Apart from Sukhoi-30s and upgraded MiG-29 fighter jets, IAF is operating Apache AH-64E attack helicopters and CH-47F (I) Chinook multi-mission helicopters--both imported from the US--in the region.IAF and the Indian Army have deployed their air defence systems in eastern Ladakh even as the People Liberation Army-Air Force has activated several of its bases in both Xinjiang and the Tibet Autonomous Region. Chinese fighter jets have regularly been making a show of strength in the Aksai Chin area, as reported by Hindustan Times on Sunday.Both India and China have significantly reinforced their deployments with fighter jets, helicopters, tanks, heavy artillery and missiles in the region that has garnered extensive global attention in recent weeks, particularly after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley in a scrap with the Chinese along the LAC on June 15. An undisclosed number of Chinese soldiers also died in the clash, the worst between the two countries in 45 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/france-to-advance-rafale-deliveries-after-iaf-request/story-h1pFMplEhav6FIKLnLVvAP.html
29-06-2020||India||Oppn parties hold protests against surge in fuel prices||New Delhi:From bullock cart and camel rallies to leaders riding bicycles and promoting social media hastags, the Congress and other opposition parties held protests across India on Monday against the fuel price hikes in the last three months, saying it was hurting the poor and the middle-class adversely.The government has claimed that the fuel prices have risen because of increase in international crude prices but the Congress has said that the Centre has artificially kept the prices high by not lowering the special excise duty imposed when the international crude prices fell to US $30 in March this year. Petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan, however, justified the increase saying that the money was needed for providing relief to the poor suffering because of the Covid pandemic.In Bengaluru, former Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah along with Congress leaders rode a bicycle from his residence to Minsk Square to protest against the hike. State Congress chief, DK Shivakumar, said: “In Delhi, diesel prices have exceeded petrol prices. We must protest against this.”In Rajasthan, a camel cart rally under leadership of state Congress president Sachin Pilot was taken out. “Despite having full stock of fuel, the government has burdened the common people by increasing fuel prices continuously for last 20 days. Such a steep hike has not been seen in 70 years,” Pilot said.In Haryana and Uttarakhand, Congress leaders took out bullock-cart rallies. “Modi ji called himself janta ka chowkidar, but oil companies have been making profits and the PM has failed to provide any relief to the people,” said Kumari Selja, chief of Haryana Congress, asking what the Centre has done with ₹18 lakh crore earned by hiking the excise duty on fuel in the past six years.In West Bengal, the Congress and Left parties on Monday held their first joint agitation against fuel price hike at Red Road in the heart of Kolkata. The ruling Trinamool Congress also held a separate protest rally.“The country’s GDP has hit the bottom. It is the lowest in 11 years and unemployment is on the rise. Still, fuel prices have been increased,” said Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra.In Maharashtra, Congress state chief and revenue minister, Balasaheb Thorat, public works and former chief minister Ashok Chavan, energy minister, Nitin Raut, participated in the protests.In Uttar Pradesh, apart from the Congress, the other opposition parties, Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party, also demanded roll back in the fuel prices and had held protests. “Diesel has become costlier than petrol. What did not happen in 70 years, has now happened,” said SP chief Akhilesh Yadav. BSP chief Mawayati tweeted: “The (Central) government must control petrol and diesel prices. On one hand people are already distressed with Covid-19 and now this further price rise is staring in peoples’ face.”In Ranga Reddy district of Telangana, the Congress leaders registered their protest by riding cycle rickshaws and in Warangal, they came in bullock carts. However, the bulls were disturbed apparently on seeing the crowd and ran helter-skelter, injuring some party workers.BJP leaders termed the protest as a this as a dramaMaharashtra’s leader of opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said the decision to decontrol the prices of the fuel was taken during the United Progressive Alliance government. “If the Congress is so concerned about the price hike, the state government in which Congress is a parner should reduced the VAT,” he said.Madhya Pradesh BJP vice-preisdent Vijesh Lunawat said the Central government is using the money to give a boost to the economic activities and meet aspirations of people. “If Congress is really concerned it should reduce VAT on diesel and petrol in Rajasthan to show the way,” he said.(With inputs from state bureaus and agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-parties-hold-protests-against-surge-in-fuel-prices/story-b8GrxztKCbkpR5aCcTO20J.html
29-06-2020||India||Sonia slams NDA govt for ‘extortion’||New Delhi: New Delhi: Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday accused the central government of “setting a new example” in extorting the common people with its “unjustified” and “insensitive” increase in fuel prices. Citing an increase in fuel prices 22 times in the last three months, Gandhi also demanded an immediate rollback of the hike. In her video message while participating in the party’s “Speak Up Against Fuel Hike” campaign — as a part of the Congress’ nationwide agitation against the continuous increase in petrol and diesel prices — she said the hike directly hurts farmers, the poor, the working class, the middle class and the small businesses.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), for its part, has said that the revenue had been used for welfare schemes for the poor, and alleged that during Congress rule, it was used for personal benefit. The Congress president said that at a time of a crisis, the government’s duty was to help people and not make profits. “It has set a new example of extortion from people through this unjustified increase in petrol and diesel prices. This is not only unjust but also insensitive,” she added. Gandhi accused the Narendra Modi government of “collecting lakhs of crores” by raising excise duty on petrol and diesel in the last three months. “All this is happening at a time when the international crude oil prices are continuously falling.” She added that since 2014, instead of giving relief of the falling international crude oil prices to the people, the Modi government had raised the excise duty 12 times, which helped it collect additional revenue of nearly ₹18 lakh crore.The Congress chief demanded that the Modi government “immediately roll back” the increase in prices of petrol and diesel.“I also urge them to roll back the rise in excise duty on petrol and diesel since March this year and give this benefit to the countrymen. This will be a big relief in this period of economic crisis,” she added.As a part of the week-long agitation, Congress leaders such as KC Venugopal and Manickam Tagore were seen riding cycles to Parliament, while Youth Congress chief Srinivas BV pulled a bullock cart to protest the fuel rate hikes. Former party chief Rahul Gandhi, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and hundreds of Congress leaders and workers also participated in the campaign on social media, urging the people to join the party in putting pressure on the government to reduce fuel prices.Countering the charges, union petroleum and natural gas minister Dharmendra Pradhan said the money collected was used for welfare measures and not for personal benefits as had allegedly happened during the Congress rule.“I once again reiterate to Madam Sonia Gandhi ji that Modi ji has transferred more than ₹65,000 crore to 42 crore people in the last 3 months,” he said.“Unlike Congress’ legacy of transferring money into the accounts of middlemen, ‘National Daamad’, ‘The Family’ and Rajiv Gandhi Foundation, Modi ji’s DBT is about putting money in the hands of the poor, farmers, migrant workforce and women,” alleged Pradhan. He also endorsed BJP president JP Nadda’s remarks, asking the Congress to explain the hike in fuel taxes in party-ruled states.In his video message, Rahul Gandhi asked the government to stop profiteering from the fuel hikes. “The affect of rise in diesel and petrol prices are two-fold. One is that you pay directly and the other, indirectly, due to rise in prices of consumer products, including essential items,” he added. He also alleged that while on the one hand, the government had written off loans of “rich crony capitalists”, on the other, it was trying to profit from fuel prices, putting extra burden on the poor and the farmer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-slams-nda-govt-for-extortion/story-TIQCq6V1HFCRYlzOXe9LxH.html
29-06-2020||India||Odisha sees Covid-19 cases double in a month||Odisha continues to witness a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases despite the state government having adopted measures such as weekend shutdown in 11 of the 30 districts at the beginning of this month. These districts had accounted for 78% of the total 2,245 infections in the state on June 1.Officials had reasoned that imposing weekend lockdown would not only help contain the spread of coronavirus but will reduce burden on its frontline workers such as police, doctors, nurses, anganwadi workers and ASHA workers. The 11 districts where the weekend lockdown was imposed were Khurda, Ganjam, Kendrapara, Cuttack, Puri, Jagatsinghpur, Nayagarh, Jajpur, Bhadrak, Balasore and Bolangir and they account for little less than half of Odisha’s total population. However, in a worrying development, the number of Covid-19 cases in the state have shot up to 6,859 in the last four weeks, more than three times what it was on June 1. The number of deaths, too, have gone up from 7 to 23 during the same period. The number of hotspot districts have gone up from 11 to 14 with Gajapati, Kandhamal and Keonjhar now reporting 800 cases between them.Also, as the weekend shutdown in June came to an end on Sunday, an analysis of the Covid statistics of the 11 districts showed that the drastic measure may not be helping. On June 6, when the weekend shutdown started, the number of Covid-19 cases in Odisha was 3,037 of which the 11 districts accounted for 2,142 cases, about 70 per cent.However, on June 28, the number of Covid-19 cases in the state jumped to 6,859, more than twice than what it was when the weekend shutdown started. By June 28, the 11 districts where the weekend shutdown was being observed, reported 4887 cases, accounting for 71 per cent of the total cases. In Ganjam, the cases in the same period doubled from 636 to 1367 while in Khurda it trebled from 266 to 814. In Cuttack district, the cases increased by more than two and half times from 202 and 557.“The lockdown or shutdown is hardly any solution to battle the pandemic. Announcing a shutdown or lockdown may look politically attractive, but as we have seen in the country it has not helped much except destroying the economy. The simple solution to the pandemic right now is wearing masks and social distancing. Weekend shutdowns would mean people would sacrifice social distancing norms to do last minute shoppings on weekdays,” said noted virologist Jacob John, former professor of Christian Medical College, Vellore.In Bhubaneswar and elsewhere in the state, there have been scores of instances this month when people have flouted social distancing norms as well as wearing masks in public. Last week, the chief of state unit of Congress in Odisha was penalised for not wearing a mask. So far over Rs 1.6 crore have been collected from people for not wearing masks and violating social distancing norms.The other reason for weekend lockdown was to lessen the burden on frontline workers. But analysis of data shows that even that did not happen. In Cuttack, one of the 11 districts where the weekend shutdown was enforced, 8 people including 4 patients, their attendant and 2 nurses have tested positive in a government cancer hospital over the last two days. The nurses of Acharya Harihar Regional Cancer Centre on Monday staged a protest demanding a quarantine centre in the hospital. In the same district, the sub divisional police officer of Athgarh, and the inspector of Badamba police station have tested positive while in Ganjam district, the SDPO of Chhatrapur and inspector of Chhatrapur police station have tested positive this month. In Bhubaneswar, at least 7 doctors at AIIMS have tested positive while in Berhampur’s MKCG Medical College and Hospital, 4 doctors and 8 nurses tested positive this month. In Ganjam district, 4 doctors in Covid hospitals have been infected while in Bhubaneswar, around 40 employees of a private hospital were infected.Meanwhile, chief minister Naveen Patnaik spelt out a nine-point mantra including the need for creating Covid Care Committees at gram panchayats to tackle Covid-19 in the month July.At a meeting with district collectors and SPs via video conferencing, Patnaik said Covid Care Homes should be set up in every gram panchayats. While asking officials to take care of corona warriors as they are running the extra mile to save people, Patnaik said police and the district administration should show zero tolerance to those who are not wearing masks and violating social distancing norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-sees-covid-19-cases-double-in-a-month/story-fGOTY3eOO1VNvmSbeGwuKI.html
29-06-2020||India||From bullock cart ride to cycle rally, opposition protests fuel price hike across India||From a bullock and camel cart rallies to leaders riding bicycles to social media hashtags, the Congress and other opposition parties held protests across India on Monday against the fuel prices hike by almost nine rupees in the past 120 days, saying it was hurting the poor and the middle-class adversely.The government has claimed that the fuel prices has risen because of increase in international crude prices but the Congress has said that the Centre has artificially kept the prices high by not lowering the special excise duty imposed when the international crude prices fell to US $ 30 dollars in March this year. Petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan have, however, justified the increase saying that the money was needed for providing relief to the poor suffering because of Covid pandemic.The Congress and the opposition has from Monday started decided to have four day protest, starting from Monday, against the fuel hike, which they claimed were hurting the middle-class and the poor, whose incomes have dried up due to Covid 19.In Bengaluru, former Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah along with Congress leaders rode a bicycle from his residence to Minsk Square to protest against the hike. KPCC President DK Shivakumar said: “In Delhi, diesel prices have exceeded petrol prices. We must protest against this.”In Rajasthan, a camel cart rally under leadership of state Congress president Sachin Pilot was taken out. “Despite having full stock of fuel, the government has burdened the common people by increasing fuel prices continuously for last 20 days. Such a steep hike has not been seen in 70 years,” Pilot said.In Haryana and Uttarakhand, Congress leaders took out bullock-cart rallies. “Modi ji called himself janta ka chowkidar, but the oil companies have been making profits and the PM has failed to provide any relief to the people,” said Kumari Selja, chief of Haryana Congress, asking what the Centre has done with Rs 18 lakh crore earned by hiking the excise duty on fuel in the past six years.Sitting on a bullock-cart, former Uttarakhand chief minister, Harish Rawat, said it was because of the “faulty” Centre government policies that for the first time in the country’s history prices of diesel was higher than that of petrol. In West Bengal, the Congress and Left parties on Monday held their first joint agitation against fuel price hike at Red Road in the heart of Kolkata. The ruling Trinamool Congress also held a separate protest rally.“The country’s GDP has hit the bottom. It is the lowest in 11 years and unemployment is on the rise. Still, fuel prices have been increased,” said Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra.In Maharashtra, Congress state chief and revenue minister, Balasaheb Thorat, public works and former chief minister Ashok Chavan, energy minister, Nitin Raut, participated in the protests. “The crude oil had mounted to $125 a barrel during the UPA government, but the government under the leadership of the then prime minister Manmohan Singh could keep the diesel-petrol prices under control. Today the crude oil prices have dropped to $50 a barrel, despite of which the prices are scaling new high every day,” Thorat said.In Uttar Pradesh, apart from the Congress, the other opposition parties, Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party, also demanded roll back in the fuel prices and had held protests. “Diesel has become costlier than petrol. What did not happen in 70 years, has now happened,” said SP chief Akhilesh Yadav. BSP chief Mawayati tweeted: “The (Central) government must control petrol and diesel prices. On one hand people are already distressed with Covid-19 and now this further price rise is staring in peoples’ face.”In Ranga Reddy district of Telangana, the Congress leaders registered their protest by riding cycle rickshaws and in Warangal, they came in bullock carts. However, the bulls were disturbed apparently on seeing the crowd and ran helter-skelter, injuring some party workers. In a separate protest, Telangana Pradesh Congress chief, N Uttam Kumar Reddy, in a memorandum to Suryapet district collector, requested roll back of fuel price hike.Several Congress leaders also released videos as part of the party’s campaign ‘Speak up against fuel price hike’ in his social media messages. “The hike in price of fuel will affect life and livelihood across India. The Modi government has failed again,” said West Bengal Congress chief in Somen Mitra.In a video, senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Pramod Tiwari said the enhanced tax on petrol or diesel is like the taxes that cruel Mughal and British rulers imposed on Indians. “The then prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru had made a policy that diesel prices would always be kept lower to petrol. And all the prime ministers--be it Lal Bahadur Shastri, Indira Gandhi, Atal Behari Vajpayee or Manhoman Singh--followed it. But, Modi government has overturned that policy,” he said. BJP leaders termed the protest as a this as a dramaLeader of opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said the decision to decontrol the prices of the fuel was taken during the UPA government. “If the Congress is so concerned about the price hike, the state government in which Congress is a parner should reduced the VAT,” he said.Bansidhar Bhagat, Uttarakhand BJP president, said, “The Congress protest on fuel price is nothing but a laughable drama. These are just tactics to deviate the public attention from serious allegations against it like taking funds from China and misusing PM Relief Fund.”Madhya Pradesh BJP vice-preisdent Vijesh Lunawat said the Central government is using the money to give a boost to the economic activities and meet aspirations of people. “If Congress is really concerned it should reduce VAT on diesel and petrol in Rajasthan to show the way,” he said.(With inputs from state bureaus and agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-bullock-cart-ride-to-cycle-rally-opposition-protests-fuel-price-hike-across-india/story-AUsXUoQBucKw9Kld6VgQoL.html
29-06-2020||India||Unlock-2: Night curfew timings relaxed, training institutes to operate soon||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Monday issued a new set of guidelines for Unlock-2 in a move to open up more activities outside Containment Zones and ensure strict enforcement of lockdown norms within designated containment zones, which still have a high concentration of Covid-19 cases.The new guidelines will come into effect from day after tomorrow July 1 and the process of staggered re-opening of activities has been extended further. The new rules, issued late on Monday evening, have been structured on the feedback received from states and Union Territories on the health crisis and its management.Here’s a list of what will be permitted to operate from July 1:*In Unlock-2, domestic flights and passenger trains that have already been allowed in a limited manner will be allowed to function and services will be extended to include more trains and flights in a calibrated manner. International flights, however, will not resume yet.*Night curfew timings have been relaxed and for big shops that are large enough, more than five people can enter at a time. Night curfew shall continue to remain in force but only between 10:00 pm and 5:00 am, except for essential activities and other relaxations. The earlier timings were from 9 pm to 5 am.*Training institutions of Central and state governments which are located outside containment zones, will be allowed to function from July 15, for which a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) will be issued by the Department of Personnel and Training.*According to national directives for Covid-19 management; wearing of face masks is mandatory in public places, workplaces and during travel. To ensure social distance, individuals must maintain a minimum distance of 6 feet in public places.*Social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and any other large congregations remain strictly prohibited.The lockdown shall continue to remain in force in all containment zones till July 31, the MHA order said. In containment zones, only essential activities will be allowed.and the dates for resumption of those activities which remain prohibited shall be announced later in a phase-wise manner, the order read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-2-night-curfew-timings-relaxed-training-institutes-to-operate-soon/story-bMMsqjBwL2SyEcKYXTBEjO.html
29-06-2020||India||Tribals protest in Maoist-hit Bijapur district demanding procurement money in cash||Thousands of tribal of interior villagers of Maoist-hit Bijapur district reached district headquarters to start three-day protest in front of collector’s office demanding that money of tendu patta procurement to be given in cash as they have to face many difficulties to reach banks and many of them don’t have bank accounts.Most of these villagers are of Gangaloor, Cherlapal and other interior areas which are located south of the district. Some of these villages are 50 km from district headquarters with no road connectivity.The tribals have also demanded that the bonus given on the paddy procurement should also be given in cash by the government, and opening of schools and hospitals in their area and police atrocities should stop.“The administration is saying to open bank accounts, which we don’t have because we are poor and live in interior and secondly people having bank accounts have to walk for 40 km to reach banks . We are demanding that the tendu-patta procurement money should be given in cash,” said Somari, who was protesting outside the collector told reportersMeanwhile, the police have sealed the district headquarters and extra police forces have been deployed in the city following the protest. Talks between the tribal representatives and administration are being conducted.Bijapur Collector said that district administration will provide every help to tribals.“Those people who have bank accounts, the procurement money will be transferred in their accounts and we will pay them with help of bank-sakhis (banking correspondents), who will reach their villager to pay them their money. We have 11 banking correspondents and recruiting about 30 others in next four days,” collector Ritesh Agarwal told reporters.Tendu-Pattta is procured in Chhattisgarh at Rs 4,000 per sack from the tribals and this year the government procured tendu-patta of about Rs 100 crores from Bijapur district itself. The total population of Bijapur is 2.55 lakh.“The road connectively is till Gangaloor and most of these tribals are from more than a dozen of villages which are beyond Gangaloor. In 2018, just before the legislative assembly elections, the money was paid to them in cash because of non-connectivity and pressure of the then tribal minister Mahesh Gagda, who was from Bijapur. Since then, the tribals of these area are demanding that tendu-patta procurement money should be given in cash,” said a senior government officer posted in the region.The officer further said that their demand should be addressed.“This is fact that they are facing problem. Some of them have to walk for more than 40 km. Most of these tribals don’t have motorbike and hence they rent a four-wheeler to reach bank but owing to lockdown, the vehicles have also stopped. The government should recruit banking correspondents and send it to their villages or the government should arrange vehicle for them,” said the officer. Activists believe that the government is not listening to problems that are being faced by tribals during lockdown. “There demands are genuine…Thousands of tribals from Gangaloor, Cherlapal and other villages in Bijapur reached the district headquarters after walking for a day. The tribals are demanding that they should be paid in cash for tendu patta procurement, which the government is paying through the banks. Bank branches are very less in tribal areas…For some tribals, this distance is up to 50 and 60 kilometers,” said Himanshu Kumar, a tribal rights activist working in Bastar.Kumar claimed that there is no bus or other means of transport available for the tribals to reach these banks.“Thousands of tribal families do not even have bank accounts due to which they are not getting payment. The tribals had told the collector a month ago that they should be paid in cash but they did not listen, therefore they have started this protest,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tribals-protest-in-maoist-hit-bijapur-district-demanding-procurement-money-in-cash/story-S1s926N944zR0FwMfygLHL.html
29-06-2020||India||Under Unlock 2, govt opens up more activities but school, colleges to remain shut||The Union ministry of home affairs Monday evening issued new guidelines for Unlock 2 to open up of more activities in areas outside the containment zones to curb Covid-19.The new guidelines based on feedback received from States and UTs, and extensive consultations held with related Central Ministries and Departments will come into effect from July 1, 2020, the process of phased re-opening of activities has been extended further, the MHA said in a statement.Under the new guidelines for Unlock 2 operations of domestic flights and passenger trains which have already been allowed in a limited manner, will be further expanded in a calibrated manner.Night curfew timings will be further relaxed and curfew shall be in force from 10.00 pm to 5.00 am. “Further, relaxations in night curfew have been given for seamless operation of industrial units in multiple shifts, movement of persons and goods on National and State Highways, loading and unloading of cargo and movement of persons to their destinations after disembarking from buses, trains and airplanes,” the statement said.Shops depending upon their area, can have more than 5 persons at a time. However, they have to maintain adequate physical distance.But metro rail services, cinema halls, gyms, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums and political and large congregations will continue to be banned too. Dates for opening of these will be decided separately, based on the assessment of the situation.Schools, colleges and coaching institutions will remain closed till July 31, 2020.Training institutions of the Central and State Governments will be allowed to function with effect from July 15, 2020. SOP in this regard will be issued by the Centre’s Department of Personnel and Training.International air travel which is now limited to Vande Bharat evacuation flights will not be opened up immediately but in a calibrated manner.Lockdown shall continue to be implemented strictly in the containment zones till July 31, 2020. “Containment zones are required to be carefully demarcated by the State/ UT Governments with a view to contain the spread of Covid-19, after taking into consideration the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MOHFW). Within the containment zones, strict perimeter control shall be maintained and only essential activities allowed,” it said.Activities in the containment zones shall be monitored strictly by the State/UT authorities, and the guidelines relating to containment measure in these zones shall be strictly implemented.The MHA said states will decide on activities outside containment zones“States and UTs, based on their assessment of the situation, may prohibit certain activities outside the containment zones, or impose such restrictions as deemed necessary,” it said.There shall be no restriction on inter-State and intra-State movement of persons and goods. No separate permission/ approval/ e-permit will be required for such movements.National Directives for Covid -19 management shall continue to be followed throughout the country, with a view to ensure social distancing. The use of Aarogya Setu mobile application will continue to be encouraged, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/under-unlock-2-govt-opens-up-more-activities-but-school-colleges-to-remain-shut/story-uDW2OLIFjXQoIjMNiS0RUO.html
29-06-2020||India||Covid-19: India enters Unlock 2 mode. Explained in 12 points||The Union Home Ministry on Monday evening issued guidelines for ‘Unlock 2’ phase across country between July 1 and July 31.The new guidelines will come into effect from July 1 and the focus of remains on the phased re-opening of activities. The revised MHA guidelines have been issued based on feedback received from States and UTs, and extensive consultations held with related central ministries and departments. Also read: All you need to know about Covid-19 in IndiaSchools, colleges, religious places and places of worship for public; hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services will remain closed till July 31. Only essential services are allowed in containment zones, according to the revised guidelines issued by the government. Here are all the Unlock 2 guidelines you need to know:1. Domestic flights and passenger trains will be further expanded in a calibrated manner.2. Religious places and places of worship for public; hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services; and shopping malls will remain closed in containment zones. 3. Shops depending upon their area, can have more than 5 persons at a time. However, they have to maintain adequate physical distance.4. Schools, colleges and coaching institutions will remain closed till July 31, 2020.5. International air travel of passengers has been permitted in a limited manner under the Vande Bharat mission. Further opening up to follow. 6. Cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places will not be allowed until further notice. 6. Metro operations to remain shut until further notice. 7. Social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and other large congregations will not be allowed till further notice. 8. Lockdown will continue to be implemented strictly in the containment zones till 31 July, 2020.9. No restriction on inter-State and intra-State movement of persons and goods. No separate permission or approval or e-permit will be required for such movements. 10. Night Curfew shall continue to remain in force, between 10.00 pm and 5 am, except for essential activities and other relaxation given in Unlock 2. 11. Protection for vulnerable persons: Vulnerable persons, i.e., persons above 65 years of age, persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women, and children below the age of 10 years, are advised to stay at home, except for meeting essential requirements and for health purposes.12. The use of Aarogya Setu mobile application will continue to be encouraged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covi-19-india-enters-unlock-2-mode-explained-in-12-points/story-CtoL2aTDYGMexau1jUcDWP.html
29-06-2020||India||Here’s why govt banned TikTok, Shareit and other 57 China-linked apps||The government on Monday banned 59 mobile apps linked to China saying they are prejudicial to India’s sovereignty, integrity, security and public order.“The Ministry of Information Technology, invoking its power under section 69A of the Information Technology Act read with the relevant provisions of the Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for Blocking of Access of Information by Public) Rules 2009 and in view of the emergent nature of threats has decided to block 59 apps ( see Appendix) since in view of information available they are engaged in activities which is prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order,” the government said in a statement.It said that over the last few years, India has emerged as a leading innovator when it comes to technological advancements and a primary market in the digital space.“At the same time, there have been raging concerns on aspects relating to data security and safeguarding the privacy of 130 crore Indians. It has been noted recently that such concerns also pose a threat to sovereignty and security of our country.”Also read | India bans 59 China-linked phone apps, orders companies to block them“The Ministry of Information Technology has received many complaints from various sources including several reports about misuse of some mobile apps available on Android and iOS platforms for stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users’ data in an unauthorized manner to servers which have locations outside India. The compilation of these data, its mining and profiling by elements hostile to national security and defence of India, which ultimately impinges upon the sovereignty and integrity of India, is a matter of very deep and immediate concern which requires emergency measures,” it said.The government said the Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre, Ministry of Home Affairs has also sent an exhaustive recommendation for blocking these malicious apps.“This Ministry has also received many representations raising concerns from citizens regarding security of data and risk to privacy relating to operation of certain apps. The Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-IN) has also received many representations from citizens regarding security of data and breach of privacy impacting upon public order issues. Likewise, there have been similar bipartisan concerns, flagged by various public representatives, both outside and inside the Parliament of India. There has been a strong chorus in the public space to take strict action against Apps that harm India’s sovereignty as well as the privacy of our citizens”.Also read | From Tik Tok, UC Browser to Baidu Map: Complete list of 59 China-linked apps banned by India“On the basis of these and upon receiving of recent credible inputs that such Apps pose threat to sovereignty and integrity of India, the Government of India has decided to disallow the usage of certain Apps, used in both mobile and non-mobile Internet enabled devices,” the government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-bans-59-china-linked-mobile-apps-prejudicial-to-india-s-defence-and-security/story-qhqo2vCCTB5LluBQsp7mnN.html
29-06-2020||India||Amit Shah powers India’s ban on 59 China-linked mobile apps: 10 points||Citing national security, the Centre on Monday banned 59 mobile applications, including China’s TikTok, SHAREiT and WeChat calling the move as one meant to safeguard the interests of Indian mobile and internet users.The formal orders banning the 59 apps were issued by the IT ministry after home minister Amit Shah, who had extended his support to the move to block the China-linked applications, signed Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla’s recommendation on Saturday. The government had earlier decided against just issuing an advisory cautioning people about the risks associated with these apps and had decided to formally ban the applications in the country.The applications include popular short-video app TikTok, and other utility and content apps such as UC browser, Xender, SHAREit and Clean-master among several others.Indian intelligence agencies had been trying to restrict the mobile applications on grounds that the apps were designed to extract data and park them outside the country, where at a later stage they could be used to intrude into the privacy of Indian citizens.Top ten points on the Union government’s latest move banning 59 China-linked apps: 1. The government has issued a formal order asking phone companies to block the applications. The order came after weeks of crucial discussions that started much before the border standoff with China in eastern Ladakh earlier this month.2. The decision was fast-tracked, however, after the June 15 violent skirmish between soldiers of both sides at the Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh, in which 20 Indian soldiers died.3. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology said it had received many complaints from various sources, including several reports about misuse of some mobile apps available on Android and iOS platforms for allegedly “stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users’ data in an unauthorized manner to servers which have locations outside India”.ALSO READ | India bans 59 China-linked phone apps, orders companies to block them: Complete list4. The Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre affiliated to the Ministry of Home Affairs, has also sent an exhaustive recommendation for blocking these apps.5. Chinese companies have for some time now been suspected of building backdoors in their hardware and software, one reason why many governments globally have been cautious at the prospect of deploying Chinese-made 5G networking equipment.6. In a statement, the Centre said the apps were blocked “in view of information available that they are engaged in activities which are prejudicial to the sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of the country, security of state and public order”.7. According to the government, this huge decision is a targeted move to ensure safety and sovereignty of Indian cyberspace. 8. The government statement indicated that “there has been a strong chorus in the public domain to take strict action against certain China-linked apps that may harm the country’s sovereignty as well as the privacy of its citizens”.9. Some of the applications that make it to the list of banned ones include DU Cleaner,DU Browser, Hago Play With New Friends, Cam Scanner, Clean Master - Cheetah Mobile, Wonder Camera, Photo Wonder, QQ Player, We Meet and Sweet Selfie to name a few.10. On the basis of several recent credible inputs that a number of China-linked apps may pose a threat to the sovereignty and integrity of India, the government has decided to disallow the usage of these apps in both mobile and non-mobile Internet-enabled devices used in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-orders-phone-companies-to-block-59-china-linked-apps-top-10-points/story-5HQLOb6XcaDsJUUGrtl8dN.html
29-06-2020||India||From Tik Tok, UC Browser to Baidu Map: Complete list of 59 China-linked apps banned by India||India on Monday banned 59 mobile applications linked to China and asked phone companies to block them. The order came two weeks after the violent face-off between Indian and Chinese troops at the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley. “The Ministry of Information Technology, invoking it’s power under section 69A of the Information Technology Act read with the relevant provisions of the Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for Blocking of Access of Information by Public) Rules 2009 and in view of the emergent nature of threats has decided to block 59 apps since in view of information available they are engaged in activities which is prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order,” a government order issued late on Monday evening said. “This move will safeguard the interests of crores of Indian mobile and internet users. This decision is a targeted move to ensure safety and sovereignty of Indian cyberspace,” the order added.Among them are TikTok, WeChat, Weibo, Baidu Map and XenderThe complete list is as follows:1.TikTok 2.Shareit 3.Kwai 4.UC Browser 5.Baidu map 6.Shein 7.Clash of Kings 8.DU battery saver 9.Helo 10.Likee 11.YouCam makeup 12.Mi Community 13.CM Browers 14.Virus Cleaner 15.APUS Browser 16.ROMWE 17.Club Factory 18.Newsdog 19.Beutry Plus 20.WeChat 21.UC News 22.QQ Mail 23.Weibo 24.Xender 25.QQ Music 26.QQ Newsfeed 27.Bigo Live 28.SelfieCity 29.Mail Master 30.Parallel Space 31.Mi Video Call – Xiaomi 32.WeSync 33.ES File Explorer 34.Viva Video – QU Video Inc 35.Meitu 36.Vigo Video 37.New Video Status 38.DU Recorder 39.Vault- Hide 40.Cache Cleaner DU App studio 41.DU Cleaner 42.DU Browser 43.Hago Play With New Friends 44.Cam Scanner 45.Clean Master – Cheetah Mobile 46.Wonder Camera 47.Photo Wonder 48.QQ Player 49.We Meet 50.Sweet Selfie 51.Baidu Translate 52.Vmate 53.QQ International 54.QQ Security Center 55.QQ Launcher 56.U Video 57.V fly Status Video 58.Mobile Legends 59.DU Privacy||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-tik-tok-uc-browser-to-baidu-map-here-s-the-complete-list-of-59-chinese-apps-banned-by-india/story-dNkaBac7WD4G7Btc6AEDfN.html
29-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Plasma therapy saved my life, says Delhi health minister after beating Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Plasma therapy saved my life, says Delhi health minister after beating Covid-19Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Monday said plasma therapy saved him from Covid-19 and pledged to donate his plasma. “With good wishes of everyone I am recovering at home now. Plasma bank announcement by Hon’ble CM @ArvindKejriwal is a revolutionary step. Plasma therapy saved my life from Corona virus and I pledge to donate my plasma as soon as medical protocols will allow,” Jain tweeted.Read more.India bans 59 China-linked phone apps, orders phone companies to block themIn a huge move, the central government on Monday decided to ban 59 mobile applications linked to China on grounds of national security. A formal order, asking phone companies to block the applications, was issued after weeks of discussions that started much before the Ladakh border standoff with China. But government officials told Hindustan Times that the deliberations were fast-tracked after June 15 violent scrap between soldiers at Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh.Read more. India-China to hold Lt General-level talks tomorrow on LAC standoffIndian and Chinese army delegations, led by corps commanders, will hold a meeting at Chushul in Ladakh on Tuesday with a focus on cooling tensions and thinning military build-up on both sides of the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), people familiar with developments said on Monday.Read more. Another 5,000+ surge takes Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally to 1.69 lakhMaharashtra recorded another huge surge of 5,257 new Covid-19 cases on Monday as the state’s tally touched 1,69,883, the health department said. There were 181 casualties also, including 92 in Mumbai that took the death toll to 7,610 in the state.Read more. Stop trains, domestic flights from 5 worst-hit states: Mamata Banerjee tells CentreThe Mamata Banerjee-led government in West Bengal has written to the Centre to stop sending trains from at least five coronavirus ‘hotspot’ states, which have registered the highest number of Covid-19 cases in India.Read more. Laxmmi Bomb new posters: Akshay Kumar’s bright bindi and dramatic eyes are striking, film to release on Disney+ HotstarActor Akshay Kumar shared dramatic new posters of his film, Laxmmi Bomb, as it was announced that the film will release directly on Disney+ Hotstar. Official remake of south hit Kanchana, Laxmmi Bomb is a horror comedy that is being helmed by the director of the original, Raghava Lawrence, with Kiara Advani as the leading lady.Read more. Govt to launch an e-marketplace for tribal artisans soonTribal artisans will be able to sell their products online soon as the government is working on a specialised e-marketplace. This online portal will be launched on Independence Day. Managing director of the Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation of India (TRIFED), Pravir Krishna said that the Tribes India e-Mart will be launched on August 15 and will be just like e-commerce platforms like Amazon or Flipkart, just that it will be exclusively for tribal artisans.Read more. Watch: 24-yr-old woman digs 15-ft well to ease mother’s troubles in BengalA 24-year-old woman dug a well in her village in West Bengal. Bobita Soren dug the 15-feet-deep well to ease her mother’s troubles. Bobita’s ailing mother had to walk and stand in queue to fetch water multiple times in a day. Bobita, who is pursuing BEd, had started the digging work in 2019 but couldn’t finish it as she had to return to her college hostel. Lockdown, however, came as an opportunity to the 24-year-old. Watch the full video for details.Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-plasma-therapy-saved-my-life-says-delhi-health-minister-after-beating-covid-19-and-all-the-latest-news/story-WJbc4KSosfKeb0eugm44FL.html
29-06-2020||India||Kerala starts house-to-house survey in Covid hotspots to contain pandemic||With Covid-19 cases going up steadily Kerala on Monday launched a house-to-house survey in affected areas and ramp up home quarantine facilities with the help of volunteers, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said.“The government is going all out to mitigate the threat posed by pandemic. We have launched a cluster management strategy and introduced a surge plan in certain areas. In some cases sources are not identified so we have to keep utmost vigil,” Vijayan said.The state was on the verge of flattening the Covid-19 curve in the first week of May but instead cases surged after expatriates and people stranded in other parts of the country started to return. At least 1.25 lakh expatriates and 2.50 lakh people from other states have returned to Kerala since the lockdown norms were relaxed in the first week of May. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.The CM said vigil on home quarantine facilities will be strengthened and services of Covid volunteers will be used in a big way. The government had earlier floated a volunteer service comprising youth to help grassroots units of the virus management teams. They will keep an eye on those flouting quarantine norms and check “super spreaders”. Health workers have started house-to-house surveys in Covid-19 hotspots, he said. Since institutional quarantine is turning out to be a big financial burden, the state is laying more emphasis on home quarantine these days.Kerala reported one more casualty taking the death toll to 24 while 121 new cases took the Covid-19 tally to 4310. There are now 2,057 active cases in the state while 2,229 have recovered. Nine CISF personnel and five health workers are among the new cases, the CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-starts-house-to-house-survey-in-covid-hotspots-to-contain-pandemic/story-XzA5nAtEHPlMik7t35miMN.html
29-06-2020||India||Elephant population crosses 2,000-mark in Uttarakhand, around 30% rise since 2015||With a 29.9% increase since 2015, Uttarakhand government on Monday said that the state now has 2,026 elephants. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat released the fresh elephant census on Monday during the 15th State Wildlife Advisory Board meeting.He also released the census of crocodiles and gharials, counted after a gap of 12 years in February this year. However, otters were counted for the first time in the state. Rawat said elephants were counted in Uttarakhand for three days from June 6 to June 8. “It was found that there are a total of 2,026 elephants in the state. In 2012, there were 1,559 elephants while in 2017 there were 1,839 elephants,” Rawat said.For the first time drones were used for counting the jumbos in the hill state. Parag Madhukar Dhakate, who is the coordinator of the forest department’s drone force, said the drones flew over forest blocks in a zigzag manner and captured images of elephants that helped in verifying the ground reports. According to officials, Uttarakhand now has 451 mugger crocodiles (from 123 in 2008), 77 gharials and 194 otters. The officials said from 2020 -2022, the snow-leopard population will also be estimated in the state and that 23% of the state’s geographical area has snow-leopards. For the total count of these animals, teams were trained and allotted river stretches to conduct the estimation by walking along the stretches from 9 am till 11 am, “when crocodiles and gharials come out of water to bask in the sun.” Camera traps were deployed for the estimation of otters. Indirect pieces of evidence like footprints, latrine site, grooming sites were looked into to know about the proximity of areas where otters are found, officials said.In Uttarakhand, crocodiles are found in the Corbett landscape, Terai area, Bhanganga wetland in Haridwar, Rajaji National park and so on. The last crocodile and gharial census in Uttarakhand was carried out in 2008 by the forest department where they found 123 crocodiles and 231 gharials.In other decisions, the board decided to seek the National Board for Wildlife’s approval for road construction projects through Gangotri National Park in Uttarkashi district, which shares border with China and ask the the Wildlife Institute of India will conduct a study elephant and tiger carrying capacity of Corbett and Rajaji tiger reserves. The board also decided to form a committee for rationalization of the boundary of Rajaji National Park having district collectors, divisional forest officers and representatives from Wildlife Institute.A proposal seeking permission for the transfer of forest land for construction of Saung Dam project and for expansion of Jolly Grant Airport will also be sent to National Board for Wildlife.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elephant-population-crosses-2-000-mark-in-uttarakhand-around-30-rise-since-2015/story-KtatcRi1L2xKuEpvHDcvRM.html
29-06-2020||India||India bans 59 China-linked phone apps, orders companies to block them: Complete list||In a huge move, the central government on Monday decided to ban 59 mobile applications linked to China on grounds of national security. A formal order, asking phone companies to block the applications, was issued after weeks of discussions that started much before the Ladakh border standoff with China. But government officials told Hindustan Times that the deliberations were fast-tracked after June 15 violent scrap between soldiers at Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh.Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who had extended his complete support to the move to block the China-linked applications, signed off on Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla’s recommendation on Saturday. Since the government had decided against just issuing an advisory cautioning people about the risks associated with these applications, the formal orders were issued by the IT ministry. Also Watch | TikTok, ShareIt among 59 Chinese apps banned by Modi govt: All there is to know Also Read: Amit Shah powers India’s ban on 59 China-linked mobile appsA statement by the information technology ministry said a decision had been taken to block 59 applications “since in view of the information available, they are engaged in activities prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”.The applications include popular short-video app TikTok, and other utility and content apps such as UC browser, Xender, SHAREit and Clean-master.Hindustan Times was the first to report about the government move on June 17.Complete list of 59 mobile apps blocked in IndiaTikTok, Shareit, KwaiUC Browser, Baidu map Shein, Clash of Kings DU battery saver, HeloLikee, YouCam makeup, QQ Newsfeed Mi Community, CM Browsers Virus Cleaner, APUS Browser ROMWE, Club Factory, NewsdogBeauty Plus, WeChat, UC News,QQ Mail, Weibo, Xender, QQ MusicBigo Live, SelfieCity, Mail Master Parallel Space, Mi Video Call – Xiaomi WeSync, ES File Explorer Viva Video – QU Video Inc Meitu, Vigo Video, New Video Status DU Recorder, Vault- Hide Cache Cleaner DU App studio DU Cleaner, DU Browser Hago Play With New Friends Cam Scanner, Clean Master – Cheetah Mobile Wonder Camera, Photo Wonder QQ Player, We Meet, Sweet Selfie Baidu Translate, Vmate, QQ International QQ Security Center, QQ Launcher U Video, V fly Status Video Mobile Legends, DU Privacy Explaining the decision, the IT ministry pointed to the raging concerns on aspects relating to data security and safeguarding the privacy of 130 crore Indians. It has been noted recently that such concerns also pose a threat to sovereignty and security of our country. The Ministry of Information Technology has received many complaints from various sources including several reports about misuse of some mobile apps available on Android and iOS platforms for stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users’ data in an unauthorized manner to servers which have locations outside India.“The compilation of these data, its mining and profiling by elements hostile to national security and defence of India, which ultimately impinges upon the sovereignty and integrity of India, is a matter of very deep and immediate concern which requires emergency measures,” said the IT ministry statement.Indian intelligence agencies had been pushing for restrictions on the mobile applications on grounds that the apps were designed to extract data and park them outside the country where they could be used to intrude into the privacy of citizens.Chinese companies have long been suspected of building backdoors in their hardware and software, one reason why many governments across the world have been uneasy at the prospect of deploying Chinese-made 5G networking equipment.Robert O’Brien, the National Security Adviser in the Trump administration, had recently detailed how China-linked companies acted as an arm of Beijing’s communist party and tried to “control thoughts” to serve the party’s interests.The communist party is “collecting your most intimate data — your words, your actions, your purchases, your whereabouts, your health records, your social media posts, your texts, and mapping your network of friends, family, and acquaintances”, he said. This information could be used to influence, to coerce and to even blackmail individuals to say and do things that serve the party’s interests, O’Brien said in a recent lecture on China.O’Brien had also spoken about another facet. Where these companies remove information that doesn’t favour China. Like TikTok, he said, accounts criticising the communist party’s policies are routinely removed or deleted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-bans-59-china-linked-phone-apps-orders-phone-companies-to-block-them/story-OZhoz8cpZKv1GAWy8X5PuM.html
29-06-2020||India||Stop trains, domestic flights from 5 worst-hit states: Mamata Banerjee tells Centre||The Mamata Banerjee-led government in West Bengal has written to the Centre to stop sending trains from at least five coronavirus ‘hotspot’ states, which have registered the highest number of Covid-19 cases in India.The Bengal chief minister has also urged the Union government to stop sending domestic flights from these five states. Flights from other states can be allowed once a week, she said. Uncertainty now looms over the resumption of Kolkata Metro services with metro authorities saying that they would need the nod of three union ministries – rail, health and home – before services could begin again.ALSO READ | Telangana, TN may follow Maharashtra in extending lockdown to stop Covid-19“The chief secretary has sent a letter requesting to stop trains from five states with immediate effect at least for some time now,” Banerjee told reporters at the state secretariat without naming the five states.A senior official said the states are Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh. Earlier, migrant labourers who returned from these states were also sent to institutional quarantine. “We would also request to restrict the number of incoming domestic flights from other states to one per week, instead of allowing several flights a day. It would be easier to manage,” she added.ALSO READ | West Bengal extends coronavirus lockdown till July 31Banerjee had earlier raised objections against international flights too. Even though the union government has suspended commercial international flights till July 15, domestic flights and trains continue to operate.The chief minister had said on Friday that the state government had requested the Kolkata Metro to resume services from July 1.“Metro and suburban train services have been suspended till August 12. We will need the nod of the rail ministry, home ministry and health ministry to restart metro services,” said a spokesperson of the Kolkata Metro.On Monday, senior officials of the Kolkata Metro held a meeting with the state government.“The Kolkata Metro will resume essential services for now which can be availed by doctors, police and other frontline staff. The chief secretary will speak to the railway board chairman so that normal services could start soon,” Banerjee added.The state government will also launch tele-medicine services from July 1 to enable patients to consult doctors for medical help over telephone instead of visiting hospitals or clinics. Each district will have dedicated telephone lines.She added that the government will procure 30 million face masks, which would be distributed among school students and frontline health workers among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stop-trains-domestic-flights-from-5-worst-hit-states-mamata-banerjee-tells-centre/story-JxNdwDMxty5xrWXJg1gkmI.html
29-06-2020||India||Another 5,000+ surge takes Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally to 1.69 lakh||Maharashtra recorded another huge surge of 5,257 new Covid-19 cases on Monday as the state’s tally touched 1,69,883, the health department said.There were 181 casualties also, including 92 in Mumbai that took the death toll to 7,610 in the state. Mumbai recorded 1,226 new cases to take its tally to 76,765. A total of 2,385 people were discharged on Monday taking the total recoveries to 88,960. The health department said Maharashtra’s recovery rate now stands at 52.37%.The number of people who have been tested for Covid-19 has risen to 9,43,485.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.The surge of more than 5,000 cases for the fourth successive day came even as the government extended the lockdown in the state till July 31 amid a steady rise in the coronavirus cases. Maharashtra remains the worst-hit state by Covid-19, Mall, theatres, multiplexes, schools, colleges, gymnasiums, swimming pools will remain shut across the state. The essential services have been allowed while shops selling non-essential services are allowed with certain restrictions in red zones. Government and private offices are allowed to operate at 15 and 10% of their workforce. Non-essential services and intra district public transportation has been allowed in non-red zones.The government said the permitted non-essential activities such as shopping and physical activities like jogging, running, cycling will be allowed only in the neighbourhood areas only. The relaxation given to travel is only to attend the offices in a prescribed number of employees and with the due precautions of social distancing and lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-5-000-surge-takes-maharashtra-s-covid-19-tally-to-1-69-lakh/story-hy7ympwn2yVewPc1sWMDEL.html
29-06-2020||India||Four more ITBP personnel test Covid-19 positive, force records 81 active cases||Four more personnel of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) have tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, officials said on Monday.There are currently a total of 81 active coronavirus cases and 236 ITBP personnel have recovered and been discharged till date.On Sunday, six personnel of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police had tested positive for the viral infection.ALSO READ | CRPF constable dies of Covid-19, death toll in Central Armed Police Forces rises to 24There have been over 868 coronavirus cases in the BSF, 733 in the CISF, 316 in the ITBP, 184 in the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), 139 in the SSB and 70 in the National Security Guards (NSG). So far the Central Armed Police Forces—the CRPF, BSF, CISF, ITBP and SSB have reported a death toll of 24.Among them, more than 2,100 security personnel have been cured and only about 1,250 are under treatment at various health facilities across the country.A single-day spike of 19,459 Covid-19 cases took India’s tally to 5,48,318 on Monday, while the death toll climbed to 16,475 with 380 new fatalities, according to Union Health Ministry data.This is the sixth consecutive day that coronavirus infections have increased by more than 15,000. The country has seen a surge of 3,57,783 infections from June 1 till date.The number of active cases stands at 2,10,120, while 3,21,722 people have recovered, and one patient has migrated, according to the data.The total number of confirmed coronavirus cases in the country includes foreigners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-more-itbp-personnel-test-covid-19-positive-force-records-81-active-cases/story-lpgwyhnxiWKdhBLMG1atyJ.html
29-06-2020||India||Govt using oil revenue for welfare of poor, not RGF: BJP hits back at Cong||BJP leader and Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan hit out at the Congress on Monday, saying the central government is using the tax revenue earned from the petrol and diesel sale to fund welfare programmes for the poor and not for any “son-in-law or Rajiv Gandhi Foundation”.Pradhan’s barb at the Congress came after the opposition party president, Sonia Gandhi, attacked the BJP-led government for raising fuel prices 22 times since the lockdown, accusing it of “extorting” people, and sought an immediate rollback of the hikes.Hitting back, Pradhan said Gandhi seems to have forgotten that states like Punjab, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Jharkhand, where the Congress is in power on its own or with allies, have also hiked VAT on petrol and diesel and burdened people.  Instead of doing politics over the issue, the Congress chief should get factual information from these states, he said in a statement, adding that the Centre and states are using the money to meet challenges being posed by the Covid-19 pandemic.Pradhan said, “The tax earned from petrol and diesel is being spent on healthcare, generating employment and giving people financial security. The BJP government uses people’s money for the poor’s welfare through direct benefit transfer. It is not like the Congress, which would use the revenue for welfare of a son-in-law and the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation (RGF).” “Sonia Gandhi is saying so because the Congress has for generations used power to transfer money meant for government schemes to bank accounts of son-in-law and the RGF,” he alleged.The BJP has targeted Gandhi’s son-in-law Robert Vadra for alleged dubious land deals and has also been raising the issue of donations to the RGF to attack the Congress.  Pradhan said the global economy is undergoing a crisis due to the pandemic, which has also posed demand and supply issues for petroleum products.  The common consumer has not been affected much by the recent hike in oil products as, he said, their demand had gone down by 70 per cent in April and May before it was revived in June after the ‘unlock’ began.  When a family faces a crisis, then its members arrange financial resources to deal with it, he said, adding that the recent hike in oil products should be seen in a similar manner.  Sonia Gandhi charged the government with profiteering at the expense of people, saying its duty was to help them in times of crisis and not make profits out of their hard-earned money.Participating in the Congress’ “Speak Up Against Fuel Hike” campaign across the country, she said on the one hand, the Covid-19 pandemic was wreaking havoc and on the other, the rise in petrol and diesel prices was making life very difficult for the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-using-oil-revenue-for-welfare-of-poor-not-rgf-bjp-hits-back-at-cong/story-BF3ASdp5j98gS5cgD882lL.html
29-06-2020||India||Plasma therapy saved my life, says Delhi health minister after beating Covid-19||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Monday said plasma therapy saved him from Covid-19 and pledged to donate his plasma. “With good wishes of everyone I am recovering at home now. Plasma bank announcement by Hon’ble CM @ArvindKejriwal is a revolutionary step. Plasma therapy saved my life from Corona virus and I pledge to donate my plasma as soon as medical protocols will allow,” Jain tweeted.The minister was discharged from hospital on June 26, 12 days after he was admitted to hospital with high-grade fever and a drop in his oxygen saturation levels.Earlier on Monday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that his government will set up a plasma bank to help Covid-19 patients in the national capital which is likely to be the first such bank in the country.The plasma of a cured patient is considered to carry virus-fighting antibodies which boost the immune system’s response to the disease. Plasma is the almost-clear liquid left behind after red and white blood cells and platelets are removed from the blood.The plasma bank which will operate on the lines of a blood bank will be set up in the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) hospital in south Delhi.Patients admitted in both government and private hospitals can avail of the services but it has to be recommended by a doctor, Kejriwal said.Last week, Kejriwal had said that plasma therapy helped reduce the Covid-19 death rate by more than 50% in Delhi’s LNJP hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plasma-therapy-saved-my-life-says-delhi-health-minister-after-beating-covid-19/story-NoX6dI39ddRfBvhiM7iqGM.html
29-06-2020||India||FAO sounds high alert for India for next 4 weeks over locust||The United Nation’s (UN) Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) in its latest situation update has asked India, Pakistan in Asia and Sudan, Ethiopia, South Sudan and Somalia in Africa to be on high alert for the next four weeks in view of locust breeding.The FAO has warned that although locust control operations are in place, a northerly movement of the swarms in these countries is on the cards.Some of the swarms in north-west Kenya are expected to transit through South Sudan to reach the summer breeding areas of Sudan, which has reported some monsoon rains.The swarms could move towards eastern Chad and spread westwards across the northern Sahel part of west Africa. Swarms that accumulate in northern Somalia are likely to migrate across the Indian Ocean to the summer breeding areas along the Indo-Pakistan border.“Spring-bred swarms are present along both sides of the Indo-Pakistan border where they are awaiting the onset of the monsoon rains that will start in the coming days and allow the swarms to mature and lay eggs. In Pakistan, some swarms have already started laying eggs in Nagaparkar of south-east Sindh province near the Indian border, while swarms are present in the Indus Valley and are starting to form the hopper bands in the Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province,” the FAO said.The UN organisation said swarms and adult groups are largely present in the west of Jaipur in Rajasthan but some infestations have been reported in parts of Madhya Pradesh (MP) and Uttar Pradesh (UP). At least one small group of immature adults moved north of UP last Saturday, reaching the northern districts of Kushinagar and Sidharth Nagar where they split up and a few crossed across the border to the central lowlands near Butwal in Nepal’s Terai region.In Iran, locust infestations declined further in the south. Only adult groups remain along the Pakistan border in the interior of Sistan-Baluchistan province and hopper groups are also present in South Khorasan province.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fao-sounds-high-alert-for-india-for-next-4-weeks-over-locust/story-R2bBx0BEK4XF3reP43fmlK.html
29-06-2020||India||Landslides in north Sikkim hamper army movement near Indo-China border||Parts of north Sikkim close to the China border have been cut off by multiple landslides that occurred on Saturday night and left hundreds of people homeless.Five major landslides took place between Dikchu to Chungthang.The main highway, connecting Mangan, the north district headquarters, and Chungthang is closed. The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) is working overtime to repair the strategic road leading to the border.Chief Minister P S Tamang on Monday visited the worst hit areas in the Dzongu area in North Sikkim.“Many parts of Sikkim had been witnessing incessant rainfall till Sunday. Mangan received 611 mm rainfall in four days beginning June 24,” said Gopinath Raha, regional director meteorological department, Sikkim. An army officer, who did not wish to be named, said, “Landslides often damage roads leading to the Indo-China border. All stakeholders work jointly in situations like these.”The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Sikkim state committee has written a letter to Jitendra Singh, Union minister of state for Development of North East Region (DoNER), seeking emergency assistance for relief and rehabilitation work.“Considering the present situation in the India-China border in North Sikkim, restoration of the highway and the border roads should be the top most priority,” D B Chauhan, BJP Sikkim state president said in the letter.The state government has already evacuated all villagers from the worst-affected area that is Passingdong village in Upper Dzongu, about 10 km away Mangan.Tenzing T Kaleon, district collector of North Sikkim, said, “There have been massive damages and all the agencies are working overtime to restore road connectivity.”The chief minister on Monday handed over compensation to 48 affected people.Pintso Namgyal Lepcha, the legislator from Dzongu, said, “There is no road connectivity beyond Sangkhalang. Relief workers have to walk.”Many villages including Tingvong and Sakyong-Pentong and some lying beyond Passingdong are cut-off since the Mantam landslide in 2016.Praful Rao, president of Save the Hills, an NGO involved in disaster management, said “Many parts of North Sikkim have become vulnerable after the 2011 earthquake that caused massive damage to Sikkim. Heavy rainfall and strong current in the rivers in the north have added to the problem.”NH-10, which connects Sikkim to Bengal and rest of India needs repair in at least eight locations between Sevok and Rangpo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/landslides-in-north-sikkim-hamper-army-movement-near-indo-china-border/story-bsYAPm86qI2mTirOGjEYsN.html
29-06-2020||India||LAC standoff: India increases surveillance in Indian Ocean region to track Chinese activities||The Navy has increased its surveillance missions and beefed up operational deployment in the Indian Ocean region in the wake of India’s seven-week bitter border standoff with China in eastern Ladakh, people familiar with the development said. The Indian Navy is also ramping up its operational cooperation with various friendly naval forces like the US Navy and Japan Maritime Self Defense Force in view of the fast evolving regional security landscape, they said. On Saturday, the Indian Navy held a crucial exercise with Japanese Navy in the Indian Ocean region, an area where Chinese naval vessels and submarines are making frequent forays, they said. Indian Navy ships INS Rana and INS Kulish were part of the exercise while Japan Maritime Self Defense Forces deployed its two ships, JS Kashima and JS Shimayuki, for the exercise. The exercise assumed significance as it took place amid India’s border standoff with China in eastern Ladakh and Chinese Navy’s aggressive posturing in South China Sea as well as in the Indo-Pacific region. “The aim of the exercise was to enhance interoperability between the two navies,” said a source. Navies from the US, India, Australia, Japan and France have been deepening their mutual cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region in view of China’s growing attempts to expand military influence in the resource-rich region. Following an escalation in tension between India and China in eastern Ladakh after the killing of 20 Indian Army soldiers on June 15, the government put all the three forces on alert. The Indian Navy was asked to raise its alert level in the Indian Ocean Region where Chinese Navy has been making regular forays. The people cited above said Indian Navy has increased its surveillance missions and enhanced operational deployment in the Indian Ocean region in the last couple of weeks. “We are increasing surveillance to track Chinese activities in Indian Ocean region,” said a military expert. The Galwan Valley incident on June 15 was the biggest confrontation between the two militaries after their 1967 clashes in Nathu La when India lost around 80 soldiers while the death toll on the Chinese side was over 300. India and Japan are part of the influential “Quad” or Quadrilateral coalition which also comprises the United States and Australia. In November 2017, the four countries gave shape to the long-pending “Quad” coalition to develop a new strategy to keep the critical sea routes in the Indo-Pacific free of any influence. The US has been pushing for a greater role for India in the Indo-Pacific which is seen by many countries as an effort to contain China’s growing clout in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lac-standoff-indian-navy-increases-surveillance-in-indian-ocean-region-to-track-chinese-activities/story-VVspC7KvqRUrc1jGPSn2sI.html
29-06-2020||India||Bengal govt starts ‘Covid-19 Warrior Club’ comprising recovered patients in bid to contain pandemic||West Bengal has formed a unique “Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) Warrior Club”, which comprises patients who have recovered from the viral infection, and will be deployed in various dedicated hospitals treating those suffering from Sars-CoV-2, which causes the disease, and help the state government in its bid to contain the pandemic. “The unique initiative, perhaps, the first in the country, is on display at Berhampore in Murshidabad district, where out of the 170 recovered Covid-19 patients, 60 have agreed to join the club. Ten each will serve in dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in Murshidabad and Malda districts and the rest 40 in various healthcare facilities in Kolkata,” said Mamata Banerjee, chief minister of West Bengal.Similar clubs will be formed in all the 22 districts across the state. The Bengal government will pay them an honorarium and also provide for their accommodation.Over 11,000 Covid-19 patients have recovered from the viral infection in Bengal and the state authorities are trying to enlist their help.“They have fought against Covid-19 and have seen the viral disease from close quarters. We will need their help to treat other patients, who are undergoing treatment. They can give mental support to the patients and do other work in Covid-19 hospitals,” Banerjee added.The state government has also written to the Centre and the Union Ministry of Railways to ensure that trains from the five states, which have reported the maximum number of Covid-19 positive cases, are barred from entering Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-govt-starts-covid-19-warrior-club-comprising-recovered-patients-in-bid-to-contain-pandemic/story-7hW3YebgybWO0A2nn4BgjP.html
29-06-2020||India||Mumbai witnesses traffic snarls at busy intersections despite strict checking||Mumbai: The city reported traffic snarls at various busy intersections on Monday morning and afternoon, despite the impounding of around 7,000 vehicles a day before because of the violations of the restrictions for lockdown 5:0, which ends on Tuesday, and has been extended till July 31 in a bid to contain the spread of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Western and Eastern Express highways, arterial roads leading to the city from Vashi, Navi Mumbai; central and south Mumbai, and other main roads in western and eastern suburbs reported traffic snarls. Motorists and the police attributed the traffic jams to nakabandis put up on main roads in a bid to prevent the violation of lockdown restrictions by the public.“We are checking vehicles across the city and impounding those that are out on the roads without any valid reason or documents,” said Madhukar Pandey, joint commissioner of police, (Traffic), Mumbai Police.“People are taking advantage of the easing of lockdown restrictions and there could be a surge in Covid-19 positive cases in the city. Our drive has been intensified and stricter restrictions on movements have been enforced across Mumbai,” said a senior police officer.Mumbai Traffic police authorities have put up nakabandis at over 180 places in the city in a bid to keep a strict vigil on motorists, who are roaming the streets without any valid reason.Nakabandis were carried out at Kandivali SV road, Dahisar toll naka, Samta Nagar, Kora Kendra bridge, Malad Marve Road, and Magathane, which led to traffic snarls in western and northern suburbs.All 94 police stations under the jurisdictions of Mumbai Police have been asked to carry out nakabandis at two major junctions in their respective areas.Mahendra Nerlekar, a senior inspector from Jogeshwari police station, said, “At least 50 cars and 150 two-wheelers have been impounded over the past two years, as the motorists were found to be wandering aimlessly. Some claimed that they hit the streets because they thought the lockdown restrictions were over. People are riding pillion on a two-wheeler even though it is banned.”The violators are giving bogus reasons to evade police action.“They have been coming up with all kinds of excuses such as going to work, delivering food to a relative admitted at a hospital, attending a court hearing, etc. However, almost all of them have failed to show valid documents to substantiate their claims,” Nerlekar added.Many motorists complained that they were harrassed by the police personnel for alleged violation of lockdown restrictions.Many videos of Monday’s traffic snarls went viral on social media. While #MumbaiTraffic also trended on Twitter.On Sunday, the Mumbai Police had appealed to all Mumbaikars to comply with lockdown restrictions and urged them not to move beyond a two-kilometre (km) radius of their homes for any work. They have also been instructed to restrict their outdoor movements only for essential activities. Mumbai Police is likely to deploy additional personnel for stricter implementation of lockdown restrictions and a spike of Covid-19 positive cases in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-witnesses-traffic-snarls-at-busy-intersections-despite-strict-checking/story-n36PFH6FqsLr9MUlnpw2bO.html
29-06-2020||India||Demanding a rollback, Sonia Gandhi accuses Centre of extorting people by hiking fuel prices||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday accused the central government of extorting the common people by raising fuel prices 22 times since the coronavirus-induced lockdown.In her video message while participating in the ‘Speak Up Against Fuel Hike’ campaign as part of the party’s nationwide agitation against the continuous increase in petrol and diesel prices, she said it directly hurts the country’s farmers, the poor, the working class, the middle class and the small businesses.Demanding an immediate rollback of the fuel rates, the Congress chief also accused the government of profiteering at the expense of the common people, saying its duty was to help them in times of crisis and not make profit out of their hard-earned money.Watch l Fuel price hikes: Govt extorting people says Sonia Gandhi, demands rollback On the one hand, the Covid-19 pandemic was wreaking havoc and on the other, the rise in petrol and diesel prices was making life very difficult for the people, she added.While Congress leaders such as KC Venugopal and Manicka Tagore were seen riding cycles to Parliament, Youth Congress chief Srinivas BV pulled a bullock cart to protest the fuel hikes. The agitation will continue for a week.Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and hundreds of Congress leaders and workers also participated in the campaign on social media, urging the people to join the party in putting pressure on the government to reduce fuel prices.“I, along with all Congressmen and others together, demand from the Modi government to immediately roll back the increase in prices of petrol and diesel raised during this crisis due to the coronavirus pandemic,” the Congress president said.“I also urge them to roll back the rise in excise duty on petrol and diesel since March this year and give this benefit to the countrymen. This will be a big relief in this period of economic crisis,” she added.Sonia Gandhi said the hike on its own was living proof of taking the hard-earned incomes of the people and filling the government’s coffers.“The government’s duty is to support the countrymen in difficult times and not take advantage of their plight and profiteer. It has set a new example of extortion from people through this unjustified increase in petrol and diesel prices. This is not only unjust but also insensitive,” she added.“The Modi government has made provisions for collecting lakhs of crores by raising excise duty on petrol and diesel in the last three months. All this is happening at a time when international crude oil prices are continuously falling.”Since 2014, Sonia Gandhi said instead of giving relief of the falling international crude oil prices to the people, the Modi government has raised the excise duty 12 times, which helped it collect additional revenue of nearly Rs 18 lakh crore.In his video message, Rahul Gandhi asked the government to stop profiteering from the fuel hikes. “The affect of rise in diesel and petrol prices are two-fold. One is that you pay directly and the other indirectly due to rise in prices of consumer products, including essential items,” he added.On one hand the government had written off loans of big people and on the other it was trying to profit from fuel prices, putting extra burden on the poor and the farmer, the former Congress president said.“The country is reeling under an economic tsunami due to the coronavirus pandemic and everyone, including the rich and the poor, had been affected. We had urged the government to implement NYAY (Nyuntam Aay Yojana) to help the poor, but it didn’t listen,” he said.Countering the charges, union petroleum and natural gas minister Dharmendra Pradhan said the money collected was used for welfare measures and not for personal benefits as had allegedly happened during the Congress rule.“I once again reiterate to Madam Sonia Gandhi ji that Modi ji has transferred more than Rs 65,000 crore to 42 crore people in the last 3 months,” he said.“Unlike Congress’ legacy of transferring money into the accounts of middlemen, ‘National Daamad’, ‘The Family’ and Rajiv Gandhi Foundation, Modi ji’s DBT is about putting money in the hands of the poor, farmers, migrant workforce and women,” alleged Pradhan.He also endorsed BJP president JP Nadda’s remarks, asking the Congress to explain the hike in fuel taxes in party-ruled states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/demanding-a-rollback-sonia-gandhi-accuses-centre-of-extorting-people-by-hiking-fuel-prices/story-fmStmMHBYovykN3eGlR5ZM.html
29-06-2020||India||Telangana HC clears construction of KCR govt’s new secretariat complex||The Telangana High Court on Monday cleared the decks for the construction of an ultramodern secretariat complex by the state government by demolishing the existing buildings on the banks of Hussain Sagar lake in Hyderabad.The high court, which had heard a batch of public interest litigation (PIL) petitions filed by various groups including opposition parties, NGOs and environmentalists over the last four years, dismissed all of them and gave the green signal for the demolition of the existing secretariat buildings complex.The government of chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao had taken the decision in 2016 when it proposed to build the new secretariat in a defence land in Secunderabad. But the Centre did not give consent. So, after three years in 2019, the cabinet took a fresh decision to construct a new complex in the existing premises itself by demolishing the present buildings.A division bench of the high court comprising chief justice Raghvender Singh Chauhan and justice Abhishek Reddy refused to interfere in the decision taken by the K Chandrasekhar Rao cabinet on June 18, 2019. “We do not find any irregularity in the cabinet decision to demolish the secretariat,” the bench observed.The bench dismissed the petitions filed separately in 2016 by Congress MLA T Jeevan Reddy, advocate T Rajinikanth Reddy and Forum for Good Governance secretary M Padmanabha Reddy, and also those of Congress MP A Revanth Reddy and Prof PL Vishweshwar Rao filed in 2019, challenging the impending demolition of Secretariat buildings.The court also refused to entertain the plea of one of the petitions for a four-month stay on its order so as to enable him to challenge it in the Supreme Court. It said the petitioner could approach the Supreme Court straightaway as it was hearing urgent cases through video conferencing.The high court on February 12 this year directed the state government not to go ahead with the demolition of the existing secretariat buildings until further orders of the court. After concluding the arguments on March 6, the high court reserved its judgment in the case.In its cabinet meeting held on June 18 last year, the chief minister proposed to raze the existing secretariat complex and construct a new spacious official complex at a cost of Rs 300-400 crore.The cabinet also proposed to construct a modern, state-of-the-art state legislature complex by dismantling the 150-year old heritage structure Errum Manzil near Khairatabad. KCR laid foundation stones for both the assembly as well as Secretariat on June 27 last year.However, the high court in September 2019, struck down the cabinet decision on demolition of Errum Manzil building. The high court found fault with the KCR government for excluding Errum Manzil from the list of heritage structures under the Telangana Heritage (Protection, Preservation, Conservation and Maintenance) Act of 2017, so that it could be demolished for constructing an assembly complex.The high court observed that protection of the heritage is as equally important as preparing plans for the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-hc-clears-construction-of-kcr-govt-s-new-secretariat-complex/story-v9vfaKtgc9TRU8nH6LeaYO.html
29-06-2020||India||Cow’s jaw damaged after eating explosives wrapped food in Andhra’s Chittoor||A cow’s jaw was badly injured after it ate a ball of explosive material wrapped in edible substance in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor.The incident comes close on the heels of the death of a pregnant elephant in Kerala’s Palakkad district after it ate a pineapple filled with firecrackers.According to the police, the incident took place at Kogileru village of Peda Panjani block on Saturday evening. “A cow belonging to the local goshala (cowshed), which was being grazed in the nearby forest area, ate a ball of explosive material wrapped in some edible substance accidentally. And it exploded in the cow’s mouth,” Peda Panjani police inspector Chitreddy Lokesh Reddy told Hindustan Times.Due to the impact of the explosion, the lower jaw of the cow got ripped off. On hearing the loud noise, local cattle grazers rushed there and moved the cow to the goshala, where it was given first aid.“On Sunday, we shifted the cow to government veterinary hospital in Tirupati, where a surgery would be performed on Monday evening,” the inspector said.Arjun Reddy, caretaker of “Gow-Matha Peetham,” said the injured cow was in a very bad condition, as its lower jaw had completely come off. “We are not sure whether we can restore the jaw back to its normal position through surgery. As of now, the cow is alive and is surviving on intravenous fluids. We don’t know whether it will come back to the position of eating grass again,” he said.Preliminary investigations revealed that the explosive, made of sulphur and other material, covered in an edible substance, was placed by some hunters to trap wild boars. “We have identified a few suspected hunters of the nearby villages and are questioning them,” Lokesh Reddy said.The police filed cases under Sections 286 (Negligent conduct in using explosives) and 429 (mischief by killing or maiming cattle) of Indian Penal Code, Section 11 of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act of 1960 and Section 9 (B)(1) of the Explosives Act.Arjun Reddy said there were in all 17 cows in his shed. “They all belong to the popular Punganur breed of Chittoor, known for their rich nutritious milk. We have been protecting these animals with a lot of reverence and care,” he said.He said generally, these cows were taken to the nearby forests for grazing as the area was known for medicinal plants. “The explosive was covered with wheat flour or other bakery stuff like ajinomoto that smells nice to attract animals,” the goshala caretaker said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cow-s-jaw-damaged-after-eating-explosives-wrapped-food-in-andhra-s-chittoor/story-dBQbteA5yL3VKb5wWN4OnO.html
29-06-2020||India||77 new Covid-19 cases found in Maharashtra Police in 48 hours, 2 cops die||Two policemen succumbed to the infectious Covid-19 disease in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll in the Maharashtra Police to 59, an official statement from the force said on Monday.With 77 new coronavirus infections found in the force in the last 24 hours, the number of Covid-19 positive cases in Maharashtra Police has risen to 4,743 and is inching closer to the 5,000-mark.The total number of active coronavirus cases in Maharashtra Police now stands at 1,030.On Sunday, 150 new coronavirus infections were detected in the force over the last two days.Earlier this week, on Thursday, three more Maharashtra Police personnel had died of the infectious disease.Till date, nearly 3,500 police personnel have been cured and discharged and another 1000-odd more security personnel are undergoing treatment for the pathogen.Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh announced on Saturday that bravery awards will be given to policemen working in the frontline of the battle against Covid-19, during a visit to Solapur district.The minister was reviewing the law and order situation in the district in view of the Ashadhi Ekadashi celebrations next week.“The Maharashtra Police have done a good job working in the frontline. They will be given bravery awards for their work,” Deshmukh, who was accompanied by state health minister Rajesh Tope, said.Deshmukh also indicated that families of police personnel dying of the deadly pathogen will get Rs 65 lakh assistance and they can stay in their official quarters till the deceased’s date of retirement in the normal course.He said there are dedicated Covid Care hospitals in each district for police personnel.State health minister Rajesh Tope said the government will also conduct antigen tests, which give results in an hour, giving priority to frontline Covid-19 workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/77-new-covid-19-cases-found-in-maharashtra-police-in-48-hours-2-cops-die/story-NZ6S6sHmmRuhgegAE9LgFI.html
29-06-2020||India||Telangana, TN may follow Maharashtra in extending lockdown to stop Covid-19||A day after Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray warned that the lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the state will not be lifted after June 30, the government on Monday announced the extension of the lockdown till July 31.Maharashtra remains India’s worst-hit state by the Covid-19 pandemic with over 1.64 lakh cases out of the country’s tally of 5.48 lakh. Maharashtra became the latest state to extend the lockdown to curb a surge in Covid-19 cases.West Bengal and Jharkhand had already extended the lockdown till July 31.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has also asked the Centre to stop international repatriation flights as well as domestic flights to Kolkata from states with a high Covid-19 infection rate till July 31. Bengal has recorded over 17,000 cases so far.Tamil Nadu has chosen to enforce the lockdown selectively in a few Covid-19 hotspots.Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami is expected to take a decision on extending the lockdown in Tamil nadu after holding discussions with experts from the medical field on Monday. The state’s Covid-19 tally stands at over 82,000.In Assam, the government imposed a total lockdown in Kamrup (Metro) district which includes Guwahati for 14 days from June 28 following a sharp rise in the number of infections that have taken the tally past 7,000. In Delhi, where chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had ruled out another lockdown, the government has declared that schools in will remain closed till July 31 in view of the Covid-19 situation while online classes and activities shall continue. The number of Covid-19 containment zones in the national capital has increased by 141 to 421 over the weekend after a re-mapping of such areas. Delhi’s Covid-19 tally has crossed 83,000.In Telangana where the number of Covid-19 cases is over 14,000, the government is planning to reimpose lockdown in Greater Hyderabad municipal corporation limits for at least 15 days. On June 26, many shopkeepers associations in Hyderabad announced a voluntary lockdown for a period ranging from seven to 10 days as a precautionary measure against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-tn-may-follow-maharashtra-in-extending-lockdown-to-stop-covid-19/story-fl1qImwcn0JsIRKN2TJz6L.html
29-06-2020||India||Parts of northeast India receive extremely heavy rains, says IMD||Many parts of northeast India such as Assam, Sikkim, Meghalaya, Bihar and sub-Himalayan West Bengal have reported incessant rains – measuring above 20 centimetres (cm) in a day – since last Friday, triggering floods.“Assam is reporting floods. Bihar is also in a flood-like situation. Cherrapunji, which is known to receive a lot of rainfall around this time of the year, has recorded up to 55 cm in a day. This pattern of continuous heavy rains will gradually reduce from Tuesday. While from Thursday, torrential rains will increase in central India and over the north-west parts of the country from next Sunday, ” said Dr. Mrutunjay Mohapatra, director-general, India Meteorological Department (IMD).The eastern-end of the monsoon trough continues to run along the Himalayan foothills with the convergence of strong southerly and south-westerly winds from the Bay of Bengal over the north-east and eastern India. This is likely to cause widespread and very heavy rain in many parts of north-east India in the next four-five days. There may be extremely heavy rain, measuring over 20 cm in a day, in the next 24 hours, according to IMD.Heavy rains are expected in Bihar, eastern Uttar Pradesh, sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim during the next five days. Widespread rainfall is also expected over Madhya Pradesh for the next five days and over Chhattisgarh and the Vidarbha region on Monday and Tuesday.There will be widespread rains in the west coast also this week, IMD said in its bulletin.However, rains will be subdued over north-west India and the western Himalayas.The Central Water Commission (CWC) has warned of an above-normal flood-like situation in Dharamtul, Brahmaputra, Dhubri, Goalpara and other parts of flood-prone Assam.A severe flood-like situation is also likely in Assam’s Kopili and Kamrup.The restoration operations at Baghjan gas well in Upper Assam’s Tinsukia district, which reported a blowout – an uncontrolled release of gas and oil – on May 27 and later caught fire on June 9,were hampered last week for at least three days because of inundation of low-lying areas, while the well continues to leak gas and oil condensate, according to an Oil India Limited (OIL) spokesperson. The well is set to resume its operations gradually.From June 1 to 28, Sikkim and sub-Himalayan West Bengal have received 56% rainfall, Bihar received 92% of excess rains, and Assam and Meghalaya received an excess of 34% of rains.Monsoon this time covered the entire country on June 26 – a good 12 days in advance.Usually, monsoon covers the country by July 8. But from last Friday an intense monsoon phase in the north-east and eastern India started.Monsoon rains in the country are 20% excess of the long-period average (LPA) as of Sunday -- 36% excess over central India; 8% excess over north-west India; 4% excess over southern peninsula and 20% excess over eastern and north-east India.LPA is the average of rainfall received in the area over a 50-year period between 1961 and 2010, which is 88.06 cm.IMD has predicted a normal monsoon this year at 102% of LPA.A good monsoon, which accounts for 70% of India’s annual rainfall, is critical to the fortunes of the agricultural sector on which at least 700 million people are dependent for a livelihood. The monsoon is crucial for the yield of rice, wheat, sugarcane, and oilseeds in a country, where farming accounts for about 15% of the economy but employs over half of its population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parts-of-north-east-india-receive-extremely-heavy-rains-says-imd/story-tqM4r16uENwdHnvdjaMnpK.html
29-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Govt allows export of Covid-19 PPEs and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Govt allows export of Covid-19 PPEs; monthly quota fixed at 5 million unitsThe Central government on Monday allowed the export of five million personal protective (PPE) equipment coveralls per month after a ban since the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Read moreMaharashtra extends lockdown till July 31 amid spike in Covid-19 casesThe Maharashtra government on Monday extended the coronavirus lockdown in the state till July 31 amid a steady rise in the coronavirus cases. Mall, theatres, multiplexes, schools, colleges, gymnasiums, swimming pools will remain shut across the state. Read moreSajid Mir, LeT’s project manager for Mumbai attacks, plotted terror in 3 continentsSajid Mir had ties to al Qaeda in Afghanistan and had direct access to Lashkar’s military chief Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi, the powerful terrorist who continues to be shielded by Pakistani authorities. Read moreMany Indians, families of diplomats not allowed on special flight to ChinaAfter the two Indians were diagnosed with Covid-19, Chinese authorities gave permission only for an empty flight from India to land in the southern city of Guangzhou to repatriate Indians. Read more‘If banned from IPL, why shouldn’t I play other T20 leagues,’ asks veteran Indian spinnerDue to his participation in the Abu Dhabi T10 League, Tambe, who was acquired by KKR at last year’s auction, was barred from playing the IPL this year. Read moreGmail users on Windows 10 Mail app facing some serious issuesWindows 10’s Mail app is causing some Gmail users to lose their sent emails completely or moved to the spam folder. Read moreUpdated Audi Q5 revealed with sharper looks and world’s first OLED rear lightsThe new Audi Q5 is scheduled for an India launch in 2021 and boasts of significant changes to its visual profile and packs even more comfort and convenience features on the inside. Read moreMughal-e-Azam to Ram-Leela: Fashion goals that Bollywood has given us through the yearsCharacters on the big screen have inspired countless generations of fashion, be it through period dramas like Mughal-e-Azam, Devdas, Jodha Akbar or through modern sagas like Jab We Met, Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara, Veere Di Wedding. Read moreThis man’s Hasan Minhaj impression is extremely on point. Watch him explain the ‘pizza problem’An admirer and skilled impersonator is mimicking Minhaj to tell everyone about his ‘pizza problem’. This video was posted on Facebook on June 25 from actor, writer, and filmmaker Saiyam Kumar’s account. Read moreWatch: Sikh community in US hosts drive-thru food distribution for needyGuru Nanak Foundation of America has been organising the ‘Langar Seva’. A group of 25 volunteers have distributed over 2100 food packages. Watch the full video for more. Watch it here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-govt-allows-export-of-covid-19-ppes-and-all-the-latest-news/story-nEtwwgWFaIRyjiaHYj1JXM.html
29-06-2020||India||Arrival of Rafale jets will send a clear message to India’s ‘adversaries’: Officials||India is likely to receive by July 27 the first batch of six Rafale fighter jets which are expected to significantly boost the combat capability of the Indian Air Force, people familiar with the development said. The IAF has been on a high alert for the last two weeks in view of escalation in tension with China following clashes between troops of the two countries in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. The two armies are locked in a bitter standoff in the region for seven weeks. On June 2, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh held a telephonic conversation with his French counterpart Florence Parly during which she conveyed that the Rafale jets will be delivered to India as scheduled notwithstanding the coronavirus pandemic in France. Military officials, on the condition of anonymity, said the arrival of the Rafale jets will significantly enhance the IAF’s overall combat capability and will send a clear message to India’s “adversaries”. When asked about the matter, the IAF did not comment. The first squadron of the aircraft will be stationed at Ambala air force station, considered one of the most strategically located bases of the IAF. India had signed an inter-governmental agreement with France in September 2016 for procurement of 36 Rafale fighter jets at a cost of around Rs 58,000 crore. The aircraft is capable of carrying a range of potent weapons. European missile maker MBDA’s Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missile and Scalp cruise missile will be the mainstay of the weapons package of the Rafale jets Meteor is the next generation of BVR air-to-air missile (BVRAAM) designed to revolutionise air-to-air combat. The weapon has been developed by MBDA to combat common threats facing the UK, Germany, Italy, France, Spain and Sweden Besides the missile systems, the Rafale jets will come with various India-specific modifications, including Israeli helmet-mounted displays, radar warning receivers, low-band jammers, 10-hour flight data recording, infra-red search and tracking systems among others The IAF has already completed preparations, including readying required infrastructure and training of pilots, to welcome the fighter aircraft. The second squadron of Rafale will be stationed at Hasimara base in West Bengal. The IAF spent around Rs 400 crore to develop infrastructure like shelters, hangars and maintenance facilities at the two bases Out of the 36 Rafale jets, 30 will be fighter jets and six will be trainers. The trainer jets will be twin-seater and they will have almost all the features of the fighter jets. The Congress had raised questions on the deal, including on rates of the aircraft, and alleged corruption, but the government had rejected the charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rafale-jets-will-send-a-clear-message-to-india-s-adversaries-officials/story-WlxO7aBx7pM1aVxtBxlsYI.html
29-06-2020||India||Floods in Assam force a million from their homes||Heavy flooding triggered by monsoon rains has forced more than a million people to flee their homes in the northeast Indian state of Assam, authorities said on Monday, warning that the crisis was becoming more critical by the hour. The Brahmaputra River, one of the largest rivers in the world which flows from Tibet into India and then into Bangladesh, burst its banks in Assam over the weekend, inundating more than 2,000 villages, and it was still raining on Monday.“Two people have died in separate incidents of drowning in the past 24 hours and more than one million people have been affected, with the flood situation turning critical by the hour,” a state government flood bulletin said.Torrential rain hit at least 23 of Assam’s 33 districts and the federal water resources body said water levels in the Brahmaputra were expected to rise, with more rain forecast over the next three days.“The flood situation remains extremely grave with several embankments breached,” Assam Water Resources Minister Keshab Mahanta told Reuters.Most of the Kaziranga National Park, home to the rare one-horned rhino, was under water, authorities said.Assam, famous for its tea plantations, is hit by seasonal flooding each year, forcing state and federal governments to spend millions of rupees on flood control.Paramilitary personnel were deployed across the state for rescue operations and to ensure people maintain social distance in makeshift shelter camps to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, authorities said. Assam has so far reported 7,492 coronavirus infections and 11 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/floods-in-assam-force-a-million-from-their-homes/story-ocClqBh6516CcR6B7kEnyK.html
29-06-2020||India||Maharashtra extends lockdown till July 31 amid spike in Covid-19 cases||The Maharashtra government on Monday extended the coronavirus lockdown in the state till July 31 amid a steady rise in the coronavirus cases.Mall, theatres, multiplexes, schools, colleges, gymnasiums, swimming pools will remain shut across the state. The essential services have been allowed across the state, while shops selling non-essential services are allowed with certain restrictions in red zones. Government and private offices are allowed to operate at 15 and 10% of their workforce. Non-essential services and intra district public transportation has been allowed in non-red zones. It has also clarified that the permitted non-essential activities such as shopping and physical activities like jogging, running, cycling will be allowed only in the neighbourhood areas only. The relaxation given to travel is only to attend the offices in a prescribed number of employees and with the due precautions of social distancing and lockdown.Maharashtra remains the worst-hit state by the Covid-19 pandemic with a tally of almost 1.6 lakh out of which more than 74,000 cases are in Mumbai. Ten major cities, including Mumbai, continue to be in red zones with strict restrictions in place. More than 7,000 people have died of Covid-19 in the state so far.On Sunday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray ruled out lifting the lockdown in the state as the risk of infection is not over. “There will be a spike in cases owing to relaxations in lockdown curbs,” the chief minister had warned.As part of its efforts to ease restrictions under fourth phase of its Mission Begin Again, the Maharashtra government on Sunday allowed barbershops, salons and beauty parlours to reopen after more than three months of shutdown.West Bengal is another state where chief minister Mamata Banerjee has extended the lockdown till July 31 to contain the spread of Covid-19. In Assam, the government imposed a total lockdown in Guwahati for 14 days from June 28 in view of the rising coronavirus cases.After four stints of nationwide lockdown, the Centre said lockdown will be in place only in containment zones till June 30 and began opening the economy in a three-phased plan called Unlock 1.Delhi, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh have also recorded huge spikes in the coronavirus cases, putting enormous strain on the states’ facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-extends-lockdown-in-state-till-july-31-amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases/story-hXA8Whnpz3yfVp5XTUpBcK.html
29-06-2020||India||Madras HC clears decks for CBI probe into alleged custodial deaths in Tuticorin||The Madras High Court on Monday cleared the decks for a CBI probe into the custodial death case of a father-son duo in Tuticorin.The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court said it did not have any objection and will not interfere with the decision of the state government, ANI reported.On Sunday, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had said that the Tamil Nadu government had decided to transfer to CBI the probe into the death of the two men in Tuticorin and that the government was awaiting the High Court’s approval.The death of the two men on June 23 allegedly due to police torture had sparked an outrage.The two men, Jayaraj and his son Fennix, who were arrested for allegedly violating lockdown norms on business hours of their mobile phone shop, died at a hospital in Kovilpatti on June 23. Relatives alleged that policemen had severely beaten them at the Sathankulam police station. Meanwhile, another case of death allegedly due to police torture has surfaced following the death of an autorickshaw driver in Tirunelveli Saturday night even before the outrage over the Tuticorin deaths ebbed.According to media reports, the family of the victim alleged that he died of internal injuries and haemorrhage resulting from being kicked and punched by two policemen weeks earlier. A sub-inspector and a constable have reportedly been suspended following a complaint by the victim’s father.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-clears-decks-for-cbi-probe-into-alleged-custodial-deaths-in-tuticorin/story-ZMgffVeoAMgi4WgI01MxdK.html
29-06-2020||India||To help her ailing mother get access to water, woman digs 15-feet well at home||At 24 years, Bobita Soren may be one-third the age of Dashrath Manjhi, famously known as the ‘Mountain Man’, but her feat is no less extraordinary.Manjhi, who died in 2007, had become famous for digging a road through a hillock using only a hammer and chisel in memory of his wife. Soren has dug a 15-feet well inside her house so that her 50-year-old ailing mother doesn’t have to walk to the villages’ water source about 200 metres away several times a day and stand in the queue for 30 minutes every time to fetch water.“My mother Nina Soren suffers from anemia and is very weak. Since I was a child I used to see her work very hard to fetch water. I used to feel very sad. She had to walk under the scorching sun and stand in the queue to bring water. I was trying to come up with a permanent solution. Suddenly, it struck me that I can dig a well,” said Soren, who has completed MA in Political Science and is pursuing B.Ed in Burdwan district.Even though she started digging the well in 2019-end when she had come home from her hostel, she had to leave it half done and return to her hostel soon. But lockdown gave her a unique opportunity. With the college and hostel closed, Soren returned home and gave her time to complete digging the well.“My father and brother tied the ropes tightly with the help of which I used go down every day and dig whenever I got time from household chores. This continued for the last two to three weeks, till I hit the water table. Sometimes my sister helped me to bring out the soil but she had her job to sustain,” she said.Soren, who usually does all the paper work of her family, had initially thought of contacting the village panchayat but then backed out as her family would not be able to bear the cost. Also because of the lockdown, labourers were not available and it would take time.Her father Hapna Soren works in a local factory, while her brother is a driver. Her elder sister works in a local garment shop. Her feat, however, hasn’t gone unnoticed. As the news spread, senior officials of the local administration rushed to her house on Sunday.“We were awestruck when we saw the well. We have assured that the administration will dig the rest and make it a 30-feet deep well so that they can get proper drinking water and make it a concrete one. We will also pay her the amount it takes to dig a well. Within this week she will get a laptop and we are also trying to give her a job,” said Tapas Banerjee, MLA and chairman of the Asansol Durgapur Development Authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-help-her-ailing-mother-get-access-to-water-woman-digs-15-feet-well-at-home/story-9pKwMgtn0w3EOvu0uFmzxI.html
29-06-2020||India||Odisha official due to join new govt job found dead at home||A newly-recruited official of the Odisha government was found dead in his house in Bhubaneswar on Sunday, a day before he was supposed to join his duties, police said on Monday.Officials said Abhilash Swaroop Mahapatra, a 35-year-old official in Odisha Finance Service cadre, was supposed to join duty at the treasury office on Monday. They said Mahapatra locked himself up in a room of his house on Sunday following a quarrel. When he did not open the door despite repeated calls, his wife called some of their neighbours.He was immediately rushed to Capital Hospital in Bhubaneswar, where doctors pronounced him dead.Mahapatra, a native of Titlagarh in Bolangir district, earlier worked with a bank and was recruited in the OFS cadre a few months ago.The OFS officer’s body was handed over to his family after a post-mortem examination and the last rites were performed in Puri’s Swargadwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-official-due-to-join-new-govt-job-found-dead-at-home/story-CNADSvvZrj9aFd41D9uVOO.html
29-06-2020||India||Govt allows export of Covid-19 PPEs; monthly quota fixed at 5 million units||The Central government on Monday allowed the export of five million personal protective (PPE) equipment coveralls per month after a ban since the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DFGT) in its order stated that “PPE coveralls for Covid-19 export are now restricted for export. A monthly quota of five million has been fixed for issuance of export licences to eligible applicants to export medical coveralls.”However, masks, medical goggles; nitrile rubber, or NBR, gloves; and face shields remain prohibited for export in accordance with the DGFT order issued on June 22.Also read| Delhi to get plasma bank to help Covid-19 patients: CM Arvind KejriwalHT had reported that the Centre was considering the export for the medical overalls since the industry had reached surplus production levels. But, the government officials had also said that there would be a quantitative ban on the export of the PPE items to ensure that the country doesn’t suffer from any shortage of it.India was producing one crore PPE units per month as per the Central government’s specifications to fight the viral outbreak.The Central government had placed an order for 2.2 crore PPE units in March to meet the demand for healthcare workers. Earlier, the government had also faced severe criticism for not being able to provide enough coveralls for frontline workers battling the pandemic.“It’s a very encouraging move by the government, as the country seeks to capture the global market,” said Dr. Sundamram, chairman, Indian Technical Textile Association (ITTA).However, not all are convinced that the move is comparable to the losses that the industry has faced due to the pandemic.Also read: 196 people dying of Covid-19 every hour, one every 18 sec; global toll tops 5 lakh“The quantum of export is low,” said a member of one of the textile associations, requesting anonymity.“Existing PPE exporters stand to gain, as the new entrants will struggle for certifications for at least the next five months,” he said while comparing the gains made by the quantum of exports like a “drop in the ocean”.“There has been a drastic fall in garment sales. The export of PPE units won’t be able to offset the mounting losses,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-allows-export-of-covid-19-ppes-monthly-quota-fixed-at-50-mn-units/story-Hns2SIrADV5YfKJVp7hJpO.html
29-06-2020||India||Many Indians, families of diplomats not allowed on special flight to China||China did not allow several Indians, including families of diplomats, from taking a special Air India flight from New Delhi to Guangzhou city early on Monday because two Indians had tested positive for Covid-19 on a Shanghai-bound special flight that landed on June 21.After the two Indians were diagnosed with Covid-19, Chinese authorities gave permission only for an empty flight from India to land in the southern city of Guangzhou to repatriate Indians. The special plane from India took off from Guangzhou this afternoon with 86 Indians under the third phase of the “Vande Bharat Mission”, the repatriation scheme for the country’s citizens stranded abroad.The June 21 Shanghai flight was also part of the repatriation mission on which 186 Indians returned.China’s decision not to allow Indians even on special airlifts and with diplomatic passports is an indication that commercial flights between the two countries are unlikely to resume any time soon. Hindustan Times had reached out to the Chinese foreign ministry for a clarification on the decision not to allow families of Indian diplomats to take the flight to China. HT had also asked if the decision was linked to the ongoing border tension.The foreign ministry responded without referring to the ongoing border problem.“Recently, we have assisted in arranging the return of some Indian diplomats and their families to China,’’ the Chinese foreign ministry said in a written statement in Mandarin today.“In view of the number of confirmed cases of Covid-19 on the temporary flight, China and India agreed in advance that the temporary flight arriving in Guangzhou on June 29 would not carry passengers,” the ministry statement added.More than 100 Indians, including diplomats’ families and officials of a multilateral bank, were on the June 21 flight.The Shanghai health commission (SHC) confirmed the cases of three foreigners – one from the US and two Indians on that flight.“Cases 2 and 3 are of Indian nationality and live in India. They departed from India on June 20 and arrived at Shanghai Pudong International Airport that day. After entering the customs, they were intensively isolated and observed. Symptoms occurred during the period. Comprehensive epidemiological history, clinical symptoms, laboratory tests and imaging findings, etc, were diagnosed as confirmed cases,” the SHC said in statement.“Three imported confirmed cases have been transferred to designated medical institutions for treatment, and 47 close contacts with the flight have been tracked, and all have been implemented for centralised isolation and observation,” the statement added.While China has seemingly controlled the Covid-19 outbreak – barring the burst of more than 300 domestically transmitted cases in Beijing this month – it has reported nearly 2000 “imported” cases of the disease.“The Chinese mainland reported five new imported Covid-19 cases Sunday, bringing the total number of imported cases to 1,907,” the national health commission (NHC) said Monday.The confirmed cases have mostly been diagnosed among Chinese nationals returning to the country from abroad.China suspended the entry of foreign nationals holding normal visas or residence permits from March 28 because of the spreading pandemic.Entry of persons with diplomatic visas were not affected except for the fact they could only return on special or chartered flights.In February, India had evacuated hundreds of its citizens from the worst-hit Hubei province in central China, and the first pandemic epicentre, Wuhan city, the provincial capital in two special flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/many-indians-families-of-diplomats-not-allowed-on-special-flight-to-china/story-HgXQFzjSfZeEMqJ7vJehVK.html
29-06-2020||India||26/11 planner Sajid Mir, protected by Imran Khan govt, plotted terror in 3 continents||Sajid Mir, the top Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorist who joined the terror group after a career in Pakistan army that required him to train terrorists, expanded the terror group’s reach across at least three continents, plotting terror attacks in Australia, Virginia in the United States and France. In 2008, the top Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorist whose name had figured in interrogation reports of Frenchman Willie Brigitte five years earlier, plotted and oversaw execution of the 2008 Mumbai attacks that killed over 160 people.Brigittee had been one of Sajid Mir’s early discoveries in 2001 when he was handling the Lashkar’s overseas operatives.Willie Brigittee was arrested along with Faheem Khalid Lodhi, a Pakistan-born architect in October 2003 before they could execute a planned bombing in a joint operation by French and Australian intelligence operatives.Brigitte spoke in much detail about Sajid Mir who coordinated with foreign recruits at the Lashkar headquarters located on the outskirts of Lahore in Muridke. Sajid Mir had ties to al Qaeda in Afghanistan and had direct access to Lashkar’s military chief Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi, the powerful terrorist who continues to be shielded by Pakistani authorities.Sajid Mir has lately been associated with Lashkar’s recruitment activities, a responsibility that he has held since at least 2001. He has also served as an aide to Lakhvi and at one point, was also directly responsible for his security.Sajid Mir, officials said, had passed himself off as a cricket fan to enter India in April 2005, and conducted reconnaissance of the Indian Military Academy at Dehradun and the National Defence College.But it was only much later that US intelligence agencies figured the crucial role that the 44-year-old played in the Lashkar’s operations. Mir was directly responsible for the 26/11 Mumbai attacks and was the one who ordered the terrorists to take the head shot at a Holtzberg couple at Chabad House in Mumbai during the massacre.But it was only after American national David Coleman Headley was caught in 2009 that intelligence agencies got a clearer picture of the man. In 2012, the US announced a $ 5 million reward (Rs 37 crore) on Sajid Mir. The reward has gone unclaimed, not because Sajid Mir is on the run but because of the ISI protection that he has been given in Pakistan.Over the last week, the Donald Trump administration also acknowledged the special treatment by Pakistan deep state extended to the Lashkar terrorist who was described as the ‘project manager’ of the Mumbai attacks. In its country report for Pakistan, the US State Department noted that Jaish-e-Mohammed founder Masood Azhar and Sajid Mir “are widely believed to reside in Pakistan under the protection of the state, despite government denials”.Also Read: Lashkar’s Sajid Mir, Jaish’s Masood Azhar enjoys ‘state protection’ in PakistanIndian security officials say Sajid Mir has the level 7 security in Pakistan, the security that ISI extends to visiting heads of state.But the Mumbai terror attacks that had been planned for years wasn’t the only one that Sajid Mir had been working on.According to the FBI, Mir is also alleged to have conspired to commit a terrorist attack against a newspaper and its employees in Denmark between 2008 and 2009. Mir was indicted in the United States District Court, Northern District of Illinois, Eastern Division, Chicago, Illinois, on April 21, 2011, and was charged with conspiracy to injure property of foreign government; providing material support to terrorists; killing a citizen outside of the U.S. and aiding and abetting; and bombing of places of public use. An arrest warrant has been pending since 22 April 2011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sajid-mir-let-s-project-manager-for-mumbai-attacks-plotted-terror-in-3-continents/story-xHyHUNtWUVQAjZOGSiMwVM.html
29-06-2020||India||Kerala SIT probing Shamna Kasim extortion case summons actor Dharmajan||Malayalam actor Dharmajan, known for his comic roles, has been summoned by the Kerala police to record his statement in the extortion case in which actor Shamna Kasim was targeted, a police official said.Police summoned Dharmajan after they came to know that one of the accused in the extortion case, hair stylist P Haris was close to him.So far 18 women have complained about extortion and blackmailing after Shamna Kasim’s father filed a complaint last week, police said. In her complaint, her father had alleged that the extortionists were threatening to release some video clips if they were not paid.Shamna is expected to reach Kochi this evening and the Special Investigation Team (SIT) will record her statement through video conferencing.Police sources said more actors will be summoned for questioning. Eight people have been arrested so far and the SIT has registered nine FIRs.On Saturday, the SIT arrested the main accused Mohammad Sharief from Palakkad.Four other models had also filed separate cases against the accused for extortion, blackmail and criminal intimidation.Police said suspect the accused are members of a thriving gold smuggling and sex racket based in Kochi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-sit-probing-shamna-kasim-extortion-case-summons-actor-dharmajan/story-5qZoR2aua3iuQBONKhSvdL.html
29-06-2020||India||Lost and found: Snake species endemic to Assam rediscovered after 129 years||A team from Dehradun-based Wildlife Institute of India (WII) has rediscovered a species of a snake in Assam considered extinct after a gap of 129 years since it was first seen.The species ‘Hebius pealii’, called Assam Keelback, was first seen in 1891 when a British tea-planter Samuel Edward Peal collected two male specimens from Sibsagar district in Assam.One of them was kept at the Zoological Survey of India (ZSI) in Kolkata and the other in London’s Natural History Museum (NHM). The snake was never seen after that and was believed by some to be extinct. It was accidentally found in a reserve forest, 118km from the place where it was first collected, on the Assam-Arunachal Pradesh border in September 2018 when a team from WII was retracing steps of the Abor Expedition, a military expedition by the British against Abors in 1911.The find was published on June 26 in Vertebrate Zoology, an international journal published from Germany.“To commemorate the Abor Expedition, which besides being a military campaign had resulted in the collection of a large number of animals and plants, we revisited the area to find out the changes that had occurred in a century,” Abhijit Das, a scientist in endangered species management department of WII, said.“Since the British started their expedition from Dibrugarh in Assam from a place near Poba reserve forest on the Assam-Arunachal Pradesh border, we also began there. It was in a marshy wetland inside the forest, where I encountered this snake endemic to Assam and not seen for the last 129 years. It was totally unexpected as people had thought it to be extinct,” he added.Das, an expert on snakes of Assam and northeast India, caught the snake, an adult female which is bi-coloured—dark brown above and pale mid-ventrally. To confirm the species, the WII team had to get details from NHM, London as the specimen at ZSI had got damaged.“We got data from London and also did DNA profiling to establish that the specimen found in Poba reserve forest is Assam Keelback. We were lucky that the specimen in London was intact or else it would have been difficult to identify the snake,” said Das.“Now we know what kind of habitat this snake, which measures around 50-60cm and is non-venomous, resides in. We need to look for more members of this species in those areas and also undertake special efforts to protect these micro-habitats, marshy wetland within evergreen forests” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lost-and-found-snake-species-endemic-to-assam-rediscovered-after-129-years/story-c6cbNeFlJk76kMwWApbLKM.html
29-06-2020||India||SC asks Centre whether visas of blacklisted Tablighi Jamaat foreigners cancelled||The Supreme Court on Monday sought information from the Centre whether visas of blacklisted foreign members of the Tablighi Jamaat have been cancelled and separate orders issued against each of the 2,500 foreigners by the Union ministry of home affairs (HA) on April 2 and June 4.A three-judge bench headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar asked the Solicitor General to give a response by July 2.The top court said if visas are cancelled then why have these persons not been deported yet and allowed to be still here. Thirty-four foreigners belonging to 15 countries, who had attended a religious congregation organised by the Tablighi Jamaat in New Delhi’s Nizamuddin in mid-March, had approached the Supreme Court claiming that no individual orders were issued to them and a general direction issued to states directing blacklisting and registration of first information reports (FIRs). Their senior counsel CU Singh informed the court that FIRs were filed and their passports impounded. These foreigners had approached the Supreme Court challenging the decision of MHA to blacklist them without hearing them even once. The petitioners were aggrieved by the April 2 decision of MHA to blacklist 960 foreigners of 35 countries for participating in the Tablighi Jamaat activities. They were not allowed to travel to India for the next 10 years. Later on June 4, MHA further blacklisted 2,500 foreigners presently in India for their participation in Tablighi Jamaat event and directed director general of police of states and Union territories to register FIRs against them. The petitioners claimed that the order was passed without hearing them and restricts their rights under Article 21.They demanded MHA to remove them from the blacklist and reinstate their visas. They also demanded the court to facilitate their return to their respective countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-asks-centre-whether-visas-of-blacklisted-tablighi-jamaat-foreigners-cancelled/story-OTIN9bPAqLFhBIyCAKfSaM.html
29-06-2020||India||France speeds up Rafale fighter jet deliveries on IAF’s ‘special request’||Acting on a “special request” by the Indian Air Force to speed up the deliveries of Rafale fighter jets, France is reworking the calendar for supplying the planes to India at a faster pace, people familiar with the developments said on Monday.India is currently in a stand-off with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Ladakh sector.Six Rafale fighter planes are likely to land at their home base in Ambala on July 27 --- instead of four that were originally planned to be delivered in the first batch --- as France steps up efforts to meet the IAF’s immediate requirements, said one of the persons cited above, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. An IAF spokesperson refused to confirm or deny the development.HighlightsThe twin-engine jet is capable of carrying out a variety of missions – ground and sea attack, air defence and air superiority, reconnaissance and nuclear strike deterrence.It can carry more than nine tonnes of weapons on as many as 14 hard-points.The two Rafale squadrons will be based at Ambala in Haryana and Hasimara in West Bengal, covering the western and eastern fronts.The Indian fighters will be equipped with Meteor beyond-visual-range missiles built by European defence major MBDA Missile Systems.The Meteor’s no-escape zone is touted to be three times greater than that of current medium range air-to-air missiles.India-specific enhancements on the jets include helmet-mounted sight, radar warning receivers, flight data recorders with enough storage for 10 hours of data, infrared search and track systems, jammers and cold engine start capability to operate from high-altitude bases.India ordered 36 Rafale jets from France in a deal worth Rs 59,000 crore in September 2016 as an emergency purchase to arrest the worrying slide in the air force’s combat capabilities.“We are aware that around 10 Rafale jets are ready at aircraft manufacturer Dassault Aviation’s Merignac facility. Preparations are on to fly six Rafale jets to India in July-end with a stopover at Al Dhafra air base near Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates. The jets will be flown by Indian pilots,” said the second person cited above, also speaking on the condition of anonymity.All the 10 fighters are not being delivered in the first batch as some jets are needed in France to train IAF crews, he said.The French air force will refuel the Indian fighters using its Airbus A330 multi-role tanker transport (MRTT) aircraft on their way to Al Dhafra from where aerial refueling support is expected to be provided by the IAF’s Russian IL-78 refuellers, the second person said.Experts said accelerating the deliveries of Rafale jets was a significant development amid the ongoing border tensions with China.“It’s good that the Rafale delivery is being expedited as its operationalisation here would get advanced. Since we are in for the long haul on our northern borders, their availability with the IAF would add to its offensive potential,” said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies.Apart from the first batch, future deliveries of Rafale fighters are also being expedited, said the first person cited above.According to the original delivery schedule, the first 18 jets (including the four in the first batch) were to be delivered to the IAF by February 2021, with the rest expected in April-May 2022. France handed over to India its first Rafale fighter during a ceremony attended by defence minister Rajnath Singh and his French counterpart, Florence Parly, in Merignac on October 8 last year.The IAF has raised its guard to deal with any military provocation by the Chinese forces and forward bases have been ordered to be on their highest state of alert. Apart from Sukhoi-30s and upgraded MiG-29 fighter jets, the IAF is operating Apache AH-64E attack helicopters and CH-47F (I) Chinook multi-mission helicopters --- both imported from the United States --- in the region.The IAF and the Indian Army have deployed their air defence systems in eastern Ladakh even as the PLA-Air Force has activated several of its bases in both Xinjiang and the Tibet Autonomous Region with Chinese fighter jets regularly making a show of strength in the Aksai Chin area, as reported by Hindustan Times on Sunday.Both India and China have significantly reinforced their deployments with fighter jets, helicopters, tanks, heavy artillery and missiles in the region that has garnered extensive global attention in recent weeks, particularly after the bloodshed along the LAC in Galwan Valley on June 15 in which 20 Indian soldiers died in the line of duty. An unconfirmed number of Chinese troops were also killed in the Galwan Valley brawl.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/france-speeds-up-rafale-fighter-jet-deliveries-on-iaf-s-special-request/story-d52eideBabhi6BG9Nhmu5J.html
29-06-2020||India||‘What is CM doing?: Stalin on autodriver’s death after alleged police assault||Close on the heels of the death of a father-son duo in Tuticorin allegedly after being thrashed by police,an autorickshaw driver here died on Sunday, days after being allegedly assaulted by the men in uniform. The victim, Kumaresan, died at the Tirunelveli Government hospital on Saturday where he was admitted with injuries after being allegedly assaulted on June 12 and two police personnel have been booked in this connection, police said.They said the relatives of the auto driver, aged about 25 years, staged a road roko, demanding justice.Police, who were holding talks with the people of Veerakeralamputhur near Alangulam in this district, said cases had been filed against two police personnel, including an Assistant Sub Inspector.The deceased man had appeared at the local police station in connection with a dispute and soon after he was allegedly thrashed by the cops, the victim’s father had filed a complaint with the district police chief.DMK President M K Stalin slammed the incident, asking if Chief Minister K Palaniswami has “handed over” the state to the police.“..what is the chief minister doing,” he said on Twitter. Meanwhile, in an another incident, a construction worker from Ettayapuram in Tuticorin district committed suicide after being allegedly assaulted by police.His relatives held a road blockade and refused to accept the body.Authorities held talks with the family members and after a compensation was provided, the agitation was withdrawn. Earlier, in Tuticorin, a man and his son died at a government hospital after they were allegedly thrashed by police at the Sathankulam police station, before they were lodged to a sub-jail. P Jayaraj and his son Fennix, arrested for ‘violating’ lockdown norms over business hours of their cellphone shop, died at a hospital in Kovilpatti on June 23, with their relatives alleging they were severely thrashed at Sathankulam police station by police personnel earlier.The incident had triggered a national furore, leading to the suspension of five policemen, including an inspector and two sub-inspectors.Palaniswami announced on Sunday that the government will hand over the case to the CBI for probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-cm-doing-stalin-on-autodriver-s-death-after-alleged-police-assault/story-IiviCgMjh7nb5SJ7tV7hrJ.html
29-06-2020||India||Refusal by wife to wear sakha and sindoor signifies refusal to accept marriage: Gauhati HC||The Gauhati high court (HC) has observed that a Hindu married woman’s refusal to wear sakha – bangles made of conch-shell – and sindoor (vermillion), as per the marriage rituals and customs, signifies her refusal to accept her marriage to the husband, while granting her husband’s plea for divorce.A two-member of the HC, comprising Chief Justice Ajai Lamba and Justice Soumitra Saikia, said the woman’s steadfast refusal to wear sakha and sindoor – the trappings of a Hindu bride – denotes her unwillingness to be considered married to her husband. “Under such circumstances, compelling the husband to continue to be in matrimony with the wife may be construed to be harassment,” the HC held in its June 19 order.Earlier, a family court in Assam had rejected the husband’s plea for divorce on the grounds that the wife is not found to have inflicted any cruelty against the complainant.However, the HC observed that the husband had alleged before the lower court that the wife refused to wear sakha and sindoor, a contention that has not been disputed by her.The marriage between the couple was solemnised in February 2012.However, a month after the marriage, the wife wanted a separate accommodation for the couple, as she did not wish to live in a joint family.The husband alleged that their conjugal relationship worsened because of her demand to live like a nuclear family, which led to frequent quarrels and his wife also failed to conceive a child.She left her husband’s home in 2013 and filed a case against him and his family members under Section 498A (husband or his relative subjecting a married woman to cruelty) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Though the husband and his relatives were acquitted in the case by HC, he filed a separate divorce plea, citing cruelty by his wife. She contested the plea alleging harassment by her husband and in-laws for dowry. She also alleged that she was denied food and medical treatment and it was left to her brother to take care of her basic necessities.But, the HC overturned the family court’s decision.“The allegation of subjecting the wife to cruelty was not sustained. Such acts of lodging criminal cases on unsubstantiated allegations against the husband and/or the husband’s family members amounts to cruelty,” the HC order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/refusal-by-wife-to-wear-sakha-and-sindoor-signifies-refusal-to-accept-marriage-gauhati-hc/story-he1IqIL4beJo1EVxshAGBO.html
29-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Syed Ali Shah Geelani resigns as chairman of Hurriyat Conference and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Syed Ali Geelani, 90, resigns as head of Hurriyat ConferenceJammu and Kashmir-based separatist Syed Ali Shah Geelani, under house arrest since last August, resigned as chairman of Hurriyat Conference on Monday. Read more‘Price-gouging of India has to stop’: Shashi Tharoor on rising fuel ratesCalling it “ unconscionable”, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor on Monday launched a withering Twitter attack on the government over the relentless hike in fuel prices over the past 21 days. The Congress is holding mass protests across the country today over the “unprecedented” rise in petrol and diesel prices. Read moreCJI SA Bobde tries out a Harley Davidson, photos go viralPhotographs of SA Bobde, the Chief Justice of India, trying a Harley Davidson motorcycle in Maharashtra’s Nagpur are being shared repeatedly on social media. Justice Bobde was seen in a t-shirt and a pair of sneakers on the limited edition Harley Davidson CVO 2020 in his hometown of Nagpur on Sunday. Read morePrasanta Chandra Mahalanobis: Father of Indian statistics, founder of ISIPrasanta Chandra Mahalanobis, considered the father of modern statistics in India, founded the Indian Statistical Institute (ISI), shaped the Planning Commission and pioneered methodologies for large-scale surveys. Read moreRahul Dravid asked Sachin Tendulkar, Sourav Ganguly to not play 2007 T20 World Cup: Lalchand RajputThe 2007 T20 World Cup was a redefining moment for Indian cricket. A young team led by Mahendra Singh Dhoni, who was captaining the country for the first time, went on to beat arch-rivals Pakistan in the final to win the trophy. Read moreRatan Rajput says meeting Sushant Singh Rajput’s father gave her hope: ‘He’s different, his words give you energy’TV actor Ratan Rajput visited Sushant Singh Rajput’s family in Patna and has shared a video to thank his father for helping her become a stronger person. The actor called Sushant’s father “different” for how he has been holding himself during the time of grief and said that she will be pray that he continues to stay strong. Read morePUBG Mobile, Truecaller and others found snooping on your iPhone clipboard dataA couple of days ago a popular social media app called TikTok came in the headlines for its suspicious behaviour of snooping on the iPhone’s clipboard. While the company is yet to fix this, a couple of researchers have found additional 53 iOS apps that work in a similar fashion. Read moreMickey Mouse, Doraemon distribute books, food to children of Mumbai’s slum areasThe coronavirus pandemic may be testing the limits of human will and perseverance, bringing down our spirits and making the possibility of life returning to normal look like a distant dream. Read moreCan you identify the dangerous animal from this zoomed in image?“You must appreciate that Nature is the finest, biggest and most versatile artist,” this is how a tweet, which has now piqued people’s interest, starts. Shared on Twitter by Dr JK Soni, the tweet is of an image of a dangerous animal. Read moreWatch| Covid-19: Worldwide cases exceed 10 million; India, Brazil new epicenter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-syed-ali-shah-geelani-resigns-as-chairman-of-hurriyat-conference-and-all-the-latest-news/story-pm3SFVOfS7v9P0mw1UJGTN.html
29-06-2020||India||Syed Ali Geelani, 90, resigns as head of Hurriyat Conference||Jammu and Kashmir-based separatist Syed Ali Shah Geelani, under house arrest since last August, resigned as chairman of Hurriyat Conference on Monday. He was chosen as lifetime chairman of the Hurriyat. In a letter, Geelani, 90, said there have been certain issues which forced him to resign.“After considering the present circumstances, I announce to quit the Hurriyat forum,” Geelani said in an audio message.Watch l SAS Geelani quits Hurriyat Conference, lashes out at cadre in his letter The leader referred to inaction by the Hurriyat members post the abrogation of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir, and the division of the erstwhile state into two Union territories.Geelani had been leading the hardline faction of Hurriyat Conference while the moderate faction is helmed by cleric Mirwaiz Umar Farooq.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/syed-ali-geelani-90-resigns-as-head-of-hurriyat-conference/story-nV1zquKZnktmngYU6XY8mM.html
29-06-2020||India||‘Price-gouging of India has to stop’: Shashi Tharoor on rising fuel rates||Calling it “ unconscionable”, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor on Monday launched a withering Twitter attack on the government over the relentless hike in fuel prices over the past 21 days. The Congress is holding mass protests across the country today over the “unprecedented” rise in petrol and diesel prices.“The unconscionable price-gouging of India by an anti-people Government, w/21 days of continuous fuel price rises, has to stop. @INCIndia leads the resistance,” tweeted Tharoor. While the diesel rates have been hiked for the 22nd time since June 7, petrol price has been raised on 21 occasions. There was no change in prices on Sunday.Petrol price was increased by 5 paise per litre and diesel 13 paise a litre across the country, according to a price notification of state oil marketing companies. The cumulative increase since the oil companies started the cycle on June 7 now totals to Rs 9.17 for petrol and Rs 11.14 in diesel.In Delhi, a litre of petrol now comes for Rs 80.43 per litre as compared to Rs 80.38 earlier. Diesel rates have been increased to Rs 80.53 per litre from Rs 80.40.Rates vary from state to state depending on the incidence of local sales tax or VAT.Tharoor listed out a series of steps to bring relief to the common man at a time the nation is also battling a raging coronavirus pandemic. “1) Pass the benefits of low crude oil prices to the people by reducing prices of petrol-diesel-LPG 2) Bring petrol and diesel under GST 3) Immediately withdraw 13 hikes in excise duty since May 2014 on petroleum products,” Tharoor added.  The unconscionable price-gouging of India by an anti-people Government, w/21 days of continuous fuel price rises, has to stop. ⁦@INCIndia⁩ leads the resistance. #SpeakUpAgainstFuelHike pic.twitter.com/oGSTJa7WKzIn a little over one-minute video, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi too urged people to join “SpeakUpAgainstFuelHike” campaign.  आइये #SpeakUpAgainstFuelHike campaign से जुड़ें। pic.twitter.com/oh8AEfqM3yIn a circular, Congress general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal asked cadre to register a strong protest against the BJP-led government at the Centre through demonstrations against the “extortionate increase” in fuel rates when people face “unprecedented” economic challenges due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Members of Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee were detained by police while protesting near IP College against continuous hike in fuel prices. In Bengaluru, former CM Siddaramaiah, along with other party leaders, cycled from his residence to Congress office in the city to register protest against rising fuel prices. According to the Indian Oil Company’s website, total taxes on petrol and diesel are more than their basic rates. Almost all states have raised the value-added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel since mid-March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/price-gouging-of-india-has-to-stop-shashi-tharoor-on-rising-fuel-rates/story-xEcUqUPRCylvwaUtl6tMJP.html
29-06-2020||India||Shivraj Singh Chouhan to meet PM Modi; MP political situation, Covid-19 likely on agenda||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is scheduled to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi on Monday evening. It will be their first official meeting in three months after Chouhan became the chief minister of Madhya Pradesh for the fourth time.On March 23, after taking an oath as the chief minister, the Covid-19 induced lockdown was imposed, and Chouhan could not formally meet the Prime Minister. In today’s meeting, the two senior leaders are likely to discuss the current political situation in Madhya Pradesh and the possible expansion of the state cabinet.Besides this, the chief minister is expected to brief the Prime Minister about the current Covid-19 situation in Madhya Pradesh. The two are also likely to discuss steps taken to ensure self-sufficient India and self-sufficient Madhya Pradesh.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Apart from that, Chouhan may brief the Prime Minister on the status of farmers in the state and the procurement of wheat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shivraj-singh-chouhan-to-meet-pm-modi-mp-political-situation-covid-19-likely-on-agenda/story-mbAeDfOmzMkYrx3yDMRT1O.html
29-06-2020||India||Prasanta Chandra Mahalanobis: Father of Indian statistics, founder of ISI||Prasanta Chandra Mahalanobis, considered the father of modern statistics in India, founded the Indian Statistical Institute (ISI), shaped the Planning Commission and pioneered methodologies for large-scale surveys. PC Mahalanobis was also instrumental in formulating India’s second five-year-plan (1956-1961), which laid the blueprint for industrialisation and development in India. Mahalanobis’ birth anniversary is celebrated as the National Statistics Day. He was the eldest of six children—two sons and four daughters—of Probodh Chandra Mahalanobis and Nirodbashini Devi and was born on June 29, 1893. He died on June 28, 1972, a day before his 79th birthday.Here are a few things about PC Mahalanobis on his 128th birth anniversary:* Mahalanobis studied at the Brahmo Boys’ School, which was founded by his grandfather Guru Charan Mahalanobis in 1904, and joined the Presidency College to study physics. He graduated in 1912. He also attended the King’s College in Cambridge, where he met the mathematical genius, Srinivasa Ramanujan.* He worked at the Cavendish Laboratory with physicist CTR Wilson for a while. He returned to India and started teaching physics at the Presidency College in 1922 and was a teacher there for more than three decades. He was also the principal of Presidency College for a few years and held the post of Meteorologist in the Alipore Observatory in Calcutta from 1922 to 1926.* He formed a group that was interested in statistics, which later expanded and eventually, the Indian Statistical Institute (ISI) was founded in 1932. In the next year, he launched Sankhya: The Indian Journal Of Statistics.* He also established the National Sample Survey in 1950 and set up the Central Statistical Organisation to coordinate statistical activities. He became a member of the Planning Commission in 1955 and continued in that capacity till 1967. ISI was declared as an institute of national importance in 1959.* Mahalanobis devised a measure of comparison between two data sets, now called Mahalanobis distance. He first proposed it in 1930 in the context of a study on racial likeness and it is now widely used in the field of cluster analysis and classification.* He also introduced innovative techniques for conducting large-scale sample surveys, calculated acreages and crop yields, using the method of random sampling. He devised a statistical method called fractile graphical analysis, used to compare socio-economic conditions of varied groups.* He analysed data regarding the floods in Odisha and published his findings in 1926. This analysis later formed the basis for the construction of the Hirakud dam on the Mahanadi River.* He was honoured with the Padma Vibhushan in 1968 and was also conferred a large number of awards by international organisations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prasanta-chandra-mahalanobis-father-of-indian-statistics-founder-of-isi/story-pMwnq7y2OsmBLba9QjVGkL.html
29-06-2020||India||Jammu’s Doda is militancy free, say cops after Hizbul terrorist Masood killed in encounter||Masood, a so-called commander of terrorist group Hizbul Mujahideen, was killed by security forces in an encounter in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Monday morning. Masood was the last surviving terrorist from the Doda district, Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbag Singh said.Masood was wanted in a rape case in Doda and had joined the Hizbul Mujahideen when he was on the run, the Kashmir police said. He had shifted his area of operation to Kashmir.J&K police chief Dilbag Singh counted Masood’s elimination as a huge win for the security forces.“Doda district in Jammu Zone becomes totally militancy free once again as Masood was a last surviving terrorist of the Doda District,” Dilbag Singh said. Two Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists including a district commander were also killed in Monday’s encounter with a joint team of Kashmir police and Rashtriya Rifles in Anantnag’s Khull Chohar. This is not the first time that terrorists from two groups have been found to be working together in Kashmir in recent months. With today’s operation at Khull Chohar by Anantnag Police along with 19 RR,CRPF in which 2 LET terrorists including one district commander & one HM commander Masood were neutralised, Doda district in Jammu Zone becomes totally militancy free once again.@Sandeep_IPS_JKP pic.twitter.com/sCvioo2f3XDoda, a district in eastern Jammu region that borders south Kashmir’s Anantnag, has been a key area of focus for security forces.Monday’s encounter less than a fortnight after Dilbag Singh went on to declare that they were within striking distance of clearing Doda of terrorists.Security forces have stepped up the offensive in Kashmir and killed more than 100 terrorists in operations this year, prompting sharp protests from Pakistan’s foreign office who rushed to describe the terrorists killed in encounters as ‘innocents’. The government had earlier this year tightened the security grid along India’s border to stop infiltration of terrorists from Pakistan’s terror factories.Forty terrorists were killed this month alone, and most of them were killed in south Kashmir, which is considered the hotbed of militancy in the region. The terrorists eliminated this month include so-called commanders of Jaish-e-Mohammed, Lashkar-e-Taiba and Hizbul Mujahideen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-s-doda-is-militancy-free-say-cops-after-hizbul-terrorist-masood-killed-in-encounter/story-dZsjrZuPZISqGz4mwlnzEL.html
29-06-2020||India||India-born lawyer who defended 26/11 mastermind Hafiz Saeed dies in Pakistan||Mumbai terror attack mastermind Hafiz Saeed’s India-born counsel has passed away after a brief ailment in this Pakistani city. He was 86. Abdullah Khan Dogar, whose family had migrated to Pakistan from India’s Rampur in UP after the Partition, breathed his last at a hospital here on Sunday. He was the father-in-law of former chief justice of Lahore High Court Mamoon Rashid Sheikh. He is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter. Dogar was the counsel of Jamaat-ud-Dawah chief Saeed for many years and defended him in Pakistani courts following the 2008 Mumbai terror attack in which 166 people were killed. He was also the lead counsel of Saeed in the terror financing cases in which he was sentenced to jail for 11 years. Dogar had challenged the coup by former military dictator General (retired) Pervez Musharraf in 1999 in the Supreme Court and represented Kulsoom Nawaz against the detention of her husband, former prime minister Nawaz Sharif.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-born-lawyer-who-defended-26-11-mastermind-hafiz-saeed-dies-in-pakistan/story-E2K8xhNK7tzeNqNmVJigbM.html
29-06-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally over 5.48 lakh with 19,459 fresh cases; toll at 16,475||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease mounted to 548,318 after 19,459 new cases and 380 deaths were reported between Sunday and Monday morning, Union health ministry data showed.The death toll stands at 16,475 after 380 people succumbed to the respiratory disease. The country’s recovery rate improved further to 58.67% after 12,010 people were cured of the highly-contagious disease in the last 24 hours, according to the health ministry dashboard.There are 321,722 Covid-19 patients who have been discharged from hospitals till date and 210,120 active cases. On Sunday, the difference between the number of recovered and active cases crossed the 100,000-mark for the first time.Also read: ICMR plans to scale up antigen-based Covid-19 testing“India’s recovery rate has been steadily going up, which is good news. More than 50% of those having tested positive have recovered and taken out of active medical supervision,” a senior health ministry official had said on condition of anonymity.According to experts, the rising recoveries may suggest that the outbreak was stabilising.“When the number of those infected in a day is the same as the number of people recovering then it usually highlights the fact that the disease outbreak is going to stabilise and start declining in some time unless some other variables come in such as floating population or new births that change the entire dynamics,” Dr Jugal Kishore, the head of community medicine department at state-run Safdarjung Hospital, said.As one of its steps to stem the coronavirus pandemic, the government has focussed on aggressive testing as the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has added more laboratories and introducing newer testing techniques.India’s current capacity is about 350,000 a day, with 200,000 samples tested daily on average. The total number of samples tested stands at 8.2 million since the first one was tested on January 22.The government is also planning to expand the use of rapid antigen-based Covid-19 tests and the country’s top biomedical research body has advised states to use the easy-to-use method to complement the more rigorous RT-PCR test to detect the coronavirus as infections surge across the country.Also read| ‘They removed ventilator...’: Man messages father before he dies of Covid-19A senior official of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said rapid antigen-based tests can help to quickly determine an ongoing infection.These tests detect the presence of a foreign substance in a person’s nasal or oral swab that triggers the production of antibodies, and, therefore, can find infections. But these are non-confirmatory tests. This means that those who test positive through rapid antigen detection tests are considered “truly positive” for Covid-19 but those who test negative must go for an RT-PCR test for re-confirmation.RT-PCR, or reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, tests for the genetic material of the Sars-Cov-2 virus. But RT-PCR testing is limited in terms of widespread availability because of the need for a specialised lab for analysis, and it takes about five hours to get results.Maharashtra, India’s worst-affected state, Delhi Tamil Nadu and Gujarat, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal continued to add to the country’s caseload with more than 85% of infections and 87% of deaths due to the disease.Globally, the infection tally has crossed the 10 million mark and there have been 501,281 deaths, according to the Johns Hopkins University’s coronavirus tracker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-over-5-48-lakh-with-19-459-fresh-cases-toll-at-16-475/story-1A7dqcQwvQeRE6YGdsgCEK.html
29-06-2020||India||Lok Nayak doctor, Hindu Rao ward boy die of Covid-19||A doctor of the Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Hospital died of Covid-19 in the intensive care unit of a private dedicated coronavirus facility on Sunday, hospital officials said. The doctor, a consultant anaesthesiologist, died in the morning, they added.Lok Nayak Hospital is a dedicated Covid-19 facility under the Delhi government. Officials said the doctor, an anaesthesia specialist was posted in the ICU ward of the hospital.The officials said the doctor died in Max Smart, a dedicated Covid-19 facility in Saket.A 53-year-old ward boy deployed at Hindu Rao Hospital also died Covid-19 on Sunday afternoon. He was suffering from diabetes and hypertension and was admitted to the hospital on June 26 while he tested positive on Saturday. The deceased had last attended duties on June 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lok-nayak-doctor-hindu-rao-ward-boy-die-of-covid-19/story-OnGdaescDaOX5heeVPQhGK.html
29-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: After a day of pause, fuel prices witness another hike and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Petrol, diesel prices go up again after a day’s pauseState-run oil marketing companies raised the prices of petrol and diesel on Monday, a day after there was no hike in rates that were increased continuously for three weeks. Read moreICMR plans to scale up antigen-based Covid-19 testingThe government is planning to expand the use of rapid antigen-based Covid-19 tests and the country’s top biomedical research body has advised states to use the easy-to-use method to compliment the more rigorous RT-PCR test to detect the coronavirus as infections surge across the country. Read more‘They removed ventilator...’: Man messages father before he dies of Covid-19A 26-year-old man from Hyderabad sent a selfie video from the hospital bed to his father minutes before he succumbed to Covid-19, stating that he was feeling breathless as the doctors had allegedly removed the ventilator support. Read moreThe art of creative expression: Does adding new painting materials help a child’s creativity and emotional health?Creativity as a form of self-expression is the most cathartic, and free of judgment. There is nothing more satisfying and fulfilling than to be able to express oneself openly. Read moreHT Salutes: Two Mumbai residents who made theplas for migrants amid lockdownVarsha Shah and Varsha Padia made theplas for migrants and labourers in Mumbai amid the lockdown. The duo from Mumbai coordinated with an NGO called Circle of Love and Care who further distributed theplas. Watch to know moreSathankulam custodial deaths: Singam director Hari regrets making films glorifying policeFilmmaker Hari is the latest Tamil celebrity to express shock and condemn the deaths of Jeyaraj and his son Fenix due to alleged custodial torture in Sathankulam town in Thoothukudi. In a statement, he deeply regretted making five Tamil films that glorified police. Read moreIndia captain Virat Kohli vs RCB captain Virat Kohli: Parthiv Patel explains the differenceParthiv Patel is someone who has made his debut under Sourav Ganguly, played a lot of cricket when MS Dhoni was India’s captain and also plied his trade under current captain Virat Kohli. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-after-a-day-of-pause-fuel-prices-witness-another-hike-and-all-the-latest-news/story-iLj1oXZ4yl0aYXZAKSH3vL.html
29-06-2020||India||Animal activists demand arrest of 2 men alleged to have poisoned 20 dogs||Animal welfare activists in Odisha have demanded the arrest of two men who allegedly poisoned more than 20 stray dogs nine days ago in Cuttack district of the state.On June 19, Brahmananda Mallick (61) and his nephew Bharat Mallick (40) of Nahanga village under Bhaunria gram panchayat of Cuttack district allegedly poisoned over 20 stray dogs in the locality after one of the dogs allegedly bit their goat. They reportedly boiled the bark of strychnine tree, known for its poison, with goat and chicken meat and left the meat pieces at several places in the village to bait the dogs.The carcasses of the dogs were later found by sarpanch of Bhaunria gram panchayat, Gagan Bihari Sethi and a few ward members on June 21. A neighbour of the accused revealed how the two men had cooked meat to kill the stray dogs. “He was upset over one of the stray dogs having bit his goat and wanted to kill the dogs,” said Sethi.The local workers of the Biju Yuva Vahini, a voluntary organisation of the Biju Janata Dal, lodged a case with the Mahanga police station against the two under section 428, 429 (which lay out rules against animal cruelty) of the Indian Penal Code. However, the duo fled the village soon after a local veterinary surgeon visited the area and took a sample of the carcass to determine the kind of poison used.Decrying the killing of dogs, Purabi Patra, animal welfare activist, alleged that police were going easy on the arrest of the two. “The way the dogs were poisoned, it seems to be the handiwork of sick minds. Unless one is sick and inhuman, one can’t poison so many dogs. But the police do not seem to be making any attempts at arresting them,” said Patra.Similarly, Jiban Das of People For Animals too demanded a thorough investigation into the killing of the dogs. “Just because one stray dog had allegedly bitten a goat, how can one poison all the dogs in the area. Police should apply more stringent provisions of the IPC and arrest the uncle-nephew,” he said.Ranjan Pradhan, inspector of Mahanga police station, said police are making all efforts to arrest the men. “We would surely arrest them. We would also apply stricter provisions once the lab report of the carcass indicating the kind of poison used is available,” said the inspector.The strychnine is a thorny tree whose seeds and bark are toxic. However, toxic alkaloids may be found in the entire plant.In April this year, there was similar outrage in Bhubaneswar after a pregnant stray dog was beaten up with a rod by a woman and a few others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/animal-activists-demand-arrest-of-2-men-alleged-to-have-poisoned-20-dogs/story-dY513URsAsbSo8rUFR5BFK.html
29-06-2020||India||Religious places to open from July 1 in Rajasthan’s rural areas: Govt||The Rajasthan government has allowed religious places and those of worship to open in the state’s rural areas with a limited number of devotees from July 1, saying norms of social distancing will have to be followed.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot said during a review meeting on the coronavirus pandemic that a decision has been taken against opening religious places in urban areas and big religious sites in rural areas based on the suggestions of committees constituted under district collectors. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Gehlot said only those religious places will be allowed to open in rural areas where 50 or fewer people visit every day. A limited number of people will be allowed to worship or do other religious works at a time at these places.Social distancing, sanitisation, wearing of masks, and the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the Centre for religious places should be ensured, he said.The chief minister also said that the mandatory 14-day home quarantine period for people coming from other states to Rajasthan has been lifted. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage But they will have to voluntarily keep their movement limited and adopt all protective measures to prevent infection and get medical attention immediately after getting their symptoms checked.He also said the period of the coronavirus awareness campaign for a week, which is being run across the state from June 21 to June 30, will be extended.Rajasthan has reported 16,944 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 391 people have succumbed so far, according to the Union health ministry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/religious-places-to-open-from-july-1-in-rajasthan-s-rural-areas-govt/story-Mgpg0JAUNY5aT3lqlIJStO.html
29-06-2020||India||Bengal govt set to market ‘Arogya Sandesh’ to boost immunity amid Covid-19 pandemic||Sweet-loving Bengalis have something to cheer about in Covid-19 time as the West Bengal government decided to come out with a ‘sandesh’ which will contain honey from Sundarbans and increase immunity, an official said on Sunday.Cotton cheese made from cow milk will be mixed with pure honey from the Sunderbans to prepare the ‘Arogya Sandesh’ which will also have extracts of tulsi leaves, an official of the Animal Resources Development Department told PTI.No artificial flavours would be added to the sweetmeat which will be available in the department’s outlets in the city and neighbouring districts, he said.The sandesh will boost the immune system as a whole but it is not a Covid-19 antidote, the official said.Sunderbans affairs minister Manturam Pakhira said the honey for making Arogya Sandesh will be collected from beehives in places such as Pirkhali, Jharkhali and other parts of the Sunderbans and it will be stored in a scientific manner. The sandesh is expected to hit the shelves in another two months and the pricing will be within the reach of the common man, the animal resources development department official said.Earlier this month, a reputed sweetmeat chain of Kolkata came out with an ‘Immunity Sandesh’ claiming that it contains various herbs and spices such as haldi (turmeric), tulsi, saffron, and cardamom and Himalayan honey, which will boost immunity to fight novel coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-govt-set-to-market-arogya-sandesh-to-boost-immunity-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-IGrBJf3wnCiA8KWP831g6M.html
29-06-2020||India||Odisha health minister’s daughter booked for flouting social distancing norms||Odisha health minister Naba Das, who is at the forefront of the government’s fight against the coronavirus pandemic, landed in a spot after police on Sunday lodged a case against his daughter for violating social distancing norms while holding an official meeting.Rahul PR, Jharsuguda’s superintendent of police, said a case has been registered against Deepali Das and some other people at Jharsuguda Town police station after a complaint by the municipality executive officer.The complaint said a ceremony was organised by Deepali and others at the conference hall of the District Rural Development Agency to felicitate corona warriors on June 22. More than 50 people were present during the ceremony without maintaining the mandatory social distancing norms.Minister Das, who has been grooming his daughter as his successor in Jharsuguda district, refused to comment.However, Deepali said some people are unnecessarily pointing fingers at him. “I will respect the law and continue to work for the people of Jharsuguda,” she said.Two days ago, Das was ticked off by the ruling Biju Janata Dal’s (BJD’s) top brass over allowing his daughter to be his political representative in Jharsuguda district and hold official meetings. The first information report (FIR) against Deepali comes at a time when the number of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in Odisha are galloping towards 7,000-mark amid a spate of violations of social distancing norms and masks. Niranjan Patnaik, the state unit chief of the Congress party, was fined for not wearing masks at a public demonstration two days ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-health-minister-s-daughter-booked-for-flouting-social-distancing-norms/story-h0EoNk68SsArmk6Gz02GpI.html
29-06-2020||India||Alice Wells: India should invest in Quad instead of BRICS and RIC||The US administration’s former pointperson for South Asia on Sunday called on India to step up its “investment in the Quad” grouping instead of giving preference to engagements with organisations such as Brics and RIC in which China plays a key role.Alice Wells, a career diplomat who retired as the acting assistant secretary of state for South and Central Asia last month, made the remarks on Twitter in response to an article that argued India shouldn’t be seen as a pushover in its ongoing border standoff with China.“This is a good time for India to up its investment in the Quad. The appearance of privileging BRIC/RIC meetings over engagement with likeminded partners is discordant,” she tweeted, referring the Quadrilateral alliance or Quad that groups together Australia, India, Japan and the US.India has traditionally been reluctant to play up its participation in the Quad, which was upgraded to the level of foreign ministers only last September. Amid the tense standoff with China, external affairs minister S Jaisjankar had joined a virtual meeting of foreign ministers of the Russia-India-China (RIC) grouping on June 23. He had also taken a thinly veiled dig at China in his address, saying the world’s “leading voices” should act in an exemplary manner by respecting international law and recognising the interests of partners.The foreign ministers of the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) grouping had held a virtual meeting on April 28, days before the border standoff became public. China has mobilised troops in several stretches of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), especially the Galwan Valley that has been the focus of tensions. A violent face-off on June 15 resulted in the death of 20 Indian soldiers and unspecified Chinese casualties.Wells’ remarks came a day after the Indian Navy and Japan’s Maritime Self-Defense Force (JMSDF) conducted an exercise in the Indian Ocean. The Japanese warships JS Kashima and JS Shimayuki of the JMSDF training squadron were joined by the Indian Navy’s INS Rana and INS Kulish for the exercise that promoted mutual understanding.The deputy chief of the Japanese mission in New Delhi, Toshihide Ando, said this was the 15th exercise between the two sides in the past three years.“This is a goodwill training to promote mutual understanding and trust with the Indian Navy,” he said. “The content of this exercise is tactical and communications training with no specific scenario.”This is a good time for India to up its investment in the Quad. The appearance of privileging BRIC/RIC meetings over engagement with likeminded partners is discordant. https://t.co/yN9I9QW22JShortly before she retired in May, Wells had strongly backed India amid the border tensions with China, saying such disputes are a “reminder of the threat posed by China”.Wells had also said that like-minded nations such as the US, India, Australia and Asean states have rallied together in the face of China’s “provocations and disturbing behaviour”.Answering a question on the India-China tensions, Wells had said: “The flare-ups on the border, I think, are a reminder that Chinese aggression is not always just rhetorical. And so whether it’s in the South China Sea or whether it’s along the border with India, we continue to see provocations and disturbing behaviour by China that raises questions about how China seeks to use its growing power.”She had added, “What we want to see is an international system that provides benefit to everyone and not a system in which there is suzerainty to China. And so I think in this instance, the border disputes are a reminder of the threat posed by China.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alice-wells-india-should-invest-in-quad-instead-of-brics-and-ric/story-gSV2rA1VIvdakY3qOqqvMK.html
29-06-2020||India||3.7 million cases pending in courts for over 10 years: Data||Over 3.7 million, or around 10% of the 37.7 million cases before high courts, district and taluka courts across India, have remained pending for over a decade, according to National Judicial Data Grid (NJDG), which monitors the performance of courts nationally. They include 2.8 million cases in district and taluka courts and 920,000 before high courts. Over 660,000 cases have remained pending for over 20 years and 131,000 for more than three decades.The Supreme Court on June 15 noted with anguish the pendency of cases, particularly criminal appeals, in high courts as it was hearing a murder convict’s bail plea while his appeal against his conviction is pending before the Allahabad high court. It called “chronic pendency of criminal appeals” a challenge to the judicial system. The Supreme Court noted the right to speedy trial also involves that to speedy disposal of criminal appeals. “If such appeals are not taken up for hearing within a reasonable time, the right of appeal itself would be illusory, inasmuch as incarcerated convicts (who are denied bail) would have undergone a major part--if not the whole of the period of their sentence.”The Supreme Court asked Allahabad, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Patna, Orissa, Rajasthan, Bombay high courts to submit a detailed plan of action for deciding the pending criminal appeals.As many as 8.5% of the total of 32.9 million cases pending in district and taluka courts across India, or 2.8 million, have remained so for over 10 years, according to NJDG, which is updated daily and provides consolidated figures of pending cases.Over 500,000, or 1.5% of cases pending at the district and taluka level, are over two-decade-old while 85,141 cases have remained undecided for over three decades.District courts fare better than high courts in terms of pending cases. As many as over 4.7 million cases are pending before 25 high courts across the country. Out of them, over 920,000 cases, or 19.26%, have been pending for over 10 years and 158,000 (3.3%) for more than 20 years and 46,754 for three decades or more.Uttar Pradesh, India’s most populous state, accounts for 40% of the 2.8 million cases pending for over 10 years at district and taluka courts and for 43% of the 500,000 awaiting completion for over 20 years. As many as 40% or 34,000 out of 85,141 cases pending nationally for over 30 years are in Uttar Pradesh.Uttar Pradesh’s Allahabad high court has the most pendency of cases among high courts. It accounts for 30%, or 276000, of 920,000 cases pending in high courts for over 10 years. Over 55% of cases awaiting completion for 20 years in high courts are pending at the Allahabad high court. The percentage is 86 (40,374 out of 46,754) when it comes to three-decade-old cases.“The data reflects the correlation between judicial vacancies and pendency. Importantly, judicial vacancies is a very region centric factor in that it varies vastly from state to state. UP for instance is one of the states where judicial vacancies have been on the higher side and it affects the pendency”, said senior resident fellow at Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy, Ameen Jauhar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-7-million-cases-pending-in-courts-for-over-10-years-data/story-ytI7P0rm5Plwe5r8ubNVyJ.html
29-06-2020||India||Assam reports one more Covid-19 death, toll climbs to 11||Assam reported one more Covid-19 fatality on Sunday, taking the death toll due to the disease to 11 in the state, and 327 new cases of the infection, health and family welfare minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said.A 45-year-old man died at the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) while undergoing treatment for the coronavirus, he added.“Sad to inform that a 45 year old, resident of Khanapara, Guwahati died due to COVID-19 today in GMCH. He was brought to the hospital late, in critical state. The doctors could not save him. My sincere condolences to the bereaved family,” the minister said in a tweet Of the 327 new cases, 195 were reported from Guwahati city and the tally of coronavirus cases climbed to 7,492 in the northeastern state, he said.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayGuwahati in Kamrup (Metro) district, where a complete lockdown has been imposed for 14 days from Sunday night, has so far reported 1,160 Covid-19 cases.“327 new #COVID19+ cases detected in Assam today. Out of these, 195 cases were reported in Guwahati City in last 24 hours,” Sarma said in another tweet.It is the second-highest single-day hike after the 331 cases detected on June 21.Meanwhile, 44 police personnel have tested positive for the disease in the state and 1,127 are in quarantine, Additional Director General of Police (ADGP), Law and Order, G P Singh said.“Continuing to serve the people of Assam during Covid pandemic, 44 @assampolice personnel have tested positive for COVID-19 till June 28th 2020. 1127 personnel are under quarantine. They are all in high spirits,” he said in a tweet.A total of 274 patients were cured of the disease and discharged from hospitals on Sunday, Sarma said. Of the 7,492 Covid-19 cases reported in the state so far, 5,088 have recovered from the disease.Also read: 23, including 8 kids, test Covid-19 positive in shelter home for mentally challenged“There are 2.5 times more people who’re back home than in hospitals now. With 5000+ recovered at a rate of 71 per cent we’ve done very well,” the minister tweeted.Assam currently has 2,390 active coronavirus cases and three persons have migrated to other states.The state has so far tested 3,85,299 samples for the disease in 12 laboratories.“Our teams continue to painstakingly carry out #COVID19 testing to ensure targeted tracing. Today about 10,000+ tests were conducted, taking the total to 385,299,” Sarma tweeted.Meanwhile, the Dhubri Circuit House has been declared a Covid-19 containment zone after a commandant of the 20 Assam Police (IR) Battalion tested positive for the infection on Saturday, an official said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Sarma said 300 nurses have been recruited at the GMCH.“We have recruited 300 nurses on regular basis today in Guwahati Medical college in order to strengthen nursing workforce in our fight against COVID-19,” the minister tweeted.Besides the 14-day complete lockdown in Kamrup (Metro) from Sunday night, a 12-hour night curfew has been imposed across Assam from Friday, along with weekend lockdowns in towns and municipal areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-reports-one-more-covid-19-death-toll-climbs-to-11/story-IsEMl1akN6FX95PY8TeATL.html
29-06-2020||India||3 terrorists killed in encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir’s Anantnag||Three unidentified terrorists were gunned down by security forces in Jammu and Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Monday, police said. Following inputs about terrorists in Khulchohar area of the south Kashmir district, the security forces launched a search operation. The operation turned into an encounter after the terrorists fired upon the search party of the forces, who retaliated. The gunfight is underway, police said. An AK-47 assault rifle and two pistols were recovered from the site, the Indian Army said. More details are awaited.On June 26, three terrorists were killed when troops launched an operation at Chewa Ullar in Tral of the Union Territory’s Pulwama district after receiving information about the presence of terrorists in the area.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-terrorists-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-anantnag/story-CREOFG3nWtTkYwZFYumDIJ.html
29-06-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Ten million cases, half a million dead. That’s the global Covid-19 count as we near the end of June. It’s summer in Western Europe, which seems to have put the worst behind it, and the United States, which saw its two highest single-day numbers in terms of cases on Friday and Saturday. The monsoon has settled in across India, a week-and-half earlier than it usually does, but like Hokusai’s famous wave (did you know that it’s the world’s most reproduced image?), the pandemic rolls on. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe seven-day average of the cases in the US seemed to be trending down in the middle of June but the curve has now reared its ugly head again, and is trending up. The country accounts for a quarter of all cases, and a fourth of all deaths. Size, it would appear, is not to the US’s advantage. The US is the world’s fourth largest country by land area (India is the seventh, and would do well to pay heed to what’s happening in that country), and as cases come down in one state, they start rising in another. The country’s southern and western states are among those showing the most cases now. New York, an early epicentre of the disease, is now calm. What New York State and New York City were to the US till they got things under control, Delhi, Maharashtra (and Mumbai), and Tamil Nadu (and Chennai) are to India. On Saturday, as India registered 20,179 new cases according to the HT dashboard, the highest daily number so far, the three states recorded 2,948 (Delhi), 6,368 (Maharashtra), and 3,713 (Tamil Nadu) infections. That’s a total of 13,029 or 64.5% of the total number of new cases in the country. This is a trend that has been maintained for weeks now (and which this column has mentioned time and again). It’s a trend that’s evident in the total numbers as well: of the 529,485 cases of Covid-19 India has seen thus far (till Saturday evening), 80,188 have come from Delhi, 159,133 from Maharashtra, and 78,335 from Tamil Nadu. That’s 60% of the total. Of the 16,101 deaths in the country, Delhi accounts for 2,558, Maharashtra, 7,273, and Tamil Nadu, 1,025. That’s 67.4% of the total. On the positive side, of the 309,526 people who have recovered from the coronavirus disease in the country, 49,301 are from Delhi, 84,245 from Maharashtra, and 44,094 from Tamil Nadu. That’s 57.4%.Despite the number of cases, there is some reason for cheer. On Saturday, Delhi tested 19,180 samples for 2,948 new cases; Maharashtra, 24,999 for 6,368, and Tamil Nadu, 34,805 for 3,713. On Friday, Delhi tested 21,144 samples for 3,460 new cases, Maharashtra, 23,849 for 5,024 and Tamil Nadu, 33,675 for 3,645. Tamil Nadu’s positivity rate (number of positive cases to tests) was 10.82% on Friday and 10.66% on Saturday — both in the 7-11% range the state has been maintaining (which is well below the peak positivity rates it once displayed). Delhi’s positivity rate on Friday was 16.36% and on Saturday, 15.37%, still high, but well off its peaks again.Maharashtra bucks this trend, unfortunately. Its positivity rate on Friday was 21% and on Saturday, 25.5%. These are among the highest the state has seen. It’s clear (especially if you have been reading this column regularly; I’ve become obsessed with positivity rates in recent weeks) that Delhi has begun to test adequately (hurrah!), Tamil Nadu is testing adequately, and Maharashtra has to test even more aggressively.How many people should be tested? There are no rules, but based on the experience of every country ravaged by the virus, and India’s own constraints, I think it would be good for small states to test 5% of the population and large ones, 3-5% (caveat: this isn’t based on science; the US and many countries in Western Europe have tested 8-12% of their population). In Delhi, that would translate into a million tests, or half a million more to be done. At its current rate, the state could get them done in the next 25 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-obduWtwRZAMEkwpQa2a1CM.html
29-06-2020||India||‘It may take 18-24 months to recover from crisis’: IndiGo CEO||India’s aviation industry may take up to two years to recover from the turmoil caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, said IndiGo, the country’s top domestic airline. The budget carrier is focusing on controlling costs and maintaining liquidity to tide over the crisis, CEO Ronojoy Dutta said in an email interview. He said a recovery would also depend upon how soon other nations reopen their skies. Edited excerpts:Leisure flying has taken a back seat. Is safety the biggest factor that is keeping people from flying?We can all agree to the fact that due to the pandemic situation, business and leisure travel may take a back seat for some time until the virus subsides to a great extent. However, the risk of transmission of Covid-19 from one passenger to another passenger on board is very low, making flying the safest way to travel. The reasons for this are that the customers sit facing forward and not toward each other, seat backs provide a barrier, the use of HEPA (high efficiency particulate air) filters and the direction of the air flow on board (from ceiling to floor), and the limited movement onboard aircraft once seated add to the onboard protection. Furthermore, as a responsible airline, we have also taken steps to ensure our passengers and crew members are safe while onboard. When will industry return to pre-Covid-19 level in India in terms of travel demand? There have been a lot of estimations that predict the recovery of the aviation industry, which has been hit hard by this pandemic. We believe it may take 18-24 months to recover from the current situation to come back to the pre-Covid-19 levels of travel demand, also depending upon how other countries resume international operations. The international travel demand will largely depend on how different countries are placed in terms of Covid-19. We expect the aviation industry to slowly and steadily rise even stronger. Furthermore, what will drive this recovery is consumer confidence in airlines .Can you elaborate on the costs measures initiated by IndiGo?Amid the crisis situation, we strive to manage not for profitability or growth but for liquidity. Our focus is on reducing costs, exploring alternate sources of revenue, and building consumer and employee confidence. We are negotiating better prices and terms with partners, staggering pay cuts, placing our discretionary expenses on hold and deferment of certain capital expenditure projects to reduce costs. We are replacing our old A-320ceos with new A-320neos to enhance cost efficiency and freezing supplementary rentals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-may-take-18-24-months-to-recover-from-crisis-indigo-ceo/story-IzxiMNpvOrezH9jWNx93rJ.html
29-06-2020||India||How Covid-19 and carriers unbalanced Indo-Pacific||Chinese military power and strategic attention is overwhelmingly directed towards the Pacific Ocean. Which is why Beijing’s military planners are presently dividing their attention between troop face-offs in Ladakh and three US carrier groups in the Pacific Ocean. The last time there were so many US super-carriers in the Pacific was three years ago because of North Korea. The US Indo-Pacific Command last month added that all its forward-deployed submarines were at sea. The US naval deployment, while not originally motivated by events along the Sino-Indian border, has inevitably become part of China’s larger strategic calculus. Explains Vice-Admiral Anil Chopra, who just completed a term as the maritime expert on the National Security Advisory Board, the “movement of naval forces escalates things. Whenever you move them into an area of confrontation it serves to send a message. The Chinese will worry about what the carriers can do, not what they necessarily will do.” Chopra says, “It has to be taken into account. That’s the main point of a carrier, it injects a degree of uncertainty.” While one carrier is off the US Pacific coast and another is near the Philippines, the USS Theodore Roosevelt has moved southwards to Vietnam. This location, says Mohan Malik, professor of strategic studies at the Pentagon’s Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies, means that “in the event of a war, this carrier group would probably move to the Malacca Straits and the Bay of Bengal.”The USS Roosevelt is a super-carrier, three times the size of an Indian or Chinese carrier, and its battle group would include accompanying cruisers, destroyer squadrons and submarines. “The US could deter the outbreak of a two-front war involving China and Pakistan on one side and India on other by dispatching an aircraft carrier battle group to the Indian Ocean,” says Malik, if events were to spiral out of control. The unusual carrier deployment is a remarkable consequence of the Covid-19 epidemic. In March, viral outbreaks infected three US carrier crews. At one point , only one functional US carrier was left in both the Indian and Pacific Oceans. China began increasing naval and air force incursions into Taiwan’s airspace and tightening its grip on Hong Kong. The official WeChat account of Eastern Theatre Command of the People’s Liberation Army posted articles in mid-April calling for China to prepare for war.A Chinese scholar on the US, Wang Jisi, warned in a webinar the same month that hawks in China saw opportunities in the “US preoccupation in the election year and over the pandemic.” Concerned China might consider an attack on Taiwan, Washington ordered all three of its active super-carriers, now virus free, and at least eight nuclear submarines into the Pacific. Beijing warned Washington to “stop moving chess pieces around” the region and “flexing its military muscles around China.”This underlines the degree to which the US deploys its military with an almost single-minded determination to contain China. US secretary of state Mike Pompeo on Thursday explained that US troops withdrawing from Europe were being moved to tackle the threat China posed to countries like India. His is the latest in a series of senior US official statements derived from the 2018 National Defence Strategy’s broad recommendation that US military power be directed primarily at China. US officials have privately told their Indian counterparts that one reason for their desire to leave Afghanistan was to divert the $ 50 billion-a-year the US spends there to take on China. US Pentagon chief Mark Esper in February spoke of converting the 2018 strategy into a “new war plan” that would be completed this summer. The plan would integrate the assets of the four US military services in the Indo-Pacific. As Esper explained to Defence News, “A drone sees an enemy target, relays it to an airplane, an F-35, which relays it to a Navy ship, which either shoots it or relays it back to a Marine Corps long-range precision fire that’s island-based.” Esper called this a “big pivot point for us,” possibly recalling the original and militarily feeble “pivot to Asia” of the Obama administration.The US military’s biggest concern is its “missile gap” against China. The US was banned from testing or deploying intermediate-range missiles (500 to 5,500km range) globally because of a Soviet-era arms control treaty. Exploiting this lacuna, China has deployed over 2,000 long-range missiles along its shore. The US has war gamed that, if forced to fight close to the Chinese shore, its military would be defeated. The Trump administration pulled out of the missile treaty last year and begun the rapid deployment of similar missiles along the Pacific. But Beijing knows it is secure against even a limited military engagement near the mainland for the next few years.It is likely this has emboldened China and contributes to the recent aggression it has shown to a variety of countries, the most recent being India.“In the Cold War between China and America, India has emerged as a front line state. China’s military pressure all along the disputed boundary is clearly aimed at the Finlandization of India. Beijing wants to deny India a peaceful environment essential to realizing its economic developmental goals that would narrow the power gap with China,” says Malik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-covid-19-and-carriers-unbalanced-indo-pacific/story-Su6zF7qACcXPunNQECSBOJ.html
29-06-2020||India||23, including 8 kids, test Covid-19 positive in shelter home for mentally challenged||At least 23 people at the Asha Kiran shelter home for the mentally challenged in northeast Delhi’s Rohini have tested positive for Covid-19, including children, adult inmates and staffers. The home run, by the Delhi government’s social welfare department, houses 960 inmates but only has the capacity for 550.According to officials at the home, of the 23 inmates who tested positive between June 5 and June 20, eight are children in the age group of 11-13, seven are adult inmates and the remaining are staffers, including caregivers as well as a doctor deputed at the facility. Of the total, three staffers tested positive in the first week of June, one of whom succumbed to the infection while three others recovered and are currently in home isolation.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“At present, 20 persons, including children, adult inmates and caregivers, have been admitted to different quarantine facilities. The children mostly had mild symptoms and have been shifted to the Sultanpuri Covid Care Centre. The others have been admitted to Deep Chand Bandhu Hospital in Ashok Vihar and GTB Hospital in Dilshad Garden. It is difficult for the children, as they need full-time support. Even though we have a staff crunch, we have deployed the children’s attendants at the facilities, as they are close to their caregivers and rely only on them for their needs,” AK Kaushal, administrator of the shelter home, said.He added that the first case was reported around June 3 when a caretaker had tested positive. He had come in contact with children on May 29 while serving them food and helping them eat, as most of the inmates suffering moderate or severe mental disabilities need help with such activities. “Soon after the first positive case was reported, we isolated around 11 children. We got them tested and only two asymptomatic children were found to be positive. Following this, another staffer tested positive in the first week of June and died on June 10. We then got tests conducted at a larger scale and found that many had been infected,” he said.Testing of inmates and staff at the shelter home is being done regularly by the district health officials. Around 30-40 samples are collected every other day, officials said.A senior official, who is in home isolation as well, said that all precautions were being taken and the staff was being called to work in shifts to reduce the number of people coming from outside at a given time. He added that limited transport availability was adding to the staff crunch. “Everyone is being thermally screened at the entrance, and except for the staff, no visitors are allowed. Despite all precautions, the infection started with one of the staffers. Since it takes around 5-7 days for symptoms to develop, people inside the home were exposed to the infection,” the official said.One of the caretakers, who did not wish to be named, alleged that the number of people being infected must be more than 50, as distancing is not possible among so many inmates. “Initially when two caretakers had tested positive, no immediate action was taken. It was only later that some children were isolated and tests were conducted. Also, there is no regular sanitisation within the premises,” he said.Delhi social welfare minister Rajendra Pal Gautum said, “I have come to know of the positive cases. We take daily reports from the home. I have been informed that those in quarantine are recovering well. Besides, a community centre near the home has been roped in to isolate the inmates, including the children, if they show any symptoms and tests are being conducted regularly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/23-including-8-kids-test-covid-positive-in-shelter-home-for-mentally-challenged/story-07IP1KPqPGAJ2jCGUP9GKJ.html
29-06-2020||India||ED files two fresh cases against Singh brothers||The Enforcement Directorate recently attached properties worth ~300 crore belonging to Fortis Healthcare founders Shivinder Mohan Singh and Malvinder Mohan Singh and registered two fresh money laundering cases against the brothers, people familiar with the development said on condition of anonymity.A Delhi court was apprised about the fresh developments last week by the ED, which opposed the bail plea of Shivinder Mohan Singh.Officials refused to disclose details of the new cases, registered during the Covid-19 lockdown, against the Singh brothers, but said that there had been several complaints against the promoters of Religare Enterprises, a financial services group, in various police departments.Delhi police had in April filed a charge-sheet against the brothers for an alleged fraud of ~791 crore in Lakshmi Vilas Bank. To go ahead with money laundering probes against any suspect, ED usually needs a scheduled offence registered through a first information report (FIR) by the local police or any other agency.The attachment of properties worth Rs 300 crore, the first in the case, includes shares and some properties, the officials cited above added.The agency has already filed a charge sheet against the Singh brothers in its principal case in which funds running into thousands of crore of rupees borrowed from banks were diverted by them from Religare Finvest Ltd.According to the ED’s charge sheet, filed in January, ~2,036 crore worth “proceeds of crimes” was moved to 19 companies linked to the Singh brothers over a period of eight years. In its principal FIR, registered last year, ED is probing alleged loan fraud worth ~47,968 crore.While opposing Shivinder Mohan Singh’s bail plea last week, ED’s special public prosecutor Nitesh Rana informed the court of additional sessions judge Sandeep Yadav at Saket that the accused failed the “triple test” or “tripod test” criteria fixed by the Supreme Court while granting bail in such cases.Rana argued that if given bail, Shivinder Mohan Singh can “hamper the investigation of the case; he will try to liquidate the proceeds of crime and destroy the money trail; apart from continuing to be involved in the commission of the offence of money laundering.”The judge agreed with the ED counsel, saying that “triple test has failed in the present case” and that there are two fresh cases against the accused which need to be investigated. Shivinder Mohan Singh’s bail plea is pending in Delhi high court.Under “the triple test” criteria, an accused can be granted bail if it can be established that he or she is not a flight risk, will not influence witnesses and will not tamper with the evidence. The SC had given bail to former finance minister P Chidambaram in December 2019 on the basis of these criteria.“ED’s investigations are mostly flimsy and they have no basis. They have no evidence whatsoever,” Shivinder Mohan Singh’s lawyer Tanveer Ahmed Mir said. Asked about the two fresh cases, Malvinder Mohan Singh’s lawyer Manu Sharma said:“We have never been summoned or called for interrogation in the fresh cases. We are completely in dark about this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-files-two-fresh-cases-against-singh-brothers/story-nLyj65sJp1zMBtABPPrCFK.html
29-06-2020||India||Sanjaya Baru duped on pretext of online delivery: Police||The Delhi Police have arrested a 30-year-old man from Rajasthan’s Bharatpur for allegedly duping political commentator Sanjaya Baru after promising online liquor delivery, officers aware of the matter said. Baru, who served as former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s media adviser, had ordered liquor worth ₹24,000 online. He approached the police after realising he had been conned. The officers said the arrested man, Akib Javed, has duped many people using a similar modus operandi since the lockdown was imposed in late March, and liquor shops were closed.Baru confirmed he was duped but said he did not want to comment further. The police said on June 2, Baru ordered the liquor after searching online and found what he believed was a south Delhi liquor store. “He placed the order over the phone and was assured on-time delivery after he made the payment online. But after he paid, the person who took his order switched off his phone,” said an officer on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sanjaya-baru-duped-on-pretext-of-online-delivery-police/story-A1mtB9ia8ZmiMo5qtMhJnO.html
29-06-2020||India||Covid-19 containment zones in Delhi increase to 421||The number of containment zones in the national capital stood at 421 on Sunday, recording an increase of 141 over two days, after the Delhi government decided to break existing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hotspots into smaller clusters for better surveillance and control of the outbreak, officials said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe Centre and the Delhi government agreed to deploy a revamped strategy to fight Covid-19 at a recent meeting chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah, deciding to remap the containment zones for improved scrutiny. The new strategy on containment zones, where movement is strictly restricted and health screening is intensified, was to be prepared by June 26.“The new containment zone strategy focuses on breaking down existing ones into smaller containment zones. The strategy was finalised on June 26, within the given deadline, and implemented at the earliest. District magistrates have redesigned containment zones so as to ensure that all clusters are comprehensively brought under aggressive surveillance. The next goal is to accomplish a full health survey of all residents of these containment zones by June 30,” Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev said.Also read: ‘Delhi won’t have 5.5 lakh Covid-19 cases by July end, Sisodia’s comments created fear’: Amit ShahFor the delineation exercise, district health officials located clusters within existing containment zones in order to create micro-containment zones, another senior government official said on condition of anonymity.Till Friday, when the delineation strategy was finalised by the office of the divisional commissioner, Delhi had 280 containment zones. On Sunday, the number rose to 421, according to records compiled by the Delhi government. An official said the count of such zones could increase further as some of the 11 revenue districts of Delhi were in the process of redrawing the boundaries of their containment areas.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), which is chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, previously sought help of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to draft the revised plan, a senior government official said on condition of anonymity.The 11 districts in the Capital have also initiated a health survey of more than 250,000 individuals who reside in these containment zones, the official said. This survey was recommended at the meeting held by Shah and the final report was to be drafted by DDMA by Tuesday. As part of the exercise, symptomatic residents in the containment zones will be asked to undergo Covid-19 diagnostic tests through the rapid antigen kits. Tests through new antigen-based devices can be carried out on-site and can provide results within 30 minutes.The 141 new containment zones have been created by breaking down existing hot spots in neighbourhoods that include Pratap Nagar, Ghanta Ghar in Malkaganj, Alipur, Mahendru Enclave, Jahangirpuri, GTB Nagar, Meet Nagar, Sangam Vihar, Badarpur, Tilak Vihar and Hari Nagar, data shared by the government showed.Official data showed that the Southwest district has reported a rise of 37 containment zones in the remapping exercise, taking the number of such areas in the district to 80. The North district has 59 containment zones, followed by South (56), Central (40), Shahdara (38), East (33) Southeast (32), Northwest (28), West (25), New Delhi (21) and Northeast (nine).Containment zones are sealed areas where all residents are put under surveillance and most business and travel activities are prohibited. The areas are periodically sanitised and essential goods are delivered to people’s doorsteps so that residents do not have to venture out. The entry and exit of these areas are also restricted and monitored by the police and government authorities to contain the spread of the disease. Within the containment zones, testing centres are set up to boost the surveillance and control of the infectious disease.According to the findings of an advisory committee of the central government, 19% of the Covid-19 cases in Delhi so far have originated in containment zones. About 45% of these cases have been found in smaller clusters within such zones.Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicine department at the Safdarjung Hospital, said: “Such a policy helps implement better surveillance in containment zones, which gets difficult when the sealed area is too large and has a high population. It also helps in early detection of hidden cases. Also, the containment policy has a negative psychological impact. So, fewer numbers of people in a containment zone is better.”On June 21, the Centre and the Delhi government decided to revamp the action plan to control the spread of Covid-19 in the national capital, laying emphasis on the need for more effective containment and tracing efforts, widening the scope of detecting infections, and intensifying social distancing and surveillance at the ground level.Union home minister Shah chaired the meeting attended by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, deputy CM Manish Sisodia, lieutenant governor Baijal, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan and other senior officials. One of the key recommendations discussed at the meeting was an improved containment tactic under which the boundaries of such areas would be redrawn to tackle a surge in the cases. On Sunday, Delhi reported 2,889 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of infections to 83,077. So far, 2,633 people have died of the disease in the national capital.The other strategies in the new action plan include health surveys for people residing inside and outside containment zones, a serological survey of 20,000 people, and strengthening existing contact-tracing and surveillance policies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/containment-zones-in-capital-increase-to-421/story-cQ37MhR2AYlZZkp6QZgxzM.html
29-06-2020||India||TRS, Congress in tussle to claim legacy of ex-PM Narasimha Rao||Telangana’s ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government kicked off year-long centenary celebrations of former Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao with a publicity blitz even as the local unit of the Congress, Rao’s own party said it too would celebrate his centenary (his hundredth birthday is on June 28 2021) , as competitive politics saw the two parties trying to outdo each other in their bid to claim the political legacy of the late leader.TRS supremo and Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao, popularly known as KCR, made a strong pitch for conferring Bharat Ratna, the highest civilian award, on Rao and placed him at par with the country’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru.At a function in Hyderabad, KCR paid tributes to Rao on his 99th birth anniversary and called him the “proud son of Telangana” while recalling his contributions to the country when it was passing through a critical phase during his tenure as PM 1991-96, including ushering in bold economic reforms. KCR claimed that Rao did not get the due respect in the Congress and said he would soon meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi to seek Bharat Ratna for the late leader.“While Jawaharlal Nehru ji was among the architects of modern India, it was PV Narasimha Rao who initiated economic reforms....created a global India. There is no doubt about it. He was in the same league as Nehru. PV was a personality who was on par with Nehru,” he said.In full page advertisements in national and regional newspapers published on Sunday, the state government also described Rao as ‘Telangana’s son….India’s Pride’.Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Modi also paid tributes to Rao. In his monthly ‘Mann ki Baat’ radio broadcast, Modi said Rao led the country through a “critical phase”.It is well known that Rao shared an uneasy relationship with the Nehru-Gandhi family and the Congress rarely mentions the former Prime Minister in any of its programmes.A powerful section in the Congress blames Rao for his political misjudgment of the Ayodhya issue and his failure to stop the demolition of Babri Masjid on December 6, 1992 when he was the Prime Minister.While former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, who held the finance portfolio in the Rao government from 1991 and 1996, has always paid glowing tributes to the late leader, others in the party have usually been more reticent about this. That seems to have changed this year. Several Congress leaders, including Rahul Gandhi and P Chidambaram, paid tribute to Rao on Sunday.In a Facebook post, Gandhi wrote: “My tribute to former Congress President and Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao Ji on his birth anniversary.”On its official twitter handle, the Congress said: “We honour PV Narsimha Rao, a visionary leader who oversaw major economic transformations of the Indian economy. His contributions to the nation shall never be forgotten.” It added that Rao put India on the world’s economic map. Chidambaram mooted the idea of naming a university, existing or new, after Rao to focus on the “study of the old PPE -- Politics, Philosophy and Economics -- subjects in which the former Prime Minister was a scholar and practitioner”.Rao was a scholar and a linguist and spoke 17 languages and was good enough in six of them to actually translate scholarly works. His quiet demeanour also hid a shrewd political mind. In a statement, Chidambaram said Rao was the person who boldly pulled India out of an outdated mindset and put the country firmly on the path of becoming a prosperous and self-reliant nation.The Telangana Congress too is celebrating Rao’s centenary year and reiterated its demand for Bharat Ratna for him.Telangana Congress president Uttam Kumar Reddy told reporters in Hyderabad that party chief Sonia Gandhi has directed the state unit to celebrate Rao’s centenary year in a befitting manner. “A committee will be constituted to conduct various programmes. His family members will be invited in all the programmes,” Reddy said, adding the erstwhile undivided Andhra Pradesh assembly in January 2014 passed a resolution demanding Bharat Ratna for Rao.Former union minister Jitin Prasada, whose father Jitendra Prasada was political secretary to Rao, tweeted: “Tributes to former PM #PVNarasimhaRao ji on his birth anniversary. My father worked closely with him as his political secretary and witnessed the course changing economic policies ushered in by Rao sahab which opened up the Indian economy and gave it a much needed impetus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trs-congress-in-tussle-to-claim-legacy-of-ex-pm-narasimha-rao/story-0LCsJREY0erN7jwrhnoqrL.html
29-06-2020||India||Our immediate priority will be to streamline approval processes: RP Gupta||The Union environment ministry is set to make significant revisions to the environment clearance process as the economy is gradually emerging from the impact of a two-month Covid-19 lockdown and the pandemic. It plans to do away with conditions for environmental clearances that cannot be monitored and make the approval time for projects as short as possible. RP Gupta, who took over as the environment secretary this month, spoke to Jayashree Nandi about issues like the ministry’s priorities and forest loss associated with coal auctions. Edited excerpts:You have taken charge at a difficult time amid the pandemic and an economic slowdown. What are the ministry’s immediate priorities?Our priorities are to streamline our approval processes. We should keep the environment and pollution in mind [and] that there shall be no compromise as far as environmental clarity and pollution is concerned. But undue processes which have no meaning should be cut down. Processes of giving approvals can be simplified. We should save time and focus more on the enforcement of environmental regulations. We should not keep holding approvals for 4 to 5 years. If a project is not environmentally-friendly and cannot be given permission, we must say it within a short time. Similarly, approvals should also be given in a short time. Giving approvals with conditions we are unable to monitor is not required. Have only those conditions which are relevant. Generally, try to avoid putting conditions just for the sake of putting them.The Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification, 2020, is being debated widely. Will you extend the deadline for people to submit their comments on it?We are not simply because rules provide for 60 days to send objections... We have already got 30,000 comments. The request for extending the timeline started 2 to 3 days after the draft notification was published [in March] which means people were more interested in seeking extension rather than submitting objections and remarks. Some people are not interested in seeing an appropriate notification.There have been concerns about regularising environmental violations by projects through EIA 2020...It will be premature for me to comment on these aspects. These are objections we have received and we will be taking a well-considered view on each of these. So, what will be the final notification, the final decision cannot be commented upon now.A number of coal mines being auctioned have large forest covers and have a rich biodiversity. Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh have objected to the auctions. How will forests be impacted?Auction is not the environment ministry’s concern. Coal mine auction is done by the ministry of coal. All I can assure is that we will see to it that our regulations and laws are complied with. Most of the blocks being auctioned are out of those 204 blocks, which were allotted earlier and but were cancelled by Supreme Court for irregularities and corruption. The process is much more transparent...We are importing about 250 million tonnes of coal every year despite having one of the largest reserves. ...why not have it [coal] from our country...We have a commitment under the Paris Agreement to increase the share of clean energy. Do you think the coal auctions are sending out a message of continuing to be majorly invested in fossil fuels?We are using coal. The use has been considered in our climate commitment. We will be only substituting imported coal. I do not find any contradiction. We will overshoot our climate commitments. I want to assure people of this. We will not only achieve our nationally determined contribution but also much earlier.Scientists and UN bodies have said the pandemic is linked to large scale biodiversity loss. How will India protect its biodiversity hotspots?Biodiversity or food habits? We are committed to preserving our biodiversity. The pandemic is linked to biodiversity loss and food habits that are unnatural to an extent which leads to nature taking its revenge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/our-immediate-priority-will-be-to-streamline-approval-processes-rp-gupta/story-JBUzmePrcLEUhSpfk1nRQI.html
29-06-2020||India||Deadline for public comments on draft green policy nears||The deadline for submission of public comments or objections to the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification, 2020, released in March as part of the process to overhaul environmental regulations for infrastructure projects, is due to expire on Tuesday amid calls for another extension to it.Environmental groups have opposed the draft citing its contentious clauses. The clauses include the one pertaining to the regularisation of projects, which violated the EIA Notification, 2006, by starting construction work before environmental clearance or by expanding capacity. The draft also proses shortening of the time for public hearings, which give people affected by a project the opportunity to understand it and give their consent.The draft was released for comments on March 23 and 60 days were provided to the people to send their comments. The Union environment ministry extended the deadline from May 22 to June 30 because of the lockdown imposed to check the Covid-19 spread in late March.The ministry has received thousands of requests over the last month for extending the deadline and for the redressal of concerns related to the draft. “We have informed the environment minister’s office about these representations,” said Sharath Kumar Pallerla, the director of the ministry’s policy wing.Pallerla said the draft has been in the public domain for nearly 100 days. “In fact, we had issued a zero draft to get people’s comments in April 2019 following which we held public consultations in several cities on the draft. Recently, we had consultations with industrial associations and accredited environmental consultants also. But still, we are receiving representations to extend time on this notification.”R P Gupta, the environment ministry secretary, said they do not intend to extend the deadline and have received 30,000 comments.An expert committee will vet the comments received after the deadline expires and make changes to the draft if necessary before notifying it.The ministry has been flooded with representations over the draft, according to information obtained under the Right To Information (RTI) Act on June 12 by activist Vikrant Tongad.The ministry had till April 20 received 1,190 emails. Out of them, 46 related to suggestions and 1,144 to requests for an extension in the deadline.As per the information under RTI, in a note to environment minister Prakash Javadekar, Geeta Menon, a joint secretary in the ministry, said she has received over 4,000 representations. “Since the EIA notification and any change thereto is of great significance to the management of the environment in the country as a whole and to the matters of access and the utilisation of natural resources…it is suggested that we may extend the time frame to a total of 180 days from the time of issue on March 23,” the joint secretary wrote.The note was signed off with June 30 as the date till which the deadline for comments will be extended.Over 50 university student unions, college environment clubs, and youth groups from across the country wrote to the environment ministry on Thursday demanding that the draft be put on hold and rewritten as per recommendations from environmental experts. They cited examples like the May 7 gas leak at Visakhapatnam LG Polymers plant, the blowout at a gas well in Assam’s Baghjan this month, and its consequences on biodiversity, to underline the impact of a “weak environmental policy”.Kanchi Kohli, a legal researcher at New Delhi’s Centre for Policy Research, said the ministry has 725 days, almost two years, to issue the final notification based on the number and nature of comments received. She added many are demanding the strengthening of environmental regulations in the light of the threefold crisis of health, climate, and economy. “This period between the draft and final notification should not be used to introduce the proposed changes into the existing 2006 notification, as has been done in the past with other laws such as the coastal regulation zone, ” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deadline-for-public-comments-on-draft-green-policy-nears/story-4ImwkDvcanODuftk2XoKEN.html
29-06-2020||India||Scientists trace genes that aid and stem spread of Sars-CoV-2||Using the gene-editing tool CRISPR-Cas9, scientists have traced some of the genes that either aid or stem the spread of Sars-CoV-2, which causes the coronavirus disease, in cells that were infected with the virus.The screening of such genes, researchers say, can help them understand how the pathogen replicates in the human body, and point them towards potential treatments and vaccines that can target specific genes and cellular processes to stop the virus in its tracks.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Identification of host factors essential for infection is critical to inform mechanisms of COVID-19 pathogenesis, reveal variation in host susceptibility, and identify novel host-directed therapies, which may have efficacy against current and future pandemic coronaviruses,” said a study by researchers at the Yale School of Medicine and Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard in the US. In the study, scientists snipped specific genes in cultured African green monkey cells – which are susceptible to Covid-19 – and infected those gene-edited cells with Sars-CoV-2 to identify the genes that were “pro viral” or “anti viral”.The study, published as a preprint on BioRxiv on June 17, confirmed that the ACE2 receptor (angiotensin-converting enzyme 2) and Cathepsin L – proteins that were already believed to be crucial for the coronavirus’s entry into a host cell and its fusion with it – aided the virus in causing the infection. Researchers also traced genes and pathways that assist the virus in replicating. These include a group of proteins that help package the DNA – called the SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complex – and components of the TGF-β (Transforming Growth Factor- Beta) signaling pathway, a family of proteins that plays a critical role in the growth of cells and their development. The study, published on June 17 and yet to be peer reviewed, also found proteins called HMGB1, which can help activate the immune system, as “proviral”. Similarly, the study discovered that antiviral genes such as components in histones – proteins around which the DNA winds itself to fit into a cell nucleus – deterred the virus from replicating.Scientists across the world are working round-the-clock to decode the workings of the Sars-Cov-2, but little is known about the pathogen’s ability to infect easily and its path of destruction in the human body. “Studying these will help us figure out how the cell is ‘trying’ to combat the virus,” John Doench, one of the authors of the study, wrote on Twitter last week.“The genes and pathways identified here may explain this variation as disease susceptibility may positively correlate with expression of resistance genes [proviral genes] and negatively correlate with sensitization genes [antiviral] on the cellular, tissue, and organismal level,” the study, which is yet to be peer reviewed, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scientists-trace-genes-that-aid-and-stem-spread-of-the-virus/story-EeMHiYgnpBEFbQxKW6IGZP.html
29-06-2020||India||Maha surge due to relaxations, migration||MUMBAI/New Delhi: On June 27, Maharashtra reported 6,368 new Covid-19 cases, a record single-day spike not only for the western state but for any Indian state as well. This was the fourth consecutive single-day spike record for Maharashtra, India’s worst-affected region that has seen 164,626 infections. From June 24 to June 28, excluding the record on June 27, Maharashtra recorded 3,890, 4,841, 5,024 and 5,493 new cases.In the past week, until June 27, the state recorded more than 4,400 new cases a day on an average, compared to 3,400 the week before that. The doubling rate of cases – the number of days it takes for a given number of infections to double –dropped from 24 days a week ago to 22 days as of Saturday.The positivity rate, too, showed no signs of slowing down. Two weeks ago, the state had an average positivity rate of 20.6%. Since then, it has slowly, but steadily been rising despite a big increase in daily tests — on June 27, the positivity rate stood at 22%. This means that the more samples that the state tests, the more the positive cases it detects. In the two other states with high caseloads – Tamil Nadu and Delhi –the positivity rate has declined as testing has been ramped up,. In Delhi, the average positivity rate dropped from 30.7% two weeks ago to 18.7% on June 27. The corresponding number dropped from 12.2% to 9.9% in Tamil Nadu.The number of average daily tests increased from 14,000 to 20,000 in Maharashtra; 18,700 to 30,000 in Tamil Nadu; and 5,200 to 18,000 tests in Delhi in the past two weeks. Maharashtra tested 26,628 samples on Sunday, the highest since the first case was detected on March 9.Mumbai’s cases have plateaued, albeit with a caveat – the number of tests have not risen significantly. Mumbai’s share in the state’s overall cases has fallen from 59.49% on May 28 to 45.89% on June 28. Simultaneously, districts like Pune, Dhule, Aurangabad, Nagpur, Nashik and Solapur, among others, recorded an almost 10-fold rise in cases, say state-appointed district health officers. Relaxation in the national and state lockdowns and migration of workers are the main reasons behind the surge, they say. “In May, most cases were reported from Mumbai and Pune. We had eight orange and five green districts. Now, we don’t have any green districts due to rising Covid-19 cases,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, epidemiologist and state surveillance officer. “Districts like Nanded, Osmanabad, Beed and Bhandara have shown a 100% rise in the number of Covid cases in a month.”HT spoke to 10 district health officers (DHOs), and each of them said that cases surged primarily due to a relaxation in the national and state lockdowns and the human migration from metropolises to smaller cities and villages.Dr Aniruddha Athalye, (DHO), Satara, said, “We have recorded 42 Covid-related deaths, but 40 of them were migrants from Mumbai who died within a few hours of admission in hospitals due to delay in treatment.” According to him, Satara has 1004 Covid-afflicted people, but 80% of them are those who came from Mumbai, Pune and Uttar Pradesh.In Latur, of the 275 total Covid-19 cases, 95% are migrants. “With the relaxation in the lockdown, several migrants returned home. Gradually, asymptomatic infected people started spreading the disease to their family members. We had zero cases in the first week of May,” said Dr G Garaghe, DHO. Latur had 303 cases on June 28.In Dhule, people got infected while trying to provide food and water to the migrants on Mumbai-Agra highway. “Though it was a noble cause, 45 people contracted the infection,” said Dhule DHO Dr Shivendra Shagle. “Those cases were just the beginning. Soon, it started spreading among others.” Dhule has 962 cumulative cases on June 28, up from 129 a month ago. All DHOs HT spoke to said the general public did not follow physical distancing norms since lockdown relaxations on June 3. “The national lockdown relaxation was implemented for economic reasons, but people are behaving irresponsibly. We are therefore unable to break the infection chain. We have asked the state to extend the lockdown,” said Dr AR Gita, DHO of Aurangabad where cases have increased to 4,833 (June 28) from 1,370 (May 28).Activists blamed the state’s rigid testing policy. Dr Athalye said asymptomatic migrants didn’t qualify for a swab test for diagnosis. “Later, these carriers infected more people. If we had tested them earlier, we could have controlled the spread,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-surge-due-to-relaxations-migration/story-Q3Vgsk8oCoHsr4CgvB9xzI.html
29-06-2020||India||‘Bye dad, bye all,’ says Hyderabad patient in viral video minutes before his death||A 26-year-old resident, minutes before his death due to Covid-19, had sent a video recording to his father saying he was feeling breathless as the doctors had allegedly removed the ventilator support.The incident, which took place on Friday night, went viral on social media on Sunday.“They have removed ventilator and have not been responding to my plea for the last three hours to provide oxygen support. My heart has stopped and only lungs are working, but I am unable to breathe, daddy. Bye daddy. Bye all, bye daddy,” the man said in the short video selfie, which he had sent to his father from his bed at the Government Chest Hospital in Erragadda of Hyderabad.Chest hospital superintendent Mahboob Khan, however, denied the allegation that the ventilator was removed. “The ventilator support was very much there, but the patient was in such a critical stage that he could not feel the oxygen supply,” he said.His father said minutes after sending the video, his son had died and his last rites were performed on Saturday. “My son was suffering from high fever on June 24. After trying for admission in a few hospitals, he was finally admitted to the Chest Hospital on June 24, where he died on June 26,” the father, of Jawaharnagar on the city outskirts, said.Khan said the man had died of sudden heart collapse. “We have come across such cases in the last few days. Usually, aged people die because of the collapse of the lungs infected by Covid-19. We are seeing a new phenomenon of people in the age group of 25-40 years succumbing because of viral infection in the heart. They are provided oxygen, but they feel it insufficient,” he said.He said the doctors had done their best to save the man, but he was already in a critical condition at the time of admission. “There was no fault on part of the doctors at all,” the hospital superintendent said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bye-dad-bye-all-says-hyd-patient-in-viral-video-minutes-before-his-death/story-nMqXCWu46fAWOICFDD4jcI.html
29-06-2020||India||ICMR plans to scale up antigen-based Covid-19 testing||The government is planning to expand the use of rapid antigen-based Covid-19 tests and the country’s top biomedical research body has advised states to use the easy-to-use method to compliment the more rigorous RT-PCR test to detect the coronavirus as infections surge across the country. A senior official of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said rapid antigen-based tests can help to quickly determine an ongoing infection. “This is why it is a good tool that can be used for diagnosis of Covid-19 along with the RT-PCR testing. RT-PCR, while a gold standard in diagnosing Covid-19, needs a proper biosafety level 2 lab for analysis,” said the official on condition of anonymity. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Antigen based test is a rapid point-of-care test that can be done on the spot without posing a biosafety hazard as it doesn’t deal with analyisng a live virus,” added the official. These tests detect the presence of a foreign substance in a person’s oral or nasal swab that triggers the production of antibodies, and, therefore, can find infections. But these are non-confirmatory tests. This means that those who test positive through rapid antigen detection tests are considered “truly positive” for Covid-19 but those who test negative must go for an RT-PCR test for re-confirmation.RT-PCR, or reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, tests for the genetic material of the Sars-Cov-2 virus. But RT-PCR testing is limited in terms of widespread availability because of the need for a specialized lab for analysis, and it takes about five hours to get results .Delhi was the first state to roll out antigen-based testing as Covid-19 cases soared in the past two weeks, making it imperative to conduct large-scale quick testing to trace, treat and isolate the infected individuals. ICMR provided 50,000 kits to the Delhi government, and has asked other states to start antigen-based testing. Uttar Pradesh has started the tests. On Sunday, the sole approved manufactuer of the antigen tests, South Korean SD Biosensor, said daily production had exceeded 200,000. The ICMR and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, validated the Standard Q COVID-19 Ag detection kit by SD Biosensor about two weeks ago. “We are already producing about two lakh kits in a day, and even started supplying to eligible hospitals,” said CS Bedi, medical advisor, SD Biosensor.A section of private players complained of lack of availability of the antigen kits.“There is just one company that is approved; we would need more if they want widespread testing,” said a representative of a private lab who did not want to be identified.Bedi, however, said there was no shortage of testing kits. “We only sell to NABH [National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare Providers]and NABL [National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories]approved hospital and standalone labs as that is mandatory requirement of the government. We are guided by the government directive, and are being extremely careful to not sell the product to someone who may sell it further to people who are not eligible to use it,” said Bedi.On June 25, the ICMR released a document where it detailed the need for rapid antigen tests to massively scale up testing capacity as the number of Covid-19 cases rise and lockdown restrictions are gradually relaxed. “As India is lifting lockdowns in various parts of the country in a phased manner, it is expected to see an upsurge in cases of COVID-19 due to increased transmission of SARS-CoV-2 virus. In view of this, it is important to scale up testing capacity to the maximum possible levels,” the document said. “The gold standard RT-PCR diagnostic test for COVID-19 has limitations in terms of widespread availability. In view of this, there is urgent requirement of reliable and convenient rapid point of care antigen detection assays with high sensitivity and specificity,” added the document, while inviting applications from manufacturers who produce antigen-based kits. The ICMR has approved seven institutes for validating antigen-based test kits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-plans-to-scale-up-antigen-based-testing/story-CBYcw3K1zSEXAT6CNBQEGI.html
29-06-2020||India||Delhiwale: Portrait of a contented man||Can you look back at your life and tell yourself confidently that “yes, I made it!”?“Office Pantry boy” Subbal Chowdhury feels that about himself.“I transformed my fate,” he says. “I’m satisfied with myself.”Mr Chowdhury has reached this contented state of being while still in his early 30s. He does double jobs, actually. He spends the whole day as the so-called “pantry boy” in an office in Delhi’s Aerocity but, early in the morning, he is a “car cleaner”, dusting and mopping about a dozen private cars in a Gurugram apartment complex. He lives in the Millenium City and this late morning is talking on WhatsApp video from his one-room dwelling in Prem Puri neighbourhood in Sector 32.Mr Chowdhury gives a quick survey of his house through the phone screen that connects him to this reporter. The place looks sparse except for two mattresses on the floor and a small wooden shrine—the household “mandir”—on the window ledge. He shares the place with his wife and two young sons. “Just a few days ago, I sent them to her parents’ place until this mahamari ends,” he says, referring to the coronavirus pandemic. The idea was to save his family from himself. Mr Chowdhury started going to the office again, shortly after the lifting of the prolonged lockdown, and “every evening on my return home my kids would rush to hug me... now what if some day I inadvertently catch the infection while outside, and pass it on to them?”So he convinced his unwilling wife to take the kids for the time being to her parental home in West Bengal—an especially chartered bus was heading to their district, taking many Prem Puri residents wanting to escape to their villages in the same district. Returning to the subject of his contentment with life, Mr Chowdhury reveals that both he and his wife are illiterate “but my school-going kids can read newspapers.”He concedes that thousands of day-jobbers in Delhi offices might not feel the same satisfaction as him “but I had to struggle to reach here.”He grew up in a village in Malda, in West Bengal, as his parents’ only child. His father had no agricultural land and would rent himself out as a labourer in other people’s fields. His mother died when he was 12. “Babuji soon became too ill too work.” Mr Chowdhury, still a teenager, somehow managed to get work in a brick kiln on the village’s outskirts. “They initially refused to hire me because of my age, but I insisted.”He would earn 15 rupees daily, and when it rained too hard for the kiln to be operational, Mr Chowdhury would be without money, forcing him and his ailing father to spend the night without food. “It happened many times... we were that poor.”Ultimately, a few acquaintances who were from the same village but were working in Delhi took him with them to the big city. “I had no money except for five rupees... my friends paid for my train ticket.”Those kind men also helped him get a job as a pantry boy. “And gradually I built up my life.” Fifteen years have passed since then and that former brick kiln labourer progressed enough to be able to rent a room, get his father to move to the Millennium City with him, and he also married and raised a family.“Working in cities like Delhi can greatly improve your life if you are responsible,” he observes, informing that his wife was also adding to the monthly income by working as a cleaner in two households. “We would spend money wisely.” Indeed, he saved enough to not only purchase 1.5 beegha of agricultural land in his village (currently looked after by a relative) but he also constructed a two-room brick house in the village. “With a verandah,” he points out. “In my brick kiln days, my father and I lived in a small shelter built of straw.”Looking intently into the phone screen as if in deep thought, Mr Chaudhury concludes in retrospect that the most decisive moment of his life was when he decided to follow his friends to Delhi. “I wouldn’t have been able to do anything had I stayed in the village.”His father passed away in 2015. “I think he was satisfied with me.”Mr Chowdhury convinced his wife to temporarily quit Gurugram with their kids on the assurance that he would join them soon and together they would live in their village house for as long as the pandemic lasts.“But we can’t go back to where we started... I will have to explain to her that I cannot come... she will understand,” he says.And after the pandemic fades away, they will again be a working couple, their sons back in school—building up a life “even better than mine.”A minute after the chat, Mr Chowdhury Whatsapps an image of his family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-portrait-of-a-contented-man/story-6emGlqkG8m6wOf8njFFYGN.html
29-06-2020||India||Second stimulus may stop contraction in the economy: EY India report||A second round of fiscal stimulus in the latter part of the financial year may help arrest the strong contractionary momentum in the Indian economy, and a borrowing-based full implementation of Rs 111 lakh crore is needed to restore growth and generate tangible employment, consultancy firm EY India said in its latest edition of Economy Watch report.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman made the announcement of the first stimulus on March 26 to immediately provide relief to the poor through direct cash assistance, free food grains, and cooking gas to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. It was followed by monetary measures announced by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to infuse liquidity in the system. Sitharaman announced a five-part stimulus package between May 13 and May 17, providing credit guarantee to the industry along with far-reaching policy reforms. The government said the total value of all announcements since March 26, including RBI’s monetary measures, was Rs 20.97 lakh crore. The report said India’s growth projections by global institutions like the International Monetary Fund (IMF), World Bank, and Asian Development Bank (ADB) had been downwardly revised despite a series of measures to stimulate the economy between March end to mid-May. It added it shows that the package had only a “limited impact” in reversing the contractionary momentum, which mainly relates to the nationwide lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19.The World Bank on June 8 projected India’s FY21 growth to contract by 3.2%, a downward revision from its earlier forecast of 2.2% on April 12. IMF’s World Economic Outlook Update on June 24 also sharply revised down its earlier growth projection of 1.9% for India to (-)4.5% in FY21. ADB revised its projection even more sharply from its earlier 4.0% to (-)4.0% on June 10.DK Srivastava, the chief policy advisor at EY India, said the downward revisions in growth forecasts by international agencies came after factoring in the stimulus packages announced by RBI and the finance ministry by mid-May. “Clearly, these stimulus packages were not considered to be enough to reverse the contractionary momentum of the Indian economy,” he said.Citing global rating agency Fitch’s report this month— ‘Coronavirus Macro Policy Responses Unprecedented: Tracking Policy Easing in the Fitch-20 Countries’ — he said, “In the case of new fiscal measures, India was placed last but one after Mexico. India’s fiscal measures amounted to only 1.1% of GDP [gross domestic product]... whereas the largest fiscal injection was given by Brazil at 13.5%, followed by the US at 11.5%. In the category relating to monetary easing, India was placed well below a number of countries such as Turkey, South Africa, Brazil, the US, Canada, Mexico, and Poland. India’s rate reduction amounted to 115 basis points as compared to 300 basis points for Turkey and 250 basis points for South Africa.”He said policymakers are constrained in terms of offering larger stimuli because of a number of India-specific challenges particularly since the growth had slowed even before the Covid-19 crisis and there was a contraction in gross tax revenues.The report foresees a need to have another stimulus measure with more focus on capital expenditure. “A second round of fiscal stimulus in the latter part of the fiscal year may help arrest the strong contractionary momentum in the Indian economy. There is also scope to further reduce the repo rate,” Srivastava said.“It is not only the size of the fiscal stimulus but also its composition in terms of low multiplier expenditures [revenue expenditures] viz-à-viz high multiplier expenditures [capital expenditures], which matter.”The report acknowledges that lower revenue collection would constrain the Centre’s fiscal capacity to announce a larger stimulus. “In order to break out from the vicious circle of low tax revenue-low fiscal stimulus-low real and nominal GDP growth in addition to coping with COVID-19, the Centre has to develop a strategy which requires a borrowing-based full implementation of NIP [National Infrastructure Pipeline],” it said. Sitharaman in December unveiled the Rs 102 lakh crore NIP for economic and social infrastructure in line with the aim to make India a $5 trillion economy by 2024-25.CA Vijay Kumar Gupta, former Central Council Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), said, “It is too early to assess the impact of economic stimuli announced so far. However, more fiscal and monetary interventions will be required to bring the economy back on track.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-stimulus-may-stop-contraction-in-the-economy-ey-india-report/story-Oqh1IzDw73LOcN72SfCdwK.html
29-06-2020||India||Sports some distance away, pandemic a safe bet for bookies||With all Indian sporting events suspended amid the public health crisis triggered by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Delhi’s betting rings have found a new game to wager on – predictions of statistics linked to the pandemic.While legal betting is limited to horse-racing in the country, syndicates run illicit betting markets, often called the “satta bazaar”. The Delhi Public Gambling Act (1955), which is an offshoot of the old colonial statute Public Gambling Act (1867), bans public gambling and keeping of common gaming houses in the national capital. Seven illegal bookmakers Hindustan Times spoke to in Delhi-National Capital Region said that since the Covid-19 outbreak forced sporting events to be put on hold, bets were now being placed on the dates and contours of the lockdown necessitated by the pandemic, the infection rate, the death toll, etc. These bets are often placed through surreptitious phone calls.“Initially, when the virus was still new, bets were being placed on when it would be eradicated. Then, money was being placed on lockdown dates, which had a longer validity. Daily bets also included the infection and death counts in different cities,” a 38-year-old bookie, who has been involved in the illicit gambling business for nearly a decade, said on condition of anonymity.Under the nationwide lockdown, which began on March 25, large gatherings, including social, political, religious, and sporting events were banned.During the first phase of the lockdown, people were mostly placing bets on when the restrictions would be lifted. For instance, if a punter called to ask the “bhaav” (odds) to place a bet and they were told “44-46, Corona”, it meant that the odds were in “favour of corona” (infections rising in India) and the lockdown continuing beyond April 15. This means that for any bet, a bookie offers two odds — ‘safer’ and ‘riskier’. In the above cited instance, if a punter bets ₹1lakh in favour of the safer odd (44), they get a return of ₹1.44 lakh. If they place their bet against safer odds, they bet ‘riskier’, so a win will earn the punter their principal amount of ₹1 lakh plus ₹46,000. “The validity of the bet on lockdown dates was usually set a day before the government announcement was expected. Those who bet for Corona, which means lockdown extending, won a good sum of money,” the bookie quoted above said.To seal transactions, most bookies are using code words such as “India jeetega”, “un-India” or “Dilli mein corona”. “If the odds are in favour of corona, it means you are betting that cases will rise or the lockdown will continue. In the context of Delhi, at present, the odds are in favour of Corona, which means cases will rise as compared to the previous day,” a second bookie said, asking not to be named.An east Delhi-based bookmaker, who has been involved in the “satta market” for nearly three decades, said that the interest in placing bets on the Covid-19 situation in India was primarily because of the ease with which predictions can be made on the widely available statistics and because of suspension of sporting events.He said that many gamblers were eagerly waiting for the Indian Premier League (IPL), previously scheduled to begin from March 29, but the announcement on the postponement the matches came as a jolt to them. “IPL is a major season for us and the clients, and that being cancelled was a big hit. Many arrange for money to bet on these matches from different sources so that they can repay debts or pump this money into their businesses, etc,” said this bookie.According to Doha-based International Centre for Sports Security, which promotes integrity and security in sports, the illegal betting market in India $150 billion, which includes $200 million bet on every one day international played by the Indian cricket team. Officials estimate that everyday transactions worth ₹12-15 crore is made in Delhi on illegal bets. He added that since the first phase of the lockdown coincided with IPL, gamblers found the Covid-19 statistics to put their money on. However, considering the predictability and ease of availability of these numbers, many bookies have set minimum betting amounts of ₹50,000-₹1 lakh and are insisting that all transactions be made in cash.“Operating has become considerably easy these days because it seems like the police are busy with the management of Covid-19. But you never take it easy in this field, because you can get busted anytime,” he added.Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava said that even though police personnel were busy because of the Covid-19 outbreak, units of the force were keeping a watch on such illegal networks.“We do not know how the nature of betting has exactly changed after the pandemic, but the Delhi Police are showing no laxity in cracking down on any crime network. Our teams are monitoring all cyber operations to check for any illegal activity. Yes, our men are getting infected because of the kind of work we do, but they are also recovering at a fast rate and we are taking all the care that policing in the city does not suffer in any sense,” Shrivastava said.A crime branch official, who did not wish to be named, said that many bookies were compulsive gamblers. “They place bets even on the weather during the monsoon season. We are yet to come across any such case of them betting on the issues related to the Covid 19 pandemic. It is possible they may be doing it. The extent of the betting will be clear when we get any specific tip-off and make arrests.”Former Delhi police officer Ashok Chand said that the police generally relies on information collected from a network of sources to nail bookies because it is difficult to monitor their operations. Chand, who was the head of the crime branch in 2010-2012, said, “They (bookies) have very discreet way of operating so it is difficult to regularly monitor them. Therefore police mostly depend on the tip off they get from their sources or informants and then go back and forward to crack the whole chain. The nature and way of the way this network operates has definitely evolved, but so has policing,” said Chand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-pandemic-a-safe-bet-for-bookies-in-delhi/story-kcJQhusabGH8DzpHmiBmZN.html
29-06-2020||India||‘They removed ventilator...’: Man messages father before he dies of Covid-19||A 26-year-old man from Hyderabad sent a selfie video from the hospital bed to his father minutes before he succumbed to Covid-19, stating that he was feeling breathless as the doctors had allegedly removed the ventilator support.The incident, which happened on Friday night, came to light on Sunday after the video was widely shared on social media.“They have removed ventilator and have not been responding to my plea for the last three hours to provide oxygen support. My heart has stopped and only lungs are working, but I am unable to breathe, daddy. Bye daddy. Bye all, bye daddy,” the man said in the short selfie video, which he had sent to his father from the bed of Government Chest Hospital, Erragadda in Hyderabad.His father said his son died minutes after sending the video. His last rites were performed on Saturday. “My son was suffering from high fever on June 24. After trying for admission in a few hospitals, he was finally admitted to the Chest Hospital on June 24, where he succumbed on June 26,” the father, who hails from Jawaharnagar on the outskirts of Hyderabad said.Chest hospital superintendent Mahboob Khan, however, denied the allegation that the ventilator was removed. “The ventilator support was very much there, but the patient was in such a critical stage that he could not feel the oxygen supply,” he said.Khan said the young man had died of sudden collapse of heart. “We have come across such cases in the last few days. Usually, aged people die because of the collapse of the lungs infected by Covid-19. We are seeing a new phenomenon of people in the age group of 25-40 years succumbing because of viral infection in the heart. They will be provided oxygen but, they feel it insufficient,” he said.He said the doctors had done their best to save the man, but he was already in a critical condition at the time of admission. “There was no fault of doctors at all,” the hospital superintendent said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/feeling-breathless-dad-says-hyderabad-man-in-selfie-video-minutes-before-dying-of-covid-19/story-hXtjvlRwT0Z5CaPYQfgzXP.html
29-06-2020||India||‘Need to be close to our friends’: India holds naval exercise with Japan amid stand-off with China||Indian and Japanese warships conducted exercises in the Indian Ocean on Saturday, announced the navies of both the countries. The Japanese Maritime Self-Defence Force described the manoeuvres as designed to “promote mutual understanding” and consisted of four warships, two from each country.Naval exercises are now routine between India and Japan, but the timing of the present exercise will be bracketed with the military stand-off between India and China in Ladakh.“We are using the exercises for strategic communications,” said Vice-Admiral Pradeep Chauhan, director-general of the National Maritime Foundation. The navies were “not there for combat purposes but for signalling,” he added.Also Read: China’s Xi Jinping is a successor to dictator Joseph Stalin, says US NSA O’Brien“We need to be proximate with our friends and the Chinese know there is a direct ladder of escalation between Japan and the United States,” said the Vice-Admiral.The Indian navy training vessels INS Rana and INS Kulush were joined by the Japanese navy’s JS Kashima and JS Shimayuki. The Japanese embassy in New Delhi said this was the 15th such exercise in three years. “The content of this exercise is tactical training and communications training,” said embassy spokesperson Toshihide Ando, “with no specific scenario.” 27 JUN, JS KASHIMA (TV 3508) and JS SHIMAYUKI (TV 3513), the JMSDF Training Squadron, conducted an exercise with INS RANA and INS KULISH, Indian Navy at the Indian Ocean. JMSDF promoted mutual understanding with Indian Navy through this exercise. pic.twitter.com/obiXOSVULHThe Japanese navy has become one of the principal partners of the Indian Navy. Indian naval ships take part in the exercise, both bilaterally with their Japanese counterparts and as part of the Malabar Exercises, which include the United States. Also Read: India waits for China’s PLA to disengage at Ladakh, says won’t allow a ‘new normal’Vice-Admiral Chauhan noted that Indian Army deployments were “sector specific” but India needed to apply pressure across military theatres. Exercises like these remind Beijing that Indian military can quickly deny air cover for Chinese naval assets in the Indian Ocean - and that such plans are ready. “They are still far away from deploying a carrier in the Indian Ocean,” he added.Also Read: With aggressive posturing along LAC, China turning bilateral relationship back to 1990s, says IndiaJapan was one of the few countries who publicly supported India during the Doklam crisis. New Delhi and Beijing have preferred to let the Ladakh crisis be handled bilaterally, one reason it rejected US President Donald Trump’s offer of mediation. Tokyo has only expressed condolences over the deaths of the Indian soldiers in Galwan Valley and pointedly said nothing about Chinese casualties. Also Read: India deploys air defence systems in eastern LadakhThe Japanese navy has itself been upgraded and expanded in recent years because of the territorial disputes it has with an increasingly aggressive China. Despite its Pacific constitution, Tokyo has inducted a “helicopter destroyer” that has the some tonnage as India’s aircraft carriers and is now building a “helicopter carrier” which has a full flight deck.Japan has one of the best non-nuclear submarines in the world and cutting edge anti-submarine warfare technology. Masashi Nishihara, head of the Japanese defence think tank, Research Institute for Peace and Security, says, “We are leaders in submarine detection. Not only can we find them, we can identify any variety of submarine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-ladakh-indian-army-galwan-valley-need-to-be-close-to-our-friends-india-holds-naval-exercise-with-japan-amid-stand-off-with-china/story-clZK5EzU9TBfp1iVd7uJXN.html
29-06-2020||India||Shikhar Dhawan: I would urge everyone to help animals in whatever capacity they can||Cricketer Shikhar Dhawan has many fans and admirers for what he does on the pitch with a bat in his hand. But on Friday, he won everyone’s hearts with his activities outside the stadium, after he posted on Instagram revealing that he has adopted two dogs. Adopted these cuties today ❤️ Chloe and Valentine our new family members 🐕🐕 #desidogsA post shared by  Shikhar Dhawan (@shikhardofficial) on Jun 26, 2020 at 7:38am PDTTalking about the new additions to his family, Shikhar says, “Chloe and Valentine are a mother-daughter pair of stray dogs who have been looking for a home for over three years now. Their caretaker didn’t want to separate them and so we decided to take both of them in and care for them.”Shikhar’s wife, Aesha Dhawan, reposted his photo and urged everyone to adopt.   Meet our new family members!!! Welcome to our pack!! Adopted these two, mother and daughter. Blessed and grateful!! @aliyah_dhawan @puppylove.az @pfa.official @cesarsway Adoption is the way to go guys. #desidogsA post shared by  Aesha Dhawan (@aesha.dhawan5) on Jun 26, 2020 at 8:45am PDTEchoing the sentiment, Shikhar says, “For me the looks and pedigree don’t matter as much as the need to care for the animals who are abandoned and on the streets. I truly believe in the ‘Adopt and Don’t Shop’ policy and I would urge everyone to help animals in whatever capacity they can.”“I think we should consider ourselves blessed by God to have a good decent life and hence we should take responsibility for the less fortunate around us,” he adds. Interact with the author on Twitter/@sammysamarth||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shikhar-dhawan-i-would-urge-everyone-to-help-animals-in-whatever-capacity-they-can/story-4kgYFDzFMYaGOrB8FjEWKN.html
