30-06-2020||India||Goa BJP MLA tests Covid 19 positive, CM promises stricter enforcement of preventive steps||A BJP MLA in Goa tested positive for the novel coronavirus becoming the first high-level functionary in the state to get infected by Covid-19, said his aide. He added that the MLA was suffering from a bout of fever for the last couple of days. “Necessary precautions are already underway to ensure the health of the MLAs as well as his associates,” the aide said. The development comes after a former Health Minister was found to be positive a few days ago. His condition is said to be improving. For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe state on Tuesday detected 64 new cases of the disease taking the tally to 1,315, including 716 active cases and three deaths. The number of containment zones has risen to six besides the micro containment zones where limited areas and individual buildings are designated as containment zones. Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant asked residents to strictly follow the preventive measures while ruling out a lockdown in the state. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19“Maintaining social distancing, wearing a mask, not coming in close contact with other persons, using a sanitiser are the right precautions. A lockdown cannot be a precaution. Lockdown cannot be a solution,” said Sawant, in a departure from his advocacy for enforcing a strict lockdown in March this year. He had then imposed restrictions even on the sale of essential items. “We will (need to) be stricter. I have just instructed the police. If need be, for those not wearing masks, the fine amount will be increased and those who do not follow these instructions will also be put in prison,” Sawant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-bjp-mla-tests-covid-19-positive-cm-promises-stricter-enforcement-of-preventive-steps/story-rCjkCTKqZD0YkCdg9pzo3J.html
30-06-2020||India||Tripura aims to emulate Janta curfew’s success with 24-hr Covid-19 lockdown||The Tripura government on Tuesday announced a one-day lockdown throughout the state on July 5 in an attempt to break the chain of transmissions of coronavirus disease in the northeastern state. The one-day lockdown, inspired by the Janata curfew held on March 22, would begin from 5 am on Sunday and would end at 5 am the next day, said chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb. “We have declared a lockdown in the state on July 5 as we are in stage I of Covid-19 outbreak. We need to prepare for stage 2 and 3. So, I request people to stay indoors and make this one-day lockdown a success like the one-day Janata Curfew on March 22 this year,”said chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb through a video circulated on social media. For Coronavirus Live UpdatesTripura has registered a total of 1,386 Covid-19 patients, including the 1,085, who have recovered, as per the latest health record. The state government has, from Tuesday onwards, also hiked the fine for not wearing masks while moving outdoors from Rs. 100 to Rs. 200 for the first offence. For the second offence, a fine of Rs. 400 will apply instead or Rs. 200, which was the case earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-aims-to-emulate-janta-curfew-s-success-with-24-hr-covid-19-lockdown/story-XEHFz9vyKpA14Na4gw5QtK.html
30-06-2020||India||‘No doubt’ India behind attack on Karachi stock exchange, says Pak PM Imran Khan||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan told parliament on Tuesday that there was “no doubt” that India was behind Monday’s attempted attack on the Pakistan Stock Exchange in Karachi. “What happened in Mumbai, they wanted to do the same [in Karachi]; they wanted to spread uncertainty. We have no doubt this was done by India,” Imran Khan said, referring to the 2008 Mumbai attacks in which more than 160 people were killed.In his address, he also praised a police sub-inspector and three security guards who lost their lives during the attack. He called them “heroes of Pakistan”.“They gave sacrifices and thwarted a major incident, which was planned by India to destabilise us,” he said, adding that the attackers had a lot of ammunition and they wanted to take hostages.“My cabinet and its ministers know that all our agencies were on high alert. Our agencies preempted at least four major attempts of terrorism and two of them were around Islamabad.“We were fully prepared ... this was a huge win for us,” he said, paying tribute to the security agencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-doubt-india-behind-attack-on-pak-stock-exchange-pm-imran-khan-tells-parliament/story-bvJRUqlwqjWeSEa7URBoLI.html
30-06-2020||India||Lightning kills 11 more across five districts in Bihar||Lightning struck in Bihar’s Saran, Patna, Nawada, Lakhisarai and Jamui districts on Sunday claiming lives of 11 people and left around eight injured, officials said.Five persons died in Saran, two each in Patna and Nawada while one person each lost their lives in Lakhisarai and Jamui districts.Expressing grief over the incident, chief minister Nitish Kumar announced a payment of Rs 4 lakh as ex-gratia to next of the kin of each deceased. In Saran, five people including three of a family were killed and two women injured in separate incidents. The first incident occurred in Mahamda village when health department officials were collecting sample for Corona virus from 50 people. Three of a family including woman and minor died when lightning struck. Fire services personnel reached the spot and admitted them in Garkha primary health centre where the doctor declared them ‘brought dead’.Circle officer of the Garkha, Mohammad Ismail said two women from Panapur were injured in the lightning. He said that on the directive of state government he immediately provided cheque of Rs 4 lakh each of the family.Reports from Nawada said that two persons including a man and woman died separately. The man was in his agriculture field while woman was coming from a forest after collecting wood.In rural Patna, a 15-year-old boy was struck when he was sitting in a mango orchard in Gopkita village while another person died when lightning struck him while he sleeping on his terrace at Bihari Bigha locality of Barh.On June 25, 95 people were killed in lightning in different parts of Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lightning-kills-11-more-across-five-districts-in-bihar/story-bZYisRL12a5OprMbjEGpLL.html
30-06-2020||India||Chhattisgarh govt orders probe into youth’s suicide attempt outside CM’s residence||The Chhattisgarh government on Tuesday ordered a magisterial inquiry into an incident of suicide attempt by a youth outside the chief minister’s residence in Raipur on Monday, said an official statement.The collector of Dhamtari district issued the inquiry based on a preliminary inquiry report and appointed the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Dhamtari as the investigating officer. The investigation report is to be submitted in a month, the statement said.On Monday, a 27-year-old resident of Dhamtari district went to CM’s residence and insisted on meeting chief minister Bhupesh Baghel. Suddenly, he poured petrol on himself, which he was carrying in a small bottle, and set himself on fire. The CM’s security staff immediately rushed to save him and took him to a hospital. The man sustained 40 % burn injuries and is admitted in a government hospital in Raipur.The statement by Chhattisgarh government on Tuesday said the key points of magisterial inquiry will be in what circumstances this incident happened, was there any motivation behind the act, why and with whom he came to Raipur, and if he was mentally unbalanced then why did the family members not attempt treatment.On Monday, the police officials had said the man’s action could have stemmed from his inability to make a YouTube film. They said that he was a writer and had given an application to the village panchayat for making a YouTube film.The Chhattisgarh public relations department after speaking to his family, had claimed on Monday that he was mentally unstable for the past two years.“He owns 2 acres of land in his village and possesses a job card under the employment guarantee scheme. He even had worked for 11 days last month under the scheme and had given an application to village panchayat for making a YouTube film,” the department said in a statement.The man’s wife, however, denied that her husband was mentally unstable.“We are suffering from an acute financial crisis due to which my husband was very worried. He is not mentally unstable,” she said while speaking to reporters in Dhamtari on Monday.The incident prompted the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to target the Congress government saying it has “failed to help the state’s youth.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-govt-orders-probe-into-youth-s-suicide-attempt-outside-cm-s-residence/story-cg1GFquHp3qiqpM1T5PPyI.html
30-06-2020||India||RTI activist flags construction in Kaziranga animal corridor in violation of SC order||A right to information (RTI) and environment activist from Assam has filed a complaint with the central empowered committee (CEC) against illegal construction in an animal corridor close to Kaziranga National Park (KNP) and tiger reserve in violation of a Supreme Court order.In his complaint filed on Tuesday with the committee constituted by the apex court to monitor implementation of the court’s order, Rohit Choudhury said that illegal construction was going on in the Kanchanjuri animal corridor of KNP and tiger reserve violating a Supreme Court order issued in April last year.In its order, the SC had banned all mining related activities along KNP area and catchment area of rivers/streams/rivulets originating in Karbi Anglong hills and flowing into the national park and tiger reserve.“No new construction shall be permitted on private lands which form part of the nine identified animal corridors,” the SC order had stipulated.The complaint alleged the “blatant violations” of the SC ruling was going on in connivance with Assam government resulted in contempt of court and orders should be issued to demolish the construction and connectivity of the animal corridor restored.“A powerful and influential person is involved in undertaking construction of a huge building with approach road within the critical Kanchanjuri animal corridor, one of the nine identified corridors of KNP and tiger reserve,” the complaint, a copy of which is with HT, read.“These nine corridors are lifeline for the wildlife of Kaziranga, particularly the long ranging species like Indian Elephant, tiger among other forms of wildlife,” it added.Choudhury alleged that since the ongoing construction can be easily seen from the national highway running close to the national park, the illegal activity is going on in connivance of forest, civil and police administration of the area.The complainant mentioned that though the matter was brought to the notice of the state’s chief secretary earlier this month, no action was taken to stop the illegal construction.“If destruction of notified animal corridors continues in this manner then it is a matter of time that all the corridors will be destroyed and blocked and Kaziranga tiger reserve and its wildlife will be completely isolated from Karbi Anglong hills, which are a lifeline to the beleaguered animals during the annual floods,” it said.Choudhury urged the CEC to intervene and recommend contempt of court proceedings against all violators of the SC ruling including government officers.Despite repeated attempts neither the state forest minister nor other officials of the departments were available for their comments on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rti-activist-flags-construction-in-kaziranga-animal-corridor-in-violation-of-sc-order/story-NiS91dmVow6EN8tvwfk5pM.html
30-06-2020||India||China says India’s ban on 59 Chinese apps may violate World Trade Organisation rules||China said on Tuesday that India’s move to ban 59 Chinese-origin mobile apps could be a breach of World Trade Organisation (WTO) rules, and urged New Delhi to create an open and fair business environment.“India’s measure selectively and discriminatorily aims at certain Chinese apps on ambiguous and far-fetched grounds, runs against fair and transparent procedure requirements, abuses national security exceptions and (is suspected of) violating WTO rules,” Ji Rong, spokesman at the Chinese embassy in New Delhi, said in a statement.India banned the apps on Monday, its strongest move against China in the online space since fighting erupted on the two countries’ border this month.Rong said the ban would affect Indian jobs, and urged India to treat all investments and service providers equally, and create an open, fair and just business environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-says-india-s-ban-on-59-chinese-apps-may-violate-world-trade-organisation-rules/story-nth7SGpu5GRmWEbHwspdnK.html
30-06-2020||India||Maharashtra Congress minister says Sharad Pawar should have advised PM Modi instead of Rahul Gandhi on China||Maharashtra Congress leader and a minister in the Maha Vikas Aghadi coalition government in the state, Nitin Raut, has reignited the political controversy around NCP chief and veteran politician Sharad Pawar’s statement reminding the Congress of the 1962 war with China while advising against alleged politicization of the recent Chinese incursions.Sharad Pawar reference to the 1962 war, when large tracts of land were occupied by the Chinese, was widely seen as a sharp disapproval of the Congress party’s continuous allegations that the BJP-led Central government in general and Prime Minister Narendra Modi in particular, had surrendered Indian territory to China by refusing to acknowledge the intrusions across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh by the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) since May this year.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has been leading those attacks. since the June 15 violent face-off between Indian and Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley, where 20 soldiers were killed along with an unspecified number of Chinese casualties. Also Read: PM Modi’s address to the nation: Congress alleges PM ‘afraid’ of talking about ChinaNitin Raut today attacked Pawar over the statement given last Saturday on June 26.“When China captured our territory in 1962, the situation was different. Sharad Pawar should have rectified his mistakes when he was the defence minister under Congress rule. Instead of commenting on Rahul Gandhi’s remark, he should’ve advised the PM to speak on the issue,” Raut was quoted as having said.The Congress, the NCP are in an alliance with Shiv Sena, which is heading the three-party coalition Maharashtra government and Raut’s remarks against Pawar are relevant in that context.“We can’t forget what had happened in 1962 when China occupied 45,000 square kilometres of India’s territory. While making these allegations, one should also look at what had happened in the past. This is an issue of national interest and once should not bring in politics here,” Pawar had said while answering a question over Rahul Gandhi’s attacks on PM Modi over the issue.Raut’s statement follows a much milder reaction from the state Congress chief and state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat. Thorat, on Sunday, had said that no conclusion should be drawn by using just one of Pawar’s comments and it didn’t amount to “a clean chit” to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the issue.“We lost 20 soldiers in the Galwan valley face off. Yet, PM Modi said there was no intrusion by China. Taking advantage of this Chinese are calling our martyrs as intruders. I am sure that even Pawar saheb is as saddened by this as we are this as are,” Thorat had said.He had added that the Congress party was discharging its responsibility by asking questions on the issues of national interest. He also said that there was no comparison between the 1962 situation and the current clashes with the Chinese army at the LAC.Earlier today, an editorial in Shiv Sena’s mouthpiece Saamana alleged that the Narendra Modi-government was focusing more on responding to Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi instead of giving a befitting reply to China for infiltration and killing Indian soldiers in Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-congress-minister-says-sharad-pawar-should-have-advised-pm-modi-instead-of-rahul-gandhi-on-china/story-NpySGqKt8hpntIDNzzxgTL.html
30-06-2020||India||Villagers near Indo-Nepal border in Uttarakhand use Nepalese SIM cards to beat network blues||A simmering boundary dispute between India and Nepal hasn’t stopped villagers in bordering areas in Uttarakhand from relying on Nepalese SIM cards due to poor connectivity of the Indian telecom service providers.The villagers mainly of Khumti gram panchayat in Pithoragarh district which comprises about 10-12 villages, have to depend on the Nepalese telecom service providers.They said they are forced to use Nepalese SIM cards as the network of the Indian telecom service providers is very poor in comparison to that of the Nepalese.Param Singh, a villager of Khumti village which is located about 15 km away from the Nepal border said, “We are compelled to use the Nepalese SIM cards because we have no other option. Their network in this hilly terrain is very strong as compared to the Indian ones who have very poor or often no network.”Singh added, “The villagers who have someone known in Nepal, ask them to arrange a Nepalese SIM card for them on their documents and then receive it here when they come to visit them. It is the only way of communication for any work or emergency.”He said almost everyone in the village has one Nepalese SIM and one Indian SIM card in their phones. “When in the village, we use the Nepalese SIM and when in the market down with a better network, we use the Indian SIM cards.”But not all villagers can access Nepalese SIM cards. “Only those who know people in Nepal are able to get the SIM cards, others fail to get any,” said Raju, another villager.“I don’t have anyone in Nepal, hence I am not able to get any Nepalese SIM card but I wanted one. I have to use the Indian ones only which have a very poor network here. Due to this, we face many problems especially in case of any emergency. This is the reason people here opt for a Nepalese SIM card,” he said. Gopal Singh, head Khumti gram panchayat said, “The Indian service providers started their service here about two years ago only. Before that people used to avail the WLL services only. Despite the starting of their services, the network is very poor. People have to search for its signals by moving in the village for about 2-3 km. Many hang their mobile phones in trees nearby their house to catch the network,” said Singh.Singh also said that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Nepalese SIM cards are now difficult to procure. “As the movement of people has stopped due to the pandemic, the SIM cards are now not available easily. Those who have them, now have to ask their acquaintances in Nepal to recharge their connections.”He said that usually one could get the Nepalese SIM cards of their Namaste Nepal or Sky networks at Rs 150-200. “We have urged the administration to improve the connectivity of Indian networks in the area so that we don’t need to use the Nepalese ones any more, but it is yet to improve,” he said. Experts are divided on the usage of Nepalese SIM cards by the villagers near the border. MS Waldia, a retired Indian army Colonel, termed the use of Nepalese SIM cards and internet by the Indian villagers a ‘dangerous thing’ for nation’s security.“The government needs to take special attention towards the communication needs of border villages in the context of recent adverse behaviour of Nepal towards India,” he said. Ankur Chandrakant, a cyber expert in Uttarakhand, however, claimed that there is no security risk as such by the use of Nepalese SIM cards by Indian villagers.“It can’t pose any security risk as they are being used for normal calling only. But the government should work towards boosting the connectivity in those areas by installing boosters at mobile towers or new towers.”The local public representatives including Dharchula MLA Harish Dhami and Almora MP Ajay Tamta under whose constituency the area falls, are also aware of the issue. Dhami, Congress MLA from Dharchula offered his MLA LAD funds to boost the communication facilities in the area.“I’m ready to give whatever money required to set up the basic infrastructure for the communication at Indo-Nepal and Indo-China border areas”, he said Almora MP Ajay Tamta said mobile phone towers will soon be installed in the region. “Public telecom service provider BSNL is conducting a survey in the area keeping the needs of communication facilities. As soon as the survey gets completed, the work of installing towers will be started,” he said. Vijay Jogdande, district magistrate Pithoragarh said the administration has written to BSNL and even the ministry of defence to take required measures to boost the mobile connectivity. “The final decision has to be taken by them as installing mobile towers or boosters to improve phone connectivity is their prerogative. Once it is done, we can then maintain it later. Meanwhile, we have provided satellite phones in at least 36 gram panchayats in the border areas to connect to the authorities concerned in case of a disaster or emergency,” said Jogdande.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/villagers-near-indo-nepal-border-in-uttarakhand-use-nepalese-sim-cards-to-beat-network-blues/story-7zNKuYk86CyEZ2kPSAk2gO.html
30-06-2020||India||Slimmer menus, new dishes: Chowk bistros limp towards normality||Slowly but surely, the Old City is regaining its glory as famous food joints open with the norms of the new normal – take away and home delivery only – with slashed menus and newer delicacies.Few days after Tunday Kababi opened its Aminabad unit, the Old Tunday started operations at the Akbari Gate outlet. Raheem’s, Mubeen’s and Idrees Biryani fired up their furnaces last Friday. The Old Tunday, which usually serves only beef kababs and parathas, is currently serving only chicken kababs-paratha. “Hopefully, we will soon add our original delicacy to our menu. We are just waiting for the supply to begin,” says the sales boy at the over-100-year-old food joint.Idrees, not linked to any food aggregators, is offering packing and allowing few to dine at its food joint. “We are operating only with the minimum staff just for our regular customers, who were missing our delicacies. Mutton is available but at high prices and dining with social distancing is not feasible, so we are just serving biryani, korma and rumali roti. Tandoori (grilled) and beef items are not available for the moment,” said owner Abu Bakar.Chaat shops, kulfi, street and other vegetarian delights are also back at Chowk crossing. Raj Kumar of Raja Thandai said, “People are very scared. They are not venturing out to eat. I am procuring only one-fourth the pre-Covid days’ milk and that too is not sold in a day. We don’t offer home delivery and are just a dine-in and take-away shop, so whosoever comes to us, can avail our services. It’s a very tough time and when it’s business time in the evening, we start closing. So, we are missing the peak sales time as well.”Mubeen’s Shoeb Ahmed Qureshi seconds him. “People tend to move out in the evening and after 7.30 - 8 pm, and we start closing, as 9 pm is the final deadline. We have cleared out the ground floor and are offering restaurant service only on the first floor with social distancing. Customers are avoiding dining and prefer packing service only. It’s getting tough for us with disposable packing, sanitising cost and other safety precautions to contain the prices.” They have added chicken pasanda and other similar items to make-up for the beef items which are the highest selling dishes at their restaurant.Gomti Nagar resident Mayank Kant had come all the way to Akbari Gate to savour Tunday’s kababs and Mubeen’s beef pasanda. Instead, he had to settle for chicken kababs and chicken pasanda.“Very few people are moving out. We are working with limited staff and outstation staff is yet to return. Also, our menu is very limited and customers are so less. Hope things improve and we return to the old days soon,” wishes Raheem’s Saud Ahmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/slimmer-menus-new-dishes-chowk-bistros-limp-towards-normality/story-wQCBoSPDIGGHzZZWmwtkjL.html
30-06-2020||India||Never claimed Patanjali’s Coronil cures Covid, says Acharya Balkrishna||Acharya Balkrishna, the chief executive officer of Patanjali that was seen to claim a cure for Covid just last week, on Tuesday claimed that the company had never claimed that its newly-tested medicines would treat coronavirus.This reeks of a conspiracy, the company’s chief executive told reporters on Tuesday after the company responded to notices from Uttarakhand’s drug regulatory body. At least one FIR has been filed accusing the company of making misleading claims. The Uttarakhand High Court also issued notice to the Centre on a petition over the claims made by the company on Tuesday.Balkrishna said the company had never claimed to have made a medicine to cure Covid.“We cited Coronil as ayurvedic medicine for immunity boosting, fever, cough and allergic problems,” Balkrishna said. He insisted that the company had only pointed out that the clinical trials indicated that Covid-19 patients, when given this medicine, got cured.“Only results of clinical trial based curing of positive patients were claimed by us,” he said.Balkrishna’s effort to distance himself from the claim and perception is at variance with his Twitter timeline where he had retweeted news reports and congratulatory messages for discovering a medicine that could cure Covid-19. Or the many statements that he and Baba Ramdev had been issuing over the last fortnight.Watch | Never said Coronil can cure Covid patients’: Patanjali CEO Balkrishna “The whole country and the world was waiting for medicine or vaccines for corona. We are proud to announce that the first Ayurvedic, clinically controlled trial based evidence and research-based medicine has been prepared by the combined efforts of Patanjali Research Centre and NIMS,” Yoga Guru Ramdev had said at the press conference on June 23.Also read | ‘All parameters met’: Patanjali claims Coronil clinical trial details furnished to CentreThat claim made headlines in India. But it also drew attention of the regulatory authorities who figured that Patanjali hadn’t taken the requisite clearances from the state or central authorities. The Union Ayush Ministry issued gag orders, prohibiting Patanjali from advertising its claim before the approvals were in place.The first hint about the changing stance of the company had come a day after the company’s announcement about the clinical trials. Uttarakhand’s Ayurveda department had then announced that Patanjali had only applied for a licence to manufacture an immunity booster, and not a cure for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/never-claimed-patanjali-s-coronil-cures-covid-says-acharya-balkrishna/story-jV0gVGrabgFX9PEzjUQa0O.html
30-06-2020||India||Covid-19 casualties in Jammu and Kashmir cross 100||Six Covid-19 patients died in Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday taking the death toll due to the coronavirus infection in the union territory to 101 in 114 days since first cases emerged on March 9.Meanwhile, 260 more people tested positive for Covid-19 taking the tally in the Union Territory to 7,497, officials said. They said that of the six deaths, five were reported in Kashmir Valley and one in Jammu division’s Kathua district.A 23-year-old youth from Shopian and a 65-year-old woman of Srinagar succumbed in Srinagar’s Chest Diseases Hospital while a 53-year-old man from northern district of Baramulla died at Sheri Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, Bemina. A 65-year-old Qamarwari man’s sample tested Covid positive after his death at SMHS Hospital. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.“The young man from Shopian was an accident case with a serious head injury and was shifted from SMHS Hospital on Monday. The woman was having multiple ailments including hypertension and diabetes,” said medical superintendent of Chest Diseases Hospital, Dr Saleem Tak.A relative of the Baramulla man said that he tested positive few days back and was very serious. “He had pneumonia and could not survive,” he said. In Jammu division, Kathua district reported its first Covid-19 related death after an 85-year-old woman from Basohli area died at Government Medical College. A doctor said that she was suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and was on oxygen since June 25.Of the total 101 deaths in J&K, 89 have been reported in Kashmir division while 12 were in Jammu division.Dr Nisar ul Hassan,a senior doctor representing a faction of Doctors Association Kashmir (DAK), on Tuesday said Covid-19 is killing more men than women in Kashmir valley. “Nearly 72% of those who died from Covid infection in the valley were men while women accounted for 28% of deaths,” said Dr Nisar ul Hassan. “70 percent of men who died from the novel coronavirus were above 60 years of age and the average age was 62,” he said. Dr Nisar said 86 percent of males who died had preexisting medical conditions with high blood pressure in 18 (28.57%) followed by diabetes in 10 (15. 87%), chronic lung disease in 8 (12.69%), cardiovascular disease in 6 (9.52%), cancer in 4 (6.34%) and chronic kidney disease in 4 (6.34%). Two had brain hemorrhage, one had chronic liver disease and one had hematological condition.“Nine patients (14.28%) had no underlying health issues and they were apparently healthy,” he added.Dr Nisar said the gender disparity in death could be biological or behavioral. “Women have more robust immune system than men and are able to fend off infection. The female sex hormone appears to play a role in immunity, as does X chromosome which contains immune-related genes. Women carry 2 X chromosomes, men only one,” he said.Dr Nisar said men smoke at higher rates than women that damages the lung defense and increases the risk of severe infection. “Males are more likely to have medical conditions that can make Covid-19 infection more fatal in them,” he added.Among the 260 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday were 60 CRPF personnel. A total of 228 of the new cases are from Kashmir and 32 from Jammu division. Among these, 22 patients have a travel history.The number of active cases stands at 2,674 after 137 more patients recovered on Tuesday. The government statement said, “22 people were discharged from Jammu division and 115 from Kashmir.”So far, 4,722 people have been cured in the UT, taking the recovery rate to 62.9 %. Of the total recovered, 3,564 are from Kashmir while 1,158 are from Jammu division.The highest number of active cases is in Srinagar district at 594 followed by 463 in Baramulla , 256 in Pulwama and 234 in Kulgam district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-casualties-in-jammu-and-kashmir-cross-100/story-JAG9UxcwzByEdQxlKxVHvJ.html
30-06-2020||India||Payagipur: This UP village thrives, survives on buffaloes||Whether or not this small village, 35 kilometers from Sangam City, owns the proverbial stick, it surely owns the buffaloes, lots and lots of them.All 3000-odd residents of this village deal in buffalo trade, each house having a wide variety of milch cattle, from the popular Murrah variety to Surti and Jaffarabadi. On any given day, buyers from different parts of Prayagraj and many other districts can be seen striking deals and buying buffaloes here.Welcome to Payagipur, in Saidabad development block, which is better known as ‘village of buffaloes’ and draws buyers from across the state. No one knows exactly when people began trading in buffaloes here, but the village has emerged as a prime supplier of quality buffaloes for the region for around three decades now.“You can find Murrah, Nili Ravi, Surti, Jaffarabadi and Bhadawari breeds of buffaloes, for which one would otherwise need to travel to Punjab, Haryana, Gujarat and Maharashtra. Murrah variety remains the top choice and fetches anywhere from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 1.5 lakh,” said Sangam Lal Pasi, a buffalo trader from the village.The village residents say that they owe their prosperity to the high-end breed of milch cattle which draw buyers from across the state.“The income from the trade in buffaloes has enabled the villagers to construct pucca houses embellished with all basic amenities and also buy land for farming and own tractors and tube-wells,” said Vijay Pasi, the village pradhan.“Money from buying and selling buffaloes has helped us afford good education for our kids also,” he said.“Today the village attracts buyers from various districts like Bhadoi, Jaunpur, Varanasi, Pratapgarh, Mirzapur and Kaushambi, among others, with annual buffalo trade in the village believed to be worth around Rs 4 crore,” he added.The villagers buy healthy and good breed buffalo calves from select villages and cattle markets of Haryana and Punjab, and then sell them a year or two later as they mature into healthy milch cattle, helping them make big profits.“Every year the buffalo traders in small groups head to different villages and markets of Haryana and Punjab in October-November to buy calves,” said Rajesh Patel, one of the villagers with 20-odd buffaloes.“We buy calves for Rs 20,000 to Rs 40,000 each depending upon the breed and the quality and then transport them in trucks to the village. After proper care and nurturing, these buffaloes sell anywhere between Rs 40,000 to Rs 1.5 lakh each,” he added.“We have around 2,500 buffaloes of varying ages in the village at any given moment. Two thousand litres of milk is produced every day which is sold and utilised locally,” said Pappu Patel, another local trader. Many other traders like Ganga Prasad, Ram Singh, Ram Charan, Lalji and Radheshyam however rued lack of government support to further promote the trade.“Contrary to popular belief, rearing a buffalo calf into a healthy milk-giving buffalo is a tough task and needs good investment. We have to hire private veterinary doctors, bear the cost of medicines and vaccines besides fodder and other care annually and an entire family of the trader has to remain involved. A small vet centre here in the village would be a great help,” they maintained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/payagipur-this-up-village-thrives-survives-on-buffaloes/story-NmiIr5Bc1kI2oF3eUAUgFL.html
30-06-2020||India||Maharashtra reports less than 5k new Covid 19 cases, Mumbai less than 1,000||Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 245 deaths due to coronavirus and 4,878 cases of new Covid 19 infections in the last twenty four hours, taking the total number of cases in the state to 1,74,761, including 75,979 active cases. Out of 245 deaths reported by the health department on Tuesday, 95 occurred in the last 48 hours and the remaining 150 are backlogged from the previous period.The trend of high number of positive cases recorded daily continues in Maharashtra, however, the state recorded less than 5,000 cases on Tuesday. Daily spike of over 5,000 Covid-19 cases have been recorded on five occasions in the past 20 days, the new daily cases have been over 3,000 in the remaining 15 days.The extent of sharp rise in the infections in the state can be gauged from the fact that on May 24, the state’s tally stood at a mere 3,041 cases. The viral infections are in a spiral since June 17, when over 3,000 Covid-19 positive cases were first reported on a single day.Ban on travel beyond 2km was necessary, says Maharashtra CMOn June 25, Maharashtra had reported 4,841 Covid-19 positive cases, and on successive days till June 29, the daily count was 5024, 5318, 5,493, 5,257, respectively.A total of 90,911 patients have recovered in the state including the 1,951, who were discharged today. The state is also close to recording 10 lakh tests with 9,66,723 samples tested till Tuesday. Mumbai recorded less than 893 cases in the last twenty-four hours taking the total number of Covid-19 infections in the city to 77,658 including 4,556 casualties. 93 of these deaths were reported in the past 24 hours.Maharashtra is India’s worst affected state by the disease and it along with Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Gujarat accounts for nearly two-third of the national tally of 5,66,840 as of Tuesday.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesA glimpse of the massive impact of the disease on state’s frontline warriors was given earlier today, when state home minister Anil Deshmukh revealed that as many as 4,861 personnel of Maharashtra Police have tested positive for Covid-19 so far. He added that while 3,699 policemen have recovered, 59 have succumbed to the disease.Earlier today, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for extending the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana by five months till November end. This programme provides free ration to over 80 crore poor people, worst-hit by the disease. Thackeray had requested Modi to extend the scheme during a recent video conference meeting, the chief minister’s office said in a statement, which added that nearly seven crore people in the state will benefit from the scheme.On Monday, the state government also notified lockdown 6:0, which comes into effect from Wednesday and will be in place till July 31.Long-distance travel for non-essential work has been further restricted in the densely populated Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), which comprises nine municipal corporations and a Covid-19 hotspot in the state.Mumbai Police has restricted movements of people within a two-kilometre (km) radius from their residences except for office-goers and those engaged in providing essential services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-reports-less-than-5k-new-covid-19-cases-mumbai-less-than-1-000/story-NlIG2sCyJRz17WrfyafeYJ.html
30-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Suggested multiple times, says Cong after PM extends free ration scheme and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Suggested multiple times’: Congress after PM Modi extends free ration schemeCongress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said the announcement came in response to Sonia Gandhi’s letter to Modi on June 22 in which she had requested him to provide free food grains to the poor for three more months from July in view of the prevailing Covid-19 situation across the country. Read morePM Oli’s attack on India backfires, chorus for his exit becomes louder at party meetPrime Minister KP Sharma Oli, who had last week blamed India for his mounting troubles, on Tuesday faced a sharp attack from top leaders of the ruling Nepal Communist Party who demanded that the prime minister step down immediately. Read more‘PMGKAY extended till November, 80 crore people to get free ration for 5 more months’: PM ModiThe prime minister said that 80 crore people will get free ration for five more months. He also highlighted the work done by the Centre since the lockdown came into force. Read moreInternet will be a happier place without TikTok: Shooter Heena SidhuVideo-sharing social networking app TikTok was one among the 59 Chinese apps banned by the Indian government in the aftermath of the face off with China in Ladakh’s Galwan valley. Read moreCelina Jaitly on quitting films: ‘I was just tired of how difficult it kept getting for an outsider’Celina Jaitly has made a successful comeback to acting with her film Season’s Greetings. The actor has made it clear that she is here to stay and do projects on her own terms and conditions. Read moreCovid-19 pandemic: Designer Anavila Misra donates masks for local post personnelMumbai-based fashion designer Anavila Misra donated masks to the Post Master General of Mumbai on Monday to support local postmen and women who are working tirelessly through the coronavirus-led lockdown. Read moreLangurs give each other a huge hug, impressed Virender Sehwag posts videoJust 12 seconds long, the clip shows a langur walking up to another sitting next to some people and embracing it in a hug. They break the embrace after a few seconds, only to hug each other again. Read moreWATCH | ‘Never said Coronil can cure Covid patients’: Patanjali CEO BalkrishnaPatanjali CEO Acharya Balkrishna on Tuesday said he never claimed that Coronil can cure Covid-19. “A conspiracy has been hatched against us and if the Ayush Ministry tells us to conduct clinical trials once again then we are ready to face it,” Balkrishna said. Watch the full video.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-suggested-multiple-times-says-cong-after-pm-extends-free-ration-scheme-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Zy985KnQGX4FOoEBZPCeSI.html
30-06-2020||India||Protests planned in 300 world cities as Amaravati agitation nears 200 days||Thousands of non-resident Telugus in the US and other countries are planning demonstrations on July 3 to express their solidarity with the farmers of Amaravati, the present capital city of Andhra Pradesh, as their agitation against the trifurcation of the state capital completes 200 days.More than 24,000 farmers of Amaravati capital region have been on the warpath ever since the YSR Congress Party government in the state, led by YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, announced on December 17 last year about creating three capitals – executive capital at Visakhapatnam, legislative capital at Amaravati and judicial capital at Kurnool.These farmers belonging to 29 villages - who gave away nearly 34,000 acres of their fertile land to the capital city during the previous Telugu Desam Party regime in 2015 - strongly resisted the move, asserting that they had sacrificed their livelihood in anticipation of the development of a world-class capital city in Amaravati.“For the last 200 days, these farmers have been waging a relentless battle demanding that the capital be retained at Amaravati. They took out rallies, held relay hunger strikes, blocked the national highways and braved arrests and lathi attacks from the police. Some of the farmers died of heart attacks due to psychological pressure,” prominent Telugu businessman Jayaram Komati told HT over the phone from California.Komati, who was former president of Telugu Association of North America (TANA) and former special representative of AP government for North America, said representatives of non-resident Telugu associations in the US had decided to stage demonstrations in as many as 200 cities, in support of the 200 days’ agitation by Amaravati farmers to retain their capital city.“We thought of taking up huge rallies, but because of Covid-19 pandemic, we won’t be able to get permission for the same. So, we decided to restrict our protests by taking out candle-light rallies in these cities to convey our solidarity to the fighting farmers of Amaravati,” Komati said.He said on coming to know about the proposal, Telugus in several other cities had also come forward to hold rallies. “Similarly, Andhra people in other countries like Singapore, Thailand, Australia, England and New Zealand have also evinced interest in similar demonstrations. In all, the protests are likely to take place in 300 cities,” the NRI businessman said.He reminded that the NRIs were not against the Jagan government, but were only demanding that the capital city be retained in Amaravati. “We strongly feel that there should be decentralisation of development, but centralised administration,” he said.The NRI Telugus had contributed to the building of the state capital. When former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu launched a campaign – My Brick, My Amaravati – aimed at selling “electronic bricks” to build Amaravati, they responded in huge numbers.The TANA collected donations from its community members in the US and Canada under ‘My Brick, My Amaravati campaign’ and presented the collected donations to the previous TDP government. More than 2.28 lakh NRI donors purchased nearly 58 lakh bricks sold online, each at a cost of Rs 10.Komati said the Andhra NRIs would continue to help the agitating farmers of Amaravati financially and morally to help them fight a legal battle against the decision to shift the capital. “We shall use all our resources and influences to see that the capital is retained at Amaravati,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protests-planned-in-300-world-cities-as-amaravati-agitation-nears-200-days/story-HxbR376seaU4DvFuU7z48K.html
30-06-2020||India||BSF reports 53 new Covid-19 cases; tally crosses 1,000-mark||Fifty-three more Border Security Force (BSF) personnel have tested positive for Covid-19, taking the overall infections in the largest border guarding force to over 1,000, officials said on Tuesday. As per latest data, out of the total 1,018 coronavirus cases in the force, 659 personnel have recovered and 354 are under treatment.There have been five deaths from the disease in the force, including the death of a personnel who was killed in a road accident whose Covid-19 positive report came later. In the last 24 hours, 53 fresh cases have been reported in the force apart from four recoveries, the official said.Of the 53, twenty-nine were reported from Odisha. The about 2.5 lakh personnel strong force is primarily tasked to guard Indian fronts with Pakistan and Bangladesh apart from rendering a variety of duties in the internal security domain of the country.It is the largest border guarding force of the country with the two others being the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) with a strength of about 90,000 personnel and the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) that has a strength of about 80,000 men and women.The ITBP too reported 14 fresh cases and one recovery on Tuesday.It has reported a total of 331 cases out of which 237 have recovered from Covid-19 while 94 are under treatment.There have been two deaths in the ITBP that is mandated to guard the 3,488 kms long Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-reports-53-new-covid-19-cases-tally-crosses-1-000-mark/story-8aKqZ156eIZDf4mX39dB7L.html
30-06-2020||India||Assam flood situation remains grim; 1.5 million affected, 27 dead||The flood situation in Assam continued to remain grim on Tuesday with nearly 1.5 million people affected in 23 of the state’s 33 districts. Three more deaths were reported during the day taking the total to 27 so far in this season.According to Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), 2,235 villages in 66 revenue circles of the state remain affected by flooding. Over 75,700 hectares of crop area have also been inundated.Most rivers in the state continued to remain in spate on Tuesday. As per a Central Water Commission bulletin, Brahmaputra and several of its tributaries were flowing above the danger mark at several places.In all, 25,461 people uprooted by flooding are residing in 265 relief camps in 21 districts. Rescue and relief personnel evacuated 3,245 stranded people during the day using boats.Flooding was also reported at the Kaziranga National Park, Rajiv Gandhi Orang National Park and Pobitora wildlife sanctuary with several camps used by forest personnel affected. Twenty five animals were rescued in Kaziranga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-flood-situation-remains-grim-1-5-million-affected-27-dead/story-axSkdFJGmWsYCrE6REIIbM.html
30-06-2020||India||UP Chief Secretary’s office staff quarantined after one tests Covid-19+||Staff at the Uttar Pradesh chief secretary’s office was sent into quarantine after a data entry operator tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. The campus was sanitised and the contact tracing of this operator and other employees had begun, the Chief Ministers’ office (CMO) said.A clerk at the Lucknow Municipal Corporation’s office near Utrethia (in zone 8) also tested positive. He was dealing directly with the public as he used to deposit house tax.Medical experts said the government will have to come out with a revamped strategy to combat Covid-19.Click here for full coverage of Covid-19.“The number of containment zones in Lucknow has risen to 111, bringing half of the city under the coverage of corona. We need to think beyond what we have done so far,” said Dr PK Gupta of the Indian Medical Association.“A week ago, the number of containment zones in the state capital was around 50. But now the number has shot up and that’s why a revamp in strategy is required,” said Gupta.“There is a need to set up testing centres in every containment zone while at the same time surveillance of patients must be increased,” said Rama Srivastava, president, IMA (Lucknow).She added, “There is a need to periodically sanitise all the areas of the city. We must also develop a mechanism to deliver essential goods at people’s doorsteps so that they do not have to venture out frequently.”Director of Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences professor RK Dheeman said, “In containment zones, entry and exit points must be monitored by the police more strictly to contain the spread of the disease.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-chief-secretary-s-office-staff-quarantined-after-one-tests-covid-19/story-Vu4C715m84FjWkniio0XWM.html
30-06-2020||India||Karnataka sacks field team in Ballari for disrespectful handling of bodies of Covid-19 patients||The Karnataka government on Tuesday disbanded a field team involved in burials of bodies of Covid-19 patients in Ballari district after videos emerged of disrespectful handling of the bodies. The government also apologised to the families of the dead.Congress leader D K Shivakumar posted a video which allegedly showed members of a field team dumping bodies of Covid-19 patients in an open pit.The government acted quickly. Deputy Commissioner and District magistrate S S Nakul in a statement said an enquiry was ordered under Additional Deputy Commissioner and it was found that the video belongs to Ballari and companies of burial of eight people who succumbed to Covid-19.“The video shows that protocols/SOP to be followed for burial (body bags, lining etc.) have been strictly followed. However, District Administration is deeply upset and sorrowful at the manner in which the remains of the deceased were handled…. The entire field team involved has been disbanded and will be replaced by a new team trained by the HoD, Forensics, VIMS.” Nakukl said.“The District Administration regrets the incident and hereby unconditionally apologises to the families of the departed in particular and the people of Ballari in general,” Nakul said.Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa also condemned the way bodies were handled.“Behaviour of staff during the funeral of #COVID19 infected people in Ballari district is very inhuman & very painful. I request the staff, let’s realize that there is no greater religion than humanity: Karnataka,” the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) tweeted.Meanwhile, Karnataka reported 947 new Covid-19 cases including 503 from Bengaluru Urban, taking Karnataka’s tally to 15,242. There were 20 casualties today, raing the death toll in the pandemic to 246, the state health department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-sacks-field-team-in-ballari-for-disrespectful-handling-of-bodies-of-covid-19-patients/story-5ytkvMO3iUw8lh3mySTtNI.html
30-06-2020||India||‘Suggested multiple times’: Congress after PM Modi extends free ration scheme||The Congress on Tuesday sought to take credit for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision to extend the free ration scheme for 80 crore people till November-end.Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said the announcement came in response to Sonia Gandhi’s letter to Modi on June 22 in which she had requested him to provide free food grains to the poor for three more months from July in view of the prevailing Covid-19 situation across the country.“It is important to remember that this extension of the scheme was suggested multiple times by the Congress president in her letter to the Prime Minister,” Shrinate said, addressing a virtual news conference.In her letter to the Prime Minister on June 22, Gandhi had also said that millions of Indians are at risk of slipping into poverty due to the strict nationwide lockdown for the past three months.Gandhi had recalled that the provision for supply of 5 kg free food grains per person every month to Antyodaya Anna Yojana and priority households under the National Food Security Act from April-June in addition to regular entitlements was announced at the beginning of the lockdown.The government had also announced free food grains of 5kg per person every month for migrants not covered under any central or state public distribution system (PDS) scheme for May and June.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had in May announced providing 800,000 tonne of emergency ration for migrants under the union government’s Atma Nirbhar Bharat programme for distribution during May and June.“The union government must consider extending the provision for free food grains for a further period of three months i.e. from July-September 2020. Several states have requested for the same,” Gandhi had said.“Nearly three months since the country went into a strict lockdown, millions of Indians are at risk of slipping into poverty. The adverse impact on livelihoods has led to chronic food insecurity for both our urban and rural poor. In light of the current situation, food entitlements must be expanded to address the hunger crisis facing some of the most vulnerable people in the country,” she wrote in the letter.Following Gandhi’s request, the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision-making body, in its meeting on June 23 had called upon the central government to extend the scheme of providing free food grains till September.“The CWC also requests that the special provision for 5kg additional food grain per person per month for migrants not entitled to food grains under any other central or state scheme be extended till September as well,” said a resolution adopted at the meeting.Both Gandhi and the CWC had also urged the government that temporary ration cards may be provided to all those currently not falling in any beneficiary lists so that the widest possible base for these entitlements can be targeted.In a televised address to the nation, Modi announced extension of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY), a free ration scheme, for 80 crore people across the country till end of November, costing the exchequer Rs 90,000 crore more.Under the scheme, initially rolled out for three months, five kg of wheat or rice and one kg of pulses per month was to be given free of cost to the poor.The PM also said the government was working on a “one nation, one ration card” initiative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suggested-multiples-times-congress-after-pm-modi-extends-free-ration-scheme/story-TnzhjD1sKrPoVObIxozTuJ.html
30-06-2020||India||Kerala reports 131 new Covid 19 cases and two worrying observations||Kerala reported one incident of death due to coronavirus along with 131 new infections including among nine personnel from the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) on Tuesday even as the return of a large number of expatriates from the Gulf countries continues with the arrival of 70 flights in the last two days. The state government is worried about the fact that most of the infected CISF personnel at the Kannur airport had recently returned from their native places after a period of leave. In another worrying observation, 60 returnees to the state have tested positive in the last one week and the state health ministry is considering increasing the mandatory quarantine period for returnees to 28 days after some of them tested positive two weeks after their return. For Coronavirus Live UpdatesA 76-year-old man, who had returned from Mumbai, died in Thiruvananthapuram. Doctors said he was suffering from many ailments including diabetes and hypertension. Five more serious cases are reported in the state and doctors have administered plasma therapy to save them, the state health ministry said.With 131 cases, the total number of Covid cases in the state went up to 4,441, including 2,112 active and 2,304 recovered cases. Malappuram has the maximum number of active cases at 267, followed by Kannur in north Kerala, said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s office. More than 1.90 lakh people are under observation. At least 80 per cent of the fresh cases are imported-- either expatriates or residents arriving from other states.Also Read: Kerala SSLC 10th Result 2020 declared Live Updates:Meanwhile, on National Doctors Day on Wednesday, the doctors employed with the government will observe a protest by working for one-hour extra hour throughout the state. The Kerala government medical officers’ association said the protest was about some of the long -pending demands like salary revision, increased workload due to the covid-19 situation and many vacant posts for doctors in several state-run hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-131-new-covid-19-cases-and-two-worrying-observations/story-xTgTwr4o0FiukvZew4SGgI.html
30-06-2020||India||After ending services of 500 contractual workers, railway says order on hold||The railways’ catering and tourism arm, IRCTC (Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation), said on Tuesday it has decided to put on hold its order to terminate the services of over 500 contractual workers days after it terminated their contracts.“Decision has now been taken to keep in abeyance the notice for the termination of the contract,” an IRCTC spokesperson said. “They had only been served a notice and not been removed yet,” he added.In a letter to all railway zones dated June 25, a copy of which has been reviewed by Hindustan Times, IRCTC informed all its zonal offices that there was no requirement for these contractual workers under the present circumstances and they be given one month notice and their contracts terminated.“The requirement of Supervisor (Hospitality) engaged on contract basis has been reviewed in the revised catering model and it has been decided that under present circumstances, services of Supervisor (Hospitality), engaged on contract basis are no more required,” the letter stated. The IRCTC hired around 560 supervisors for hospitality in 2018.The decision to end the contracts is currently under reconsideration by the IRCTC board.Several former contractual employees who were handed the termination letter took to social media to seek intervention by railway minister Piyush Goyal.Hospitality supervisors work to monitor the operations of the pantry car on trains and their work includes monitoring, the preparation of food and its quality inspection, handling passengers and their complaints.Regular passenger train services have been suspended since March 22 when the first phase of the lockdown was announced. At present, only 230 special passenger trains are operating.Around 560 supervisors (hospitality) were hired by the IRCTC in 2018 on contractual basis for a period of two years to maintain a quality check on contractors assigned to cater food in trains equipped with pantries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-ending-services-of-500-contractual-workers-railway-says-order-on-hold/story-5yXrWLISMogKg2d05J4cMI.html
30-06-2020||India||46 million girls lost to gender bias: Report||Preference for sons and gender-biased sex selection have led to over 142 million girls missing globally and 46 million girls missing in India, according to a UN flagship report that focuses on gender bias and violence against girls and women, released on Tuesday.In India, around 460,000 girls went missing -- which means they were not born due to sex-selection biases -- each year between 2013 and 2017, said the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) report, The State of the World Population 2020.China (50%) and India (40%) together account for around 90% of the estimated 1.2 million girls lost annually to female foeticide.The report said the economic disruptions and income loss because of the Covid-19 pandemic are likely to increase violence against girls and women. “Covid-19 will exacerbate the unwantedness of daughters and gender discrimination and will have an impact on all harmful practices as families lose income. It is imperative that we take care not to reverse gains of last few decades,” said Argentina Matavel, UNFPA India Representative.The sex ratio at birth in India is 899 girls for every 1,000 boys born during the period 2016 – 18, according to the Sample Registration System Statistical Report 2018, released on Friday. Nine states in the country have sex ratio at birth below 900 [Haryana, Uttarakhand, Delhi, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab and Bihar].Globally, one in five girls is married by age 18 and millions of others are subjected to practices that harm them physically, mentally and emotionally, with the knowledge and consent of their families, said the report, titled ‘Against my will: defying the practices that harm women and girls and undermine equality’.The three-most prevalent harmful practices are child marriage, son preference and gender-biased sex selection, and female genital mutilation, according to the report, which lists at least 19 harmful human rights violations against women, ranging from dowry related violence to “honour”. “In India, child marriage is directly linked to poverty, poor education and geographic location, rural versus urban. On the other hand, gender-based sex selection as emerged as a problem among affluent families has today spread across the board,” said Matavel. Investments of $3.4 billion a year through 2030 would help end the suffering of an estimated 84 million girls, the report said.Ending child marriage is possible within the next decade by scaling up efforts to keep girls in school longer and to engage men and boys in social change.The Covid-19 pandemic, however, threatens to reverse progress made in ending these practices. In India, Covid-19 has reduced access to contraception and abortion services, which is likely to lead to an increase in unwanted pregnancies and unsafe abortions. “The first four months of Covid-19, we estimate that access to 1.85 million abortions was compromised. This is around 47% of the estimated 3.9 million abortions...,” said Vinoj Manning, chief executive officer, Ipas Development Foundation, a non-profit that promotes safe abortion services in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/46-million-girls-lost-to-gender-bias-report/story-QwIqFMfzGmp7wFFtB0qhPJ.html
30-06-2020||India||Say no to testing blood samples for Covid-19||Convalescent plasma therapy to treat coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients got a boost after the Union Ministry of Health Ministry & Family Welfare (MoH&FW) issued revised blood transfusion guidelines to include the collection of convalescent plasma under clinical trials protocol from donors, who have recently recovered from the viral infection.“Systems should be in place to enable re-entry of cured Covid-19 patients, as donors for convalescent plasma for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The treatment of Covid-19 patients using plasma therapy is under clinical trial and currently, no evidence of the efficacy of the convalescent plasma as a treatment modality for SARS-COV-2, which causes the viral disease, is established… the use of convalescent plasma for routine treatment of Covid-19 patients is not recommended at present…,” stated the ministry guidelines.Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS), a voluntary humanitarian organisation, is working to create a database of potential convalescent plasma donors for dedicated hospitals treating Covid-19 patients.“We are creating a list of eligible convalescent plasma donors that we can share with these hospitals. We need to extensively counsel some of these people, as they themselves were Covid-19 patients, who, at times, are not very comfortable with the idea of going back to a hospital, even if it is to donate plasma. We are also not getting too many inquiries from recovered patients. We are dependent on the hospitals to provide us with the list since we don’t have a hospital of our own,” said Dr. Vanshree Singh, director (blood bank), IRCS.The revised guidelines do not recommend testing of donated blood and blood components for Covid-19 or opting for more advanced Pathogen Reduction Techniques (PRT), citing reasons such as financial impracticality and lack of enough evidence to support transmission through blood transfusion. “Testing of the blood supply for Covid-19 is not recommended in light of the risk of transfusion transmission being theoretical or lack of demonstrated infectivity of the Covid-19 virus in blood collected from asymptomatic persons. Routine practices of infectious disease testing for transfusion transmissible infections should not be changed,” the guidelines stated.“Pathogen Reduction Technologies (PRT) requires significant logistical and financial investment. PRT for whole blood is less widely available and studies of inactivation of coronavirus in whole blood are lacking. The introduction of PRT for the SARS-CoV-2 would not be cost-effective or proportionate and is not recommended,” they added.The document has cited studies that say respiratory viruses are not known to transmit through blood transfusion.“No cases of transfusion-transmission were ever reported for the other two coronaviruses that emerged during the past two decades (SARS and MERS-CoV). Virus detection in blood has only happened in symptomatic patients with Covid-19 to date. American Association of Blood Blanks, USFDA (US Food and Drug Administration) and CDC (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the United States of America) are not recommending any additional action by blood collection establishments at this time because there are no data or precedent suggesting the risk of transfusion-transmission for Covid-19… According to the USFDA, there have been no reported or suspected cases of transfusion-transmitted Covid-19,” the experts, who drafted the guidelines, stated.However, the government has asked blood banks to screen donors thoroughly for Covid-19 related symptoms, and discard or recall the donated blood, if there was even slightest suspicion of any strain of the virus. The donors will have to wait for at least 28 days before they are eligible again. People, who cannot donate blood, are laboratory-confirmed cases of Covid-19, irrespective of clinical signs and symptoms; contacts of a laboratory positive case or those with travel history to a country where community transmission of the viral disease is established. “The blood samples collected from a donor, who turns out to be Covid-19 positive, or is an unconfirmed case or even a close contact of a laboratory positive case within 28 days of donation, will be discarded. All known positive cases cannot donate for 28 days after the end of 7 day home isolation post-discharge or when symptoms subside, or travel to a Covid-19 affected country,” the guidelines stated.Dr. RN Makroo, president, Indian Society of Transfusion Medicine, said thorough screening is a must. “For regular donors, a thorough screening of the history of the person is good enough. You cannot conduct a blood test or PRT, which is not just very expensive but is also not available in India. We must strengthen the screening of our regular donors that’s the only solution. The new guidelines are pretty comprehensive and they should be followed in letter and spirit,” said Dr. Makroo. “Though The government guidelines insist on a 28-day of deferral, we go by six weeks. It is better to be safe than sorry,” said Dr. Singh from IRCS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/revised-transfusion-guidelines-include-convalescent-plasma-donation-say-no-to-screening-donors-for-covid-19/story-fSiUhR6ZZBmn2i0DjvHTjJ.html
30-06-2020||India||Tamil Nadu pushes Gujarat to 2nd spot in annual fish production||Tamil Nadu has overtaken Gujarat to occupy the top spot in annual fish production even as the country’s marine production registered a marginal increase of 2.1% in 2019 compared to the previous year, the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) has said. Recurring cyclonic storms and netting of huge quantities of non-edible fish items are main reasons for relatively low catch last year, said the premier marine research body headquartered in Kochi. The country netted a total of 3.56 million tonne last year (in 2018, it was 3.49 m t), said the annual marine fish landing report of the CMFRI. Tamil Nadu grabbed the first position with 7.75 lakh tonne followed by Gujarat (7.49 lakh t), which was numero uno for many years while Kerala (5.44 lakh t) retained its third position. Another major highlight of the study is that Indian mackerel, which was in the first spot in 2018, suffered a setback with its landings declining by 43% and the slot was occupied by red- toothed triggerfish (2.74 lakh t) which has little demand in domestic market and is mostly caught for feeding mills. Ribbon fish (2.19 lakh t) is in second spot followed by cephalopod (2.18 lakh t). Oil sardine, cheap and best, is not in the first five slots.While states like West Bengal (55%), Andhra Pradesh (34%), Odisha (14.5%), Karnataka (11%) and Tamil Nadu (10.4%) recorded increase in landings, catch decreased in Maharashtra (32%), Goa (44%) and Kerala (15.4%) compared to the previous year. Kerala suffered a significant drop of 15.4% in landings during the last year with a total landing of 5.44 lakh tonnes. Sharp decline in the catch of oil sardine and mackerel, the two major resources in the state, contributed to poor landings, said the report.The CMFRI said eight cyclonic storms in and around the country last year of which six were severe cyclones (Fani in April, Vayu in June, Hika in September, Kyarr in October, Maha in Oct-Nov and Bulbul in Oct-Nov) affected the fishing calendar, especially affecting the western coast badly.The estimated value of fish landings in the country last year was Rs 60,881 crore with 15.6% increase over 2018. The Fishery Resources Assessment Division of the CMFRI estimated the annual marine fish landings through its online data collection system, said CMFRI Director Dr A Gopalakrishnan. In world marine fish production the country is ranked third after China and Indonesia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-pips-gujarat-to-2nd-spot-in-annual-fish-production/story-KTRXwH1uJfN2B1HaXXDuhK.html
30-06-2020||India||Tamil Nadu posts 3,943 Covid-19 cases for two straight days, recovery rate at 55.5 %||Tamil Nadu has reported 3,943 fresh Covid-19 positive cases on Tuesday-- same as Monday—to take the total number of coronavirus infections in the state to 90,167 including 1,201 deaths, 60 of those casualties were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the state health bulletin. However, the number of current active cases--38,889-- in the state is less than the number of people cured--50,074-- of the disease.Tamil Nadu had reported 3,949 new Covid cases on Monday too. The number of deaths reported on Monday stood at 62, two more than the number of casualties reported today. The number of new infections in Tamil Nadu has been on a rise for the past two weeks.Tami Nadu is one of the two worst affected states in the country after Maharashtra and a worried state government on Monday extended the lockdown till July 31 to aid in the containment efforts. The complete lockdown in Madurai and Greater Chennai Police limits including Chennai, Kanchipuram, Chengalpattu and Thiruvallur was also extended till July 5.In order to break the chain of virus transmissions, the government has clamped a hard weekly lockdown in entire state to be implemented on all the four Sundays in July. Only health care services, including pharmacies and hospitals, will be allowed to function on these four days.The extension of the lockdown also means that Chennai and Madurai will continue to be under intense lockdown till July 5 and the current restrictions will remain in force in the rest of the state till July 31.Also Read: India records 18,522 new Covid-19 cases, 418 deaths in 24 hours; tally over 5.66 lakhThe state government has also decided to restrict private bus transport services between July 1 and 15. For travel within a district, e-pass will not be needed though it was necessary for inter-district and inter-state travel, an official release here said.Schools, colleges, malls, resorts, lodges, cinema halls, and bars would continue to be shut and religious congregations and prayers in places of worship in urban regions are banned.Worship would however be allowed in villages by following norms, including social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-posts-3-943-covid-19-cases-for-two-straight-days-recovery-rate-at-55-5/story-bwABiQ03Hq2Lei8Zhy3nbM.html
30-06-2020||India||Nepal Communist Party leaders demand PM Oli’s resignation||New Delhi: Several top leaders of the ruling Nepal Communist Party, including Pushpa Kamal Dahal “Prachanda”, on Tuesday demanded the resignation of Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli on the grounds that he had failed to provide effective leadership.Prachanda, Madhav Kumar Nepal and Jhalanath Khanal were among the leaders who called on Oli to step down during a meeting of the standing committee of the Nepal Communist Party in Kathmandu, members of the party were quoted as saying by the Nepalese media.The leaders sought Oli’s resignation because “he had failed to run the government”, The Kathmandu Post reported. The website of Kantipur newspaper reported 17 of the 18 leaders who spoke at the meeting, held at Oli’s official residence, demanded that he resign as both prime minister and chairman of the party.The development came just two days after Oli had on Sunday accused India and politicians in Nepal of being involved in a conspiracy to topple him for publishing the country’s new map that depicts Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as part of Nepalese territory.India has controlled these territories for decades, and Nepal’s claim had worsened relations between the two sides. Oli is facing intense criticism within the Nepal Communist Party for his governance and handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and many believed he had created the bogey of a coup and raised a nationalistic issue such as the new map to remain in his position.During Tuesday’s meeting, several leaders demanded that Oli should provide proof of the attempts being made to topple him, The Kathmandu Post quoted an unnamed standing committee member as saying.Media reports said Prachanda too asked Oli to show evidence to back up his comments that the Indian government and leaders of the Nepal Communist Party were engaged in efforts to remove him over the new map. The reports further said Prachanda told the meeting that he, and not the Indian government, was seeking Oli’s resignation.Prachanda’s demand was backed by senior leaders Madhav Kumar Nepal and Jhalanath Khanal, the reports said.Oli’s remarks on Sunday about activities in Kathmandu to remove him from his post were seen as being aimed at other leaders of the Nepal Communist Party, including Prachanda, Nepal and Khanal, who have been critical of his governance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-communist-party-leaders-demand-pm-oli-s-resignation/story-NF2Feu1gDwV4zccmP8ujnO.html
30-06-2020||India||Glass shields, bamboo sticks in voting proposals before EC for Bihar polls||Toothpick-sized bamboo sticks for contactless voting, glass shields at the table of polling officers, use of disposable syringes to mark voters’ fingers are some of the proposals the Election Commission is working on for yet-to-be announced Bihar polls amid the coronavirus pandemic that continues to be a cause for concern.The polls, first since the coronavirus outbreak, are expected to be held in October-November and pose a big challenge for the authorities.EC officials, while rationalising the proposals, said the idea of putting indelible ink through disposable syringes is a safe option as the syringes could be disposed after one use where as glass shields before polling officers is required so that there is less chances of any infection from voter to polling staff and vice-versa during the identification exercise of the voter.“Even gloves and bamboo made small sticks are being advocated for use of EVMs to press the buttons and sign the voter register as it will help in contactless voting. Sanitising the EVMs after every vote is not possible. We are not using any plastic made items because there is scope of infection in it. Bamboo made sticks are environment friendly and disposable also,” said a senior EC officer requesting anonymity.Sources said the proposals have been sent by the chief electoral officer, Bihar, to the EC for final approval. “We have sent a few proposals for safety of voters at the booths. We are working on it. Our objective is that voters do not come in contact with any physical substance and there is a contactless method of voting during the polls,” said CEO, Bihar, HR Srinivasa.However, the implementation is likely to pose its own logistical challenges. The state has a total of 7.18 crore voters with 1.06 lakh booths and the requirement of maintaining social distancing further adds another complexity to the whole exercise.EC officials claimed the process has begun with priority being given to requisition gloves from Bihar State Khadi board so that it generates rural employment and easy availability of the protective gear. “The state khadi board has been asked to work on it to provide khadi gloves.Other materials would be purchased locally for which DMs and district election officers will be authorised to do so,” said another EC officer aware of the developments.Meanwhile, state political parties are divided in their opinion about the new steps.While the BJP and JD(U), constituents of the ruling NDA, said they will support any such measure by the EC for ensuring safety of voters, opposition RJD said they are against such a move as it would infringe on the right of voters and defeat the purpose of elections.“If the EC takes any steps for the safety of voters in view of Covid-19, we will support. But our thinking is that all steps of safety to be taken by the poll panel should be widely publicised as our larger objective is that there should be 100% voting and all voters should exercise their franchise freely,” said Nikhil Anand, state spokesperson of the BJP.JD(U) state spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan said the party would support steps that the poll panel takes for safety of voters.“We are in favour of safety measures for voters,” he said.RJD’s senior leader and state spokesperson Shakti Singh Yadav, however, said the proposals are totally out of sync with the interest of voters.“In the name of Covid, there is an attempt being made to manipulate the polls. We will oppose any such moves of the EC to provide gloves or sticks. We want the EC to conduct polls like in the past by using laid down procedures. Even in South Korea, elections were held during Covid-19 pandemic by using ballot papers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/glass-shields-bamboo-sticks-in-voting-proposals-before-ec-for-bihar-polls/story-JkCYHpmbv7rwkGy7h3v7UM.html
30-06-2020||India||Goa Police arrests two Rajasthan residents for allegedly defrauding a woman of Rs12.77 lakh||Panaji: Goa Police has arrested two Rajasthan residents for allegedly defrauding a woman to the tune of Rs 12.77 lakh after she was made to disclose her bank account information over the phone.Goa’s Cyber Crime Police Station authorities have arrested Lakhvinder Singh (26), and Darshan Singh (43), both of whom are residents of Anupgarh in Rajasthan’s Sri Ganganagar district.The lady filed the complaint with the police, alleging that she fell victim to a vishing attack, where she was made to share her bank account details after a person called her impersonating as a bank official, including her automated teller machine (ATM)-cum debit card’s Personal Identification Number (PIN).She lost Rs 12.77 lakh, as the fraudsters transferred the amount from her account.The police have recovered her ATM card, passbook, mobile phone, subscriber identification module (SIM) card, and other document details from the accused.Goa Police authorities have been issuing regular advisories regarding the rise in the phishing attacks amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-induced lockdown restrictions, where fraudsters have been duping unsuspecting public by pretending to be bank officials.While earlier such perpetrators used to give the police a slip, the accused are now being traced and arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-police-arrests-two-rajasthan-residents-for-allegedly-defrauding-a-woman-of-rs12-77-lakh/story-fU34K307P3M3cYSMV6ckmO.html
30-06-2020||India||Nepal PM’s attack on India backfires, chorus for his exit becomes louder at party meet||Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli, who had last week blamed India for his mounting troubles, on Tuesday faced a sharp attack from top leaders of the ruling Nepal Communist Party who demanded that the prime minister step down immediately, according to news agency ANI.PM Oli had last week accused New Delhi of orchestrating efforts to topple him in an effort to put the rival faction led by co-chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal on a back foot. PM Oli, speaking at an event on Sunday, had claimed that his rivals were trying to pull the rug from under his feet because he had brought out a new political map that had upset Nepal’s giant neighbour. But this attempt appeared to have backfired.At the party’s 44-member standing committee meeting on Tuesday, local media reports quoted communist party leaders such as Pushpa Kamal Dahal, Madhav Nepal, Jhala Nath Khanal and Bamdev Gautam stepping up their pitch to seek his removal. They have argued that the Oli-led government had failed to deliver on basic governance issues and was blaming India to divert attention, according to a report in the website of newspaper The Himalayan Times.Also Read: Nepal extends lockdown to July 22“As things progressed, party co-chair Pushpa Kamal Dahal asked PM Oli to quit owing to the government’s gross, all-round incompetence, according to a source close to Dahal. Many NCP (NCP) leaders came down heavily on PM Oli for failing to deliver as well as for applying diversion tactics to fend off criticisms,” the Himalayan Times report on its website said.Local media reports said PM Oli’s rival faction is “hell bent” to force him to either quit the Prime Ministerial post or the position of party co-chair. eKantipur, another news website suggested that PM Oli tried to brush aside calls for his resignation, repeating his allegation about New Delhi’s role.Also Read: How Nepal’s PM is harming tiesPushpa Kamal Dahal, better known by his nom de guerre ‘Prachanda’, slammed Oli.“The Prime Minister’s remarks that India was conspiring to remove him was neither politically correct, nor diplomatically appropriate,” Prachanda said, according to news agency PTI. “Such a statement by the Prime Minister may damage our relations with the neighbour,” he warned.PM Oli had last month unveiled Nepal’s new map that made fresh territorial claims on India’s Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura region. Analysts in Kathmandu and New Delhi had interpreted his government’s hard push to the map to be an effort to whip up ultra-nationalistic sentiments against India. PM Oli’s rivals within and without the party played along with him to accord parliamentary approval to the new map but revived the campaign for his ouster soon after.Also Read: India’s ties with Nepal set for deep freeze after Kathmandu’s decisive step on new mapIndia has rejected Nepal’s claim as “untenable” and described it as an “artificial enlargement” of the territorial claims. It has also maintained that New Delhi values its friendly relations with Nepal and its people.Three days ago, Communist party president Pushpa Kamal Dahal Prachanda had demanded Oli’s resignation while questioning his attempt to pass on the blame to New Delhi. On Monday, Nepal foreign minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali had said that the government hoped that the territorial dispute between India and Nepal would be resolved through diplomatic efforts and that it should not impact other dynamics of the bilateral ties, as reported by PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-pm-kp-oli-asked-to-leave-during-party-meeting-he-blames-india/story-rcIG7KWvojQ2GopU2HXEyM.html
30-06-2020||India||Jammu: Ahead of monsoon, DGP, BSF IG visit Indo-Pak border to review security situation||Dilbagh Singh, the director-general of police (DGP), Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) and senior Border Security Force (BSF) officials on Tuesday visited the Indo-Pak international border (IB) in Jammu division’s Samba district on Tuesday in a bid to review the security situation on the ground ahead of the monsoon season.Singh also rewarded the BSF team, which shot down a Pakistani drone, loaded with a sophisticated rifle and seven grenades, in Kathua district’s Hiranagar sector last week.The DGP was accompanied by NS Jamwal, inspector-general (IG), Jammu, BSF, and other senior officers.They visited border areas including the Basantar river bed to review the close coordination between BSF, police, and other civilian agencies in view of the rainy season, a BSF spokesperson said.They also supervised the flood protection works on the Basantar river bed.Singh emphasised on ensuring real-time, close coordination between border guarding forces, civilian agencies and local police personnel to address the concerns of the villagers.Jamwal briefed the DGP about the BSF’s domination in the Basantar river bed area and Singh praised the hard work of the security personnel to guard the red-hot IB, the spokesperson said.Sanjeev Verma, Divisional Commissioner (DCO) Jammu; Mukesh Singh, IGP Jammu; Rohit Khajuria, divisional commissioner (DC), Samba; BSF officers; and representatives of other civilian agencies also accompanied the team that visited the IB.“The DGP supervised the flood protection work in Basanter river and exhorted the farmers for sowing crops less in height in the river bed,” said the spokesman.Pakistani terrorists have been using river beds and rivulets to infiltrate into India via the IB and the Line of Control (LoC), despite 24x7 surveillance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-ahead-of-monsoon-dgp-bsf-ig-visit-indo-pak-border-to-review-security-situation/story-pfAjKjukGYDKb7j1d8TL8N.html
30-06-2020||India||Hearing and speech impaired woman in MP gang raped by four minors||A 20-year-old hearing and speech impaired woman in Chhatarpur district of Madhya Pradesh was allegedly gang raped on Sunday by four minors, one of whom is just 11 years old, police said Monday.The victim from a village under Gaurihar police station went out of the village to answer the call of nature on Sunday evening when the accused who belong to the same village gang raped her in an agriculture field. They kept her captive for two hours before fleeing the spot, according to police.When she did not return home, her family members started searching for her at night and found her near a pond in an injured condition. She conveyed to her parents about the ordeal she underwent after which the family went to the police station at night to lodge the first information report (FIR).Gaurihar police station in charge Sarita Burman said, “All the four accused are minor boys and they are from the same village and the same caste the girl belongs to. One of the accused is 11-year-old, two of them 13-year-old and the fourth 14-year-old. The FIR was lodged for the gang rape. All the accused were arrested on Monday.”She said, “The accused have confessed committing the crime. They said they committed the crime in a spur of moment. We are going to produce the accused before a juvenile justice board at the district headquarters.”According to police, two of the accused are studying while two others are school dropouts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hearing-and-speech-impaired-woman-in-mp-gang-raped-by-four-minors/story-71EHddLnBH3k6NPSsXdDWJ.html
30-06-2020||India||‘Not able to cope’: Bengal sends SOS to Centre, seeks nod to run Metro trains||Impressing upon the Central government that despite staggered timings, staff strength at 33 percent in government offices, the West Bengal transport services are heavily strained and so treating it as a “very special case”, the metro train services may be allowed in Kolkata.The Centre on Monday issued guidelines for the second of a three-phase plan aimed at lifting restrictions imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), announcing that educational institutions, Metro rail services and large gatherings will continue to remain banned.“We have introduced staggered timings, reduced the daily attendance in government offices to 33% and made appeal to private sectors to undertake similar measures. Still we are not able to cope with the tremendous pressure on the transport system for the intra-city movement,” the Bengal government wrote in its letter to the ministry of home affairs. It noted that the worst sufferers in the present scenario are the people associated with essential services like medical and health staff, police personnel, among others.“Approach you with a request to kindly give MHA’s consent for relaxing the norms for Kolkata for running a bare minimum number of Metro rail just to carry these personnel as a very special case,” the government said further. In a meeting with Metro authorities it underlined that the services will be used only for meeting needs for providing essential services to the citizens. It will also help manage the physical distancing norms better, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-able-to-cope-bengal-sends-sos-to-centre-seeks-nod-to-run-metros/story-RKVDwf45vm0QPtdwst5y5O.html
30-06-2020||India||Unlock 1.0: A mixed bag for Uttarakhand||Uttarakhand unlock 1.0 was a mixed bag with patients recovering from coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a spike in the number of positive cases and over 70% of fresh deaths due to the contagion or comorbidities.The unlock 1.0 was enforced from June 8 in a bid to the easing of lockdown restrictions, which were imposed in the hill state on March 22 to contain the spread of the pandemic.In June, Uttarakhand has reported almost 67% of the total Covid-19 positive cases, as the overall tally stood at 2,831 till Monday (June 29).The first Covid-19 positive case in the state was reported on March 15.But in June, 61%, or over 3,600, Covid-19 tests were conducted to rein in the pandemic.On June 23, over 100 days after the viral outbreak in Uttarakhand, the infection rate in the seven hilly districts were found to be higher, as compared to in the plain districts.In June, 34 out of the total 39 Covid-19 related deaths were reported.While over 2,000 people recovered from the viral infection during the month, as compared to 102 between March 15 and May 31. Anoop Nautiyal, the founder of Social Development for Communities, a Dehradun-based think tank, who has been analysing the Covid-19 data in the hill state, said that despite increasing cases and deaths, recoveries have also increased during June.“Uttarakhand saw a spike in Covid-19 positive cases in June. The recovery rate and aggressive testing have also increased during the month. The state has not crossed 1,000 active cases since the outbreak was first reported. On average, over 1,240 tests were done per day with an average of 66 Covid-19 positive cases and 64 recoveries during the past one month,” said Nautiyal.The state government has also gradually opened up economic activities by easing of lockdown restrictions and allowing offices and markets to operate. Pilgrims from the state have also been allowed to visit Char Dham.On June 8, the government had issued unlock guidelines for hotels, homestays, religious places, and shopping malls to reopen. The guidelines, issued by state chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh, had allowed the hotels and homestays to open but prohibited them from taking bookings from visitors hailing from 31 high-viral load Covid-19 cities across the country. It also barred hotels and homestays to reopen that are located in the containment zones and under the jurisdiction of Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC). The guests from non-high-viral load Covid-19 cities were allowed to stay for a minimum period of seven days but barred from visiting public places and tourist spots. The government also for the first time capped the number of pilgrims allowed to visit the Char Dham shrines and released a standard operating procedure (SOP) for pilgrims on June 9. Only residents from the districts, where the temples are situated, were allowed.However, all residents from the state have been allowed to visit the shrines from Wednesday (July 1).Ravinath Raman, chief executive officer (CEO), Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board, said that people from across the state would be allowed to visit the shrines following certain guidelines. However, anyone staying in a containment or buffer zone would not be allowed to enter any of the shrine premises. Anyone with symptoms similar to Covid-19 would not be allowed to undertake any pilgrimage, he added.On June 16, the government had amended the norms and made violations such as not wearing face masks in public places and any violence perpetrated against health workers and damage to the public property a punishable offence under The Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020. Around 15,000 people have been booked for not wearing face-masks in public places and over 2,000 for the violation of social distancing norms in June, said Ashok Kumar, director-general, (law & order), Uttarakhand Police. Anyone found not wearing a face mask or not maintaining social distancing in a public place could face a jail term of up to six months and a fine of Rs 5,000.On June 19, the government had decided to double the fare for both state-run Uttarakhand Road Transport Corporation and private buses. The government raised the fare citing losses by bus operators amid criticism from the opposition.The main opposition, Congress, termed the decision “against the common man and a systematic loot”.On June 25, the government had announced a one-time payment Rs 1,000 each to Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) and Anganwadi workers as frontline Covid-19 warriors battling against the viral outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlock-1-0-a-mixed-bag-for-uttarakhand/story-3cvpAXxZEq6GaKvbm99HOJ.html
30-06-2020||India||PM Modi’s address to the nation. Complete text||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday addressed the nation as India gears up to enter Unlock 2.0 from July 1 against Covid-19 crisis. During his short address, sixth since the coronavirus pandemic took over in March, the prime minister entirely focussed on India’s Covid battle and the steps the government took to minimise the impact of the crisis.Here’s the complete text of PM Modi’s address:My dear countrymen, namaskar!We are now entering Unlock-Two in our fight against the corona pandemic. We are also entering the season of increasing cases of cough, cold and fever. I, therefore, request all of you to take special care of yourselvesFriends, considering corona’s death rate, India is comparatively in a better position compared to many countries of the world. Timely imposition of lockdown and other decisions have saved lakhs of lives. But we have also seen that since Unlock-One, there is increasing negligence in personal and social behaviour. Earlier, we were very careful with respect to wearing of masks, social distancing and washing of hands for 20 seconds. But today, when we need to be more careful, increasing negligence is a cause of worry.Friends, rules were followed very strictly during the Lockdown. Now governments, local bodies, citizens, need to show similar alertness. Especially, we need to focus more on containment zones. Those not following the rules will need to be stopped and cautioned. You must have seen in the news, Prime Minister of a country was fined Rs. 13,000 for not wearing a mask in public place. In India too, the local administration should work with the same enthusiasm. This is a drive to protect the lives of 130 crore countrymen. Be it a village pradhan or the Prime Minister, no one is above the law in IndiaFriends, nation’s top priority during the lockdown was to ensure that no one remains hungry. Central government, state governments, civil society, all did their best... to ensure that no one goes to bed hungry. Be it a nation or a person, timely and sensible decisions increase our power to fight any crisis. Thus, immediately after the lockdown, the government brought out the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana. Under this scheme, a package worth Rs. 1.75 lakh crore was provided for the poor.Friends, in the last three months, 20 Crore poor households have received direct benefit transfers worth Rs. 31,000 Crore. During this period, Rs. 18,000 crore have been deposited in bank accounts of over 9 Crore farmers. Simultaneously, Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan was quickly launched for employment of Shramiks in rural areasGovernment is spending Rs. 50,000 Crore on this.Friends, there is another big thing that has surprised the whole world. In India, over 80 crore people were given free ration for three months. It means, every member of the family was given 5 kilogram wheat or rice, free of cost. In addition, every family got one kilogram pulse per month, free of cost. In a way, over 2.5 times the population of the United States, 12 times the population of the United Kingdom and double the population of the European Union was given free ration by our government.Friends, today, I am making a big announcement related to this. Friends, in our country, there are many activities in agriculture during and after rainy season. Other sectors do not have much activity. July also marks beginning of the festive season. 5th July is Guru Purnima, then month of Saawan is starting. Then 15th August is coming, Raksha Bandhan, Sri Krishna Janmashtami,Ganesh Chaturthi, Onam will follow. Further, Kati Bihu, Navratri, Durga Puja is coming, then Dussera, Diwali and Chhath. This festive season increases necessities as well as expenditure. Keeping all these things in mind, it has been decided to extend Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana up to Diwali and Chhath Puja, till November-end.It means, this scheme giving free ration to 80 crore people will continue in July, August, September, October, November. Government will provide free ration to 80 crore poor brothers-sisters for five months. Every member of family will get five kilogram wheat or rice. Also, every family will get one kilogram whole chana per month, free of cost.Friends, over 90 thousand crore rupees will be spent on this extension of PM Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana. If we add expenditure of last three months on this scheme, then it comes to around 1.5 lakh crore rupees.We have seen a dream for the whole country and some states have really done well. We are requesting other states also totake it forward. And, what is that?Now, One Nation, One Ration card is also being implemented. Major beneficiaries of this will be those who go to other states, in search of employment.Friends, today, if the government is able to provide free ration to the needy and poor, then credit for it goes to two categories. One – hard working farmers of our country. Second – honest taxpayers of our country. It is your hard work and dedication, due to which the nation is able to do it. You have filled the stocks of the nation, therefore, there is food in kitchen of poor, workers.You paid the tax honestly, you fulfilled your duty. That is why, the poor of the country is successfully coping with such a big crisis. On behalf of all the poor of the country, I express my heartfelt gratitude to all the taxpayers and farmers, and also salute them.Friends! In the coming days, we will further strengthen our efforts and continuously work to empower the poor, downtrodden and deprived sections of society. While taking all the precautions, we will further expand the Economic Activities. We will work ceaselessly for Atmanirbhar Bharat. We all will be vocal for Local. With this pledge and commitment, the 130 crore people of this country will have to work together and move forward together.I once again request you, pray for your, and appeal to you, that you all remain healthy, maintain a distance of two yards, always use your ‘Gamchha’, Face cover and mask. Please, do not be careless.With this appeal, best wishes to all of you!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-address-to-the-nation-complete-text/story-pWz8lPwjANttEsMd47YDZI.html
30-06-2020||India||Terror launch pads across LoC active, but we are ready, says J-K DGP||Jammu and Kashmir’s Director General of Police, Dilbag Singh on Tuesday said that the union territory’s anti-infiltration grid is intact despite active terror launch pads across the Line of Control (LoC) and Pakistan trying to infiltrate terrorists.“Our anti-infiltration grid is intact on the border and in the hinterland but at the same time launch pads of Pakistan are also active and they keep trying to push terrorists to this side. Our security forces have foiled their sinister designs and will keep doing so,” he told reporters after reviewing the security scenario along the Line of Control (LoC) and in the hinterland in Poonch.Singh said that the anti-terror operations are on at full throttle in Kashmir and 128 terrorists have been eliminated by the security forces so far this year.“In Kashmir region 48 terrorists have been eliminated this month. Till June the security forces have eliminated 128 terrorists, out of whom 70 belonged to Hizbul Mujahideen, 20 each from Jaish-e-Mohammad and Lashkar-e-Toiba and remaining from other groups,” he said.The DGP further informed that the two terrorists killed in an operation in Bijbehara on Tuesday were the ones involved in the killing of a five-year-old boy and a CRPF jawan on Sunday.“Similarly, in Acchabal operation we eliminated the last militant of Doda district and have made the region terror free for now,” he added.He said security forces have been successful in eliminating militants in large numbers in South Kashmir.“And the positive development is that the naïve and gullible youth, who used to be brainwashed by the terrorists and their OGWs are not taking up arms. Their number has come down drastically. They have been motivated by their families and security forces to lead a normal and productive life,” said the DGP.He said that among the new recruits from South Kashmir only 24 remain active and they will be dealt with accordingly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terror-launch-pads-across-loc-active-but-we-are-ready-says-j-k-dgp/story-Z8aGWLkvwTaCoaAKDMByIO.html
30-06-2020||India||PM Modi’s address to the nation: Congress alleges PM ‘afraid’ of talking about China||The Congress has expressed its disappointment with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation on Tuesday, where he announced an extension to the PM Gareeb Kalyan Anna Yojana for free distribution of food grains to the poor till the end of November.The Congress party questioned why the PM didn’t address the issue of Chinese incursions. “Forget condemning China, the PM is too afraid to even talk about it in his national address,” a tweet on Congress party’s official handle said, a few minutes after the prime minister’s address finished.The highlight of the prime minister’s address was the extension to PM Gareeb Kalyan Anna Yojana at the cost of over Rs 90 thousand crore. Under this scheme, the central government provides free ration to 80 crore poor people, he said.“Every member of the family will get 5 kg wheat or rice. Also, every family will get one kilogram whole chana per month, free of cost,” the prime minister said announcing the extension to the scheme launched especially to help the poor deal with the economic hardships inflicted by the lockdown in the wake of the coronavirus epidemic outbreak.The Congress seemed to suggest that today’s address could have been avoided.“Another national address that could have been a Govt notification,” the party said in another tweet preceding the one related to the Chinese incursion question.Also Read: Respond to China, not Opposition parties, Shiv Sena tells Modi govtThe Congress has been demanding that the prime minister clarifies on his earlier remark on China made during the all party meet. The party has attacked the prime minister ever since alleging that he had denied the incidents of Chinese intrusion across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh in contradiction with his own government’s official statements confirming the occupation of Indian territory by the Chinese army.Also Read: ‘No one above the law’: PM Narendra Modi asks for confronting Covid-19 norms’ violatorsEarlier today, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to explain how he proposes to drive Chinese troops out of Ladakh.“The whole country knows that China has snatched India’s land. We all know the Chinese are at four places in Ladakh. Please tell the country how you will evict the Chinese troops and when?” he asked in a video address barely an hour before the Prime Minister’s address to the nation.Also Read: When will you evict Chinese troops from Ladakh? Rahul Gandhi asks PM ModiHe also took a swipe at the BJP over the rising imports from China to allege that the ‘Make in India’ was not effective.“Facts don’t lie. BJP says: Make in India. BJP does: Buy from China,” he said in a tweet which was posted along with a graph showing comparative volumes of imports from China during the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government and the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government. The graph suggested that the Chinese imports had risen under the current regime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-address-to-the-nation-congress-alleges-pm-afraid-of-talking-about-china/story-9rJp9SNQ17BVsHuN5GEnRJ.html
30-06-2020||India||Vistara announces 5-20% pay cut for 40% employees till December||Vistara on Tuesday announced a pay cut between five to 20 per cent till December this year for around 40 per cent of its employees as cash flow continues to be adversely affected due to the coronavirus pandemic.The full-service carrier has more than 4,000 employees on its payroll.“About 60 per cent of our employees are not impacted by the pay cut,” a Vistara spokesperson said.Vistara CEO Leslie Thng told employees in an email, “From 1st July, 2020, to 31st December, 2020, I will take a 20 per cent pay cut and we will be implementing a monthly pay cut scheme for staff (except for pilots as follows): 1) 15 per cent pay cut for staff in Level 5 and 4, 2) 10 per cent pay cut for staff in Level 3 and 2, and licensed engineers in Level 1C, 3) 5 per cent pay cut for staff in Level 1 with monthly CTC equal or more than Rs 50,000.” “For pilots, we will continue with the reduction of monthly base flying allowance to 20 hours for July to December 2020. Allowances will also be adjusted for pilots under certain categories of training,” he added.Till April, Vistara’s pilots were getting base flying allowance, which is a fixed component of the salary, for 70 hours per month.Thng told employees the airline is operating at less than 30 per cent of its original network and the passenger loads on its flights are also not as strong as before the coronavirus-induced lockdown.“Our financial performance will continue to be negatively affected by Covid-19 as travel confidence and demand will take a while to fully recover to pre Covid-19 level,” he added.On May 5, Thng had announced that senior employees will have to go on compulsory leave without pay (LWP) for up to four days per month in May and June. Vistara had sent the same set of senior employees on compulsory LWP for up to six days in April.After a gap of two months, India resumed its domestic passenger flights on May 25. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in the country.The aviation sector has been hit hard by the pandemic and all airlines in India have resorted to cost-cutting measures like pay cuts to survive the crisis.On Tuesday, the Vistara spokesperson had said, “The ongoing pandemic continues to adversely impact our financial performance, as we are operating on a significantly reduced network since resumption of domestic flights amid low demand.”  “Vistara is making every effort to save jobs of more than 4,000 of its people while conserving cash and pursuing to reduce operational expenditures, which includes staff costs,” the spokesperson had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vistara-announces-5-20-pay-cut-for-40-employees-till-december/story-gkCqkietrvPnKuzbDM3MYL.html
30-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: Negligence by people since Unlock 1 began, says PM Modi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘People have shown negligence since Unlock 1 began’: PM Modi in address to nationPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said that the people of the country showed a little carelessness and negligence when the country announced relaxations in the first phase, after over two month-long Covid-19 lockdown. Read moreWhen will you evict Chinese troops from Ladakh? Rahul Gandhi asks PM ModiCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to tell the nation how he proposes to drive Chinese troops out of Ladakh. Read moreTold to wear a mask, Andhra govt official assaults woman; arrestedThe police in Andhra Pradesh’s Nellore district on Tuesday arrested a senior employee of the state tourism department for beating a woman colleague with a stick and abusing her for asking him to wear a face mask as part of Covid-19 norms. Read moreCovid-19: DIY wedding décor ideas for the perfect home wedding during lockdownWith the world under lockdown for over three months, weddings and celebrations seem like a thing from the past, and given that people can still not gather in large groups, every to-be brides dream of band, baaja and baraat may just remain a dream. Read moreWhat is impressive is his consistency across all formats: Aussie ODI captain praises Virat KohliOpening batsman Aaron Finch has been a key figure in the Australian cricketing set up over the past few years. While he has had his share of ups and downs in his performance graph, Finch has come back strong led the team to the semi-final of the ICC World Cup in England last year. Read moreMonkey hanged to death in Telangana, gut-wrenching incident sparks angry reactionsIn yet another incident of animal brutality, a group of people in a village in Telangana beat up and hanged a monkey to death after it entered a home looking for food. A gut-wrenching video of the incident has since gone viral and prompted a flood of angry reactions on Twitter, with many asking for justice for the animal. Read moreChinese apps banned: Alternatives to TikTok, CamScanner, ES File ExplorerModi government on Monday evening banned 59 Chinese apps including popular ones like TikTok, CamScanner, ES File Explorer etc. This comes against the backdrop of tensions between India and China after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in Ladakh on June 15. What are the alternatives to banned mobile apps? Watch the video to know more apps that you can use instead of TikTok, CamScanner etc. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-negligence-by-people-since-unlock-1-began-says-pm-modi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-yZiJzha1tOnN834OzTEq5L.html
30-06-2020||India||Respond to China, not Opposition parties, Shiv Sena tells Modi govt||The Shiv Sena took on the Narendra Modi-government and said that instead of giving a befitting reply to China for infiltration and killing Indian soldiers in Ladakh, the government is focusing on responding to Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. An editorial the Sena mouthpiece Saamana said that the Bharatiya Janata Party and Congress war of words is on at a time with China is building its army on the border. It added that “like the ‘coronavirus caller tune’, somebody should run a tune that ‘we have to fight China and not opposition parties’.The Sena also took potshots at Union home minister Amit Shah and said that he should focus on combating Covid-19 and not pay attention to what the opposition parties are saying on China.“The Chinese troops infiltrated in Galwan valley and it is carrying out unauthorised construction. Instead of giving China a befitting reply, the government is giving a strong response to Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and the Congress party. Rajiv Gandhi Foundation got funds from China. On this, the Congress shot back saying PM Cares got funds worth crores from Chinese companies. The Chinese are building bunkers and tents at the border and here BJP-Congress spat is on. It seems we have forgotten that we have to fight the Chinese,” the editorial said.The Shiv Sena backed Rahul Gandhi for questioning the government on the violent face-off between Indian and Chinese troops that left 20 Indian soldiers dead earlier this month. “Who is indulging in politics [over the Chinese infiltration]? Rahul Gandhi’s questions are not just bubbles in the water. Perhaps, Sharad Pawar also has the same queries. If China hasn’t intruded on our land, why were the 20 soldiers martyred?” it asked.Referring to Shah’s comments that the country will win battles against Covid-19 and against China under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership, the Sena said, “We wish Mr. Shah the best. He should focus on the two battles. The government should not focus on the opposition party. There is no need to be rattled by questions raised by the opposition party.”It added that there is no need to debate what happened in 1962 and said that we should “forget the past” and tackle the “fresh crisis”. it added, “Whether it was Nehru or Modi, China will never change.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/respond-to-china-not-opposition-parties-shiv-sena-tells-modi-govt/story-xSncr3v5clNsFfJno7NhHL.html
30-06-2020||India||Sobha FY20 net profit down 5% to Rs 281.5 cr, sales bookings at Rs 2,881 cr||Bengaluru-based realty firm Sobha Ltd has reported a 5 per cent decline in its consolidated net profit at Rs 281.5 crore for the last fiscal despite higher income and achieved strong sales bookings of Rs 2,881 crore.Its net profit stood at Rs 297.1 crore in the financial year 2018-19.Total income, however, rose to Rs 3,825.7 crore in 2019-20 from Rs 3,515.6 crore in the preceding fiscal.Net profit in the fourth quarter of FY20 fell to Rs 50.7 crore from Rs 113.3 crore in the year-ago period.Total income for the March quarter dipped to Rs 927.6 crore from Rs 1,421.6 crore in the corresponding period of the previous year.Sobha has achieved the highest ever total sales volume of 4.07 million square feet valued at Rs 2,881 crore during FY20, the company said.Total cash inflow for FY20 stands at all time high of Rs 3,647 crore. It delivered 5.86 million square feet of developable area during 2019-20.“FY 2019-20 has been an exciting and a challenging year. As we started FY20 on the back of one of the strongest performances, a gamut of new events unfolded which to a larger extent reversed the benefit of reforms witnessed during the previous 3 to 4 years,” said J C Sharma, Vice Chairman and Managing Director, Sobha.“Major world economies slipping into recession followed by the unprecedented Covid-19 pandemic have put the largely labour intensive sectors like construction in a tight spot.The pandemic has adversely impacted both human lives and businesses world over,” he added.Sharma said the company is well equipped to face the current challenge due to “adoption of innovative technological tools, self-reliant model, strong brand, on time delivery, robust balance sheet, presence in major cities, availability of sufficient liquidity and huge land bank for future growth.” Sobha currently has ongoing real estate projects aggregating to 39.36 million square feet of developable area and 27.41 million square feet of saleable area. It also has ongoing contractual projects aggregating to 9.44 million square feet.As on March 31, 2020, the company delivered 109.74 million square feet of developable area.  Sobha has a real estate presence in 10 cities, viz. Bengaluru, Gurugram, Chennai, Pune, Coimbatore, Thrissur, Kozhikode, Kochi, Gujarat (Gift City) and Mysore. Overall, it has a footprint in 27 cities in 14 states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sobha-fy20-net-profit-down-5-to-rs-281-5-cr-sales-bookings-at-rs-2-881-cr/story-5kIferJLg0bCErYG8zXGtN.html
30-06-2020||India||‘PMGKAY extended till November, 80 crore people to get free ration for 5 more months’: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced the extension of the key central scheme to help the poor during the coronavirus crisis.“PM Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) will be extended till the end of November in which free ration will be provided to the poor. The extension will cost over Rs 90 thousand crore,” PM Modi said in his address to the nation.The prime minister said that 80 crore people will get free ration for five more months. He also highlighted the work done by the Centre since the lockdown came into force.“Under the PMGKAY, we announced a package of Rs 1.75 lakh crore. In the last three months, Rs 31,000 crore have been deposited in the bank accounts of 20 crore poor families. Also, Rs 18,000 crore deposited in bank accounts of more than nine crore farmers,” PM Modi said.His short address, sixth since the pandemic began in March, entirely focussed on India’s coronavirus battle and the steps the government took to minimise the impact of the crisis.PM Modi also reiterated the fact that India has a low fatality rate as compared to the world, a fact which he attributed to the government’s decision to impose an early lockdown.He also hailed farmers and honest tax payers for their contribution in making the welfare scheme successful.PMGKAY is a Rs 1.7-lakh crore financial package announced by the Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to minimise the impact of lockdown on economy and poor.The existing National Food Security Act provides 5kg of foodgrain per person monthly at a subsidised rate of Rs 2-3 per kg to the country’s poor. Under the PMGKY, the ration quota was enhanced by another 5 kg for free for the next three months in March.The lockdown announced on March 24 shuttered shops, factories, and construction sites, rendering millions of migrant workers jobless.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmgky-extended-till-november-80-crore-people-to-get-free-ration-for-5-more-months-pm-modi/story-L69DCOiPJ4IJqTWYtux7PJ.html
30-06-2020||India||‘No one above the law’: PM Narendra Modi asks for confronting Covid-19 norms’ violators||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday appealed to citizens for making a renewed commitment to adherence to norms and regulations governing the lockdown restrictions imposed to contain the spread of deadly coronavirus disease. He asked citizens to confront, question, stop and advise people against violating social distancing and hygiene norms like the wearing of masks, specified by the government guidelines as necessary measures to be observed in public places during this global crisis.The Prime Minister also cited the example of Bulgarian Prime Minister Boyko Borissov who was recently fined for not wearing a mask in the public to say that no one in India was above the law.“India was doing better than several countries in dealing with coronavirus, the timely lockdown and other restrictions have saved the lives of lakhs of people. But we are witnessing a certain carelessness in individual and social behavior ever since the beginning of the Unlock 1 phase,” the PM said.He added that this was the time when the countrymen needed to be more careful as Covid 19 positive cases in India mounted rapidly to reach 5,66,840 cases on Tuesday.“We were careful about social distancing and sanitization etc earlier, but now, when the situation demands greater care, increasing carelessness is worrisome,” he said.Also Read:Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana to be extended till November, announces PM ModiBuilding further on the need to adhere to the restrictions, the prime minister asked for people’s cooperation and active vigilance.“We will have to stop and question those who are not following the norms and regulations so that the situation doesn’t worsen,” Modi said.He also cited the example of Bulgarian Prime Minister Boyko Borissov who was fined 300 levs or ($174) for not wearing a mask in the public.Earlier, Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro was also ordered by a judge to wear a mask in public after he was seen attending a political rally without one. The judge said that Bolsonaro would be liable to a fine of 2,000 Reais a day if he disobeyed the rule.“Nobody is above the rules, whether it is the head of a village or the country in India,” he said, making it clear that no one had any VIP privilege to break the rules enforced to contain the spread of the disease.This was prime minister Narendra Modi’s sixth address to the nation since the outbreak of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-one-above-the-law-pm-narendra-modi-asks-for-confronting-covid-19-norms-violators/story-3WcJS63E3Ha8Pyo2kuLvaN.html
30-06-2020||India||PM Modi announces free food grain scheme extension, urges people to wear masks||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced a key government scheme for free food grain to more than 80 crore poor people will be extended until November amid the coronavirus pandemic.PM Modi’s announcement came during his address to the nation as the country’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tally surged beyond 5.66 lakh.“This time of festivals also increases needs and expenses. Keeping all these things in mind, it has been decided that the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana should now be extended till Diwali and Chhath Puja, that is, by the end of November,” PM Modi said in his sixth address to the nation since the coronavirus pandemic started.“More than Rs 90,000 crore will be spent in this expansion of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana. If you add the expenses of the last three months to it, then it becomes almost one and a half lakh crore rupees,” he added during the virtual address.PM Modi said that “hardworking farmers and honest taxpayers” have helped push the government’s food scheme as he thanked them for their efforts.“Today, if the government is able to provide free food grains to the poor and the needy, the credit goes to two sections. First, the hardworking farmers of our country and second, the honest taxpayers. I thank you from my heart,” he said.The Prime Minister the government along with the people will push economic activities keeping all precautions in mind and be vocal for local to make India self-reliant.Also read | ‘People have shown negligence since Unlock 1 began’: PM Modi in address to nation“With this resolve, we 130 crore countrymen have to work together with the resolution to work and move forward. Once again I pray for you and urge all of you to be healthy, keep following the two-yard rule, use gamchas and mask always. Do not be careless,” he said. Before this, Modi once again stressed about following rules like wearing masks and following social distancing norms and said nobody is above rules. PM Modi said a timely lockdown and other decisions saved many lives but people have been negligent in their personal and social behaviour since Unlock 1.“Earlier, we were very cautious about masks, maintaining a two-yard distance, washing hands several times a day for 20 seconds,” the Prime Minister said.“The rules were followed very seriously during the lockdown. Now governments, local body entities, citizens of the country need to show the same vigilance again,” he added.India reported 18,522 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, slightly lower than Sunday’s record of 19,906, according to the Union health ministry Tuesday.India is behind only the United States, Brazil and Russia in total cases with more than 566,000 infections. More than 16,800 people have died in the country.Earlier addressesAhead of his address, PM Modi chaired a high-level meeting to review the preparations for vaccination against Covid-19 as and when a vaccine is available.Modi had last addressed the nation on May 12 when he had announced a Rs 20 lakh crore financial package to boost the economy recovering from coronavirus-induced lockdown.On March 19, the Prime Minister had announced a day’s Janta Curfew for March 22. He had announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown on March 24. PM Modi asked the nation on April 3, in a video message, to light lamps and clang utensils the next day for frontline workers. He had then extended the lockdown period till May 3 in an address on April 14.The lockdown was further extended till May 17 by the home ministry. The government on Monday announced the month-long Unlock 2 from Wednesday and issued guidelines further easing the restrictions imposed due to the coronavirus lockdown.However, schools, colleges, cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, bars, assembly halls and Metro services will remain closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-one-is-above-rules-need-to-be-more-vigilant-pm-modi/story-RMiRaCyhjnc9wFouDzTF9O.html
30-06-2020||India||‘People have shown negligence since Unlock 1 began’: PM Modi in address to nation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said that the people of the country showed a little carelessness and negligence when the country announced relaxations in the first phase, after over two month-long Covid-19 lockdown.He urged the people of the country to keep following social distancing and other Covid-19 protocols as the country enters in the phase of relaxations, called Unlock 2.“It’s correct that India is in a much better position in terms of Covid-19 fatality rate. And that has happened because we implemented the lockdown at the right time. But since Unlock 1 started, we have been careless. We were maintaining social distance, wearing masks and washing hands to more than 20 seconds when the lockdown was in place,” PM Modi said in his address to the nation.“But today, when we need these things more than anything, we have not been following these protocols,” he added.“The state governments, local administration and citizens again have to show similar caution. We need to have a special focus on containment zones. If you see someone flouting norms, tell them to not do so,” PM Modi said.Also read | No one is above rules, need to be more vigilant, says PM ModiThis is the prime minister’s sixth address to the nation since the pandemic began in March this year. He had first announced a Janta Curfew as a means to practice social distancing to fight the coronavirus pandemic.On May 24, PM Modi announced the first phase of the nationwide lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19. The lockdown was extended twice and the relaxations finally implemented from June 1.Tuesday’s address came a day before the country enters the second phase of the lockdown. In Unlock 2, there will be relaxations in the night curfew and easing of curbs outside the containment zones. The guidelines for Unlock 2 was issued by the Union home ministry on Monday.The containment zones will continue to have tight curbs till July 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-have-shown-negligence-since-unlock-1-began-pm-modi-in-address-to-nation/story-LCprGlTqujBwlm25fTlTKI.html
30-06-2020||India||When will you evict Chinese troops from Ladakh? Rahul Gandhi asks PM Modi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to tell the nation how he proposes to drive Chinese troops out of Ladakh.“The whole country knows that China has snatched India’s land. We all know the Chinese are at four places in Ladakh. Please tell the country how you will evict the Chinese troops and when?” he asked in a video address barely an hour before the Prime Minister’s address to the nation.The Congress has been attacking the Prime Minister over inconsistencies on the government’s stand on the position of Chinese troops in Ladakh. Last week, the opposition party had asked Modi to “publicly condemn China’s brazen act in Ladakh.” Modi has not yet named China amid the standoff.The Indian Army has been bracing itself for all eventualities in Ladakh and has deployed battle tanks in the Galwan Valley sector where 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a clash with Chinese troops on the night of June 15 that triggered a national outrage.Senior military commanders from India and China are meeting in Chushul on Tuesday to hammer out a disengagement protocol.On Monday, the government banned 59 China-lined mobile phone apps saying they were prejudicial to India’s sovereignty, security, defence and public order. The ban evoked a sharp response from Beijing on Tuesday which said it was “strongly concerned” and stressed on cooperation between the two countries and underlined that the ban would go against “India’s interests”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-will-you-evict-chinese-troops-from-ladakh-rahul-gandhi-asks-pm-modi/story-hQe0ed1wUf6WpXUUvoL97I.html
30-06-2020||India||WATCH: PM Modi’s address to the nation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation on Tuesday . The address comes just a day before as India gears up to enter Unlock 2.0 as coronavirus crisis deepens in the country. PM Modi’s address comes as India continues to hold talks with Chinese counterparts over rising tension at Line of Actual Control (LAC) after 20 Indian soldiers were killed on June 15 during Galwan Valley clash. PM Modi had talked about the issue in his monthly radio address Mann ki Baat where he said that Indian soldiers had given a befitting reply to those who coveted Indian territory.This was PM Modi’s sixth address to the nation since the outbreak of the pandemic.Watch key points from PM Modi’s address below:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-live-pm-modi-address-india-4-pm-unlock-2-0-india-china-tension-covid-lockdown/story-VuOZxLcEK9peZmBQp7VJFO.html
30-06-2020||India||NaMo app violating privacy of Indians, alleges senior Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan||Senior Congress leader and former Maharashtra chief minister Prithviraj Chavan on Tuesday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s official mobile application, popularly known as NaMo app, of violating privacy of Indians.Chavan’s tweet comes on a day when India decided to block 59 Chinese mobile applications including TikTok, calling them prejudicial to India’s sovereignty and integrity, defence, security and public order.Chavan referred to the ban on the Chinese apps and claimed further that the NaMo app changes the privacy settings and sends data to third party companies in the US.“It’s good that Modi government is protecting privacy of 130 crore Indians by banning 59 Chinese apps. The NaMo app also violates privacy of Indians by accessing 22 data points, surreptitiously changing the privacy settings and sending data to third party companies in the US,” Chavan tweeted on Tuesday.Google Play Store describes the NaMo app as the official mobile app of Narendra Modi.“It brings to you latest information, instant updates & helps you contribute towards various tasks. It provides a unique opportunity to receive messages and emails directly from Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” it says.India’s decision to ban TikTok, WeChat and others becomes trending topic on social media in ChinaAccording to information publicly available on the google website hosting details of mobile applications available on Google play store---- the NaMo App was last updated on January 8, 2020 and has been installed by 10,000,000+ (over 1 crore) users.According to Google Play, the interactive app seeks to access location –both approximate location (network-based) and precise location (GPS and network-based), microphone for users to record audio, device id and call information-- which essentially relates to phone status and identity-- photos/media/files.India bans 59 Chinese apps including TikTok and Shein, Twitter reactions are epicIt also seeks access to the mobile camera, phone, wifi connection information, contacts and other miscellaneous permissions. Another section called the “Highlights of the Narendra Modi App”, says the app offers attractive infographics that “illustrate” the work of the NDA government to transform India, provides “exclusive” opportunity to receive e-mails & messages directly from PM Narendra Modi, broadcasts PM’s monthly radio address ‘Mann Ki Baat’ and offers exciting features that “empower” you to contribute towards making a positive difference in society.It adds that the app can be accessed even as a guest without entering one’s email address or phone. “This is unlike most other Apps, where some sort of info is required,” the website says. 2,58,988 users on Google Play Store have given the application 4.6 rating out of 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/namo-app-violating-privacy-of-indians-alleges-senior-congress-leader-prithviraj-chavan/story-RnSfg2P55qwW7GGKAoz8VM.html
30-06-2020||India||9,000 foreigners left Goa in 43 flights during Covid-19 lockdown, 1,000 still in state||As many as 43 special flights carrying nearly 9,000 foreigners have so far left from Goa to various international destinations during the coronavirus- induced lockdown, officials said on Tuesday.The latest flight, of the Russian airliner Rossiya, carrying 318 adults and eight children, left from the Goa International Airport on Tuesday, airport director Gagan Malik said.“So far, 43 flights carrying nearly 9,000 foreigners have left from Goa to various international destinations,” he said.All protocols for Covid-19 were meticulously followed at the airport, he added.Besides, nearly 1,000 foreigners, mostly from Britain and Russia, are still in the state, including those stranded due to coronavirus-induced restrictions and the ones vacationing here, Superintendent of Police (FRRO) Bosco George said.“There are some who are waiting for a special flight to carry them to their country, while others are staying back, he said.There are many Russians whose visas have expired and they are waiting to complete the formalities to go back to their country, said Vikram Varma, legal counsel of the Russian Consulate in Mumbai.“They were supposed to travel back in March, but there were no flights and their visa period has expired. They have already applied for the renewal of visa so that they can go back, he said.Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG), an umbrella body of the hotel and travel industry stakeholders, said foreigners were still holidaying in some of the beach villages of the state.There are some foreigners who are waiting for the resumption of regular international flights to travel while some would like to stay back as Goa is a financially affordable destination for them, TTAG’s executive member Savio Messias said.He said foreigners were seen on the beaches of Agonda (in South Goa district) and Keri (North Goa district).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-000-foreigners-left-goa-in-43-flights-during-covid-19-lockdown-1000-still-in-state/story-jnZAacpWi7978bo4Xk4heO.html
30-06-2020||India||China main issue for Cong, BJP for by-polls to 24 assembly seats in MP||The stand-off at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) between India and China has become a political issue for the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the opposition Congress ahead of the elections to the 24 assembly constituencies, which hold key to the party that would form the government in Madhya Pradesh. The BJP has 107 legislators and Congress 92 in the assembly. The party with 116 legislators would have the majority in 230-member house.The BJP has announced it will go from door- to - door to tell people how the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation received a donation from China and how the then Union commerce and industries minister Kamal Nath played a key role in building the relationship between China and the Congress party.The allegations have prompted Congress to raise the issue of the visit by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and other state and central BJP leaders to China in the past and Chouhan accepting hospitality of the Chinese Communist Party.On Sunday, BJP leaders burnt effigies of state Congress president Kamal Nath in two places in Bhopal.“Congress stands exposed after donations to Rajiv Gandhi Foundation. In the capacity of union commerce and industries minister Kamal Nath had reduced import duty from 40% to 200% on 250 items that benefitted China and hard hit those who were engaged in small trades in the country,” VD Sharma, the BJP’s state unit chief, said. Sharma reiterated the charges the party’s national vice-president Prabhat Jha had levelled on Friday.Bhupendra Gupta, the Congress’ state unit spokesperson, said the party will expose the “real face of the BJP” in context with its relations with China and it would “definitely be one of the main issues during the by-polls.”“Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan visited China twice during his previous term as the CM. Once he accepted the hospitality of the Communist Party. The fact is the BJP has been trying to build a good relationship with China since 2009 when it sent a delegation and again in 2014 to understand the working of the Communist Party over there. These delegations had certain people with Sangh background too,” Gupta said.Even otherwise, he said, “During the BJP regime import from China has gone up three folds. In this situation, the BJP must make it clear as to who is an agent of China- BJP or Congress?”Political analyst Girija Shankar said the BJP and Congress are picking up “non-issues”.“Though the BJP and Congress both are making massive preparations for the by-polls, neither of these two parties has raised any real issue concerning the people so far. Since both the parties are cut-off from the ground reality, they are raising non-issues like China with an eye on by-polls,” Shankar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-main-issue-for-congress-bjp-for-by-polls-to-24-assembly-seats-in-madhya-pradesh/story-WNH5ihMshZ875LiE3FXzVL.html
30-06-2020||India||At Covid-19 vaccine review meet, PM Modi lays down 4 principles for vaccination||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday chaired a high-level meeting to review the preparations being undertaken for vaccination against Covid-19 as and when a vaccine is available.The PM directed officials to evaluate various technology tools to ensure efficient and timely vaccination in due course of time. He also directed that detailed planning for such large scale vaccination should be undertaken immediately.The status of Indian and global vaccine development efforts was also reviewed at the meeting. The PM underscored India’s responsibility and commitment to the global community to play an enabling role in global vaccination efforts against Covid-19.“The PM noted that vaccination of India’s vast and diverse population will need to factor in issues including those related to management of medical supply chains, prioritization of at-risk populations, coordination between different agencies involved in the process, as well as the role of private sector and civil society in this national endeavour,” an official statement said.PM Modi outlined the four guiding principles that would form the foundation of this national effort.First, that vulnerable groups should be identified and prioritized for early vaccination, for example doctors, nurses, healthcare workers, non-medical frontline corona warriors, and vulnerable people among the general population; second, that vaccination of “anyone, anywhere” should take place, ie without imposition of any domicile related restrictions for getting the vaccine; third, that vaccination must be affordable and universal - no person should be left behind; and fourth, that the entire process from production to vaccination should be monitored and supported in real time with the use of technology.PM-CARES (Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations) Fund Trust had earlier allocated Rs 100 crore for coronavirus vaccine development.India’s coronavirus count has reached 5,66,840 including 16,893 deaths, according to the Union health and family welfare ministry on Tuesday. Earlier, Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech announced that it has successfully developed Covaxin, the country’s first vaccine candidate for Covid-19, in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology (NIV).The Drug Controller General of India, ministry of health & family welfare granted permission to initiate phase I & II human clinical trials after the company submitted results generated from preclinical studies, demonstrating safety and immune response.Human clinical trials are scheduled to start across India in July 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reviews-preparations-for-covid-19-vaccine-development/story-XJzz66sXFRUraiXVAUVwmI.html
30-06-2020||India||Beijing’s 1st response to ban on 59 China-linked apps talks of cooperation||Beijing on Tuesday said it was “strongly concerned” about New Delhi’s decision to ban 59, mostly Chinese, mobile applications such as TikTok, UC Browser and WeChat, stressed on cooperation between the two countries and underlined that the ban would go against “India’s interests”.The information technology ministry did not underline the Chinese links of the 59 mobile apps but government officials didn’t leave anyone in doubt. The ban was fast-tracked by Home Minister Amit Shah after the June 15 violent confrontation between soldiers of India and China at eastern Ladakh’s Galwan valley that spiralled tensions between the two neighbours.The official announcement only said the 59 applications were prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order. “This move will safeguard the interests of crores of Indian mobile and internet users,” the Indian IT ministry statement on Monday evening said. Also Watch | Chinese apps banned: Alternatives to TikTok, CamScanner, ES File ExplorerChinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said Beijing was strongly concerned about the order.“China is strongly concerned about the relevant notice issued by the Indian side. We are checking on and verifying the situation,” Zhao Lijian said at the regular ministry briefing on Tuesday.“I want to stress that the Chinese government always asks the Chinese businesses to abide by international rules, local laws and regulations in their business cooperation with foreign countries,” he said.Zhao also went on to remind New Delhi of its responsibilities towards foreign companies.“The Indian government has the responsibility to uphold the legitimate and legal rights of the international investors including the Chinese ones,” he said.“The practical cooperation between China and India is actually mutually beneficial and win-win,” he saidZhao added: “Such a pattern has been artificially undermined and it is not in the interest of the Indian side”.The decision by New Delhi to ban Chinese apps comes days after popular Chinese social media app WeChat - also banned by India - removed updates by the Embassy of India (EoI) on the current border conflict including Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement on the clash that left 20 Indian Army soldiers dead. The reasons given for the removal of the posts include divulging state secrets and endangering national security.The updates published on WeChat included Modi’s remarks on the India-China border situation, the phone call between the Indian and Chinese foreign ministers held earlier this month and a statement by the external affairs ministry’s (MEA) spokesperson on the border situation.India’s decision to ban the China-linked apps and encourage people to use Indian applications is a continuing effort to reduce dependence on its neighbor’s products and hampers efforts by China’s largest corporations to expand beyond their own borders||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-in-india-s-interest-china-after-ban-on-tiktok-58-other-apps/story-5Sh0gLXhuQUhcnOkS0ZyiL.html
30-06-2020||India||Bharat Biotech to start human trials for first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine from July||Human clinical trials of Bharat Biotech’s vaccine for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will start from July, the Hyderabad-based biotechnology giant has said.Bharat Biotech had claimed on Monday to have successfully developed India’s first Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, and said it has the permission from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) to start human clinical trials.A release from the company said the vaccine was developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology (NIV).“The SARS-CoV-2 strain was isolated in NIV, Pune and transferred to Bharat Biotech. The indigenous inactivated vaccine was developed and manufactured in Bharat Biotech’s BSL-3 (Bio-Safety Level 3) High Containment facility located in Genome Valley, Hyderabad,” it said.It said the drug controller under the Union health ministry granted permission to initiate Phase I and II of human clinical trials after the company submitted results generated from preclinical studies, demonstrating safety and immune response. Human clinical trials are scheduled to start across India in July 2020.Dr Krishna Ella, Bharat Biotech’s chairperson and managing director, said while announcing the vaccine development milestone that the company was proud to announce Covaxin.“The collaboration with ICMR and NIV was instrumental in the development of this vaccine. The proactive support and guidance from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has enabled approvals to this project. Our research and development and manufacturing teams worked tirelessly to deploy our proprietary technologies towards this platform,” Ella said.Expedited through national regulatory protocols, the company accelerated its objective in completing the comprehensive pre-clinical studies. Results from these studies have been promising and show extensive safety and effective immune responses, Ella said.Suchitra Ella, the company’s joint managing director, said Bharat Biotech’s ongoing research and expertise in forecasting epidemics had enabled it to successfully manufacture a vaccine for the H1N1 pandemic.“We are committed to advancing vaccine development as a matter of national importance to demonstrate India’s strength in handling future pandemics,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-to-start-human-trials-for-first-indigenous-covid-19-vaccine-from-july/story-WvUZ1y6caZpqOePDWBA0hK.html
30-06-2020||India||IRCTC keeps order to terminate over 500 catering supervisors in abeyance till further notice||Days after issuing an order asking its zonal offices to terminate the services of over 500 contractual hospitality supervisors, the IRCTC has now decided to keep the order ¨in abeyance till further notice¨. Sources, however, said that the contracts of most of these workers are to get over by the end of this year.   Around 560 supervisors (hospitality) were hired by the IRCTC (Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation) in 2018 on contract basis for a period of two years, to maintain a quality check on contractors assigned to cater food in trains equipped with pantries. The hospitality supervisors’ work is to monitor operations of the pantry car on board trains which essentially means to look after the preparation of the food, quality inspection, handling passenger complaints and to ensure that the charges of food are according to prices notified by the national transporter. The IRCTC, in a letter, dated June 25, informed all its zonal offices that there was no requirement for these contractual workers under the present circumstances and they be given one month notice and their contracts terminated. The requirement of Supervisor (Hospitality) engaged on contract basis has been reviewed in the revised catering model and it has been decided that under present circumstances, services of Supervisor (Hospitality), engaged on contract basis are no more required, the letter stated. ¨The order has been kept in abeyance till further notice,¨ a spokesperson for IRCTC said. The contractual employees, who are all from the hospitality industry, have sought intervention of Railway Minister Piyush Goyal. “@PiyushGoyal Sir, I am working in Irctc as Hospitality Supervisor but unfortunately now irctc decided to terminate all supervisors in huge quantity from pan india so we will be jobless now, family depends on us. plz do needful for us. shall be thankful sir (sic),” tweeted Arun Kumar. Many among those whose contracts were terminated received their letters on June 26, the sources said. Currently, only 230 special trains are in service along with the Shramik Special trains. All regular passenger services have been suspended since March 23||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/irctc-keeps-order-to-terminate-over-500-catering-supervisors-in-abeyance-till-further-notice/story-WP6gTod7UEukGyJYA5l21M.html
30-06-2020||India||Man attempts suicide outside Chhattisgarh CM’s house; BJP slams govt for failing youth||A 27-year-old man attempted suicide by setting himself on fire in front Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel’s official residence in Raipur on Monday, prompting the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to hit out at the government for what it said was a failure to help the state’s youth. Arif Sheikh, Raipur’s superintendent of police, said the man, identified as Hardev Sinha, a resident of Dhamtari district, went to Baghel’s residence and insisted on getting inside. “Suddenly, he poured petrol on himself which he was carrying in a small bottle and set himself on fire,” Sheikh said while speaking to HT. Police sources said the reason behind Sinha’s action could have stemmed from his inability to make a YouTube film. They added that Sinha was a writer and had given an application to the village panchayat for making a YouTube film. Chhattisgarh public relations department, on the other hand, claimed after speaking to his relatives that Sinha, a native of Telinsatti village, has been mentally unstable for the past two years. “Sinha owns 2 acres of land in his village and possesses a job card under the employment guarantee scheme. He even had worked for 11 days last month in works under the scheme and had given an application to village panchayat for making a YouTube film,” it said in a statement. Hardev Sinha has two daughters and a wife, who works as a labourer. His wife, Basanti Sinha, while speaking to the media said that Hardev was not mentally unstable but remianed in constant worry over how he would feed his children and his family. Sheikh said Sinha is currently admitted to Dr BR Ambedkar Memorial Hospital. He sustained 40% burn injuries but remains out of danger.“As per preliminary investigation, Sinha is mentally unstable and was also undergoing some treatment,” he said.Chief minister Baghel prayed for speedy recovery of Sinha and asked people not to take such extreme steps. The BJP criticised the role of the chief minister and party leader Dr Raman Singh took to Twitter on Tuesday to ask his successor if the incident highlights the Congress government’s failure to address problems suffered by the state’s youth. Singh, in a series of tweets, also asked Congress lawmaker Rahul Gandhi to consider the removal of Baghel as a chief minister over the incident. मुख्यमंत्री @bhupeshbaghel आज प्रदेश की जनता हरदेव सिन्हा की इस दशा को आपकी विफलता माने या सफलता? https://t.co/szyi6EqPez pic.twitter.com/qwNjNYg6fKछत्तीसगढ़ आकर झूठे वादे करने वाले @RahulGandhi अब कहाँ हैं? आपके वादों पर विश्वास करने वाले युवाओं को विश्वासघात की आग में धकेलने वाले मुख्यमंत्री को क्या अब भी आप पद पर रहने देंगे?He also quoted the famous Hindi poet Adam Gondvi in a separate tweet and lashed out at Baghel’s administration, saying Sinha’s plight is symbolic of the hopelessness that Chhattisgarh’s youth faces under the new government. जिस्म क्या है रूह तक सब कुछ ख़ुलासा देखियेआप भी इस भीड़ में घुस कर तमाशा देखियेजो बदल सकती है इस पुलिया के मौसम का मिजाज़उस युवा पीढ़ी के चेहरे की हताशा देखिये।- अदम गोंडवीVishnu Deo Sai, the BJP’s chief of the state unit, said the government has not kept its promise of providing the unemployment allowance, a promise it had made ahead of the assembly polls.“This is a heart-wrenching incident… The Congress had made false promises of providing employment to 10 lakh youths and allowance to the unemployed. The suicide attempt incident is the outcome of such false promises,” Sai said during a press conference on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-attempts-suicide-outside-chhattisgarh-cm-s-house-bjp-slams-govt-for-failing-youth/story-nUluFjVkJXFL3TRgurqgKN.html
30-06-2020||India||Told to wear a mask, Andhra govt official assaults woman; arrested||The police in Andhra Pradesh’s Nellore district on Tuesday arrested a senior employee of the state tourism department for beating a woman colleague with a stick and abusing her for asking him to wear a face mask as part of Covid-19 norms.  The incident, which happened at AP Tourism Hotel at Dargamitta in Nellore town on Saturday afternoon, came to light today when a video footage obtained from the closed-circuit television cameras of the hotel went viral on social media.“We have arrested the accused, C Bhaskar, working as deputy manager at the AP Tourism Hotel and he has been sent in judicial remand. A case was booked against him under Section 354 (assaulting a woman intending to outrage her modesty), 355 (using force to dishonour a person) and 324 (causing injuries using a weapon),” Dargamitta sub-inspector of police K Venugopal said.“Nellore district police are extremely sensitive to any violation or crime against women. Women safety is our top priority,” a tweet from the Nellore police department said. #WATCH An employee of a hotel in Nellore under Andhra Pradesh Tourism Department beat up a woman colleague on 27th June following a verbal spat. Case registered against the man under relevant sections. pic.twitter.com/6u9HjlXvORAccording to the police, Bhaskar had been nursing a grouse against the 43-year-old woman, who is a contractual employee with the department. On Saturday, when he was talking to a senior accountant, Narasimha Rao, without wearing a mask, she suggested that he wear a mask because of the Covid-19 situation.“Enraged at this, Bhaskar allegedly abused her, dragged her from her chair, caught hold of her hair and started beating her on her face and head with a stick pulled out from a wooden chair. He also insulted her in front of others,” the SI said, quoting the complaint.Though other colleagues tried to stop him from assaulting her, he kept raining blows on her. Later, the woman, with the help of other colleagues, lodged a complaint with the police.Andhra Pradesh director general of police (DGP) Gautam Sawang directed the Disha police station (exclusive police stations to deal with crime against women) to take up the investigation into the Nellore tourism hotel incident and file the charge sheet within one week.“Crime against women is unacceptable. We condemn the Nellore incident and action has been taken against the accused for manhandling the lady official,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/told-to-wear-a-mask-andhra-govt-official-assaults-woman-arrested/story-x447ZyzvuRvpcKG7ZLfEPI.html
30-06-2020||India||France conveys ‘steadfast support’ to India amid standoff with China||France has expressed “deep solidarity” over the death of 20 Indian soldiers in a violent-face-off with Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), with French defence minister Florence Parly conveying “steadfast and friendly support” to her Indian counterpart Rajnath Singh.Parly wrote a letter to Singh on Monday, condoling the death of the 20 Indian soldiers in the clash in Galwan Valley on June 15, people familiar with developments said.“This was a hard blow against the soldiers, their families, and the nation. In these difficult circumstances, I wish to express my steadfast and friendly support, along with that of the French armed forces,” Parly wrote in the letter.Parly also recalled that India is France’s strategic partner in the region and reiterated France’s “deep solidarity” in the letter.She also expressed her readiness to meet Singh in India, at his invitation, to follow up on their ongoing discussions, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.Parly also conveyed her “heartfelt condolences to the entire Indian armed forces as well as to the grieving families” of the 20 soldiers.Indian and Chinese troops have been engaged in a months-old tense standoff along the LAC, especially in Ladakh sector, where both sides have deployed thousands of additional troops.France, a key supplier of frontline combat jets to the Indian Air Force (IAF) for decades, has stepped up its defence engagements with India in recent years and both sides are working on closer naval cooperation, including joint exercises and patrols, in the Indian Ocean region.Paris has also acted on a special request from New Delhi to speed up deliveries of 36 Rafale combat jets ordered by India in a deal worth Rs 59,000 crore in 2016, with six of the planes expected to land at the airbase in Ambala on July 27.France is reworking the calendar for supplying the Rafales to India at a faster pace, people familiar with developments said on Monday. IAF ordered the jets as an emergency purchase to arrest a worrying slide in its combat capabilities.Earlier, the first batch of Rafales to be delivered to India in 2020 was expected to comprise four jets. France has stepped up efforts to meet IAF’s immediate requirements.The people said around 10 Rafale jets are ready at manufacturer Dassault Aviation’s Merignac facility and six of them will be flown by IAF pilots to India via Abu Dhabi in late July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/french-defence-minister-conveys-steadfast-support-in-letter-to-indian-counterpart/story-z4EqhOWInmMy0Ifurm2zKP.html
30-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1 pm: India’s ban on 59 apps trends on social media in China and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India’s decision to ban TikTok, WeChat and others becomes trending topic on social media in ChinaIndia’s decision to ban 59 Chinese mobile applications, including Bytedance’s TikTok and Tencent’s WeChat, became a trending topic on social media apps in China on Tuesday morning. Read moreComplete lockdown in 8 wards of Gurugram: No movement, door-to-door screeningAuthorities in Gurugram will enforce a complete lockdown from Tuesday in eight containment zones for two weeks as cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have surged in the Haryana district. Read moreWhat does outer space smell like? This perfume has the answerPeople have limitless curiosity about outer space. There are many who may have even wondered about how it smells. If you’re among them, then be prepared to get your curiosity satiated as a kickstarter was recently launched for a new out of this world fragrance which brings the smell of space to Earth. Soon to be made available to everyone, this new perfume is called Eau de Space. Read moreAamir Khan’s staff tests positive for Covid-19, says taking mother for test: ‘Please pray she is negative’Aamir Khan has revealed some of his staff members have tested positive for Covid-19 and have been shifted to a medical facility. The actor added that his family members have tested negative for the novel coronavirus but his mother is yet to take the test, asking fans to pray for her. Read moreIt was Sachin Tendulkar’s idea to promote me as batsman, not Greg Chappell’s: Irfan PathanFormer India fast bowler Irfan Pathan has revealed that it was Sachin Tendulkar who had a role in making him bat at No. 3 for India. It was the first match of the ODI series between India and Sri Lanka in 2005 in Nagpur and Pathan’s promotion saw him score a scintillating 83 off 70 balls as India thrashed Sri Lanka by 152 runs. Read moreInternet services providers to block access to the 59 apps banned by govtThe 59 Chinese apps that have been banned by the government on Monday night will also be blocked by Internet Service Providers (ISPs) in the country. Users who have these apps on their smartphones still will not receive updates, according to a senior government official. Read moreNational Doctor’s Day 2020: Quotes and wishes to share with your doctorsThe current pandemic that the world is undergoing warrants that this is perhaps the most difficult time we are ever going to face in our lives. It is even more difficult for the doctors who are working tirelessly to ensure that all those that are infected are provided with proper medical facilities. Their contributions and hard work deserve our gratitude each and every day. Read moreIndia’s first covid vaccine candidate Covaxin approved for human trialsHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top stories you need to know. Sunetra talks about the number of covid-19 cases in India, what you can’t do in Unlock 2, how monsoon session of parliament will happen, India’s first covid vaccine candidate Covaxin approved for human trials and more. Watch the video for more details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-india-s-ban-on-59-apps-trends-on-social-media-in-china-and-all-the-latest-news/story-e7k1250gSacJF5cZaxTYRP.html
30-06-2020||India||Glacier studies in Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh flag stark climate change impact||Climate change is having a discernible impact on glaciers in the western Himalayan region, studies by Jawaharlal Nehru University’s (JNU) glaciology unit in the School of Environmental Sciences has found.The results of their long-term monitoring of two glaciers, based on observational data and modelling exercises, in Himachal Pradesh (HP) and the Union Territory of Ladakh, have found that in the first decade of the new millennium glacier mass loss was significantly higher than in the late 20th century.While the glaciers will not disappear in the coming decades, the authors of the studies said, negative mass balance -- the net change in its mass over a balance year or fixed year -- of these slowly moving giant mass of ice is likely to have a profound impact on water availability for local communities.They also said that mass loss in glaciers in the region is mainly linked to rising temperatures and reduced snowfall.For the Ladakh study, published in the Journal of Glaciology on May 18, the team found that the Stok glacier is facing as much mass loss as its western Himalayan counterparts, despite being in a higher altitude zone between the Himalayan and Karakoram mountain ranges.The Stok glacier was in a balanced condition during the late 20th century -- around the 1980s --- due to sufficient winter precipitation, or snowfall. However, it was followed by a severe loss during the early 21st century -- prior to 2009 -- and a moderate loss after 2011.“This is mainly because of reduced winter snowfall in the arid Himalayan region. This must be also affecting water availability in villages in and around Stok and Indus river, which must be studied,” said JNU’s Professor AL Ramanathan, the corresponding author of the paper.The paper projects that a 27% increase in snow or rain is required to compensate for the mass loss due to 1 degree Celsius rise in temperature over pre-industrial era levels.“Accelerated temperature rise over the western Himalayas has significantly reduced the amount of snowfall received and also aggravated glacier mass loss,” he added.Another paper published in the same journal on June 23 is a study -- conducted between 2002 and 2019 --- of the Chhota Shigri glacier in HP. The team found over the past two decades, on average half a metre of water equivalent of ice has been drained from this glacier in the Indus river.The glacier is in an imbalanced condition because it has melted more than gained, the paper said.“Overall, the air temperature change is controlling the river run-off, which means a warmer world is likely to be associated with higher water in the Himalayan rivers till the 2050s, which other studies have also observed. There might be a seasonal shift in glacier run-off as well,” Ramanthan said.The country’s first national climate change assessment by the Union Ministry of Earth Sciences published in early June also flagged similar concerns.For instance, the Hindu Kush Himalayas (HKH) region experienced a temperature rise of about 1.3 degrees Celsius between 1951 and 2014, as compared to an average temperature rise of .7 degree over India from 1901 onwards.Several areas of the HKH region have experienced a declining trend in snowfall and also a retreat of glaciers in recent decades. “Several areas in the HKH region have exhibited declining trends in snowfall and retreating glaciers during the recent decades. Parts of the high-elevation Karakoram Himalayas have, in contrast, experienced increased wintertime precipitation in association with enhanced amplitude variations of synoptic western disturbance,” the assessment has said.“There are thousands of glaciers in the western Himalayas. It’s difficult to say how water availability will be impacted in the coming years. We need large observational and satellite studies to have an effective assessment. But reduced snowfall in recent years is linked to an overall trend of glacial retreat,” said Anil Kulkarni, Distinguished Scientist, Divecha Centre for Climate Change, Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/glacier-studies-in-ladakh-himachal-pradesh-flag-stark-climate-change-impact/story-xljIuWttGnK3WaD5Vt9GrK.html
30-06-2020||India||PM Modi’s address to nation, his sixth since Covid-19 pandemic began, at 4 pm today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation on Tuesday evening. The address will begin at 4 pm, a tweet from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said on Monday.PM Modi’s address comes amid tension with China over a stand-off in the Ladakh sector where 20 Indian soldiers were killed on June 15. India has increased patrolling and deployed troops since the stand-off where India and Chinese soldiers came to blows.The prime minister has more than once reiterated that no Indian territory is under enemy’s control and that there are no Chinese outposts on Indian land in Ladakh. PM Modi had held an all-party meeting too on the issue where he paid tribute to the bravehearts who were killed in the line of duty, praised the unity shown by the various political parties and assured that no one entered the Indian territory.The Congress, however, criticised PM Modi’s statement and has since been demanding proof from the government on whether the Chinese have captured parts of Indian territory.PM Modi had talked about the issue in his monthly radio address Mann ki Baat where he said that Indian soldiers had given a befitting reply to those who coveted Indian territory.This would be the prime minister’s sixth address to the nation since the outbreak of the pandemic.Modi had last addressed the nation on May 12 when he had announced a Rs 20 lakh crore financial package to boost the economy recovering from coronavirus-induced lockdown.In his March 19 address, the prime minister announced a “janta curfew” on March 22. On March 24, he announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown. On April 14, he extended the lockdown period till May 3. On April 3, in a video message, PM Modi asked the nation to light lamps for frontline corona warriors on April 5.The lockdown was further extended till May 17 by the Home Ministry.Now, the country is in the phase one of ‘unlock’ and the month-long phase 2 begins on July 1. On Monday evening, the government banned 59 Chinese apps under national security considerations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-address-to-nation-his-sixth-since-covid-19-pandemic-began-at-4-pm-today/story-mrEAvm3QvvEenWdZb6JxDI.html
30-06-2020||India||Tendu leaves collectors in Sukma, Dantewada and Bijapur to get cash payments: Chhattisgarh govt||The Chhattisgarh government has said it will make payments to tendu leaf collectors in cash after a protest by thousands of tribals in Bijapur district in Bastar region on Monday, saying bank transfers don’t help.On Monday, thousands of tribals from remote villagers of Maoist-hit Bijapur district reached the district headquarters to start a three-day protest in front of the collector’s office demanding that the money of tendu leaf procurement should be given in cash as they face trouble reaching the banks and many of them don’t have accounts.Most of these villagers were from Gangaloor, Cherlapal and other interior areas which are located south of the district. Some of these villages are 50km from district headquarters with no road connectivity.The tribals also demanded that the bonus given on the paddy procurement should also be given in cash, the government should open schools and hospitals in their area and that police atrocity should stop.Meanwhile, police sealed the district headquarters and deployed extra forces have been deployed in the city following the protest and talks between the tribal representatives and administration is going on.Kawasi Lakhma, the industry minister, in the letter to chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday, said that public representatives of Maoist-affected Sukma, Dantewada and Bijpaur have demanded to release the payments of tendu collectors in cash.“In these three districts there is provision for payment through bank cheques but many tribals do not have Aadhaar, PAN card or bank accounts which causes unnecessary troubles. Some areas and about 70 to 80km from the district headquarters,” Lakhma wrote. Bhupesh Baghel considered the demand and cancelled the order making the payments through bank mandatory and ordered that tendu leaves collectors in Sukma, Dantewada and Bijapur will receive cash payments, a government press release said.Ritesh Agarwal, Bijapur’s collector said the district administration will provide every help to the tribals.“Those people who have bank accounts their procurement money will be transferred in their accounts and we will pay them with help of bank sakhis (banking correspondents), who will reach their villages to pay them their money. We have 11 banking correspondents and recruiting about 30 others in next four days,” Agarwal said while speaking to reporters.Tendu leaf is procured in Chhattisgarh at Rs 4,000 per sack from the tribals and this year about government procured the leaves worth about Rs 100 crore from Bijapur district only.“The road connectively is till Gangaloor and most of these tribals are from more than a dozen of villages which are beyond Gangaloor. In 2018, just before the legislative assembly elections, the money was paid to them in cash because of non-connectivity and pressure of the then tribal minister Mahesh Gagda, who was from Bijapur,” said a senior government officer posted in the region.“Since then the tribals of these areas are demanding that tendu patta procurement money should be given in cash,” the official said.The officer added that their demand should be addressed.“This is a fact that they are facing a problem. Some of them have to walk for more than 40km. Most of these tribals don’t have motorbikes and hence they rent a four-wheeler to reach bank but owing to lockdown the vehicles have also stopped. The government should recruit banking correspondents and send it to their villages or the government should arrange vehicles for them,” said the officer. Activists believe tribals are facing problems during the coronavirus lockdown and the government is not paying any heed.“There demands are genuine…Thousands of tribals have come from Gangaloor, Cherlapal and other villages in Bijapur have reached district headquarters after walking for a day.,” said Himanshu Kumar, a tribal rights activist working in Bastar.“The tribals are demanding that they should be paid in cash for tendu patta procurement, which the government is paying through the banks. Bank branches are very less in tribal areas… For some tribals this distance is up to 50 and 60 kilometres,” Kumar said.Kumar claimed that there is no bus or any other means of transport available for the tribals to reach these banks.“Thousands of tribal families do not even have bank accounts due to which they are not getting paid. The tribals had told the collector a month ago that they should be paid in cash but they did not listen, therefore they have started this protest,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tendu-leaves-collectors-in-sukma-dantewada-and-bijapur-to-get-cash-payments-chhattisgarh-govt/story-19S4bv4S7uDCqImoE7a35O.html
30-06-2020||India||India’s decision to ban TikTok, WeChat and others becomes trending topic on social media in China||India’s decision to ban 59 Chinese mobile applications, including ByteDance’s TikTok and Tencent’s WeChat, became a trending topic on social media apps in China on Tuesday morning.A statement by India’s information technology ministry said on Monday the 59 apps have been blocked “since in view of the information available, they are engaged in activities prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”.Millions of Chinese net users active on Twitter-like Weibo in China shared the news and discussed the reasons behind New Delhi’s decision.Also read: We don’t share data with Chinese govt, says TikTok after India bans 59 mobile appsAt around 10am in China, the topic had been viewed some 63 million times, and at least 4,000 threads of discussions were active on Weibo platforms.Many Chinese online users made caustic comments on the ban. One of the recurring comment themes was that the Chinese citizens also want to stop using Indian products but could not find any.“We want to boycott Indian products but could not find any in my home,” wrote one user.Another wrote: “I also want to boycott Indian products. I have searched all over my house. Nothing is India’s.”Another Weibo user wrote: “Indian netizens are going to use TikTok through VPN”.So far, Chinese companies on India’s list have not commented on the ban.Also read: Indian websites not accessible in China as Xi Jinping govt blocks VPNThe decision by New Delhi to ban Chinese apps comes days after popular Chinese social media app WeChat–also banned by India–removed updates by the embassy of India (EoI) on the current border conflict including Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement on the clash that left 20 Indian Army soldiers dead.The reasons given for the removal of the posts included divulging state secrets and endangering national security.The updates published on WeChat included Modi’s remarks on the India-China border situation, the phone call between the Indian and Chinese foreign ministers held on Thursday and a statement by the external affairs ministry’s (MEA) spokesperson.A day earlier, EoI had to issue a clarification on its Chinese Twitter-like Weibo account after the same statement by the MEA spokesperson was deleted.On Tuesday, the business and political news website Caixin reported on the Indian government’s decision to ban the Chinese apps.“At present, the Indian government hasn’t clarified how the ban will be carried out. The Indian government may ask telecom providers to stop providing access to these apps,” it said in a report.“Even with unresolved border issues, India has become an important destination for Chinese technology companies,” the report said.The nationalistic tabloid Global Times also carried a report on New Delhi’s decision headlined: “India bans 59 Chinese apps amid border tension”.Xiaomi, the mobile phone company, has pointed out that it has been the leader in India’s smartphone market for five consecutive quarters.“Xiaomi accounted for 30 percent of all smartphone sales in India between January and March. In addition, Xiaomi produces nearly half of India’s fitness brands,” the report added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-decision-to-ban-tiktok-wechat-and-others-becomes-trending-topic-on-social-media-in-china/story-B93EJIndIqmaZp6kexpBiJ.html
30-06-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: Tamil Nadu back in second position, Delhi crosses China’s count||Another big single-day spike of 18,522 cases took India’s Covid-19 tally past 5.6 lakh on Tuesday. However, the recovery rate of the country has improved further to 58.67 per cent.Maharashtra is the table-topper and has added another 5,257 cases in its tally. The state’s recorded Covid-19 numbers are 1,69,883. It had recorded 5,257 cases on Monday. With state officials expecting a peak in July, the number of fresh cases is likely to rise further and the situation may become more difficult in the coming days.National capital Delhi, meanwhile, added 2,084 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, the health ministry update showed at 8 am on Tuesday. The infection tally in the national capital had already crossed the total number of Covid-19 cases in China on Monday.Here’s a look at the statewise coronavirus situation across the country. MaharashtraThe state Covid-19 tally jumped to 1,69,883 on Tuesday. Over 88,960 people have recovered from coronavirus in Maharashtra while 7,610 have died. Tamil Nadu It stands second in the list of states badly affected by the coronavirus disease with 86,224 coronavirus cases. Tamil Nadu has witnessed 1,141 coronavirus fatalities while 47,749 have recovered. DelhiThe national capital is the third worst-hit in India with coronavirus cases jumping to 85,161 on Tuesday. As many as 56,235 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in Delhi while 2,680 have succumbed to the infection.GujaratGujarat has seen Covid-19 cases reach 31,938 on Tuesday. The state has seen 23,240 people recover from coronavirus while 1,827 people have died.Uttar Pradesh The Covid-19 tally in Uttar Pradesh has jumped to 22,828 while the number of recoveries has touched 15,506. The state’s death toll stands at 672.RajasthanThe state has reported 17,660 Covid-19 cases till date. Covid-19 death toll in Rajasthan stands at 405 while 13,618 patients have recovered. West BengalAs many as 17,907 people have contracted Covid-19 in West Bengal till date. The state has seen 11,719 recover from coronavirus while 653 people have been killed. Haryana The coronavirus tally in Haryana has touched 14,210 while the death toll stands at 232. Over 9,500 people have recovered from the contagion in Haryana.Madhya PradeshOver 13,370 people have been infected by coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh till date. While the state death toll stands at 564, over 10,199 people have been cured or discharged from the hospitals. Telangana The state stands at the tenth spot on the Covid-19 tally with 15,394 coronavirus cases. While 5,582 people have recovered from the disease, the Covid-19 death toll has jumped to 253 in the state. Situation in other statesKarnataka has witnessed over 14,295 coronavirus cases till date while Andhra Pradesh has 13,891 Covid-19 patients. The number of Covid-19 positive cases in Bihar stand at 9,640, while the tally in Jammu and Kashmir stands at 7,237. In Odisha, cases have jumped to 6,859 while Assam has reported 7,752 cases till date. Punjab’s Covid-19 tally stands at 5,418, and the number of cases in Kerala is 4,189. States with less than 3,000 casesUttarakhand, Ladakh, Jharkhand, Tripura, Manipur, Goa and Himachal Pradesh and Puducherry have less than 3,000 but more than 500 Covid-19 cases. Mizoram, Chandigarh, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh have reported under 500 Covid-19 cases or less. In states like Meghalaya, Sikkim and Andaman and Nicobar Islands have less than 100 Covid-19 cases. Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu have 203 Covid-19 cases. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-tamil-nadu-back-in-second-position-delhi-crosses-china-s-count/story-IiLmLjexgXD8CpJfS6yVlO.html
30-06-2020||India||India records 18,522 new Covid-19 cases, 418 deaths in 24 hours; tally over 5.66 lakh||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) mounted to 566,840 and death toll stood at 16,893 on Tuesday, a day after the Centre issued guidelines for Unlock 2, Union health ministry data showed.There were 18,522 new infections and 418 fatalities in the last 24 hours, according to the Covid-19 dashboard of the health ministry.The number of Covid-19 patients cured of the respiratory disease continued to be more than active cases as 13,099 people were sent home between Monday and Tuesday morning. There were 334,821 discharges pushing the recovery rate to 59%.According to the health ministry, there are 215,125 active cases of the coronavirus disease.The surge in India’s infection tally continued as the government announced that educational institutions, Metro rail services and large gatherings will continue to remain banned during the second of a three-phase plan aimed at lifting restrictions imposed to stop the spread of infections. Under the new guidelines, which will come into effect from July 1, night curfew has been relaxed by an hour to aid economic activity. Schools, colleges and coaching institutions will remain closed till July 31.It added that Metro rail, cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places will also remain shut. Social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and other large congregations will also continue to be banned. The Maharashtra government has extended the Covid-19 lockdown by a month till July 31 and imposed stricter restrictions like reduced time allowed for shopping as its infection tally inched closer to the 170,000-mark. Tamil Nadu, which is the second worst-hit state, has also extended the coronavirus lockdown till July 31 amid a steady rise in the Covid-19 numbers in the state. The state government has said Chennai and Madurai will continue to be under intense lockdown till July 5 and the current relaxations and curbs shall be in force till July 31 for the rest of Tamil Nadu. There are 86,224 Covid-19 cases and 1,141 deaths in the southern state to date.In Delhi, which has 85,161 cases so far, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the government will set up a plasma bank to pool in blood rich in virus-fighting antibodies to help critically ill patients have better access to one of the most effective treatment options yet.All hospitals and Covid-19 testing laboratories in the national capital have been asked to start rapid antigen detection tests to scale up its ongoing process of identifying symptomatic patients and isolating them immediately.A senior Delhi government official said on Monday that of the 99,274 people surveyed using the rapid antigen test, which began in containment zones and neighbouring areas on June 18, 7,414 tested positive for Covid-19 till June 26, indicating a positivity rate of 7.46%.Delhi is the first state to roll out antigen-based testing.Meanwhile, the Drug Controller General of India has granted permission for human clinical trials of the country’s first Covid-19 vaccine candidate developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology (NIV).Globally, there are 10,277,084 cases of the coronavirus disease and 504,927 people have died, according to Johns Hopkins University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-18-522-new-covid-19-cases-418-deaths-in-24-hours-tally-over-5-66/story-ggIQJAm2poBxptsnTF4v0N.html
30-06-2020||India||NDMC mayor inspects Covid-only Hindu Rao Hospital, says bed strength to be increased to 200||North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash on Monday visited the civic-run Hindu Rao Hospital and said the number of beds at the recently-converted dedicated Covid-19 facility will be increased to 200 in a phased manner.Initially, it is having 50 beds and gradually the facility will be expanded, he said.A senior official of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) which runs the hospital, the largest civic body-run facility, said Prakash inspected the hospital to check the facilities available for novel coronavirus patients.  He also inspected the helpdesk facility, Covid-19 sampling centre and coronavirus wards at the hospital.  The senior official said, the Covid-19 facility has been started with 45 beds, and five ICU beds, besides 84 isolation beds.More are planned to be  added as and when logistics and financial requirements are met, the official said.During the inspection, Leader of House in NDMC Yogesh Verma, Standing Committee member Chhail Bihari Goswami, NDMC Additional Commissioner Rashmi Singh, Medical Superintendent Anu Kapoor and other officials were also present.Prakash said the Hindu Rao Hospital has started functioning as a Covid-19 dedicated hospital.He said a help desk has been created in the hospital for the convenience of patients so that all information be available at one place.The mayor said that initially 50 bed facility is available for Covid-19 patients, which will be increased to 200 beds in a phased manner.Prakash interacted with doctors, nurses and paramedical staff of the hospital and said, “we all have to work together only then we can defeat coronavirus”.The hospital was declared a dedicated Covid-19 facility on June 14.Officials of the NDMC said the hospital’s strength is 980 beds.“Out of these, 37 are unavailable due to a building being declared dangerous. Also, 111 of these are complement beds,” the official had earlier said.On Monday, when asked about the delay in converting the entire hospital into a dedicated facility, a senior official said, “When we mention a ‘bed’, it implies other services also like specialist doctors of that field, staff nurses, monitors, oxygen supply points among others.” These are supposed to be dedicated for Covid-only. Also structural requirements like separate donning-doffing areas, separate entry exit points, dedicated OT are to be catered to, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ndmc-mayor-inspects-covid-only-hindu-rao-hospital-says-bed-strength-to-be-increased-to-200/story-ndhTEoidSQM2bKG0lIaovL.html
30-06-2020||India||Shivraj Singh Chouhan meets BJP leaders in Delhi ahead of MP cabinet expansion||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is expected to undertake major cabinet expansion in the next few days, after meeting senior leaders of the BJP, including Union home minister Amit Shah and Jyotiradtiya Scindia, in New Delhi.The second cabinet expansion comes at the time when the state is getting ready for by-polls in 24 assembly constituencies in the next few months. In the first expansion on April 21, he had inducted five ministers even though he can have 35 ministerial council, including himself.“The cabinet expansion would take place soon,” Chouhan had said on Wednesday. A senior BJP leader said Chouhan, state BJP president VD Sharma and general secretary (organisation) Suhas Bhagat left for Delhi on Sunday to discuss cabinet expansion. On Monday, talks took place between Chouhan and the central leadership of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), including president JP Nadda and Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar, he added. “Chouhan is also scheduled to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the evening, ahead of the cabinet expansion in the state,” the leader cited above said. In the first expansion, two of the 22 ex-MLAs, loyalists of Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia, who had resigned from the state assembly in March as Congress MLAs and then joined the BJP—Tulsi Silavat and Govind Singh Rajput—were inducted in the cabinet. Former Congress ministers among these 22 rebels not accommodated in the cabinet include Pradyumn Singh Tomar, Mahendra Sisodia, Prabhuram Chaudhary and Imarti Devi.BJP leaders said there was a possibility that Chouhan may include at least 11 of the 22 rebel Congress leaders, who had joined the BJP.“But there are concerns that accommodating 11 rebel Congress leaders may upset senior BJP legislators, who are eying a cabinet position, and many not go down well with party workers. The party leadership is now trying to work out an amicable solution,” another senior party functionary, who was not willing to be named, said. According to him, Chouhan has conveyed the concerns of the party colleagues in the state, who are upset over being overlooked for a cabinet position, to the central BJP leadership. There are over a dozen BJP legislators, who have been ministers in earlier councils headed by Chouhan and many of them are considered close to him and very senior in the party hierarchy. “The MP unit of the party has decided that MLAs who could not be included in the cabinet would be accommodated as administrators of the cooperative bodies, government-run boards and corporations to avoid any rumblings within the party,” the BJP functionary said.He, however, said these senior legislators have yet not been informed about this decision and therefore, their reaction is not known.Bhupendra Gupta, the spokesperson of the Congress’ state unit, said it was “all being done to misuse government machinery for the by-polls”. “Otherwise, there is no logic behind the second expansion amid the Covid situation particularly when the state government is doing nothing except transfers and postings of government officials for reasons known to all,” Gupta said.State BJP leader Dr Hitesh Bajpai said it was a routine matter.“Cabinet expansion is a routine exercise in the government and prerogative of the chief minister. Whenever CM thinks he is need of a bigger cabinet he will and can do it,” Bajpai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shivraj-singh-chouhan-meets-bjp-leaders-in-delhi-ahead-of-mp-cabinet-expansion/story-fjAaDx228Ihx9AS6o3cSdI.html
30-06-2020||India||We don’t share data with Chinese govt, says TikTok after India bans 59 mobile apps||TikTok, one of the 59 mobile applications ordered to be blocked by the central government, on Tuesday insisted that it did not pass on any information about its users to any foreign government including the Chinese government and would not do so in the future too.In a statement that came hours after the government announced the ban on 59 mobile and web applications, TikTok India’s head Nikhil Gandhi said the company had been invited to meet with government stakeholders concerned “to respond and submit clarifications”.The banned applications have been removed from the Google Play Store and Apple App Store for India. The applications banned by the government include Club Factory, SHAREit, Likee, Mi Video Call (Xiaomi), Weibo, Baidu and Bigo Live.Also read: Amit Shah poweredIndia’s ban on 59 China-linked mobile apps“TikTok continues to comply with all data privacy and security requirements under Indian law and has not shared any information of our users in India with any foreign government, including the Chinese government,” Gandhi said.“Further, if we are requested to in the future, we would not do so. We place the highest importance on user privacy and integrity,” he added.The information technology ministry, which issued Monday evening’s ban order, had cited concerns that the 59 applications are ‘prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order’.The IT ministry statement did not identify the 59 applications to be linked to China. But government officials have pointed that the China connection was one common factor between most of the applications that had been ordered to be blocked.Also Read: Indian websites not accessible in China as Xi Jinping govt blocks VPNMonday’s order came against the backdrop of heightened tensions between India and China over the border dispute in Ladakh that led to the deadly June 15 confrontation in Galwan Valley. Home Minister Amit Shah, officials told Hindustan Times, had powered the decision that had been under discussion for weeks within the bureaucracy.The National Security Council Secretariat, which had been involved in the deliberations after intelligence agencies raised a red flag over the applications, had also backed the move.Tuesday morning’s statement by TikTok, however, indicated that the company still believed that it had a fighting chance to make a comeback. It described the government ban as an “interim order” and underlined the role that it said TikTok had played.“TikTok has democratised the internet by making it available in 14 Indian languages, with hundreds of million of users, artists, story-tellers, educators and performers depending on it for their livelihood, many of whom are first time internet users,” the statement from TikTok India head Nikhil Gandhi said.That assertion is unlikely to persuade the government to change its stance.“All these apps have been reported to have been leaking data. Their malpractices have also been singled out by experts. They have been said to take location data, transfer files to servers in China. Moreover, the beauty apps, such as beauty plus and selfie cameras have also been reported for being a threat as they contain pornographic content,” a person familiar with the development had told HT on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-not-share-data-with-chinese-govt-says-tiktok-after-india-bans-59-mobile-apps/story-T8sFz8obZ4kxrd6oCHxfRM.html
30-06-2020||India||Amid surge in Covid-19 numbers, 15 cases found from a building in Delhi’s Hauz Khas||The number of coronavirus disease has already seen a huge spike in national capital Delhi, and now a cluster of 15 infections has been reported from a building, according to Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan.The building is located in Arjun Nagar locality in South Delhi’s Hauz Khas, Hindustan further reported. The Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) has ordered sealing of entire locality; the area has been sub-divided into containment zone and buffer zone, it said.This means the essentials will now be provided by the administration.Arjun Nagar is a densely populated locality. The building where the cluster has been found saw a number of vegetable shops nearby. Almost all the residents of the area used to buy vegetables from these vendors, and are now concerned about contracting the infection, Hindustan reported.All these vendors will be screened for Covid-19, as per the order of the SDM. Twenty families have also been quarantined.Municipal Councillor Radhika Abrol told Hindustan that every building in the locality has four floors which house a lot of people.Delhi recorded 2,084 fresh coronavirus cases on Monday, taking the infection tally in the city to over 85,000, while the death toll from the disease rose to 2,680, the authorities said. The number of containment zones in the city also jumped to 435 on Monday, according to a Delhi Health Department bulletin.The national capital had reported the highest single-day spike of 3,947 cases on June 23.Fifty-seven fatalities have been recorded in the national capital in last 24 hours, the bulletin said. It said the death toll due to coronavirus has risen to 2,680.The number of active cases stands at 26,246 while 56,235 patients have migrated/recovered or have been discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-surge-in-covid-19-numbers-15-cases-found-from-a-building-in-delhi-s-hauz-khas/story-K1okZvkbMcX2Ipa8HKxz1H.html
30-06-2020||India||Pakistan violates ceasefire along LoC in Naugam sector of Jammu and Kashmir||Pakistani troops opened unprovoked fire towards Indian positions along the Line of Control (LoC) in Naugam sector of Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday in violation of a ceasefire agreement, an army official said. “On 30 Jun 2020, in the morning hours, Pakistan initiated an unprovoked ceasefire violation (CFV) along the LoC in Naugam sector (in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district) by firing mortars and other weapons,” the official said. He said befitting response is being given to the Pakistani aggression. There were no reports of any casualties so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-violates-ceasefire-along-loc-in-naugam-sector-of-jammu-and-kashmir/story-DmtR1PMHnoqubbpkFNhoSO.html
30-06-2020||India||Nepal extends lockdown to July 22||As the Covid-19 cases continue to surge, the Nepal Government on Monday late evening announced the decision to extend lockdown till July 22 in its current form.A Council of Ministers held a meeting on Monday evening and decided to extend the lockdown further in the present format where limited business and activities are permitted to operate.The government on June 15 had changed the format of lockdown by allowing businesses to open following rules of social distancing, private vehicles on odd and even number basis, and passenger limitations.“Apart from the businesses, border areas except for the specified will remain closed. The Domestic and International Flights have also been halted except for emergency purposes. Educational institutions, religious places, gym halls, and other places of recreational activities also will remain closed till the new extended deadline,” Dr Yubraj Khatiwada, Spokesperson for the Government of Nepal said.Nepal has been placed under nationwide lockdown since March and lockdown extended nearly half a dozen times since then. On average, 400 cases of Covid-19 infection are reported in Nepal on a daily basis.On Monday alone, Nepal reported 476 new cases of SARS-CoV-2 virus with 1 new death taking the total number of cases to 13,248 and mortality to 29 respectively. A total of 3,134 people have successfully recovered from the virus. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-extends-lockdown-to-july-22/story-ff4tu9gG6fM0GlTYSFTgZJ.html
30-06-2020||India||2 workers killed, 4 fall sick in another gas leak in Visakhapatnam factory||Two workers died and four others were hospitalised after a gas leak in a chemical factory in Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam district early on Tuesday, in the second such accident in the district in less than two months, police said.The leakage of Benzimidazole gas was reported from the factory at Jawaharlal Nehru Pharma City in Parawada on the outskirts of Visakhapatnam around midnight, but the company authorities informed the police three hours later.This is the second accident in the same factory in three years—two people were killed in a reactor blast before this.The dead have been identified as shift in-charge Ravi Narendra from Tenali in Guntur district and chemist Gowri Shankar from Vizianagaram district.Also Read: Ammonia gas leak in factory in AP’s Kurnool kills manager, 3 others surviveFour others – Chandrasekhar, Ananda Babu, Janaki Ram and Suryanarayana – fell sick and were rushed to a hospital at Gajuwaka. All of them are on ventilator support, the police said.Visakhapatnam district collector V Navinchand and city police commissioner RK Meena rushed to the factory.Meena said while speaking to reporters that a case has been registered against the company management. The factory was sealed.“There would be no effect of the gas leak on the surrounding areas as it is not a very lethal gas and has not spread anywhere from the factory,” he said.Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy instructed officials to provide the best possible treatment to the injured. Opposition Telugu Desam Party secretary Lokesh Nara asked a thorough probe into the industrial accidents.Also Read: LG Polymers gas leak: All you need to know about Andhra Pradesh chemical plantTwelve people were killed and more than 550 were affected in a styrene gas leak at LG Polymers India Ltd, a South Korean-owned factory making polystyrene products, on May 7 in Visakhapatnam.After that, the general manager of SPY Agro Industries in Nandyal of Kurnool district was killed on June 26 after ammonia gas leak from the storage tank in the factory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-workers-killed-4-fall-sick-in-another-gas-leak-in-visakhapatnam-factory/story-NhMTVPr1tV2Mh4h0gWbS5N.html
30-06-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: New influenza virus G4 discovered in China, scientists say it can trigger pandemic and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.New influenza virus G4 can trigger pandemic, needs close monitoring: Chinese scientistsChinese pigs are more and more frequently becoming infected with a strain of influenza that has the potential to jump to humans, could mutate further so that it can spread easily from person to person and trigger a global outbreak, a new study has found. Read more2 workers die, 4 hospitalised after gas leak in Visakhapatnam factory: ReportAt least two workers were killed and four were taken to a hospital after a gas leak in a factory in Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam city, news agency ANI reported on Tuesday. Read moreIndia deploys T-90 tanks in Galwan Valley after China’s aggressive posturing at LACSignalling that it is all for peaceful restoration of status quo ante in East Ladakh but is also prepared for the worst case scenario, the Indian Army has deployed six T-90 missile firing tanks and top-of-the-line shoulder fired anti-tank missile systems in the Galwan Valley sector. Read moreMickey Mouse, Doraemon distribute books, food to children of Mumbai’s slum areasThe coronavirus pandemic may be testing the limits of human will and perseverance, bringing down our spirits and making the possibility of life returning to normal look like a distant dream. Read moreJasleen Royal: Yes, favouritism exists in the music industry, and it’s a setback, but you got to do your workSinger Sonu Nigam’s video calling out favouritism in the music industry has kick started a debate, with many weighing in on both sides. Talking about how the music industry is for singers, especially newcomers, Jasleen Royal says that there are instances of favouritism that exists. Read moreTikTok vanishes from Google Play Store, Apple App StoreOn Monday (June 29) the Indian government banned 59 Chinese apps across Google Play Store and Apple App Store, claiming that they compromised user privacy and data. One of the first apps in the list was TikTok. Read moreFixers use deceptive logos, target various leagues: BCCI anti-corruption officialAn International Cricket Council (ICC) anti-corruption official recently said a majority of its 50 ongoing investigations are linked to corruptors in India. The latest investigation by Australian police says they are also casting their net in tennis. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-new-influenza-virus-g4-discovered-in-china-scientists-say-it-can-trigger-pandemic-and-all-the-latest-news/story-XNvE6VW24Tx8TslH7mnohL.html
30-06-2020||India||In Unlock 2 guidelines, lessons from Covid-19 situation in US, Europe||The government on Monday issued guidelines for the next phase of relaxations aimed at further boosting the economic activity and allow the near-normal life to resume.This will be the second phase of unlocking the country (hence named Unlock 2) where night curfew will be relaxed and more economic activities opened up.The new guidelines issued by the Union home ministry, which will come into effect from July 1, are based on feedback received from states, and consultations with central ministries and departments, the Union home ministry said. The current phase to ease restrictions (called Unlock 1) is ending on Tuesday.The government has learned from the experiences of the United States and Europe, where the coronavirus pandemic wreaked havoc and decided to not open those activities or institutions which are not directly related to economic activities.Accordingly, the decision to open schools and colleges has been deferred. There is also added concern due to the monsoon season.Metro Rail services will remain suspended; cinema halls and gyms too will continue to be shut, according to the new guidelines. Social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and other large congregations will also continue to be prohibited. Dates for opening of these will be decided separately, based on the assessment of the situation, the home ministry said.It further said that the domestic and international flights (under the Vande Bharat Mission) and passenger trains have already resumed partially and their operations will be further expanded in a calibrated manner.Lockdown will remain implemented strictly in the containment zones till July 31, the government guidelines said.Containment zones are required to be carefully demarcated by state and union territory governments with a view to contain the spread of Covid-19, after taking into consideration the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.Within the containment zones, strict perimeter control shall be maintained and only essential activities allowed, the home ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-unlock-2-guidelines-lessons-from-covid-19-situation-in-us-europe/story-GXu8GiEA4IhglsiVGFYweI.html
30-06-2020||India||Ladakh face-off: US senators express solidarity with India||Expressing solidarity with the people of India on the Ladakh face-off with China, a top US senator has said India had made it clear that it would not be bullied by Beijing. Republican Senator Marco Rubio spoke with India’s ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu, to “express our solidarity with the people of #India as they firmly confront unwarranted and lawless armed aggression by the Communist Party of China”. “India has made it clear, they will not be bullied by Beijing,” the senator from Florida tweeted. On the Senate Floor, Senator Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, for the second time in less than a week, accused China of aggression against India. A day earlier, Senator Tom Cotton slammed China for its aggression against India. “China has resumed its submarine intrusions in the Japanese contiguous zones and picked deadly fights with India at high altitude,” the top Republican Senator had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ladakh-face-off-us-senators-express-solidarity-with-india/story-PFV8sFsFJmVfnglCYwO8JO.html
30-06-2020||India||ICMR tests nearly 84 lakh samples for Covid-19, positive cases over 5.4 lakh||Another big single-day spike of 19,459 Covid-19 cases took India’s tally close to 5.5 lakh on Monday, even as the recovery rate further improved to 58.67 per cent.India’s Covid-19 case tally rose to 5,48,318, while the death toll climbed to 16,475 with 380 new fatalities, according to the Union health ministry data.This is the sixth consecutive day that coronavirus infections have increased by more than 15,000. The country has seen a surge of 3,57,783 infections from June 1 till date.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The number of active cases stands at 2,10,120, while 3,21,722 people have recovered, and one patient has migrated, according to the updated data.The total number of confirmed cases includes foreigners.The gap between recoveries and active cases is 1,11,602 as of Monday, with the recovery rate now at 58.67 per cent, the ministry said.Also read: Covid-19 vaccine by Bharat Biotech first to get human trials nodA total of 12,010 Covid-19 patients have been cured since Sunday.The graded, pre-emptive and pro-active steps taken by the government along with states and Union territories for prevention, containment and management of Covid-19 continue to show encouraging results, it said.India now has 1,047 diagnostic labs dedicated to Covid-19, including 760 in the government sector and 287 private labs.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Eleven labs have been inducted since Sunday and these are all operated by the government.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 83,98,362 samples have been tested up to June 28, with 1,70,560 samples tested on Sunday.Meanwhile, the National Blood Transfusion Council (NBTC) said in a fresh set of guidelines that blood can be collected from a person, who tested positive and recovered from Covid-19, only after 28 days of discharge from a treating facility or 28 days after home isolation ends, The second interim national guidance for blood transfusion amid the Covid-19 pandemic stressed on safe functioning of services. The NBTC had issued the first interim recommendations in March. To maintain safety, the NBTC in its guidelines urged blood banks and camp organisers to exclude donors who are in the risk category.Very mild, mild, pre-symptomatic, moderate and severe Covid-19 cases must be deferred for 28 days from donating blood after discharge from a treating facility or 28 days after the end of home isolation, stated the guidelines issued by the NBTC, which comes under the ambit of the Union health ministry.The definition of end of discontinuation of home isolation should be as per the home isolation guidelines issued by the ministry from time to time, they said. Individuals with history of contact with confirmed or suspected Covid-19 cases, including those under quarantine, should be deferred from donating blood for 28 days from the last time they came in close contact with a Covid-risk person, the guidelines stated.Of the 380 new deaths reported, 156 are from Maharashtra, 65 from Delhi, 54 from Tamil Nadu, 19 from Gujarat, 16 from Karnataka, 12 from Andhra Pradesh, 11 from Uttar Pradesh, 10 from West Bengal, eight from Rajasthan, seven from Madhya Pradesh, five each from Haryana and Punjab, four from Telangana, three from Odisha and one fatality each was reported from Jammu and Kashmir, Assam, Goa, Uttarakhand and Bihar.Of the total 16,475 deaths reported so far, Maharashtra tops the tally with 7,429 deaths, followed by Delhi with 2,623, Gujarat with 1,808, Tamil Nadu with 1,079, Uttar Pradesh with 660, West Bengal with 639, Madhya Pradesh with 557, Rajasthan with 399 and Telangana with 247 deaths.The Covid-19 death toll has reached 223 in Haryana, 207 in Karnataka, 169 in Andhra Pradesh, 133 in Punjab, 94 in Jammu and Kashmir, 60 in Bihar, 38 in Uttarakhand, 22 in Kerala and 21 in Odisha.Chhattisgarh has registered 13 deaths, Jharkhand 12, Puducherry and Assam 10 each, Himachal Pradesh nine, Chandigarh six, Goa three and Meghalaya, Tripura, Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh have reported one fatality each, according to the Union health ministry.More than 70 per cent of the deaths took place due to comorbidities, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-tests-nearly-84-lakh-samples-for-covid-19-positive-cases-over-5-4-lakh/story-nKYwOgevdmZRaYHpbEoaXM.html
30-06-2020||India||India deploys T-90 tanks in Galwan Valley after China’s aggressive posturing at LAC||Signalling that it is all for peaceful restoration of status quo ante in East Ladakh but is also prepared for the worst case scenario, the Indian Army has deployed six T-90 missile firing tanks and top-of-the-line shoulder fired anti-tank missile systems in the Galwan Valley sector. The senior military commanders from India and China are meeting at Chushul on Tuesday to work out the de-escalation and disengagement process on mutual terms.The army’s decision to deploy the T-90 Bishma tanks was taken after the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) had beefed up its positions on the river bed with armoured personnel carriers and troop tents. The Indian Army is occupying the dominant heights in the sector within its side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC).Infantry combat vehicles along with 155mm howitzers have been deployed all along 1597 km long LAC in East Ladakh with two tank regiments deployed in Chushul sector to repel any aggressive plans of the adversary through the Spanggur Gap. While Chinese PLA wants to make a deal on the LAC in this sector as part of withdrawal, the Indian Army is no mood to give an inch as the military aggression came from the Western Theatre Command of China with the intention of redefining the LAC.According to military commanders, India is prepared for a long haul in this limited spectrum with capability of a full spectrum retaliation in case the red flag goes up. With the water temperature in the river already touching 10 below zero and the river bed temperatures more frosty than the dominant heights due to temperature inversion, it is only a matter of time when “General Winter” takes over the area and makes Chinese positions in Galwan Valley untenable.While the PLA propaganda talks about introduction of troops trained in martial arts in the East Ladakh sector, fact is that the Chinese foot soldier is conscripted into the army for two years unlike the Indian hardy trooper who stays a minimum of 17 years. Since 1984, the Indian trooper has been trained in high altitude war to repel Pakistan Army from taking over Siachen glacier and has been sitting heights of over 15,000 feet in both Kargil as well as East Ladakh sector.The general morale of the Indian military commanders and troops is very high with both Indian Air Force and Indian Navy deployed in highest state of alertness. Majority of Chinese PLA Air Force fighters are taking off from Hotan air base in Taklamakan desert, some 240 km from the LAC with surface to air missiles deployed to counter the Indian fighters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-deploys-t-90-tanks-in-galwan-valley-after-china-s-aggressive-posturing-at-lac/story-eTMbY40wHoV5w55edknd9K.html
30-06-2020||India||24 killed, 1.3 million affected as flood hits 25 of 33 districts in Assam||Four people were killed in Assam and the number of flood-affected districts in the state increased to 25 of the total 33 as rainfall continued in several parts of the state on Monday, officials said.Two people in Dibrugarh and one each in Barpeta and Goalpara died due to drowning on Monday taking the death toll due to floods this season to 24.According to the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), 2,402 villages in 72 revenue circles in most parts of the state except Barak Valley have been affected by floods.More than 1.3 million people in the affected districts have been hit by flooding. Barpeta, South Salmara and Nalbari were the worst affected districts. Nearly 27,500 people have been uprooted by floodwaters and are taking shelter in 273 relief camps in 12 districts.Over 10,200 people stranded due to floods were evacuated by boats by disaster relief personnel during the day.Floods waters have inundated 83,168 hectares of crop area in the state.Flooding has also affected two national parks in the state. In Kaziranga, 146 of the total 203 camps used by forest personnel have been affected and 9 of the vacated. In Orang, 22 of the total 40 camps are affected, said an ASDMA release.There were reports of damage to embankments at 12 places due to floods and sections of 86 roads in eight affected districts have been damaged, washed away or submerged due to flooding.One bridge was washed away in Barpeta district, another submerged in Nalbari and one damaged in Baksa.According to the Central Water Commission (CWC), the Brahmaputra was flowing above the danger mark at Nematighat, Tezpur, Guwahati, Goalpara and Dhubri. Seven other rivers were also flowing over the red mark at several places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/24-killed-1-3-million-affected-as-flood-hits-25-of-33-districts-in-assam/story-JnEJp8IOX1umenaPLVNLTO.html
30-06-2020||India||2 terrorists responsible for killing CRPF trooper, 5-yr-old shot dead in J-K encounter||Two terrorists who killed a five-year-old and Central Reserve Police Force trooper last week have been killed in an encounter with security forces in Anantnag district’s Bijbehara area, Jammu and Kashmir police said on Tuesday.The forces are on the lookout for the third terrorist involved in the gunbattle in Waghama village of Bijbehara. An INSAS rifle and pistol were recovered from the encounter site.The terrorists shot dead in today’s gunfight had opened fire at a road opening party of CRPF’s 90 Battalion near the Padshahi Bagh bridge in Bijbehara area on Friday injuring a CRPF personnel and a 5-year-old boy in the attack. Both of them succumbed to their injuries in the hospital, an official said.Tuesday’s encounter comes a day after one Hizbul Mujahideen and two Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists were gunned down in the Khulchohar area of Anantnag. One of the terrorists killed in the encounter was identified as Masood Ahmad Bhat, a resident of Doda, the region’s last surviving so-called commander of Hizbul Mujahideen. Dilbag Singh, Jammu and Kashmir’s police chief, called his killing “a big success” and pronounced the Union territory’s Doda district “totally militancy free”The terrorists were buried away from their native places in Baramulla, Handwara, and Ganderbal due to Covid-19 restrictions over the last two months. Security forces have stepped up operations and killed more than 100 terrorists this year. A total of 46 terrorists have been killed in June, the highest in a month since 39 were killed in November 2018. The 46 include commanders of Jaish-e-Mohammed, Lashkar-e-Taiba and Hizbul Mujahideen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-breaks-out-in-south-kashmir-s-anantnag-district/story-JbKp8HCpsHtEKirFO07BmJ.html
30-06-2020||India||2 workers die, 4 hospitalised after gas leak in Visakhapatnam factory: Report||At least two workers were killed and four were taken to a hospital after a gas leak in a factory in Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam city, news agency ANI reported on Tuesday.The leakage of benzimidazole gas was reported from Sainor Life Sciences Pvt Ltd in Visakhapatnam, according to the news agency.“The situation is under control now. The two persons who died were workers and were present at the leakage site. Gas has not spread anywhere else,” Uday Kumar, an inspector with the Parwada Police Station, was quoted as saying by ANI.Twelve people were killed in a gas leak at LG Polymers India Ltd, a South Korean-owned factory making polystyrene products, and hundreds fell sick on May 7 in Visakhapatnam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-workers-die-4-hospitalised-after-gas-leak-in-visakhapatnam-factory-report/story-ztSRoWTib649zaoiQVau9H.html
30-06-2020||India||‘Ban on 59 Chinese apps for safety, security and integrity of India’, says government||India on Monday banned 59 Chinese mobile applications amid border stand-off with the neighbouring country. The government has cited national security for banning these apps.The ban covers some of the most popular apps in India like TikTok, SHAREiT, UC Browser and WeChat.Almost all the apps banned have some preferential Chinese interest and the majority have parent Chinese companies.The decision to ban these apps was taken after it was found that “they are engaged in activities which is prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, the security of the state and public order”, the Ministry of Information Technology said in a release on Monday.The release further said that the ministry has received many complaints from various sources including several reports about the misuse of some mobile apps available on Google’s Android and Apple’s iOS platforms for stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users’ data in an unauthorised manner to servers which have locations outside India.“For safety, security, defence, sovereignty & integrity of India and to protect data & privacy of people of India the Government has banned 59 mobile apps. Jai Hind!” Law, Electronics and Information Technology Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said on Twitter. For safety, security, defence, sovereignty & integrity of India and to protect data & privacy of people of India the Government has banned 59 mobile apps. Jai Hind! 🇮🇳Indian intelligence agencies had been trying to restrict the mobile applications on grounds that the apps were designed to extract data and park them outside the country, where at a later stage they could be used to intrude into the privacy of Indian citizens.Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) and domestic social media app ShareChat welcomed the move. “This huge unprecedented step will go a long way in strengthening the ‘Boycott China’ campaign of CAIT. Boycott China movement is now well and truly a national reality and seven crore traders of India stands in solidarity with the Union Government,” CAIT Secretary General Praveen Khandelwal said in a statement.ShareChat Director Public Policy Berges Malu the company expects the government to continue their support for the Indian startup ecosystem.“This step can prove to be a golden moment in Indian startup journey with ‘Made in India’ apps getting a rare opportunity to onboard those users and provide them with these services. Indian technology ecosystem has come a long way in last 5-6 years and are at par with the capabilities of any other startup ecosystem in the world. We welcome this move and we hope Indians will choose apps which are made in India, for India,” said Piyush, CEO and founder, Rooter, Delhi-based gaming and Sport Live app.Relations between the two countries have been strained following the deaths of 20 Indian troops in a stand-off in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on June 15.Most of the applications are highly popular in India, including ByteDance-owned video-sharing app TikTok, with a combined user base of more than half a billion.There are estimated to be about 120 million TikTok users in India, making the South Asian nation of 1.3 billion people the app’s biggest international market.Chinese mobiles have an almost 65 per cent share in the local smartphone market.From toys, cosmetics, makeup and handbags to home appliances, pharma, auto components, and steel, China exports more than 3,000 products to India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ban-on-59-chinese-apps-for-safety-security-and-integrity-of-india-says-government/story-2xjSwEyflOTrXjGvk4ymgK.html
30-06-2020||India||India, China corp commanders to meet today on border stand-off: Time, place and other details||Top Indian and Chinese military officials will meet for the third time on Tuesday in Ladakh’s Leh district to defuse tension along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC).The meeting between corp commanders is the third—first was held on June 6 and second on June 22 in Moldo on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC)—after border tensions erupted between both the countries in May.The second meeting came a week after the violent face-off between soldiers from the Indian Army and China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley.Here are the details:* This time the talks will be held in Chushul on the Indian side at 10:30am and led by corps commanders* The Indian side could again demand the pullback of Chinese troops from several friction points and also the restoration of status quo ante in strategic areas. * On June 22, Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region, led the meeting between delegations for nearly 11 hours. It was held a week after the June 15 brutal clash between soldiers from the Indian Army and China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley.* The marathon dialogue was held in a cordial, positive and constructive atmosphere and there was “mutual consensus to disengage”. “Modalities for disengagement from all friction areas in eastern Ladakh were discussed and will be taken forward by both the sides,” an official, in the know of the details, had said then asking not to be named.* During that meeting, India had demanded the pullback of Chinese troops from the Finger Area—a cluster of strategic features in the north bank of Pangong Tso—where the PLA has set up bunkers, pillboxes and observation posts.* They said the army was also demanding the withdrawal of the PLA troops from Galwan Valley and the restoration of status quo ante in key strategic areas of in the Finger Area, Gogra Post-Hot Springs and Galwan Valley.* On June 6, Lt Gen Singh and Maj Gen Liu led the meeting between the delegations and was the first meeting of top military officials since the two armies locked in the border standoff that began with a confrontation between rival patrols near Pangong Lake on May 5. * After the seven-hours-long meeting, the external affairs ministry had said India and China will continue military and diplomatic contacts to resolve the stand-off along LAC.* It “took place in a cordial and positive atmosphere”, MEA had said and added that both sides agreed to work towards peacefully resolving the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-corp-commanders-to-meet-today-on-border-stand-off-time-place-and-other-details/story-dFk8xOy16ntAXMohrYhebJ.html
30-06-2020||India||In 6 years, forest land the size of Nagaland diverted||Forest land nearly equal to the size of Nagaland has been approved for diversion between 2014 and 2020 or is pending to be approved for various infrastructure and developmental projects such as mining, irrigation, and regularisation of encroachments, according to an analysis by Vijay Ramesh, a PhD student at Columbia University.Ramesh has analysed 48,000 clearance proposals using the R programming language (the raw data is available on GitHub). He sourced the forest clearance data from the Union environment ministry’s Parivesh website, which has details of all clearances divided into two sections—before 2014 and after 2014.The ministry approved or continues to consider 99.3% of the project proposals it received involving forest diversion during the last six years compared to 84.6% of the projects that were considered and approved between 1975 and 2014. From 1975 to 2014, about 21632.5 sq km of forest land was approved to be cleared or is pending to be cleared, compared to 14822.47 sq km of forests approved between 2014 and 2020. The analysis comes as the ministry is about to notify the controversial Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification, 2020. The notification is expected to overhaul the process of environmental regulation of infrastructure projects. It has contentious clauses including the one pertaining to the regularisation of projects, which violated the EIA Notification, 2006, by starting construction work before environmental clearance or by expanding capacity. The draft EIA Notification, 2020, also proposes shortening of the time for public hearings, which give people affected by a project opportunity to understand it and give their consent.Ramesh said the data suggests the proportion of forest areas stated to be cleared since 2014 is over 68% of what was cleared between 1975 and 2014. “Over a 39 year period, the data suggests that 21,63,215 hectares of forests were approved/pending approval to be cleared. In stark comparison, since 2014, 14,82,247 hectares of forests were approved/pending approval to be cleared. Furthermore, this is simply what the ‘Forests’ clearance data suggests. We are yet to analyse data on ‘wildlife’ clearances and ‘environmental’ clearances,” he wrote in an email.The analysis found that before 2014, most of the forest diversion was related to encroachments and mining while between 2014 and 2020, it has been mainly mining-led. Before 2014, large chunks of forested land were approved for clearing in 1984, 1989, 1995 and 2006. In 2016, forest area approved for clearing was more than double the area approved in 2006 alone, the analysis shows. Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Madhya Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh are set to lose vast chunks of forest land, according to data on clearances between 2014 and 2020.While forest and environmental clearance are not the same and EIA, 2020, would not apply to forest clearances, experts said a forest clearance is a prerequisite for environmental clearance in projects involving forests.One of the main objectives of the draft is to bring those industries or projects under the regulation that have violated the EIA, 2006, notification by starting construction work before environmental clearance was granted or by expanding capacity. Those that will be regularised will have to pay a late fee for violating norms. The draft also increases the validity of the environment clearances. It provides clearance validity for 50 years for mining projects, against 30 years in the present notification; 15 years from river valley projects against 10 years. Project proponents will have to submit clearance compliance reports once a year against every 6 months in the current system. No fresh studies by Expert Appraisal Committee should be asked for unless “new facts” come to the notice and it becomes “inevitable” to seek additional studies, the draft says.But the draft is not entirely new. The environment ministry had come out with a zero draft of EIA, 2020, in April last year. Many of the clauses in the zero draft had already been introduced as amendments by the ministry earlier but were challenged in court because of their impact on environmental regulation. Even in April when the zero draft was released, there was widespread criticism of the clauses and relaxations granted which could jeopardise ecology.Environment secretary R P Gupta said he was unaware of this analysis but added India is one of the least industrialised countries. “Our GDP is much less than the GDP of developed countries. 60% of our population remains in the agriculture sector. So, if industrialisation is increasing, what is wrong with it? Why does not he [Ramesh] deindustrialise the US? I can add that there are vested interests who do not want people to enjoy the fruit of industrialisation,” he said.Kanchi Kohli, a legal researcher with New Delhi’s Centre for Policy Research, said if forest land is involved in any project seeking environment clearance, forest clearance has to be sought before the former comes into effect. “Project proponents also have to disclose the break-up of forest and non-forest land in question... In recent years, there has been a huge burden on non-forest land for setting up projects. Many solar parks are on revenue commons important for grazing. In coastal areas, areas affected by ports, coastal roads, or tourism projects include entire fishing villages and traditional fishing harbours. Yet, there is no formal record available for the amount of land-use change being approved in the name of environment clearances.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-6-years-forest-land-the-size-of-nagaland-diverted/story-GzksCVWeGfMaEWoGVxMLXO.html
30-06-2020||India||Delhiwale: Blooming in the pandemic||What a sight. So full of flowers. Thousands and thousands of them.These two bougainvillaea trees in central Delhi’s Lodhi Garden make one of the city’s most stunning spectacles, though usually during a particular time of the year. Most Delhi connoisseurs would argue that an aesthetic experience of the city demands a visit to its great monuments, but a satisfying experience of the Capital necessitates a pilgrimage to this pair of trees during their prime bloom. Delhi has lush bougainvillaea sights in other places too—including Buddha Garden, the roundabout near the Italian embassy, Chelmsford Road, etc., etc.—but no place compares to the show put up by these two trees.As a matter of fact, the glorious duo has already been celebrated in these pages two years ago.But this time it’s different.The familiar pink on them might be... lockdown bougainvillaeas.To be sure, bougainvillaeas bloom throughout the year and are very friendly with high temperature. These two exceptional bougainvillea trees, however, are most amply loaded with their bloom in peak summer—from March to May. This fateful year their great blossom must have come and gone away unseen, with the park regulars stranded in their homes due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. By late June every year, the trees look like any other drab scrap of vegetation.But. It’s late June right now and the two trees are in full-fledged blossoming. It’s rare, a gardener confirms. Are the considerate trees trying to give us a second chance to appreciate their splendour?One theory of their quick re-flush is offered by PK Tripathi, a member of the executive committee of the Delhi-based Bougainvillea Society of India. Talking on phone, Mr Tripathi repeats that while bougainvillaeas blossom throughout the year, the profuse flowering occurs only in the harsh summer season. “The reason behind the current spectacular show going on in Lodhi Garden is definitely the cleaner air caused by the lockdown.”Another reason is propounded by S Chellaiah, director, horticulture, NDMC, whose department looks after the Lodhi Garden. “The synchronisation of recent showers with high temperature produced high humidity, which gave this fantastic bloom.”Regardless, it is difficult to enjoy this beauty when the world is going through a trying time due to the pandemic. The general distress is discernible in the fact that the green benches under the trees are without romantic couples. A visitor’s first instinct in a normal time would be to claim the vacant seat immediately, but now there are new concerns—what if any asymptomatic person, infected with corona, sat on the lovely bench earlier?Meanwhile, the monsoon is almost here, the heat won’t last long and this luscious rash will go away.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-blooming-in-the-pandemic/story-ECODjum8OHKcFokcOG4beM.html
30-06-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Delhi has conducted around 100,000 rapid antigen tests for the coronavirus disease.These tests themselves are interesting for two reasons. One, they were conducted in so-called containment zones, parts of the city roiled by the viral infection, and where there are significant restrictions on movements and activities. Two, because the aim of these tests was to see the extent of the disease’s prevalence in these hot spots (another term preferred by Indian health policymakers), none of the existing rules governing testing applied. Anyone from the area could get tested (and many did).Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAcross states, even in ones such as Tamil Nadu that are testing aggressively, it isn’t usually possible for someone without symptoms, or who has not had contact with a Covid-positive person, to be tested. The findings of the survey are also interesting. Around 7.46% of those tested returned a positive result. In research terms, this is how one can express this: in a survey of a randomly selected sample of around 100,000 people from Delhi’s containment zones, 7.46% were found to be infected with the virus that causes the coronavirus disease.This isn’t the same as the sero (blood) survey of 20,000 people that has been launched to see if they have antibodies to the Sars-CoV-2 virus and are, therefore, potentially immune to it (at least for some time). That survey is ongoing (it will end on July 6) and the results are expected shortly after that. Between the sero survey (which also has a random sample) and the antigen tests, we will finally have a measure of the pandemic’s spread in a city that has been hit hard by it. Delhi ended Monday with 85,161 cases and 2,680 deaths, 15% of all cases in India thus far, and 15.9% of all deaths.Hypothetically, a 7.46% prevalence sounds about right. The US CDC said last week that based on several antibody tests (the same kind of sero surveys Delhi is conducting) around the country, it believes only one in 10 infections in the country has come to light. That would put the prevalence of the disease in the US at around 7.5%. Is that a coincidence? I wouldn’t know, but sometimes diseases do tend to follow similar patterns across countries.The bad news is that 7.5%, or even 10%, is far away from the 60-65% of the population that needs to be infected before we can reach herd immunity – the stage where the chain of infection gets broken because six out of 10 people the virus tries to infect have already been infected and are therefore immune. In an article in Science last week, mathematicians from the universities of Nottingham and Stockholm wrote that the number could be as low as 43%. They assumed that every infected person would infect 2.5 other people, and also made allowances for age and mobility of the population. But 7.5% or 10% is also far away from 43%.There can be no arguing with the broader concept of herd immunity – it’s how populations survive – but, in this case, it is going to take time before 43% of the population has been infected.Some of India’s other badly affected states and cities would do well to follow the Delhi example and test the broader population. Tamil Nadu should; as should Maharashtra. And other states, even ones that have not been hit as hard by the pandemic, should follow suit. As far back as May, the Indian Council of Medical Research recommended random sero surveys to be carried out every week, and in each one of the country’s 700+ districts. That hasn’t happened, but it’s worth remembering that states that follow this advice now may avoid the crisis that Delhi, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu are managing with varying degrees of success.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-sM1BVDzaRacXyaoXZ7uoSM.html
30-06-2020||India||Covid-19: Unlock 2 will retain most curbs, curfew to be eased||The Centre on Monday issued guidelines for the second of a three-phase plan aimed at lifting restrictions imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), announcing that educational institutions, Metro rail services and large gatherings will continue to remain banned, even as the night curfew was relaxed by an hour to aid economic activity.The Union home ministry released the plan, called Unlock 2, to open up more activities in areas outside containment zones, an official statement said. The new guidelines, which will come into effect from July 1, are based on feedback received from states, and consultations with central ministries and departments, it added. The current phase to ease restrictions, called Unlock 1, ends on Tuesday. After 68 days under a lockdown to halt the spread of Covid-19, the country began opening up widely last month, but with significant restrictions. On Monday, India reported 18,318 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the tally of infections to 567,344. There have been 16,901 deaths from the infectious disease so far.The fresh guidelines said schools, colleges and coaching institutions will remain closed till July 31. It added that Metro rail, cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places will also remain shut. Social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and other large congregations will also continue to be banned.“Dates for opening of these will be decided separately, based on the assessment of the situation,” the Centre said.In another significant step, the Union government relaxed the night curfew prohibiting non-essential travel. The ban on such movement will be between 10pm and 5am. Previously, it was between 9pm and 5am. “Relaxations in night curfew have been given for seamless operation of industrial units in multiple shifts, movement of persons and goods on National and State Highways, loading and unloading of cargo and movement of persons to their destinations after disembarking from buses, trains and airplanes,” the guidelines said.Domestic and international flights (under the Vande Bharat exercise) and passenger trains, already operational in a limited manner, will be further expanded in a calibrated manner, the home ministry said.“Lockdown shall continue to be implemented strictly in the containment zones till July 31,” the government’s advisory said. Within the containment zones, strict perimeter control will be maintained and only essential activities are allowed.Shortly after the guidelines were released on Monday night, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted that he will address the nation at 4pm on Tuesday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe government has said that the plan to unlock the country has an “economic focus”, as it looks to bring stalled businesses and activities back on track. Shops, depending on their area, can have more than five people at a time, the government said on Monday night. “However, they have to maintain adequate physical distance.”Training institutions of the central and state governments will be allowed to function with effect from July 15. The standard operating procedure in this regard will be issued by the department of personnel and training.Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote to chief secretaries, saying they were not allowed to dilute the guidelines of “Unlock 2”. “..States/UTs cannot dilute restrictions issued by the MHA. States/UTs, based on their assessment, may prohibit certain activities in areas outside containment zones, or impose such restrictions as deemed necessary. However, there shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods including those for cross border trade under treaties with neighboring countries.”“I would urge you to ensure compliance of Unlock 2.0 guidelines and direct all authorities for their strict implementation,” Bhalla said in his letter. The government has so far allowed the functioning of public and private offices in a graded manner, resumed limited passenger train services and domestic air travel, and also allowed the conditional reopening of shops and marketplaces. Restrictions on public transport too have been considerably eased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-centre-issues-unlock-2-protocol/story-yVszNdCxxU6NdzLc2EUL1J.html
30-06-2020||India||Flight, schools and containment zones: All you need to know about India’s Unlock 2||India will focus on ‘phased-reopening’ in its ‘Unlock 2’ strategy as the government on Monday night issued list of guidelines for activities that had been curbed nationwide to contain the coronavirus spread in the country. Pan-India shutdown on educational institutions, metro rail services, cinema halls and gyms will continue till further notice by the government. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAll activities, except those specified in the guidelines, allowed outside containment zones. Dates for restarting the banned activities to be decided separately FLIGHT AND RAIL SERVICESOperations of domestic flights and passenger trains, which have partially resumed, will be expanded in a calibrated mannerMOVEMENT AND NIGHT CURFEW No ban on interstate and intrastate movement of passengers and goods. Non-essential travel prohibited between 10pm and 5am across the country. In “Unlock 1”, it was 9pm-5amSCHOOLS AND COLLEGESEducational institutes such as schools and colleges to remain closed till at least July 31. Training institutes of central and state govts can function from July 15. Separate SOPs will be issued for thatOTHER BANNED ACTIVITIESInternational air travel (barring evacuation flights), metro rail, cinema halls, gyms, swimming pools, theatres, bars, auditoriums, and big gatherings, including social, political, cultural functionsCONTAINMENT ZONESLockdown to continue till July 31. These areas having strict perimeter control and stringent curbs will be marked by district authorities in line with health ministry guidelinesOTHER HIGHLIGHTSStates/UTs can come up with own guidelines banning certain activities based on their assessmentEmployers on best effort basis should ensure that Aarogya Setu is installed by workers having compatible phonesElderly people, pregnant women, children, those with underlying health conditions advised to stay at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flight-schools-and-containment-zones-all-you-need-to-know-about-india-s-unlock-2/story-0uqsHESlT1T3gwhB9ldagP.html
30-06-2020||India||Centre notifies extension of Venugopal as Attorney General for India||The President of India on Monday notified the reappointment of senior advocate KK Venugopal as Attorney General for India (AG) a period of one year from July 1.Attorney General is the Centre’s top law officer and chief legal advisor who represents the government of India in crucial cases before the Supreme Court.KK Venugopal took over as Attorney General on July 1, 2017. He is the 15th person to serve as Attorney General for India. Venugopal succeeded Mukul Rohatgi who was the Attorney General from June 2014 to June 2017.Venugopal was asked by the central government to continue as AG after his three-year tenure was set to expire on June 30. He agreed but asked the government to restrict his second tenure for only 1 year considering his advanced age. He is currently 89 years old. Usually, law officers are appointed for a three-year term. Besides, the AG, the serving Solicitor General, Tushar Mehta is also set to get an extension. The Appointments Committee of the Union Cabinet approved extension of Mehta’s tenure for three more years from July 1.Five serving additional solicitor general (ASG), Vikramajit Banerjee, Aman Lekhi, Madhavi Goradia Divan, KM Nataraj and Sanjay Jain also received extension for three years. The cabinet also cleared the appointment of six new ASGs to represent central government before the Supreme Court for a period of three years. They are Balbir Singh, Suryaprakash V Raju, Rupinder Singh Suri, N Venkataraman, Jayant K Sud and Aishwarya Bhati. Five new ASGs have also been appointed for high courts — Yezdezard Jehangir Dastoor (Calcutta), Chetan Sharma (Delhi), Sankaranarayanan (Madras), Dr. Krishna Nandan Singh (Patna) and Devang Girish Vyas (Gujarat).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-notifies-extension-of-venugopal-as-ag/story-2NvbPNKJlGjBTywoIwhgYI.html
30-06-2020||India||NHAI server attacked by malware, govt says no data loss||The server of government’s highway construction arm--the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) was attacked by a malware Sunday night, according to officials aware of the development. When the malware attacked the email server of the authority, it may have also impacted the huge pool of data on highways and confidential information over the past decade, officials said. However, NHAI has clarified that the attack was foiled, and no data loss took place.“A ransomware attack on NHAI email server took place yesterday night. The attack was foiled by the security system and email servers were shut down from safety point of view. The system has been restored now. No data loss took place. NHAI Data lake and other systems remained unaffected from this attack,” an NHAI spokesperson told Hindustan Times.Ransomware is a type of cyberattack where the hacker tries to infect a server with a type of malware that renders users of the server unable to access key files. Before he removes the malware and lets users regain access to their data and devices, the hacker then demands a ransom.According to a cyber security firm Sophos, 82% of Indian organisations were reportedly hit by ransomware over the last year. “This is not a huge surprise. Cyber-hygiene is generally poor in India, and pirated technology abounds, creating weaknesses in cyber defenses. This makes organisations vulnerable to attack,” it wrote in its report titled ‘The State of Ransomware 2020’. Criminals have successfully encrypted files in 73% of the attacks and breaches worldwide, the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhai-server-attacked-by-malware-govt-says-no-data-loss/story-wGDAcPUo4MWzPLOcqu2WZJ.html
30-06-2020||India||India bans TikTok, other Chinese apps||The Union government announced on Monday a ban on 59, mostly Chinese, mobile applications such as TikTok, UC Browser and WeChat, citing concerns that these are ‘prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order’.The move comes after weeks of discussions within the government that began before the border dispute with China flared up earlier this month, but was expedited in the aftermath of the deadly June 15 confrontation in Galwan Valley, officials aware of the discussions told HT on the condition of anonymity.Officials cited above said Union home minister Amit Shah extended his support to the move to block the applications, and signed off on a recommendation by Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Saturday before the order was formally issued by the IT ministry as per protocol.HT reported about these discussions and the possibility of the ban on June 17.According to a statement issued by the IT ministry, the ministry of home affairs, Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre and many citizens had asked for the “blocking of these malicious apps”. The concern in particular is about these applications jeopardising the data of Indian users. The 59 apps had been reported for “leaking data”, according to IT ministry official who asked not to be named. “All these apps have been reported to have been leaking data. Their malpractices have also been singled out by experts. They have been said to take location data, transfer files to servers in China. Moreover, the beauty apps, such as beauty plus and selfie camera have also been reported for being a threat as they contain pornographic content,” this person said.“Although most of these apps are of either Chinese origin or controlled by Chinese companies, there are others based out of Singapore and Hong Kong,” the official added.Last week, cybersecurity researchers discovered video sharing TikTok was among several applications that could illegitimately access any data an iPhone user would have copied. TikTok acknowledged the issue and said it was due to a faulty component in the app, and that they would rush a fix.Intelligence agencies have been pushing for restrictions on such mobile applications on grounds that they were designed to extract data and park them outside the country where they could be used to intrude into the privacy of citizens.Such concerns were alluded to in the IT ministry statement on Monday. “The ministry of information technology has received many complaints from various sources including several reports about misuse of some mobile apps available on Android and iOS platforms for stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users’ data in an unauthorised manner to servers which have locations outside India”.“The compilation of these data, its mining and profiling by elements hostile to national security and defence of India, which ultimately impinges upon the sovereignty and integrity of India, is a matter of very deep and immediate concern which requires emergency measures,” it added. The ministry said it was using its powers under section 69A of the information technology act to announce the ban. Among the 59 apps are some that are popularly used. TikTok, according to Bloomberg data, had nearly 200 million users in India as of January this year. Others, such as CamScanner and SHAREIt, are popular tools used by people to digitize and exchange information. Chinese companies have been suspected of building backdoors in their hardware and software, a concern most prominently cited by several countries where officials have been wary of deploying Chinese-made 5G networking equipment.Robert O’Brien, the National Security Adviser in the Trump administration, recently said China-linked companies acted as an arm of Beijing’s Communist party and tried to “control thoughts” to serve the party’s interests.According to experts, further clarity on the ban will depend on the exact order issued. “At the outset, the government must make the order public,” said Ramanjit Singh Chima, lawyer and Asia Pacific Policy Director at Access Now, an international digital rights group. “This is a press release, it doesn’t mention who this order is directed towards, is the app providers or the app stores or the internet service providers that have to enforce the ban.” Cheema added that under section 69 of the Act, the IT Ministry has in the past kept such order confidential even though it is unconstitutional to do so. “The bigger question to ask is, is it legitimate to issue a blanket ban on an entire service. International courts have ruled it is a disproportionate restriction on free speech, you can restrict content but it has to be in a proportionate.” “In doing this, the government has also blocked legitimate government departments and the media who have a substantial presence on some of these apps. It goes against India’s ethos of free speech,” he said. There are several government agencies, such MyGov and the Press Information Bureau that have accounts on TikTok and these will now be deleted, according to a government official who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-bans-tiktok-other-chinese-apps/story-THNECB6MbXh9TQkpFx0WII.html
30-06-2020||India||Delhi to set up plasma bank, launch helpline||Delhi will set up a plasma bank to pool in blood rich in virus-fighting antibodies, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday, in a plan to help critically ill patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have better access to one of the most effective treatment options yet. Therapy through transfusion of plasma – a component of the blood – has been on in the national capital since April 22, weeks after global studies showed that the technique drastically improved the chances of recovery among people with severe Covid-19 illness. “There is high demand for plasma therapy among people. Around two months ago, we were one of the first states to start plasma therapy trials... results are good. It has been observed that plasma therapy helps stabilise respiratory rate of moderate to severe patients and it can save lives,” said Kejriwal at a press briefing over video on Monday.“But it cannot save patients with multi-organ failures, those in extremely severe conditions,” he added.The plasma bank will operate largely like a blood bank and will be set up at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) Hospital in south Delhi. Patients in government and private hospitals in Delhi can approach it with a recommendation from a doctor, the CM said.“This will probably be the first plasma bank of the country. Any Covid-19-cured individual would be able to donate plasma and active Covid-19 patients admitted in both private and government hospitals would be able to avail it. But only a doctor can recommend plasma therapy and it cannot be randomly sought by any Covid-19 patient. After recommendation, the concerned hospital has to inform ILBS for plasma,” he said.Tracing its roots to the early 20th century, plasma therapy works on a simple premise: blood from a patient who has beaten Covid-19 is transfused into someone still struggling with the infection. This effectively amounts to rushing a reinforcement of virus antibodies. The first indication of plasma therapy being effective against Covid-19 came in a scientific paper published on April 6 by Chinese experts who discovered rapid recovery among 10 patients in their trial. Within 1-3 days of being given plasma, these people were free of symptoms of the disease .According to Kejriwal, plasma therapy trials in Delhi have helped improve health condition of 34 out of 35 Covid-19 patients in government hospitals and 46 out of 49 patients in private hospitals.The chief minister said that the government is working on the modalities of the plasma bank, which will be finalised in another two days. “This will streamline the plasma therapy system in the city. The arrangement is in ILBS Hospital because it is not a Covid-19 hospital. The donors are safe and they will not be infected again. The government will also be paying for their conveyance,” said Kejriwal, urging more Covid-19 recovered patients to donate blood in coming days.Blood and plasma donations require specific matching of blood groups, which often makes sourcing of plasma difficult, especially at short notice. “Availability of plasma is a big issue. So far, both private and government hospitals that got approval for plasma therapy have maintained their own plasma banks. A centralised system will streamline the process and enable better monitoring, better data management and grievance redressal,” said Jugal Kishore, head of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital.“However, having one such bank for the whole city can put excessive stress on the concerned hospital. The government, in the coming days, should create a network of plasma banks by setting up more facilities in accordance with locations of Covid-19-dedicated hospitals in the city,” he added.Kejriwal said the government will soon set up a helpline through which potential plasma donors can come forward and health officials can begin reaching out to recovered people. Last week, the chief minister said that plasma therapy in Lok Nayak Hospital helped reduce the death rate among Covid-19 patients by around 50%. Data shared by the government on Sunday showed that the government hospital recorded 51 deaths in the week between ending June 26, compared to 100 deaths between June 6 and 12. Last week, the Delhi government got the Centre’s approval for 200 more plasma therapy trials, following which it also started them at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital.On Monday evening, several Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) functionaries who are recovering from Covid-19, including Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain, pledged to become plasma donors.The chief minister, in the video briefing, also announced a compensation of ~1 crore for the family of Dr Asheem Gupta, a doctor in the Lok Nayak Hospital who died of Covid-19 on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-to-set-up-plasma-bank-launch-helpline/story-paVyoD4S7lhVjmd9FyQWJO.html
30-06-2020||India||Space centre scientists develop an innovative mask||Two scientists at the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre in Thiruvananthapuram, an important wing of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), developed a new mask which they said ensured a proper filtration and remove some of the irritants of normal mask especially for bespectacled.The new mask is configured in two zones, a nasal part and an oral part, stitched into a single unit, preventing mixing of nasal and oral aerosols avoiding foggy vision for bespectacled, said a statement released by the scientists. No patent or trademark, details of mask developed by P Venuprasad and Dr Anitha S are available on Facebook and material cost will be around ₹10 a piece and any tailor can make it easily, the statement said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“The nasal part is stitched with wire strips which fit comfortably to any nose contour. A mask holding string facilitates hanging it on the chest, when removed in between. It is made with adjustable ear loops, which give a comfortable and efficient fitting to the face,” it said adding these masks made of khadi clothes are durable.Most of the ordinary masks have poor filtration capacity and don’t fit well on the face reducing its performance. Air exhaled towards eyes may lead to dryness and associated problems in the long run but the new mask solves most of these problems. The mask can be washed and reused several times, the statement added.“It has three layers with the filter fabric material in between. In addition, a replaceable filter cartridge infused with a blend of ayurvedic essential oils can be placed in the nasal zone, which is optional. The mask can be configured into different sizes as per the need,” the statement said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/space-centre-scientists-develop-an-innovative-mask/story-HGOEuDfjXWjbhHqXCwJr0M.html
30-06-2020||India||T’gana home minister tests positive for Covid||Telangana home minister Mohammad Mahmood Ali was on Sunday admitted to a corporate hospital in Hyderabad after he tested positive for Covid-19, health department officials said.The minister, who attended a series of programmes including Haritha Haram, under which he had taken up tree plantation in the police parade grounds at Gosha Mahal in the old city area last week, got tested for Covid-19 three days ago, after his gunman tested positive last week.“On Sunday, the test result proved that he was positive for the virus. He immediately got admitted to a corporate hospital in Jubilee Hills,” an official in the health department said.Ali is the first cabinet minister in the state to test positive for Covid-19. Earlier, three TRS legislators, gunmen and personal assistants of at least three ministers tested positive and are undergoing treatment at different hospitals.At the Telangana State Police Academy (TSPA), at least100 trainee sub-inspectors and 80 officials and staff were positive. Meanwhile, state health minister Eatala Rajender admitted that the number of positive cases for Covid-19 had been on the rise in Hyderabad and surroundings, but the death rate was not very alarming – it was just around 1.1 per cent which was very low compared to the national average of 3 per cent.He said the state cabinet would take a decision soon on the reimposition of lock down in Hyderabad and surroundings in the wake of growing cases.Meanwhile, a central team led by joint secretary of Union ministry of health Luv Agarwal, is extensively touring different hospitals in Hyderabad to inspect the facilities and treatment being given to the Covid-19 patients. The team will hold a series of meetings with state government officials to assess the ground situation in Hyderabad, which accounts for 88 per cent of the Covid-19 cases in the state||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/t-gana-home-minister-tests-positive-for-covid/story-V35TAXeovHSg7gavTFxdAO.html
30-06-2020||India||Parliament may meet in September for monsoon session||In the absence of a workable model that will allow appropriate social distancing for members of Parliament (MPs) and their staff, there is a possibility that the forthcoming monsoon session of Parliament will not be held in July and could even be pushed to September, two people familiar with the decision-making process said on condition of anonymity. Officials have considered the possibility of holding online sessions, where half the members will be seated in the House and the other half joins online, but this has been found untenable as it requires members to give consent on how they would want to join the session. They have also considered shifting the sessions of both houses to either other locations within the Parliament complex or outside, but this, too, has been ruled out because of the difficulties in implementing social distancing norms. One of the two people, who has participated in meetings on the issue, said that since there is no pressing matter at hand, for instance, the passage of ordinance that will otherwise lapse, and since there is no immediate constitutional requirement to convene the session, there is a possibility that Parliament will convene once there is solution at hand for ensuring proper social distancing protocols.“As per the Constitution, there is no specification of the number of days or the period during which Parliament should meet. As per Article 85, the only requirement is that gap between two sessions should not be more than six months. The last session was in March, which means we have time till September,” added this person.The ordinances in effect at the moment also have a time-cushion before they lapse. President Ramnath Kovind, in June, promulgated The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion & Facilitation) Ordinance 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, and, last week, the ordinance to amend banking regulations. “All of these ordinances will not expire before six months from the day of being promulgated, which give us more time to plan,” the first person said.The Opposition has demanded that Parliament be convened to discuss important issues at hand including the stand-off with China and the coronavirus pandemic. Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla have also held several rounds of meetings to work out how Parliament can resume work even as the protocols for health and social distancing are not breached.“There were many suggestions mooted such as using the central hall for convening the Lok Sabha and using the Lok Sabha hall for Rajya Sabha. However, all these have been found untenable. There is not enough space to ensure physical distancing required even if this suggestion is followed,” said the person quoted above.Officials of both the houses had pointed out that logistical problems such as rearranging names on the computers. Similarly, unless a member voluntarily opts for joining the session online, the secretariat of either house cannot take a decision on who can be permitted to attend the House in person.The first person said that with the number of Covid-19 cases continuing to surge, it is imperative that the House functions only with the necessary protocol. “There were also suggestions to have the monsoon session in Vigyan Bhavan. That was explored too, but space and security constraints have made that untenable too. The biggest hall in Vigyan Bhavan can be used at best for holding a day long session. Since the annexe of Vigyan Bhavan already houses offices, there will be no space to accommodate the staff or ministers and MPs.”The second person, who is familiar with the proceedings at the meetings also said that several MPs had indicated that since the House has to only reconvene before September 23, the secretariats should be given more time to come up with a sustainable model that will ensure safety of the members, their staff and the security personnel.“There are between 20,000-40,000 people who visit Parliament EVERY DAY when the sessions are on. It is not an easy task to create a safe space for such large numbers,” the second person said. As per convention, Parliament meets for three sessions in a year, the Budget session, the monsoon session and the winter session.Experts say that the government must do more to find a workable solution. “A session of the Andhra Pradesh legislature was recently held where the Governor gave his address by video conference. Media reports suggest that to ensure physical distancing between legislators, the Uttar Pradesh Vidhan Saha might consider holding its next session in a large conference venue opposite the Vidhan Sabha building. The constitution tasks the government with the responsibility of convening the legislature. It is now for the government to ensure that MPs can meet safely either within Parliament or at any other larger venue where norms of distancing can be ensured,” said Chakshu Roy, Head of Legislative and Civic Engagement, PRS Legislative Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-may-meet-in-sept-for-monsoon-session/story-59hmWBDsmJylZktTigpQLM.html
30-06-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine by Bharat Biotech first to get human trials nod||India’s drug controller has given approval for human clinical trials of the country’s first coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine candidate, which has been developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology (NIV), the vaccine maker said on Monday.The trials for the vaccine, named Covaxin, are likely to begin next month, the firm said. The strains of Sars-CoV-2 that causes Covid-19 was isolated by ICMR-NIV and transferred to Bharat Biotech in May. Scientists have managed to isolate and culture 11 strains that can be used to develop vaccines and aid research.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe indigenous and inactivated vaccine candidate was developed and manufactured at Bharat Biotech’s BSL-3 (Bio-Safety Level 3) High Containment facility located in Genome Valley, Hyderabad.“The Drug Controller General of India… granted permission to initiate Phase I & II Human clinical trials after the company submitted results generated from preclinical studies, demonstrating safety and immune response. Human clinical trials are scheduled to start across India in July 2020,” the company said.Krishna Ella, chairman and managing director, Bharat Biotech, said: “We are proud to announce COVAXIN, India’s first indigenous vaccine against Covid-19.The collaboration with ICMR and NIV was instrumental in the development of this vaccine. The proactive support and guidance from Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has enabled approvals to this project. Our R&D and manufacturing teams worked tirelessly to deploy our proprietary technologies towards this platform.”In the two phases, experts test if a vaccine is safe to be administered in humans and to establish trends of its efficacy.There are 13 experimental vaccines in clinical trials and another 129 in the pre-clinical evaluation stage on June 22, according to World Health Organization’s draft landscape of Covid-19 vaccines on June 22.The company completed comprehensive pre-clinical studies in two months after receiving regulatory approvals. Results from these studies have been promising and show extensive safety and effective immune responses, the company said.“Our ongoing research and expertise in forecasting epidemics has enabled us to successfully manufacture a vaccine for the H1N1 pandemic. Continuing our focus on creating the only BSL-3 containment facilities for manufacturing and testing in India, Bharat Biotech is committed to advancing vaccine development as a matter of national importance to demonstrate India’s strength in handling future pandemics,” said Suchitra Ella, joint managing director, Bharat Biotech.ICMR-NIV managed to isolate the virus from swab samples in early February from initial Covid-19 patients in Kerala.“It normally takes about two-three months for the vaccine candidate to be ready, and then different studies are undertaken to test the vaccine candidate. The next phase of trials will be equally crucial,” said an ICMR official, asking not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-by-bharat-biotech-first-to-get-human-trials-nod/story-Ha2bWTuHXIgh7xPDr6AyfN.html
30-06-2020||India||Plasma therapy helps stabilise Covid patients, shows trial at Lok Nayak||Plasma therapy has helped in stabilising the respiratory rate, improving oxygen saturation and reducing chances of organ failure in ICU patients of the coronavirus disease, showed the results from a small trial conducted at Delhi’s Lok Nayak Hospital, according to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office on Monday.The data reinforces the promise of plasma therapy, a process in which blood rich in antibodies from a Covid-19 recovered patient is transfused into the body of someone still struggling with the virus, in helping avert deaths due to the viral disease. Kejriwal on Monday announced the Capital will soon have a dedicated bank to pool in plasma from recovered patients. Of the 29 Covid-19 patients enrolled for the trial at Lok Nayak, 14 were given convalescent plasma from other recovered patients and 15 were administered fresh frozen plasma without any therapeutic benefit. The initial results show that respiratory rate came down, oxygen saturation improved and their sequential organ failure assessment (SOFA) score, a yardstick that predicts ICU mortality, also improved in the patients who were given convalescent plasma.The average respiratory rate of the patients selected for the trial was just over 35 (normal is 12 to 20 breaths per minute), which reduced to about 27 breaths in 48 hours, and was closer to the normal 20 in seven days. This was much better than those who were given the plasma without therapeutic benefit.Similarly, the oxygen saturation went up by 6.6 percentage points within 48 hours and 9.9% in seven days in patients given convalescent plasma. The SOFA score came down by 1.8 in patients given convalescent plasma as opposed to 0.6 in those in the control group within 48 hours. This score reduced by 4.5 in patients given convalescent plasma as opposed to 3.7 in the other group. Higher the score the likelier it is that a person will die.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageDuration of ICU stay as well as hospital stay was also less in patients who were given convalescent plasma.Lok Nayak hospital was the first to receive a nod for plasma therapy trial in India.“The findings of the trial are yet to be published. However, preliminary evidence shows that it improves the oxygen saturation and reduces organ failure scores in patients if administered at the right time. This might improve mortality rates, however, none of the studies globally have proved survival benefits so far. Plasma therapy remains one of the most potentially beneficial treatments for Covid-19 if given at the right time,” said Dr SK Sarin, director of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, which partnered with Lok Nayak hospital for the trial.Before announcing the setting up of a plasma bank, Kejriwal had last week described plasma therapy as one of the five weapons that Delhi has in its fight against coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The plasma bank – which will operate largely like a blood bank – will be set up in the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) hospital in south Delhi.When the condition of Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain started deteriorating, he too was administered the therapy. He has now recovered from the infection.IDENTIFYING RECIPIENTSCurrently, plasma therapy is an experimental treatment that the government has allowed only in moderately ill patients whose oxygen requirement does not go down despite providing oxygen support and steroids.International studies so far have shown that the therapy is safe, with less than 1% adverse outcomes such as transfusion reactions, in a study of 20,000 patients who received the therapy in the US, according to Mayo Clinic Proceedings. However, it does not establish the efficacy of the therapy. Another study of 10 patients published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences from China showed that plasma therapy may lower severity of disease, aid recovery of liver and lung function, and reduce inflammation.“If plasma therapy is administered at the replicative stage, it can neutralise some of the virus and prevent the disease from progressing onto critical stages. It should preferably be given before a person reaches a stage where they have to be put on a ventilator. If organ failure has already started or the lungs have been damaged, then the therapy may not be very helpful,” Sarin said.At Max hospital, which was the first to actually administer the therapy, 50 people have received it under the multi-centre clinical trial being spearheaded by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). In this, patient parameters – such as the complications, number of days spent on the ventilator, oxygen requirement -- is compared to a control group that did not receive plasma therapy. “However, the revised clinical guidelines by the health ministry in mid-June has allowed the use of the therapy to the particular category of patients even without registering for the clinical trials. About 15 or so patients have received the therapy outside of the trial,” said Dr Sandeep Budhiraja, group medical director, Max Healthcare.The therapy is also not effective in people who already have a high level of antibody. “When the infection enters a person’s system, they start developing the antibodies against it too. I think we are the only hospital to test the antibody level of the recipient along with that of the donor. If a person already has high levels of antibodies (more than 641), then adding more antibodies to it may not be helpful,” said Dr Sarin.DONOR CHALLENGESAcross India, 321,735 people have recovered from the infection, and over 50,000 in Delhi alone, as on Sunday. However, getting a plasma donor is still a challenge for many with social media and WhatsApp becoming their last resort to find a donor.This has also led to scams such as the one where 23-year-old man who duped Delhi assembly speaker Ram Niwas Goel and a friend who were looking for a plasma donor. A man claiming to be a doctor from city’s government hospital agreed to donate plasma but asked for cab fare. The man stopped returning his calls afterwards.Kejriwal on Monday said the bank will streamline the plasma therapy system in the city. He said the government is working out on the modalities of the plasma bank and they will be finalised in the next two days.Meanwhile, hospitals are doing their best to motivate patients who have been discharged to come back and donate plasma to help others.“We counsel all Covid-19 patients at the time of discharge to come back in two weeks to donate plasma. We keep a record of these patients and call them when someone is in need of plasma. However, we do not get enough donations at the moment to let us create a bank for convalescent plasma. The patients also reach out on social media, there are various organisations that have stepped in to help as well. But there is a gap in demand and supply. For example, one website that connects donors and recipients received requests for plasma from 700 people and only 150 willing donors in a week. And, only 50 of the 150 were eligible to donate after screening,” said Dr Budhiraja.Finding the patient’s blood type in stock is also a challenge, said Dr Sushma Bhatnagar, head of the Covid-19 services at AIIMS, Jhajjar. “We do have some donor plasma in our blood bank; but we do not always find the patient’s blood type in stock. What we do then is start calling the patients who have recovered from the hospital and ask them to come and donate the plasma. I think, counselling the patients has an important role to play. If it is done properly at the time of discharge, people are more likely to come back,” said Dr Bhatnagar.The Delhi government created a bank of about 200 samples, but finds it tough to replenish it.“Collecting plasma from those who have recovered remains a challenge, with them not wanting to come back to hospitals. So, it is essential that we take the technology to them. Just like blood donation drives, the government can conduct plasma collection drives in the containment areas where many cases are being reported. A plasmapheresis machine (a device that takes blood out of the body, separates the components, and reinfuses components other than plasma back into the body) can easily be carried in a van or stationed at a dispensary for the collection,” said Sr Sarin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plasma-therapy-helps-stabilise-covid-patients-shows-trial-at-lok-nayak/story-bloR1Zq7RmFGTOhwCdde5H.html
30-06-2020||India||Police not trained enough in human rights, reveal surveys||New Delhi: The custodial deaths of a father and son in Tamil Nadu’s Thoothukudi district -- it has created a nationwide uproar with the family blaming police torture -- is not an isolated incident. Crime records and survey reports show that violence by police has been reported across the nation, that police personnel are not adequately trained in human rights, and that they have the tendency to inflict punishments outside the judicial process.According to the latest Crime in India report by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), 70 people died in police custody in 2018. Tamil Nadu recorded 12 of these deaths, the second-highest in the country after Gujarat, where 14 such deaths were reported. Only three of these 70 deaths were categorised by the police as having occurred due to physical assault by police, while illness was registered as a cause of death in 32 of the 70 cases. Seventeen of these deaths were attributed to suicide, seven to injuries sustained prior to police custody, seven while escaping from custody, one to road accidents or journeys connected with investigation while the remaining three to other reasons. In 2019, at least 117 deaths in police custody were reported to the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC). But, according to a report released last week by the National Campaign Against Torture, a joint initiative by multiple non-governmental organisations, deaths in police custody occur primarily as a result of torture. Of the 125 deaths in police custody that the group recorded in 2019, 93 persons (or three in every four) died due to alleged torture or foul play; while 24 died in suspicious circumstances, with the police claiming they either committed suicide or died of illness or accident. The report also said that the practice of torturing suspects in police custody to punish them, gather information, extract confessions, or demand bribes, was rampant. In terms of police personnel being punished for alleged torture and extrajudicial killings, NCRB data for 2018 shows that even as 89 cases were registered against police personnel for human rights violations such as custodial killings and illegal detentions, not a single one was convicted of the crime. Of these 89 cases -- three cases were registered for custodial deaths, three for torture leading to injury, four for encounter killings, 17 for extortion, one for illegal detention and 61 for other kinds of human rights violations.While nine police personnel were arrested in connection with cases of custodial death, and one was arrested for torture leading to injuries, a charge sheet was filed in just one case till the NCRB report was compiled.Findings from the Status of Policing in India report, released last year by non-governmental organisations Common Cause and CSDS-Lokniti, showed that the police in India suffers from inadequacies and biases which might lead to such behaviour. The report was based on a survey of close to 12,000 police personnel across 21 states.The report showed that 12% police personnel never receive human rights training. This varied among states and was as high as 38% in Bihar, 31% in Assam and 19% in India’s most populous state Uttar Pradesh. Even among the personnel who received training in human rights, a majority said it was only at the time of joining the police force. The study said this was also true for those who were in the police force for more than five years.The survey also found a large number of police personnel justified the use of extrajudicial measures against criminals. Three in every four police personnel surveyed felt it was justified for the police to be violent towards criminals, while one in five felt that killing dangerous criminals was better than a legal trial. More educated police personnel, who are more likely to be officers, were found to be more likely to believe that it was alright for the police to be violent towards criminals.“This has become a very scary situation,” said former director general of police, Vikram Singh, regarding the number of custodial deaths being reported each year. “The most scary dimension is the fact that nobody has been punished in the 100-odd police custodial deaths in the year 2018 and the year before. The cases aren’t being pursued rigorously, and if you don’t pursue cases rigorously, the witnesses turn hostile, and it gives a sense of impunity to policemen.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-not-trained-enough-in-human-rights-reveal-surveys/story-Cbr9cc4oOYlCZGR48aaQWO.html
30-06-2020||India||Skill ministry plans to train 300,000 migrants||The union skill development ministry has chalked out a plan to train at least 300,000 migrant workers who have returned to their home states since March in an attempt to help them upgrade their skills and possibly earn more, according to documents seen by Hindustan Times. The training will be offered under the Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyaan. The special job programme, kickstarted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 20, primarily aims to provide jobs in projects worth Rs 50,000 crore but it also has a training component for unskilled daily wage workers. At a meeting on June 16 and 17, the union skill ministry spoke to different states, asking them to identify 300,000 daily wage wagers willing to take two crash courses on skill development.The training for unskilled workers will be given under two heads: “1.5 lakh migrant workers under Short Term Training (STT) and another 1.5 lakh in Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL),” said a skill ministry order on June 22.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageWhile STT is typically 300-500 hours of training depending on the job role, RPL varies from 12 hours to 80 hours of training. In its bid to meet the target, the government has also allowed states to reduce the short courses and shift them to recognition programmes. The skill minister has told the states that “In such case, against surrendered target of 1 STT, 3 additional RPL targets may be taken.”State and district administrations have been requested to identify and map the skills of “reverse migrants” and identify their interest in skilling courses. The states will also do survey of the eligible enterprises for apprenticeship at district levels.Under the Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyaan, the government will provide jobs across 116 districts—with at least 25,000 returnee migrant labourers—spread across 6 states. A skill ministry official said the ministry is hopeful to meet these targets in the stipulated time (125 days) as considerable progress has been made on skill mapping of migrant workers, identification of job roles for training and survey of establishments for apprenticeship.Former rural development secretary Jugal Kishore Mohapatra maintained, “I think if they are targeting skill upgradation of 3 lakh workers that’s a modest and doable target. My guess is eventually 80-90% migrant workers will return to big cities but the rest would stay back. The skill programme will be helpful for all as a skilled labour can claim more wages.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/skill-ministry-plans-to-train-300-000-migrants/story-vuGLUKnDrtveyBAhCOumEM.html
30-06-2020||India||IRCTC sacks 500 contractual workers||Indian railways’ catering and tourism arm IRCTC (Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation) has decided to terminate the contract of more than 500 contractual workers. However, its board may reconsider the decision, officials said. In a letter to all railway zones dated June 25, a copy of which has been reviewed by Hindustan Times, IRCTC informed all its zonal offices that there was no requirement for these contractual workers under the present circumstances and they be given one month notice and their contracts terminated. “The requirement of supervisor (hospitality) engaged on contract basis has been reviewed in the revised catering model and it has been decided that under the present circumstances, services of supervisor (hospitality), engaged on contract basis are no more required,” the letter stated. IRCTC hired around 560 supervisors for hospitality in 2018. The decision to terminate the contracts is currently under reconsideration. “The matter is being reconsider and the IRCTC board will be taking the decision,” an IRCTC spokesperson said. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe former contractual employees who were handed the termination letter took to social media to seek intervention from railway minister Piyush Goyal. “What about our job…Are we not human or we don’t have family to take care them, We all are 500 Hospitality Supervisor of IRCTC on contractual basis which has been hired for the contract of 2 year. But completing our contract, we got termination,” Bicky Sahni said in a tweet addressed to the minister. Another former worker, Rahul Kumar, tweeted “Sir, I am working in IRCTC as hospitality supervisor but unfortunately now IRCTC decided to terminate all supervisors in huge quantity from pan India so we will be jobless now, Family depends on us. Please do the needful for us. Shall be thankful sir.” Hospitality supervisors work to monitor the operations of the pantry car on trains and their work includes monitoring the preparation of food, food quality inspection, passenger and handling passenger complaints. Regular passenger train services have been suspended since March 22 when the first phase of the lockdown was announced. At present, only 230 special passenger trains are operating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/irctc-could-sack-500-contract-staff/story-Hwzs0kU7J04goMjrXVetxM.html
30-06-2020||India||Zero demand for Shramik Specials now: Rail ministry||As many as 4,596 Shramik special trains have ferried over 6.2 million migrant workers till Saturday and there has since been no demand for them, the railway ministry said on Monday, and added it will operate them if they are requested to.The trains were started from May 1 to ferry workers left jobless by the Covid-19 lockdown to their home states. The railways on Friday said many of them have begun going back to the places where they worked and added it indicates the economic activity has begun picking up after India began easing the lockdown this month.“Railways ran 4,596 Shramik trains till June 27. There was zero demand from states yesterday [Sunday] and even tomorrow [Tuesday]. Apart from only one train running today [Monday] from Bangalore to Muzaffarpur, there are no trains in the pipeline. We will run them whenever state governments demand within 24 hours,” a railway ministry spokesperson said.The Supreme Court this month directed the railways to provide special trains within 24 hours if demand comes from state governments. The ministry had also written to states asking them whether they needed rains to ferry the remaining migrants.HT on June 3 reported the special trains may be on their final leg of operation with demand for them reducing from the states. Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, the country’s most populous states, have received the maximum number of these trains--1,723 and 1,680--followed by Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal. The two big states accounted for nearly 75% of trains ferrying migrants back. West Bengal accounted for 282 trains.Trains returning from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, and West Bengal have been booked 100% from June 26 to June 30, according to railway ministry data. It indicates a return of migrants, who had gone back to their home states.The railways is running 15 pairs of Rajdhani trains connecting Delhi with different parts of the country and 100 pairs of long-distance trains, which began on June 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zero-demand-for-shramik-specials-now-rail-ministry/story-9dsYA1jitXVhAvwJtvtdTL.html
30-06-2020||India||Weapon systems bought from US an integral part of arsenal||New weapon systems bought from the United States form an integral part of India’s military posture and its preparations to deal with any provocation by the Chinese forces in eastern Ladakh, where both India and China are in a heightened state of readiness and tensions show no signs of easing, people familiar with developments said on Monday.From the Indian Air Force’s C-17 heavy-lifters, Apache attack helicopters and C-130J special operations aircraft, to the India’s Navy’s P-8I surveillance aircraft and the Indian Army’s M-777 ultra-light howitzers -- these weapons and systems are playing a crucial role in strengthening the Indian military’s deployments, said one of the persons cited above who asked not to be named.IAF’s C-17 Globemaster III transport aircraft have been used to move soldiers, tanks and infantry combat vehicles to the sector, while C-130J Super Hercules aircraft have undertaken sorties to the advanced landing ground in the strategic Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO) sector to support the military’s forward deployments, said the second person on condition of anonymity.At 16,614 feet, the DBO airstrip in north-eastern Ladakh is the world’s highest runway and is located 8km from the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has mobilised troops, weapons and equipment to areas across the Depsang plains near DBO, with its forward presence aimed at disrupting the army’s patrolling patterns there.The navy’s P-8I maritime patrol and reconnaissance aircraft have been used for surveillance of the Ladakh sector, while their primary role encompasses carrying out anti-submarine warfare, anti-surface warfare, intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance of the oceans, said a third person aware of the matter. The P-8Is carried out similar surveillance missions during the 2017 Doklam standoff.Apart from Sukhoi-30s and upgraded MiG-29 fighter jets, IAF is operating Apache AH-64E attack helicopters and CH-47F (I) Chinook multi-mission helicopters --- both imported from the US --- in the region even as forward air bases have been ordered to be on their highest state of alert to deal with any Chinese provocation.Experts said India’s deployment in the sector --- in response to the Chinese military buildup --- was adequate to handle any adventurism or aggressive moves by the northern neighbour.“A very balanced and formidable mix of Russian and new Western equipment has been deployed by the Indian military in the Ladakh sector to deal with any eventuality,” said former IAF chief Air Chief Marshal Fali H Major (retd).The army has deployed its new US-origin M777 ultra-light howitzers, which can provide accurate artillery fire support in mountainous terrain, in eastern Ladakh. The 155 mm/39-caliber M777 howitzers, inducted only last year, can be sling-loaded to helicopters and swiftly deployed to high-altitude areas. The howitzers have a range of 24-30 km.The Russian equipment Air Chief Marshal Major referred to includes Sukhoi-30 fighters, MiG-29 jets, Ilyushin-76 heavy-lift planes, An-32 transport planes, Mi-17 utility helicopters, T-72/T-90 tanks and BMP-2/2K infantry combat vehicles.India has also ordered more stocks of Excalibur precision guided munitions from the US for its artillery guns, while Russia assured swifter delivery of weapons and ammunition during defence minister Rajnath Singh’s visit to Moscow last week, said the fourth person cited above. India is pushing Russia to speed up the delivery of S-400 Triumf air defence missile systems following the tense stand-off with China. New Delhi is keen to accelerate the purchase of a mix of 33 more MiG-29s and Sukhoi-30s from Russia, and is also looking at sourcing an operational surface-to-air missile system from Israel as a 2017 order worth $2 billion for such advanced systems to take down hostile aircraft and missiles hasn’t translated into deliveries yet, he added.India has deployed its air defence weapon systems, including the indigenous Akash, in the Ladakh region where tensions rose sharply after a brutal brawl in Galwan Valley left 20 Indian and an unconfirmed number of Chinese soldiers dead on June 15, as reported by HT on Sunday.Both India and China have significantly reinforced their deployments with fighter jets, helicopters, tanks, heavy artillery and missiles in the region. The Indian armed forces have given the government details of critical purchases they need to make keeping in mind that the border stand-off could last weeks or even months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/weapon-systems-bought-from-us-an-integral-part-of-arsenal/story-1PhbP1M72Rg0UKeZiG4GJO.html
30-06-2020||India||PM Narendra Modi to address nation at 4pm today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation at 4pm on Tuesday, the PMO said in a tweet without saying what the address would be about. Prime Minister @narendramodi will address the nation at 4 PM tomorrow.The PMO’s tweet came shortly after the government announced that it was banning 59 mobile phone apps linked to China that it said were prejudicial to India’s sovereignty, defence, security and public order.It also followed the announcement of the Union home ministry’s Unlock 2 guidelines that seeks to open up more activities outside containment zones from July 1 amid the Covid-19 pandemic.In his Mann Ki Baat radio address on Sunday, Modi said India is much better placed than many other nations with respect to the fight against the pandemic and that the country’s recovery rate is rising.India’s Covid-19 tally stands at almost 5.5 lakh.PM Modi’s address will come amid an ongoing stand-off between India and China at Ladakh’s Galwan valley. Military commanders of India and China are scheduled to meet again on Tuesday to explore means to disengage.Modi in his Mann Ki Baat radio address had praised Indian soldiers who died in a clash with Chinese troops in Galwan valley on the night of June 15 that sparked outrage in the country.The Prime Minister did not name China in his Mann Ki Baat address when he said that Indian soldiers had given a befitting reply to those who coveted Indian territory.The Opposition, particularly the Congress which has claimed that Chinese troops have intruded into Indian territory, has been demanding that the PM should openly condemn China’s aggression.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-to-address-nation-tomorrow-amid-stand-off-with-china/story-OlB5H31PZd43G7dmb8eqQK.html
30-06-2020||India||Indian, Chinese armies set for Ladakh meeting||Indian and Chinese army delegations, led by corps commanders, will hold a meeting at Chushul in Ladakh on Tuesday in their third attempt to make some headway in implementing a daunting disengagement plan aimed at gradually reducing tensions aggravated by a significant military build-up on both sides of the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), people familiar with developments said on Monday, speaking on the condition of anonymity.The two delegations, led by an Indian lieutenant general and his Chinese counterpart, last met on June 22 --- exactly a week after the brutal Galwan Valley clash --- and hammered out a consensus on disengaging from friction points along the disputed border.The “mutual consensus to disengage” from all “friction areas” reached a week ago at the meeting between Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region, has not resulted in any form of disengagement or thinning of the military build-up by rival forces in the region, said one of persons cited above.In what was seen as a rare meeting, the two senior officers first met on June 6 to reduce border tensions. The limited military disengagement that began in some friction areas after the first meeting was derailed after the bloodshed in Galwan Valley on June 15.On Tuesday, the Indian side is expected to reiterate its demand for the pullback of Chinese troops from the friction points and seek the restoration of status quo ante (early April) in key areas including Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley and the strategic Depsang plains, said a second person.Experts were not optimistic about what the latest meeting could potentially achieve, especially against the backdrop of continuing Chinese military buildup observed on the ground and captured by satellite imagery. “The purpose of these meetings is to initiate disengagement on the ground at the military level before de-escalation can happen at the strategic level through diplomatic channels. The Chinese are playing hardball and one can’t exactly predict the outcome of these meetings between senior commanders,” said Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd), a former Northern Army commander.The June 30 meeting is expected to begin at 10.30 am at Chushul on the Indian side of the LAC, said the second person. The previous two meetings were held at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC.China has not halted — and instead ramped up — its military activity in Galwan Valley, Depsang Plains and the Finger Area near Pangong Tso after the senior officers met on June 22, he added.Both India and China have significantly reinforced their deployments with thousands of soldiers, fighter jets, helicopters, tanks, heavy artillery, missiles and air defence systems in the region that has garnered extensive global attention in recent weeks, particularly after the Galwan skirmish that left 20 Indian and an unconfirmed number of Chinese soldiers dead.India is especially concerned about the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) holding positions in the Finger Area of Pangong Tso where the PLA has set up permanent bunkers, pillboxes, tented camps and observation posts in areas New Delhi considers its territory, said a third person. The situation is equally critical from the Indian standpoint in the Depsang sector as the PLA has mobilised troops, weapons and other military equipment in sensitive areas, with its forward presence disrupting the army’s patrolling patterns there, he added.The Depsang plains lie south of Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO) in a strategic area near the Karakoram pass that the military calls Sub-Sector North and any military moves here by the Chinese forces could threaten a key stretch of the Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldi road, experts said.The Chinese buildup in other areas including Galwan Valley and the Gogra Post-Hot Springs sector hasn’t thinned either. Satellite imagery dated June 22, released by US firm Maxar Technologies, shows not only is the PLA holding ground in Galwan Valley but has also shored up its military positions in the area, as reported by Hindustan Times on June 25.The PLA’s armoured vehicles and artillery units remain deployed in Chinese areas facing the Gogra Post-Hot Springs area along the contested border. The Indian military is keeping a strict vigil along the LAC and has raised its guard to respond to any eventuality, the third official cited above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-to-hold-lt-general-level-talks-on-tuesday-on-lac-standoff/story-3iQ25gZPyncus1BxQx8cpN.html
30-06-2020||India||HT Salutes: Odia actor helping migrants get home||Soon after the lockdown was announced in March, famous Odia film actor Sabyasachi Mishra received a message on Twitter from Dhariti Patra, a Mumbai resident. Patra’s mother was a cancer patient and was due to be operated in AIIMS Bhubaneswar on March 28, but before it could happen, the hospital turned all its resources towards managing the Covid-19 pandemic. Desperate, 21-year-old Patra tweeted to the 35-year-old actor to help her mother get the treatment she needed. She also tweeted to the Odia chief minister Naveen Patnaik and Odia actor-turned-Member of Parliament Anubhav Mohanty on March 28.“Everyone thinks movie actors can work miracles in real life, but it does not happen that way. So I ignored the messages. But a few days later, I thought if I can help her in any way, let me try,” said Mishra, an engineer-turned-actor, who came into prominence with the Odia movie Pagal Premi in 2007. Mishra contacted a private hospital in Bhubaneswar and arranged for the mother’s transportation from her village in Ganjam district, Odisha, to the capital city, where she underwent chemotherapy. “When [Patra] called up from Mumbai to say she can never forget the help, I felt I can be of some help to people apart from entertaining them in movies,” said Mishra.“I had become desperate as AIIMS had refused to operate my mother. I was in Mumbai and could not travel due to lockdown. Though I had tweeted to CM and BJD MP Anubhav Mohanty, I did not get any help. Luckily, Sabyasachi bhai saw the tweet and decided to help out. I can’t be thankful enough,” Patra said.Two and half months later, Mishra, who is known for his romantic lover-boy roles, has helped thousands of migrant workers. Turning his home into a control room, he coordinated the return of Odia migrant workers from Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra, among others, several of whom had already started their journey back on foot. Since May 11, the actor has helped transport close to 3000 people through buses, trains, flights and car. “The biggest loss that [the migrants] have suffered is loss of willpower and dignity. They think they will die walking. It’s important to talk to them,” he said. It started on May 11 when the actor received a message on social media from Rosalin Mishra, a student of Central Sanskrit University in Rajasthan seeking help for 80 stranded students there. “It was beyond my imagination to handle the arrangements for buses, getting travel permits and passes for inter-state borders. Initially, bus owners were reluctant to travel to Odisha and they wanted more money. But that was sorted out eventually,” Mishra said. Mishra hired two buses to ferry the students between Jaipur and Bhubaneswar on May 21, and paid the tickets of those who couldn’t arrange for their own fare. People began to get in touch with Mishra over social media. Mishra said that keeps his laptop and mobile phone on at all times. Rosalin now helps manage his social media profiles as well. Together with two other students, they trawl through Instagram, Twitter and Facebook, and communicate with people seeking Mishra’s help. “Last week, I coordinated the return of 44 girl migrant workers from Odisha who had lost their jobs in Kerala and were desparate to come back,” she said.On May 31, Pandarinath Bidar, a photo journalist in Bangalore saw a labourer named Pradip Tandi, sitting on the skywalk of the Majestic bus stand. Tandi had been out of work for two months, and his landlord had evicted him and his family. “I alerted the local youth Congress workers who made food and lodging arrangements for them. I also posted a video of the labourer and his family on Twitter which Sabyasachi Mishra saw and sought details for helping them,” Bidar said. Mishra bought seven air tickets for Tandi, his paralysed mother, and other members of his family. Between June 10 and 14, he coordinated the return of 120 girls from three districts of Odisha who were working in garment factories in Tirupur and Coimbatore and were unable to return after the lockdown began.Mishra said that he has set an expenditure target of Rs 20 lakh for philanthropic activities and he is about to reach that amount. Luckily, people are also keen to help out, and Mishra is directing them to his trust, which he set up last year.“Though film actors do reach out to people in times of natural distress, Sabyasachi has gone several steps ahead. What is creditable is he has done it when the film industry has had no business and actors are unlikely to get any work for quite some time due to lockdown issues. He has set the bar high for everyone,” Odisha Cine Artistes Association president Kuna Tripathy said.Noted sand artist Sudarshan Patnaik recently made a sand illustration in praise of Mishra’s efforts at the Puri beach.Recently on Twitter, when someone tagged Sonu Sood – the Bollywood actor who had helped migrants leave the city by organising buses for them – another user tagged Mishra. “Brother.. when you have wishes of the entire nation with you then nothing is impossible. We will make sure everyone reaches back to their family. Yes bhai can’t wait to meet you. Keep the good work going,” Sood replied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odia-actor-helping-migrants-get-home/story-rIh4Ea2ro57Z0GZnl6TT2O.html
30-06-2020||India||HT Salutes: When business turned into charity||For 29-year-old entrepreneurs Sukriti Sharma and Nitin Gaur, the penny dropped when they saw an old woman sitting by the roadside in the last week of March – shortly after the lockdown was announced -- while driving up to their milk processing plant located at Nakraunda in this Uttarakhand town.“We stepped out from our car and asked her why she was outside during the lockdown and all she said was that she had not eaten for five days. She must have been working as a house maid and that incident really moved us,” Sharma recalled.Gaur and Sharma own Moo Day, a milk production plant that processes and sells full cream, toned milk and cow milk. Started last April with an initial investment of Rs 45 lakh, their turnover was around Rs 6 lakh a month. They hadn’t quite broken even, but they were close. Then the lockdown began, and they lost the bulk of their clients – hotels and restaurants. Watch | HT Salutes: Dehradun duo who distribute free milk packets across the cityTheir turnover dipped to Rs 4.5 lakh a month, Sharma said. Though the bulk of the milk that they process comes from her family’s cattle farm situated on the outskirts of Dehradun, with almost 250 Holstein Friesian cows, they also sourced milk from local farmers. This stopped too.By all measures, things were bad and about to get worse. “The initial days of lockdown due to Covid-19 had been really tragic for the entire world,” Sharma said. Meeting the old woman, however, made the two of them think about how their processing plant could be put to better use, albeit without any monetary benefit.Gaur reached out to his friends who worked as social activists in the city, and through them, he got in touch with non-governmental organisations, and took their help to distribute Moo Day milk packets and biscuits, free of cost, to the hungry.“Eventually through word of mouth, more people learnt about what we were doing and contacted us for help. We started distributing milk pouches daily in different areas across Dehradun,” said Gaur.In their own plant, they said, they made arrangements for their 11 workers and employees to stay at the farm. Those who visited the markets frequently -- to take orders of day-to-day milk requirement from retail shops or departmental stores -- were either asked to work provided safety kits, Sharma said. Neha Joshi, a social activist who has been involved in helping locals and stranded migrants during the lockdown said, “We used to distribute food amongst people initially and then we got in touch with Nitin and Sukriti. With their efforts we were able to distribute more items. Small gestures like this, giving milk packets, biscuits and bread at times, helped a lot of people in ways we cannot even imagine.”“There were different kinds of restrictions and limitations that we had during the lockdown, but we were able to work it out. Coming across that old lady on that road, we realised that it is not always about profit and that we had to help people in whatever manner we could. We are glad that we were a part of essential services through which we were able to help those in need,” Gaur said.Since June 6, Uttarakhand has imposed lockdown in Dehradun on weekends, so Sharma and Gaur have restricted distributing the milk packets on weekdays only. Their main clients – restaurants and hotels – remain shut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-salutes-when-business-turned-into-charity/story-mKXoNG5TxGPaIt6qhzDzJK.html
30-06-2020||India||HT Salutes: A zoologist who saved birds from dying of hunger||Three weeks into the lockdown imposed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the sudden death of around 30 birds, mostly crows, over two days (April 11 and 12) within and around the Smt Chandibai Himathmal Mansukhani (CHM) College campus in Ulhasnagar, Thane district, came as a shock for college staff and residents.The college principal Manju Pathak explained that prior to the lockdown, birds used to feed on leftovers of the college canteen, and grains left daily by commuters on roads that run along the periphery of the college located opposite Ulhasnagar railway station. “Following the lockdown, this stopped. On April 11 two birds died, and a day later 24 more including crows and pigeons were found dead across the campus. A veterinarian who had conducted a post mortem on one of the birds told us that they died owing to the lack of food and water,” Pathak said. Watch | HT Salutes: Ulhasnagar resident who makes bird feeder out of waste productsOn April 11, when Sarita Khanchandani, 43, a zoologist and former school teacher learnt about the incident, she contacted the college principal and asked permission to set up bird feeders inside the college.In the weeks that followed, only one more bird died, Pathak said.However, Khanchandani was still perturbed. “I needed to do something more for the species that cannot voice their concerns,” she said.Khanchandani managed to acquire plastic containers and pet bottles from local grocers while collecting melamine or plastic plates from hotels and restaurants. She also collected wires and cables. With this plastic refuse, Khanchandani made 541 bird feeders over the course of the next two months.“It’s a simple concept,” she said. “You drill a hole in the centre of the plate. Then plastic containers are attached on top using nut bolts. By making a few more holes on either side of the container or bottle, a bunch of cables or wires are passed through them to ensure they are sturdy when hung from trees or elevated areas. Next, feeders were filled with millet or rice grains.”With the help of local security staff and teenagers from her colony, she installed these feeders across Ulhasnagar, Ambernath, and a few more areas of Thane district.“We ensured these feeders were placed in areas generally frequented by birds. We received videos from [residents] and realised not just birds but even squirrels were using them.”Such efforts mainly help make people aware of the responsibility we have as citizens, said experts. “Historically, the architecture of houses were such that were nooks and crannies around homes where birds could make nests, and people would leave grains but as cities became more cosmopolitan, the architecture changed, reducing space for them,” said Sunil Limaye, additional principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Maharashtra. “She (Khanchandani) has done a stupendous job by setting up feeders across numerous locations acting as stopovers for birds, and ensuring they don’t run out of food or water.”Of the common birds found across cities, more than crows, pigeons had trouble finding food during the lockdown, said Deepak Apte, director, Bombay Natural History Society adding, “Such efforts need to be encouraged as they are hands on engagement with nature, and creating much needed attention to protect our feathered friends.”“Khanchandani’s efforts are a reminder for all of us for doing a tad bit more away from our daily lives for so many species dependent on us,” Pathak said. Hindustan Times and Facebook have partnered to bring you the next 15 stories of HT Salutes. HT is solely responsible for the editorial content of this series||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-zoologist-who-saved-birds-from-dying-of-hunger/story-Z8KL79uDYTwsA0DC6D3ybM.html
30-06-2020||India||HT Salutes: Students turn teachers for migrants’ children on university campus lawns||For 24-year-old Ishita Choudhary, persuading her parents to let her leave home was the most challenging task she faced. The rest of it, which included teaching a motley group of among 40 youngsters on the lawns of Panjab University’s campus, was simpler, she said.Choudhary is among a handful of centre for social work students, who have been teaching the children of migrant workers living in campus since May 24. The idea came from their teacher, Gaurav Gaur, and the initiative is called Kalam, Kitab aur Khwahishien (which translates to pen, book and dreams).Over 280 workers, who hail from Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and others, have been living in makeshift accommodations inside the campus to construct a multi-purpose auditorium, a girls hostel and the second floor of the Centre for Public Health. Unlike several migrants who returned home after the lockdown was imposed on March 25, this group stayed put.ALSO WATCH | HT Salutes: Panjab University students who teach migrants’ kids amid lockdownMany of their children, who are aged between 3 and 16 year, are school drop-outs; some attended classes at a government school in sector 25, which was shut down due to the lockdown. Though online classes were held for senior students of Chandigarh’s government schools from April 21, the construction workers’ children had no access to internet, and thus, no school. Besides Choudhury, Shubham Singh, Narendra Singh, Jaskirat Kaur Saini, Noyonika Roy and Kavneet Singh have been teaching the students in different parts of the campus, spread across sectors 14 and 25. Initially, the classes were for a couple of hours in the morning; now they hold four-hour long classes, from 8am to noon. “I had never thought that I could teach anyone but now my self-perception has changed,” said Choudhury, who taught who taught English and Hindi. The shade of an expansive banyan tree and empty cement bags make up for the absence of classrooms and chairs. All children have handkerchiefs tied over their faces.“At this time no one will allow us to use a classroom,” said Choudhary, who favours the trees outside the legal studies institute in the main campus.“In the morning their parents wait for us to come and then leave for work. Even you cannot be late for class, otherwise the children demand an apology,” Shubham Singh, 24, said.The social work students are also trying to teach the youngsters about Covid-19; the children have a host of queries about the pandemic that has affected millions worldwide, starting with what the virus looks likeand why do they need to wash their hands repeatedly. Gaur, an assistant professor at the centre for social work, said that volunteer work is exactly what the course is about. “I hope they will bring a change in the future of all these children.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-salutes-students-turn-teachers-for-migrants-children-on-university-campus-lawns/story-lK2Hp4vwKXnVL0AU5lyobJ.html
30-06-2020||India||HT Salutes: A student-led network of volunteers solves crises||Debojit Thakur was already part of a transcontinental network when the pandemic hit. A student from Kolkata with years of experience in volunteer relief work, he was pursuing a PhD at the University of Trier in Germany, and was in the middle of a research trip to Delhi when the borders closed in March.Still, when he and a few friends decided to post a message on Facebook on March 29, inviting donations to help feed those rendered jobless and homeless, they were not expecting the response they got.“People from the United States, United Kingdom, Germany and across Europe, most of them students, sent in money,” said Thakur, 29. “And those who couldn’t spare money were generous with their time, their help, and with spreading the word.”Watch | HT Salutes: Debojit Thakur, a researcher who helped Covid & Amphan victimsWithin weeks, a network of 650 volunteers had emerged, spread across Delhi and West Bengal. Thakur decided to call it the Quarantined Student-Youth Network (QSYN).They set up 26 makeshift kitchens and have so far distributed over 10,000 ration packages and served over 100,000 cooked meals. Then the Amphan cyclone alerts began. The initiative had already raised Rs 12 lakh for migrant relief in Delhi by the time the cyclone hit West Bengal on May 20. The group decided to put out a fresh call for help, and money began to pour in even faster. Bollywood got wind of the bunch of youngsters doing good work, and celebrities like Ayushmann Khurrana, Varun Grover, Ishan Khattar and Ananya Pandey shared their details on Instagram Stories, inviting people to pitch in. By May 27, the group had collected Rs 60 lakh. By June 14, it had jumped to Rs 95 lakh, and QSYN had begun using the crowd-funding website Ketto.org, for greater ease and transparency.The direct, grassroots approach and real-time updates on Facebook inspired confidence. “I donated because I could the work they were doing, directly with the people,” says Dip Nag, 33, a cyber-security manager in Munich.School children donated Rs 10 or sometimes Rs 50. “One professor sold some of his art and raised almost Rs 2 lakh. Samay Raina, a Mumbai-based stand-up comic, did an online benefit show and raised Rs 5 lakh for us. The list goes on,” Thakur said.Now, just ensuring accountability, data collection and presentation so that everyone knows where the money is going, has become a full day’s work.Nadia Imam, 23, an alumnus of Jadavpur University, has volunteered to head that arm. “It’s a humongous task,” she said. “Many migrant workers are coming home to southern West Bengal to find their houses were hit by the cyclone. So now we’ve begun helping with rebuilding too, and that’s whole different set of materials and tools and volunteering. And we’re doing this in six districts across the region.”Locally, some donations have come in the form of supplies. Many farmers handed over vegetables at massive discounts, and were happy to do so because they didn’t have markets to sell them at.Because of their pre-existing network, QSYN volunteers were among the first teams to reach some of the worst-affected areas of southern West Bengal. Some of their volunteers in the Sundarbans were coordinating ration distribution while repairing their own homes. They distributed tarpaulin and cooked meals from makeshift kitchens as part of their relief efforts. With donations still coming in, QSYN plan to now help support the school- and college-going children of migrant workers returning home from other states as well.“My friends and I used to volunteer under the banner Students of Bengal. We contributed to relief work after the Nepal earthquake in 2015 and the floods in Kerala last year. In the lockdown, with the millions being affected, I realised we had to build a stronger network. That’s how QSYN was born,” said Thakur. “We plan to keep it going till all the money is gone. We are not an NGO but we will have to decide what to do in the future, because this is a good thing we’ve started. Maybe we can figure that out when we actually can meet in person.”Hindustan Times and Facebook have partnered to bring you the next 15 stories of HT Salutes. HT is solely responsible for the editorial content of this series||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-student-led-network-of-volunteers-solves-crises/story-iAfZxiMA1FiG7tqtxZfWzH.html
30-06-2020||India||HT Salutes: From slim pickings to plum sales, how a fisherman used tech to beat lockdown||Five days into the lockdown, fisherman Ganesh Nakhawa, 32, was sitting down to a lunch of fish curry and rice, and sent a picture to a friend in Mumbai. ‘You should sell these in the city. We have no fish here,’ the friend texted back.Luckily, that fisherman in Karanja, Raigad, had a degree in business studies from the University of Edinburgh, Scotland; and his friend, Myron Mendes, was communications manager at an NGO where he helps run campaigns for a living.Mendes got permission from his housing society to coordinate orders and connected with other housing societies to offer that cherished thing in Mumbai — and rare treat in the lockdown — fresh fish straight from the fisherman.Watch | HT Salutes: 3 youngsters helping Maharashtra fishermen amid lockdownTwo days later, Nakhawa, armed with an e-pass (fish was an essential service in the food category) loaded 25kg of the day’s catch into the boot of his car and drove 90 minutes to Mumbai. Two hours on, as Nakhawa puts it, his car was empty and his pockets full.Back home, he spread the word and 15 other families joined in. He drove back later that week with 100kg of fish, then 150 (he had to take out the back seat to make room). At a time when fisherfolk all along the coast were being forced to stay home or dump the bulk of their catch because supply chains had shut and — more crucially — the ice factories had closed, he had found a way for his community to thrive.There were so many orders that Nakhawa got to indulge his love for Excel spreadsheets—orders placed, orders filled, orders pending, orders for next week. Customers began calling from so far away, they had to turn some down.By the second week, Nakhawa realised this could be scaled up further. As director of the Karanja Fishing Co-operative Society, he took his model to the people. Earnings had fallen by now, by about 25%, and most fisherfolk were taking their boats out only every two or three days. Given the already-slim margins of their business, many were becoming desperate.Nakhawa suggested they throw their lot in with him, leverage technology to balance supply, demand and pricing, and create an entire supply chain on their own.The co-operative society partnered with Numer8, a data analytics firm. All orders were funnelled through a single WhatsApp number. They called themselves BluCatch — a name that Nakhawa had trademarked in 2017, when he first tried to use a similar online model, but saw it fail due mainly to lack of scale.This time, using their own vans and cars (and later a few rented tempos) and tying up with online delivery platforms, they rushed their fish to homes across the city. By the third week of April, BluCatch had around 600 fisherfolk across Raigad and Mumbai selling over 3,000 kg of fish a day.Eliminating the middleman has meant they can keep more of their margins, and earnings have risen by as much as 35% over pre-lockdown levels. Earnings from each carload are transferred back to each fisher family on the same day.“I don’t have to worry. And I don’t have to wait for weeks for my money to come in. They are working more to be ready for a post-pandemic world and I am going to be with them,” says Karanja fisherman Vinayak Patil, 41.If there’s one downside, it’s that managing the whole supply chain is exhausting. “Most of us haven’t slept in two months,” Nakhawa says. “I’ve slept in my car, at the harbour, at friends’ homes.”But for Nakhawa, it is a dream coming true. He quit a job in investment banking in the UK in 2011, to return to his Koli community and become a seventh-generation fisherman. “What the lockdown has done is show us that it is sustainable,” he says. “Right now, only about 5% of Koli men with another career choice opt to go into fishing. The number is higher among women, but still no more than 30%. I want more youth coming in. And now I hope they will.”(Hindustan Times and Facebook have partnered to bring you the next 15 stories of HT Salutes. HT is solely responsible for the editorial content of this series)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-salutes-from-slim-pickings-to-plum-sales-how-a-fisherman-used-tech-to-beat-lockdown/story-P1olb8EvYIeRsK5yQBVVlN.html
