02-01-2021||---||Dhundia president of Rajindra Gymkhana & Mahendra Club||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 1The group led by Vinod Dhundia grabbed three of the four posts of office-bearer in the elections of the Rajindra Gymkhana and Mahendra Club here, the results of which were announced late Friday evening. The group also managed to win all executive member posts.The elections of the club comprising 2,800 members were held yesterday.Vinod Dhundia, who contested for the post of president against Gurmukh Singh Dhillon, polled 1,079 votes while the latter secured 882 votes. MM Syal won as vice-president with 1,022 votes while his competitor Vikas Puri bagged 921 votes. Amarinder Pabla bagged the post of honorary secretary by grabbing 1,035 votes and defeated Dr Hardeep Singh Maan by 124 votes.Meanwhile, Swatantar Bansal of the opposite group polled 978 votes, 18 more than Subhash Gupta, to bag the post of treasurer.Officials said 2,002 votes for the executive members were cast. Sanchit Bansal, Dr Harsimran Singh, Sumesh Jain and Dr Sanjay Bansal, all from the Dhundia group grabbed the four posts of executive member.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/dhundia-president-of-rajindra-gymkhana-mahendra-club-192513
02-01-2021||---||Pending for months, foot overbridge project in Patiala to be completed soon||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 1The Public Works Department’s (PWD) project for constructing foot overbridges outside Kali Mata Temple and Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib will be completed soon. The work was pending for the past 11 months.Pending since January 25, when Member of Parliament (MP) Preneet Kaur and PWD Minister Vijay Inder Singla laid the foundation stone of a foot overbridge, protruding iron rods can be spotted at one of the sites, which could hurt commuters. Officials said the work remained pending due to many reasons, including the Covid-19 pandemic.The PWD had decided to construct two foot overbridges outside Kali Mata Temple and Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib at a cost of Rs2.5 crore. Officials said the bridges would help residents cross over to the shrines from opposite sides of the roads. While Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib located at a T-point before the Patiala-Sirhind road, Kali Mata Temple is on the traffic aplenty Mall Road.The XEN (Central works), Tarsem Raj, who is supervising construction of the foot overbridge outside Kali Mata Temple, said, “The construction work has been delayed due to many changes. The bridge design was changed due to underlying utility services, including wires and pipelines at the site. The changes have to be approved by the authorities concerned.”“Also, the soil on the temple side is loose. So, we had to change the construction plan. The contractor will be submitting new design and the foot overbridge will be constructed soon,” he added.Although initial work for the foot overbridge near Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib was started, it could not be completed. Large iron rods protrude out of the ground at the site near gurdwara.When asked the executive engineer (Central works), Mohali, Yuvraj Singh, said, “The foot overbridge has been constructed and will be installed at the site soon. The bridge got delayed as raw material was not available during the Covid-19 induced lockdown. The bridge will be installed without escalator within a week. The work on the escalator will continue.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/pending-for-months-foot-overbridge-project-in-patiala-to-be-completed-soon-192512
02-01-2021||Patiala||Report delay upsets UK returnee||A UK returnee, who has been isolated at a government facility for the past six days, is upset over the delay in his Covid test result. The Health Department has sent the samples to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, to confirm whether the patient is carrying a mutated virus or not.253 new casesChandigarh: In all, eight persons, including three each from Amritsar and Ludhiana, succumbed to Covid during the past 24 hours, while 253 new cases were reported. TNSTalking over the phone, the returnee said he was upset over the fact that six days had already passed, still he had no information about his test report.The 47-year-old patient has been isolated at the Rajpura Civil Hospital. The department had sent the sample to the NIV on December 27.The patient said, “I came here to spend time with my family and not to stay in isolation. I don’t have Covid symptoms. Moreover, I was tested in the UK before I came to India.”Rajesh Bhasker, state nodal officer, Health, said, “We had a word with officials at the NIV, and they said test reports will take time. I don’t know when the reports will come.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/report-delay-upsets-uk-returnee-192402
02-01-2021||Patiala||Vaccination dry run in Patiala tomorrow||To check preparedness, the Health Department has decided to conduct a dry run for the Covid vaccination in the district on January 3. The department has already identified three sites to conduct the exercise.The mock drill of the mass immunisation drive will be conducted at Government Medical College, Sadhbhavna Hospital and Community Health Centre, Shutrana. Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said the prerequisites for the dry run would be completed by tomorrow. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/vaccination-dry-run-in-patiala-tomorrow-192403
02-01-2021||Chandigarh||COVID vaccine: Punjab, Haryana to hold dry run on Saturday||On the Centre's directive, Punjab and Haryana will conduct a dry run for COVID-19 vaccination on Saturday. The Centre had said a dry run will be conducted by all state and union territories on January 2 to test the linkages between planning and implementation, and to identify the challenges.The Punjab government will conduct the drive in Patiala on January 2 and 3, state Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said in a statement here.He said as per the Centre's guidelines, Punjab has selected Patiala district where the dry run will be conducted at Government Medical College; Sadhbhavna Hospital; and the Community Health Centre in Shatrana.  The UNDP and WHO will be supporting the drive, he said.In Haryana, the dry run will be held in Panchkula, state's Director General (Health Services) Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj told PTI.The drive will be held at three sites, officials said. For each of the three sites, the medical officer in-charge will identify 25 beneficiaries (healthcare workers), the Centre had said.The states and UTs have been asked to ensure that the data of beneficiaries is uploaded on Co-WIN, an online platform for monitoring the delivery of the vaccine.Earlier, a two-day dry run for the distribution and administration of COVID-19 vaccine in two districts of Punjab concluded on Tuesday.The districts of Ludhiana and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar (Nawanshahr) had been selected for the dry run, aimed at testing the laid out mechanisms for the vaccination roll-out in the health system.Before Saturday's nationwide exercise, the earlier dry run drill had been planned by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Assam and Gujarat. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/covid-vaccine-punjab-haryana-to-hold-dry-run-on-saturday-192290
