04-01-2021||---||2 unemployed ETT teachers protest by climbing atop water tank at Patiala's  Mohindra College||Patiala, January 4To protest against the state government, two unemployed ETT TET pass teachers climbed atop a water tank at Government Mohindra College on Monday.The teachers said they would not get down until their long-pending demands were met.They demand that the Education Department should repeal the provision of B.Ed entry into ETT and advertise 10,000 new posts of theirs immediately.Notably, the police had detained and booked them on Sunday after they staged a sit-in outside the residence of Punjab’s Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla.However, they were released after registering an FIR.Demanding employment, ETT and TET pass teachers protested against the state government on Sunday. They gathered at the Baradari gardens and raised slogans.Meantime, a few teachers, evading the police force, reached the residence of Vijay Inder Singla, Education Minister, and staged a sit-in there. However, the police soon detained all protesting teachers from both sites.The protesters said the state government was not serious about their demands. They took exception to the decision of the Education Department to allow BEd graduates to apply for the posts of ETT teachers.They demanded the Education Department should repeal the provision of BEd entry and advertise 10,000 new posts of ETT teachers immediately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/2-unemployed-ett-teachers-protest-by-climbing-atop-water-tank-at-patialas-mohindra-college-193508
04-01-2021||Patiala||Teachers protest at Singla’s house, detained||Demanding employment, ETT and TET pass teachers protested against the state government here today. They gathered at the Baradari gardens and raised slogans. Meantime, a few teachers, evading the police force, reached the residence of Vijay Inder Singla, Education Minister, and staged a sit-in there. However, the police soon detained all protesting teachers from both sites.The police have beefed up security outside the residence of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and the Education Minister. In fact, roads leading to the CM’s residence have completely been blocked. The blockade has caused inconvenience to commuters.Deep Banarsi, press secretary of the Unemployed ETT and TET Union, said that police had detained them while they were peacefully protesting for their rights. He claimed that the police resorted to mild lathi charge while detaining the protesters near the Baradari gardens.The protesters said the state government was not serious about their demands. They took exception to the decision of the Education Department to allow BEd graduates to apply for the posts of ETT teachers.They demanded the Education Department should repeal the provision of BEd entry and advertise 10,000 new posts of ETT teachers immediately.In the evening, the police released the protesting teachers. Varun Sharma, SP, said an FIR had been lodged for holding protest.Meanwhile, the protesters said they were released on the condition that they had to leave the district immediately. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/teachers-protest-at-singlas-house-detained-193270
04-01-2021||---||ML Ludhiana win Hans Raj Saggi Memorial Men’s Day Tournament||Patiala, January 3ML Maini Ludhiana won the 1st Hans Raj Saggi Memorial Men’s Day Tournament by defeating ZS Mohali by an innings in the final match at the HR Saggi grounds here today.Pukhraj Mann of ML Ludhiana was declared Man of the Match for his brilliant 173 runs off 200 balls. Winning the toss, Ludhiana opted to field and bowled out Mohali for 92 runs. Meanwhile, Ludhiana scored 322 runs with a loss of four wickets before declaring the innings.In the second innings, Mohali could score 68 for two before the end of the play. For Ludhiana, Brahmdayal took four wickets and Aryaman took three. Aryaman was declared the Best Bowler of the tournament. Besides, Jashanpreet Singh Sidhu of ML Ludhiana was adjudged the Best Batsman of the tourney and Emanjot Singh Chahal of Grand Square 11 the Best All-rounder.Meanwhile, Vishawjeet Singh of ZS Mohali was declared the Man of the Tournament .||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/ml-ludhiana-win-hans-raj-saggi-memorial-mens-day-tournament-193271
04-01-2021||Aman Sood||In Patiala, poultry feed used in spurious milk||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 3The police have busted a milk adulteration racket wherein two unemployed youths of Kularan village in Patiala used poultry feed as an ingredient to double the quantity of milk.Behind bars, the accused, Harpreet Singh and Gurpreet Singh, ran a dairy business without actually owning any cow or buffalo. They would purchase the feed, a kind of dried white glucose powder, from Haryana and allegedly mix 10 kg of it in 100 litres of water at their two-room “dairy” in the village. They would then add this mixture to 100 litres of milk they procured from nearby villages.Two arrestedHow much adulterated milk they daily prepared and sold was being ascertained, but 500 litres was supplied to Ludhiana’s Supreme Dairy alone, a police official said. Besides Ludhiana, they had customers in Khanna, Rajpura and other parts of Punjab, he said.Patiala SSP Vikramjit Duggal said the owners of Supreme Dairy had been summoned for questioning. Attempts to contact the dairy’s owners proved futile.“Chicken feed being used to prepare adulterated milk is unheard of, though rackets using urea, other chemicals, refined oil and even detergent have been unearthed in the past. It is being investigated how long the accused have been in this illegal business,” the SSP said.By mixing poultry feed in milk, the accused cheated the dairy testing labs, which check fat content but have no mechanism to check animal or foreign fat, a health expert said. Such milk was harmful for children and elderly and its prolonged use could even lead to cancer, they said.A team led by SP Palwinder Cheema conducted the raid and arrested Harpreet and Gurpreet from the spot.An FIR under Sections 272, 273, 420 and 120-B of the IPC has been registered at Samana Sadar police station. Health officers were called to the police station to collect milk samples for testing, said Cheema.A chiller, 200 litres of stored milk, 25 kg of white powder, 125 kg of poultry feed, machinery to check fat content and containers to store and mix powder and milk have been seized.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/in-patiala-poultry-feed-used-in-spurious-milk-193264
