08-01-2021||Patiala||Low turnout as schools reopen for Classes V-VIII||As physical classes for middle school students (Classes V to VIII) started today, government schools in the district witnessed a low pupil turnout.School officials said the students were required to carry a consent letter from parents while the Covid-19 guidelines needed to be followed.The physical classes for students of Classes V-VIII were started today. For Classes IX to XII, physical classes had started mid-October.Schoolteachers said it was optional for students to attend physical classes as online teaching would also continue. They said it was one of the reasons why many students did not turn up for classes on the first day. Hardeep Singh Toderpur, a teacher at Government Senior Secondary School, Kakrala, said their school has about 150 students in Classes VI to VIII. “About 60-65 students came to the school today. Many did not turn up as attendance has not been made mandatory yet.”Gagan Ranu, a teacher at Government High School, Karhali said about half of the total strength in Classes V to VIII attended school today. “Some didn’t come to the school due to rain. They have been advised to strictly follow the Covid-19 guidelines.”Harinder Kaur, DEO (Secondary Education), Patiala, said the schools were holding parent-teacher meetings on Thursday and Friday. “We were also supposed to release the results of previously conducted exams. We expect all students to start attending regular classes from Monday.”She said the students were supposed to bring along consent letters from their parents allowing them to attend regular physical classes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/low-turnout-as-schools-reopen-for-classes-v-viii-195366
08-01-2021||Patiala||Religious ceremony at Qila Mubarak||To commemorate the birth anniversary of the founder of Patiala, Baba Ala Singh, and the last ruler of Patiala Princely state, Maharaja Yadvinder Singh, father of Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, a religious ceremony was held at Burj Baba Ala Singh (Qila Mubarak) today.Lok Sabha MP from Patiala and Maharaja Yadwinder Singh’s daughter-in-law Preneet Kaur paid obeisance to both stalwarts of Patiala. She said it was a holy day for the district. She said while Baba Ala Singh was the founder of Patiala, Maharaja Yadvinder Singh was always remembered for his contribution to the welfare of Punjab residents in general and Patiala in particular.Preneet Kaur said she had always prayed for the wellbeing of all Patiala residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/religious-ceremony-at-qila-mubarak-195367
