09-01-2021||Karam Prakash||Nine food samples fail quality test in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 8Nine food samples collected by the Health Department last month have failed to meet quality standards. Eight food samples were declared ‘substandard’ by the state food testing lab. Meanwhile, one food sample was found ‘misbranded’ revealed the report.The food samples, which failed quality standards, include three samples of khoya barfi, two samples of paneer, two samples of curd and one sample of milk.Dr Shelly Jaitley, district health officer (DHO), said paneer samples had low fat and moisture content while khoya barfi had higher fat content than prescribed the regulating government agency. Curd had also low-fat following which it was declared substandard, the DHO added.As per the Food Safety Act food shall be deemed to be substandard if it does not meet the specified standards. One milk sample had higher fat content and also had starch mixed in it, the DHO said.Biscuits of a shop were declared misbranded by the lab, the DHO added. Misbranding implies falsely giving false information of any food to mislead consumers or give a false guarantee.Following the lab report, the Health Department would issue notices to all shop owners whose food samples failed the quality test.“Besides giving notices, shop owners will also be given a one month time to challenge the state lab report, the DHO said.After one-month, the Health Department will submit a report to the Additional Deputy Commissioner to take a decision on penalty for the violations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/nine-food-samples-fail-quality-test-in-patiala-196004
09-01-2021||---||ASHA, anganwadi workers protest in support of farmers||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 8In support of the protesting farmers at Delhi borders, hundreds of ASHA and anganwadi workers under the banner of Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) tried to court arrest outside the district administrative complex today. However, the police did not arrest them.Before the symbolic arrest, protesters staged a sit-in near the district administrative complex for hours’ altogether. The protesters said new farm bills passed by the Central Government would destroy the agriculture sector. The Modi government was making efforts to privatise every sector to help big corporate, they added.Amritpal Kaur, an anganwadi worker, said, “The Modi government has been making laws – including agriculture – that favour only big corporate. However, we will not let them do what they want to. We will continue our protest until the laws are repealed.”Workers said they had protested at Delhi borders in the past and would continue to do so in future also. They had decided to protest at the district level against the agriculture bills, workers added.Harinder Kaur, an ASHA worker, said, it was wrong to say that the farm laws would not have any adverse impact on the agriculture sector. Every section of society would face the brunt of these laws if implemented, she added.“ASHA workers will continue to protest come what may until the farm laws are repealed,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/asha-anganwadi-workers-protest-in-support-of-farmers-196005
09-01-2021||---||Biography of ex-PEPSU CM Col Raghbir Singh to be released soon||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 8On the 66th death anniversary of Col Raghbir Singh, former Chief Minister (CM) of the PEPSU state, his son Karanbir Singh Sandhu announced that his father’s biography would be released soon.The book about Colonel Raghbir Singh, who once remained the Sardar Sahib of Deodi in the PEPSU state, would be a good read for students of history, politics and others, said Karanbir. Colonel Raghbir Singh died of a stroke on January 7, 1955.While paying tributes to his father Karanbir said Colonel Raghbir Singh born in Thethar village of Lahore in 1895 came from the lineage of Sardar Sahib Singh and Sardar Lakha Singh. The two were responsible for the early-upbringing and education in use of arms of then Maharaja Ranjit Singh of the Sikh empire.Colonel Raghbir Singh was ushered into services in Patiala by Maharaja Bhupendra Singh where he went on to become the Inspector General of the police by 1926.Colonel Raghbir Singh played a pivotal role in bringing about a compromise between the princely state and the Akali movement during the uprising of 1942. Soon after, he formed a separate political party Lok Sewak Sabha that later merged into the Congress. He then also became the home minister in the PEPSU state.Colonel Raghbir Singh was elected as the leader of the Congress during the first General Elections of India and the PEPSU state in 1952. He took an oath as the first Chief Minister of the PEPSU, but had to resign as Akalis gained power with the help of independent candidates. He again became the CM of the state in 1954 as Congress gained power with a thumping majority. His stint as the CM lasted less than a year, but he worked for the co-operative movement in the state and other matters. He later inaugurated the first co-operative bank in Patiala. He also encouraged small and medium industries in Rajpura and started the PEPSU Roadways.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/biography-of-ex-pepsu-cm-col-raghbir-singh-to-be-released-soon-196006
