11-01-2021||---||Three arrested for murder over wall in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 10The police have arrested three persons in connection with the murder of 42-year-old Majeed Mohammad who was stabbed to death yesterday. The suspects have been identified as Raja, Ashrad and Imran, alias Monu.The police said teams of the Kotwali police and the CIA nabbed the suspects. Majeed was stabbed to death last evening.Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Yogesh Sharma said a thorough investigation was underway. He said all three suspects hailed from Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh. Monu was a neighbour of Majeed and both had picked up a quarrel over a common wall. Majeed was murdered by Monu and his accomplice when he was sitting in a park at around 6.30 pm yesterday. A case of murder under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code was registered against suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/three-arrested-for-murder-over-wall-in-patiala-196856
11-01-2021||Patiala||Patiala awarded ODF++ certificate||In the run up to Swachh Sarvekshan 2021, Patiala has been awarded ODF++ (Open defecation free ++) status by the Government of India. Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur said the development had brightened the chances of Patiala to improve upon its all-India ranking in the ensuing Swachh Survekshan to be conducted by the government in the coming few weeks.“The certification is the outcome of the third party inspection carried out from December 5th to 7th, 2020, by an independent agency. The city was assessed on various parameters as stipulated by the Ministry of Housing and Urban development,” she added.The ODF+ status was limited to ensuring proper maintenance of toilets while the ODF++ status signified safe collection, conveyance, treatment and disposal of all faecal sludge and sewage, she said. “The city has highest number of public and community toilets in the state. Patiala is gearing-up for the five-star GFC (Garbage free city) certification and a higher ranking in the Swachh Sarvekshan,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-awarded-odf-certificate-196853
11-01-2021||Karam Prakash||Patiala residents back farmers’ stir||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 10The opposition to the Centre’s farm laws is no more limited to the rural population. Hundreds of city residents, including women and children, today came out in support of the protesting farmers and held a huge rally in the Urban Estate and the adjoining areas.Raising slogans ‘Kisan Ekta Zindabad’ and ‘Repeal farm laws’, the protesters said they wanted to send out a message that not only farmers or people from rural areas but also people like them were against the new laws.In fact, the residents of the Urban Estate areas have formed a committee called “Kisan Mazdoor Karamchari Sangarsh.”Dr Balwinder Singh Sohal, member, Kisan Mazdoor Karamchari Sangarsh, said critics often targeted the farmers’ protest by saying that it was limited to farmers only. “We wanted to show that we (urban residents) are with the protesting farmers. We will work and protest as the second line of defence in the agitation.”Holding flags of kisan unions, women marched and raised slogans against the Modi government.Amarjit Singh Waraich, resident, Urban Estate, Phase 2, said they were taking the protest to urban areas of the city so as to join get more support for the ongoing famers’ stir in Punjab. He said: “The protest will continue in the Urban Estate and the adjoining areas until the laws are repealed. People from urban areas have joined in the protest in large numbers.”Carrying banners of “No farmers, No food”, many youngster are often seen staging protests at Fountain Chowk, Leela Bhawan Chowk, the YPS roundabout and 22 Number Phatak.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-residents-back-farmers-stir-196849
11-01-2021||---||Education Dept employees protest en masse transfers||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 10To protest en masse transfers to far-flung areas, contractual employees of the Sarva Shiksh Abhiyan (SSA) scheme today protested near the Chief Minister’s residence. The protesters, along with their children, staged a sit-in near the CM’s residence for hours.Protesters said the Education Department transferred them to far-flung areas of the state under the rationalisation policy. They had been working for over 10 years on contractual basis, however, the department never regularised them, protesters added.Instead, the department transferred them to districts, which were around 250 to 300 km away from their houses, said protesters. It would become difficult to run their households, protesters added.A protesting employee said, “The decision has been taken to harass us. It becomes very difficult especially for women to work in the far-flung areas. The government should immediately revoke transfers.”Parveen Sharma, vice-president, SSA RMSA Office Employee Union, said, “Instead of filling vacancies, the Education Department has transferred employees to the far-flung areas.”Meanwhile, protesting employees were given a written assurance of a meeting with OSD to the CM on January 12. However, employees said they would protest again if the meeting remained inconclusive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/education-dept-employees-protest-en-masse-transfers-196848
11-01-2021||Aman Sood||Border areas take chunk out of PSPCL revenue pie||Tribune news servicePatiala, January 10For the past almost a decade, the politically sensitive border zone comprising Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Tarn Taran, Ajnala and adjoining areas continue to cause maximum losses to the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) by stealing over 50 per cent of the supplied power.Led by border and west zones, power theft costs PSPCL somewhere around Rs 1,000 crore annually. PSPCL has attributed these losses to the rampant theft of energy in these divisions. In Amritsar suburban circle, the three divisions of west, Ajnala and sub-urban report losses of 55.32 per cent, 55.37 per cent and 44.34 per cent, respectively. In Tarn Taran circle, which falls in the border zone, Bhikhiwind, Patti and city divisions report losses of 79.14 per cent, 67.36 per cent and 45.64 per cent, respectively.Illegal kundis, meter tampering rampantInformation gathered by The Tribune proves that residents are stealing power worth over Rs 2.5 per day from the PSPCL supply lines, with rural Punjab leading with 66.66 per cent distribution losses using capacitors, illegal kundis and even tampering with meters. “The villagers, many of them rich landlords owning cars and even farm houses, continue to steal power using their clout with politicians and local power board officials,” said a PSPCL official, preferring anonymity.Senior PSPCL officials told The Tribune that villagers, majority of whom get free power for their tubewell motors, steal power worth Rs 800 crore per annum.Meanwhile, domestic, commercial urban consumers and industry cause losses worth around Rs 200 crore per annum. As per PSPCL records, as against the average 10 per cent of loss in distribution network, the losses are over 20 to 50 per cent in urban areas, while they are over 50 to 79 per cent in rural supply lines.“We were shocked to find that every second house in rural areas has devices fitted smartly to stop power meters or even use permanent kundis to steal power,” said a top PSPCL official.In the west zone, the Malout division of Muktsar circle report losses of 44.55 per cent, while in the south zone, Patran and Lehragaga division of the Sangrur circle has losses of 54.87 per cent and 52.49 per cent, respectively. Baghapurana divisions in the Faridkot circle have 49.98 per cent losses.VK Gupta, spokesman, All India Power Engineers Federation (AIPEF), said the main reason for losses in these areas is political interference in efforts by the corporation to check power theft. “Politicians call it a facility to their area consumers, while the burden of this power theft is passed on to rest of the consumers due to losses,” he said.The replacement of electromechanical meters with electronic meters and shifting of meters outside the premises has been slow due to Covid.“We have ordered strict enforcement in the entire state and there is zero tolerance for power theft. We have brought down losses and FIRs are registered against power thieves,” said A Venu Prasad, CMD, PSPCL.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/border-areas-take-chunk-out-of-pspcl-revenue-pie-196668
11-01-2021||---||Classes begin on Punjabi University campus||Patiala, January 10Students of Punjabi University, Patiala, will begin attending offline classes after a gap of nearly 10 months as the university administration has decided to open its doors for them.University officials said the offline classes would be restarted at all departments and centres in a matter of days beginning with science faculties on Monday. They said physical sciences, life sciences and medicine departments would open from Monday. The neighbourhood campuses, regional centres and constituent colleges would also open for all students the same day.They said the classes of professional faculties, including faculty of business studies, faculty of law and faculty of engineering and technology would begin from Thursday. The remaining faculties, including social sciences, arts and culture, languages and education and information sciences, would open from January 18.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/classes-begin-on-punjabi-university-campus-196669
