13-01-2021||Patiala||No check on absenteeism at hospital||Re-employed doctors of Government Rajindra Hospital have a lackadaisical approach towards work as time and again they have been found absent on duty.Despite being well paid, re-employed doctors reportedly remain absent from their OPD and ward duties. The Tribune visited various departments during the timings of the OPD and wards and found many re-employed doctors absent during the duty hours.It has been learnt that a majority of re-employed doctors, clinical and non-clinical, come at three or four days’ intervals and mark their attendance from backdate, say sources.The Tribune found that re-employed doctors of many departments, especially, paediatrics, plastic and general surgery and non-clinical, were not present in their chambers during the duty hours.An attendant of the clinical department said: “One of the re-employed doctors rarely comes for her duty. Moreover, she takes the attendance register at her residence.”In the wake of the absence of re-employed doctors, junior and senior residents have to look after wards. Regular doctors said: “Re-employed doctors in some departments have been made unit in-charge ignoring their regular counterparts.”Another regular doctor said: “They are getting salary between Rs 1 to Rs2 lakh. Unfortunately, they are not performing their duties properly. The government should take cognisance of the matter because health of the poor is at stake.”Notably, the authorities in August last year had issued a warning to re-employ doctors for their lackadaisical attitude towards duty. In fact, the GMC Principal had once said surprise checks would be conducted and absentees would be taken to task. However, the situation remains the same at the hospital.When asked about the issue, Dr Rajan Singla, Principal, Government Medical College, said: “I cannot check who is coming or not every day. The head of the department concerned should check absenteeism and report to me.”Meanwhile, DK Tiwari, Principal Secretary, Medical Education, said: “I have already directed the GMC Principal to ensure that re-employed doctors perform their duties properly. However, I will look into the matter again.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/no-check-on-absenteeism-at-hospital-197707
13-01-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University teachers, staff close gates over demands||Students of Punjabi University were in for a surprise today as the university gates were shut by its protesting teaching and non-teaching faculty members. The university had opened the gates of its respective departments for offline classes yesterday only.While the functioning of the university remained affected due to the protest, the teaching and non-teaching faculty members associated with the Punjabi University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) and the A-class Officers Association said they had been raising certain demands with the university authorities which have not been met to date. The protest continued from 8.30 am to 11 am.Dr Avneet Pal Singh, secretary, PUTA, said they closed the university gates early in the morning. “We had submitted memorandums to the university officials regarding our demands, including timely payment of salaries, payment of dearness allowances, depositing of GPF deductions and the issuing of letters of promotion to teaching and non teaching officials. However, the demands have been pending for a long time. We had to resort to protest outside the university gates.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-teachers-staff-close-gates-over-demands-197708
