14-01-2021||Patiala||Samples from Patiala poultry farms test negative for bird flu||All the 24 samples, collected by Department of Animal Husbandry, from various poultry farms near Rakhra village in Patiala village have tested negative for bird flu.The samples were collected after dead chicken were found in a field near Rakhra village, on Tuesday.The department had sent samples to RRDL lab, Jalandhar. Dr Mohinder Pal, Joint Director (Animal Husbandry), RDDL Jalandhar, said that all the samples had tested negative for bird flu.He said, “Samples from dead chicken could not be collected because they had died almost two days ago. Therefore, we had to collect the sample from various nearby poultry farms .”Meanwhile, the health team, led by the district epidemiologist, on Wednesday visited the poultry farms in the area and screened the workers therein.Health department informed that workers were checked for flu, however, none exhibited symptoms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/samples-from-patiala-poultry-farms-test-negative-for-bird-flu-198303
14-01-2021||Patiala||Varsity staff protest non-renewal of 3 workers’ contract||Non-teaching employees today protested outside entry gates of Punjabi University against non-renewal of contract of three workers.Rajinder Singh Raju, president, B and C class Employees’ Association, said non-teaching faculty members protested against university from 8 am till the evening. “We are against non-renewal of contracts of workers, some of whom have been working here since 1995. The university has relieved two ad-hoc employees and one, who was on work-charge. They were not even given any notices in advance,” said Raju. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/varsity-staff-protest-non-renewal-of-3-workers-contract-198302
14-01-2021||---||Health Department inspects poultry farms in Patiala district||Patiala, January 13After hundreds of dead chickens were found dumped near Rakhra village of the district, the Health Department today inspected many poultry farms around the city. A health team, led by the district epidemiologist, visited poultry farms in the area and also screened workers. The Health Department said workers were checked for flu, however, none exhibited symptoms.Notably, the Health Department swung into action after hundreds of dead chickens were found dumped in a field near Rakhra village of the district on Tuesday. The incident sent alarm bells ringing for the district administration and residents.Dr Divjot Singh, district epidemiologist, screened workers and directed them to visit nearby health care centres in case anyone had bird flu symptoms. “No worker had flu symptoms. However, owners of poultry farms have been asked to keep a vigil on the health of workers,” he said.Meanwhile, the Department of Animal Husbandry has already sent 24 samples collected from three poultry farms near Rakhra village to laboratory for testing.Rajinder Goyal, deputy director, Department of Animal Husbandry, said there were around five poultry farms near field where dead chickens were found dumped. However, only three farms had chicken, he added. “We took eight samples from each farm and sent them to Jalandhar lab,” he said.Three poultry farms near field where chickens were found dumped did not have any dead chickens, he added.It seemed that someone from far flung place might have dumped chicken in the field, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/health-department-inspects-poultry-farms-in-patiala-district-198046
14-01-2021||---||Punjabi University students, faculty protest against farm laws||Patiala, January 13Students of Punjabi University today burned copies of farm laws introduced by the Centre as a mark of protest on Lohri. The festival was celebrated by enacting plays centred on farming, farm laws and harwork of farmers in fields. University professors and non-teaching officials also burned copies of the farm laws at another event during the day.A protest was also held on the occasion by students associated with political parties, including Punjab Radical Student Union (PRSU), Democratic Students’ Organisation (DSO) and All India Research Scholar Association (AIRSA).Balkar Singh, a student leader of the DSO said, “We are burning copies of the three farm laws after a call given by farmers’ unions.”Sandeep Kaur, state president, PRSU, said, “The festival of Lohri is associated with the common man. Dulla Bhatti according to Punjabi folklore was the saviour of the people, which carries significance in the Lohri folklore. Today’s festival is associated with raising voice for the people and as such we are burning copies of the farm laws.”A similar protest over the farm laws was organised by teaching and non-teaching faculty members of the university during the day. Avneet Pal Singh, PUTA secretary, said, “We burnt copies of farm laws as they are against the farmers’ community and common people.”The teaching and non-teaching faculty members of the university were supporting farmers in their protest against the farm laws, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-students-faculty-protest-against-farm-laws-198049
