16-01-2021||---||Centre arm-twisting stir backers: Navjot Sidhu||Patiala, January 15Accusing the Narendra Modi government of misusing central agencies to target those who supported the farmers’ protest, former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu said he “would continue to raise voice for the farmers”. He alleged that the Modi government was out to “finish the federal structure of governance” to promote a few corporate houses.“What the protesters are doing is 100 per cent justified. The new farm Acts will not only kill farmers, it will also finish arhtiyas and result in an end to the public distribution system, which provides free foodgrains to 67 per cent of the poor,” Sidhu said, adding that it was wrong to term the agitating farmers anti-national or Khalistanis, when all they were demanding was the rollback of the laws.Claiming that the Centre was responsible for rising debts of Food Corporation of India (FCI), Sidhu attributed the FCI’s attrition to the government’s policy of poor allocation. “FCI’s debt stood at Rs 91,000 crore from the time it was set up to 2014, when Modi took over. Now the debt is Rs 4 lakh crore,” he said.He also accused the central government of providing undue help to corporate houses. “Silos are owned by a certain business group in many states. Their total storage capacity is 8.5 lakh metric tonnes. The government gave a 30-year contract to a particular company with a clause that even if a silo has only 5 per cent stock, the government would pay full rent. In addition, maximum support price (is given) to silos, which is an out of turn arrangement and an increase in rent with market rate. Why is there no such arrangement for farmers?” he questioned.Later, a Centre-appointed committee recommended that silos be converted into procurement centres. “This will kill arhtiya system. Procurement will only be done by this certain business group. The government wants to give 25 lakh metric tonne storage that too on FCI land across the country to a corporate house,” Sidhu said. He also accused the central government of trying to reduce the number of people entitled to foodgrain from the public distribution system. “When the entire country’s stock will be controlled by one corporate, the poor will have to buy grains at prices fixed by them,” claimed Sidhu.On his role in the state government, Sidhu said this was not the right time to talk about his own political future but “think about ways and means to strengthen the agitation led by farmers”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/centre-arm-twisting-stir-backers-navjot-sidhu-199074
16-01-2021||Patiala||Rajindra Hospital doctor-private lab nexus continues||An alleged nexus between doctors of Government Rajindra Hospital and private labs has once again come to the fore. The Patiala Chemist Association has alleged that private labs and chemists have been fleecing poor patients in connivance with some doctors at Rajindra Hospital.In a complaint to the Medical Superintendent, the association alleged that the nexus between the two was rampant.It has been learnt that touts of private labs and chemists keep roaming near OPDs, wards and operation theatres (OTs) to entice potential customers.The association alleged that doctors called touts to collect samples and provide medicines at the hospital itself. Besides, touts of chemists provided surgical items and equipment at the OT citing convenience and emergency. The banned practice was mainly rampant in surgery and orthopedics departments, the association added.Gursharan Singh Dhillon, president, Retail Chemist Association, said, “It is unfortunate that doctors are involved in such practices. It brings a bad name to the hospital. How come touts of private labs enter OPD and wards. We demand that the hospital authorities should immediately take action to stop this practice.” Lab owners and chemists reportedly share their earnings with doctors.Meanwhile, following complaint, the Medical Superintendent has written to head of various departments and unit in-charges to take action against erring doctors. Dr HS Rekhi, Medical Superintendent, Government Rajindra Hospital, said, “I have already written to doctors to look into the complaint. Moreover, we will be issuing a warning to all doctors of strict action if anyone is found guilty.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/rajindra-hospital-doctor-private-lab-nexus-continues-199177
16-01-2021||Patiala||Panel to check cleanliness of toilets in Patiala||The Municipal Corporation (MC) has decided to form a three-member committee of officials to check public, community and mobile toilets in the city after the private company, which is responsible for their maintenance, has been found deficient in its service. The MC has been receiving complaints regarding lack of cleanliness of toilets in the city.The MC tabled the issue of cleanliness of toilets at the General House meeting this month. It was decided to continue services of the company that had been managing 23 public and three mobile toilets. Earlier, the MC had sent notices to the company, but the latter failed to give any clarification on lack of cleanliness of toilets.Joint Commissioner Lal Vishwas today said, “A committee will be formed to check cleanliness of toilets and a report will be prepared in two weeks. Officials assigned the task will assess company’s work.” When asked about construction of public toilets in certain areas he said, “Report for the construction of toilets is provided by councillors and municipal inspectors. There are multiple factors, which are considered before construction of toilets, like their need in certain areas, availability of land, people’s cooperation and others.”Presently, the MC has 78 seats at 23 public and six community toilets in the city. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/panel-to-check-cleanliness-of-toilets-in-patiala-199178
