21-01-2021||Aman Sood||Amid flu scare, waterbird census continues||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 20Amid bird flu scare following the death of a migratory bird in the state recently, the Asian Waterbird Census continues in Punjab. Also, the Wildlife Department has formed a special committee of experts after one positive case was reported from the Siswan wetland.The Department of Forests and Wildlife Preservation, Punjab, along with the WWF-India, bird experts, scientists, researchers and amateur birdwatchers, is assessing and documenting the status of water birds migrating to the key wetlands of Punjab in winter.Experts say they have assessed and documented the status of water birds at the Nangal and Ropar wetlands in Rupnagar district. They are now assessing the Ranjit Sagar and Keshopur wetlands in Pathankot district. The WWF and wildlife department experts will further survey the wetlands of Kanjli and Harike in Kapurthala and Ferozepur districts, respectively, this week.“We have not found any suspected flu symptoms in birds. Barring an odd case of a bar-headed goose, birds at almost all wetlands of the state look healthy,” said Geetanjali Kanwar, coordinator, aquatic biodiversity, WWF-India. “The migration of water birds is on. The exact estimate and comparison with last year’s count will be completed soon,” she said.Meanwhile, the carcass of the bar-headed goose was sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, where it tested positive for bird flu. “We have put all our teams on high alert and a committee of experts has been formed to collect reports from field officers,” said Basanta Rajkumar, Chief Conservator of Forests.“We are keeping a close tab on migratory birds at all wetlands and a team, comprising experts from various departments, is monitoring the situation,” he said.“We are not taking any chances and regularly collecting samples. There is nothing to worry,” he added.Rare black-tailed godwit spotted at Harike||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/amid-flu-scare-waterbird-census-continues-201312
21-01-2021||---||47% BEd seats still vacant in colleges||Patiala, January 20The state has seen a fall in students opting for BEd courses in various colleges under Punjabi University, Panjab University and GNDU this year. Officials said of the 21,088 seats available in 212 colleges, merely 11,113 have been filled. The officials attributed it to the lack of jobs after the course and the rising trend among youngsters of going abroad.The officials at Punjabi University, who conduct counselling for the colleges under the three universities, said 9,975 seats, about 47 per cent of the total seats, were vacant. Dr Gurpreet Singh Lehal, co-coordinator of the counselling, said, “Over 25 per cent seats in five government colleges are vacant along with 44 per cent of seats in 15 government-aided colleges and 48 per cent seats in 192 private colleges in the state.”Lack of jobsDr Lehal said a number of colleges could not admit even a single candidate, while 27 colleges failed to admit more than 25 per cent students.Dr Jasraj Kaur, coordinator of BEd counselling said, “The colleges have been given freedom to fill vacant seats on their own by giving preference to candidates who had already registered with Punjabi University for admission by January 27.” She said the seats had now been merged and those who could not get their preferred subject combination at their desired college would be able to avail it at the other.Dr Simrat Kaur, principal, Government College of Education, said students’ interest in the course dropped after it became a two-year course.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/47-bed-seats-still-vacant-in-colleges-201313
21-01-2021||Patiala||SDO: Unauthorised sewage line led to diarrhoea outbreak in Rajpura||The diarrhoea outbreak in Rajpura that left over 97 persons ill reportedly broke out due to an unauthorised sewage line and use of hydraulic ram pumps in the area.It is learnt that the affected area had an unauthorised sewage line that was leaking at two points, leading to stagnation of water. At the same time, drinking water supply was stopped and due to negative suction, sewage water got mixed with the drinking water.Sewage, drinking water got mixedSub Divisional Officer Karandeep Singh said: “The affected area had a private sewage line that was not authorised. We have traced the two points in the sewage line that were leaking and repair work has been started.”Meanwhile, 21 more persons reported ill on Wednesday, taking the total count to 97. The health department has reportedly collected six stool samples so far.Dr Divjot Singh, district epidemiologist, said: “The outbreak has already started receding. Today, 21 patients, mostly children, had come with a stomach ache. The condition of none of the patients is serious. However, surveillance of the affected area will continue.”Rajpura had reported a diarrhoea outbreak in 2019 when two persons had died and 100 took ill. When asked about the frequent outbreaks in Rajpura block, Dr Gagan Grover, state programme officer, said: “Epidemiologically, small towns are always prone to such outbreaks, owing to lack of well-planned sewage lines. Areas which are low lying are also prone to such contamination as water flows backwards.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/sdo-unauthorised-sewage-line-led-to-diarrhoea-outbreak-in-rajpura-201317
21-01-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University students await hostel allotment||Students at Punjabi University are now forced to commute daily to the campus for classes due to unavailability of hostel rooms. Others from far-flung areas are staying back home. The university has decided to provide hostels ‘as per availability’. Students protesting on the campus are undeterred over their demand for providing hostel facility to all.Varinder Khurana, a PhD research scholar said, “As per the university’s decision, most students will not get the hostel facility. Along with final year girl students, only 95 first year girl students will be allotted hostel facility” Sandeep Kaur, a student associated with the Punjab Radical Students’ Union (PRSU) said, “Most students, who are attending offline classes are commuting to the campus daily. Others from far-flung areas are staying home due to confusion. Students can’t afford paying guest accommodations as these are costly.” There was no response from the university on the issue till the time of filing this report. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-students-await-hostel-allotment-201447
21-01-2021||---||PME rules: Medical, dental teachers’ association opposes amendment||Patiala, January 20Fearing nepotism and back door entries in recruitment, medical and dental teachers are opposing amendment in the Punjab Medical Education (PME) rules. Notably, the government by an amendment has allowed to fill vacancies of higher positions through direct recruitments, which will thereby indirectly dent 75 per cent promotions for in-house quota.The medical professors association said amendments in the PME rules (2016) were not put in the public domain before issuing a notification. Moreover, stakeholders, including the Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers Association (PSMDTA), were never consulted before the amendments were made.“The conditions have been made tough and promotion avenues tightened for in-house candidates whereas these have been relaxed for the direct quota,” says the association.New rules would affect the ongoing research work, the association added. The association has demanded a two-year window for the implementation of new rules in research work.Dr Diwan Bhullar, general secretary, PSMDTA, said, “Amendments have been done to favour ‘direct quota candidates’. The changes are ill-advised. The intentions are to adjust maximum direct quota candidates through backdoor entries.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/pme-rules-medical-dental-teachers-association-opposes-amendment-201446
21-01-2021||Karam Prakash||Patiala Health Dept issues notice to city lab for overcharging||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 20The Health Department has issued notice to a private lab for allegedly overcharging for the Covid RT-PCR test after an inquiry. After verifying complaints of overcharging, the district epidemiologist himself called the lab representative, who allegedly had been accused of demanding Rs1,800 for sample collection from home for test.In the notice to Atulaya Healthcare, the Health Department stated that the lab was violating the norms of capping the price of the RT-PCR test. Notably, the state government has capped the price for the RT-PCR lab test at Rs900 for private labs. The department further claimed that they (department) were not being informed about how many patients from Patiala had been tested, which was mandatory condition for a private lab.Representatives of the lab had already admitted overcharging for the test, the Health Department added. Meanwhile, the Civil Surgeon has sought an explanation from the lab in this regard. “Why shouldn’t this case be reported to the police and appropriate action be taken against your lab,” the Civil Surgeon added.The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said they had already issued a notice to the lab after verifying complaints and conducting an inquiry. “As no one can violate the government guidelines, a notice, therefore, has been issued to Atulya Lab,” the Civil Surgeon added.When contacted, Anuj Gupta, director, Atulaya Lab, said, “We ourselves do not directly collect samples. We are not responsible if our franchisee is overcharging. In fact, we charge from our franchisee below the government rate.” On the charge of collecting samples for Covid testing without authorisation from the district authorities, Gupta said they would give reply to the notice. He clarified that their lab had permission for Covid testing for entire Punjab.The state nodal officer, Dr Rajesh Bhasker, said, “The lab is supposed to take local login ID for testing samples of the district concerned. The said lab didn’t do so. As the price cap for RT- PCR test is Rs900, therefore, notice has been issued to lab.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-health-dept-issues-notice-to-city-lab-for-overcharging-201445
