23-01-2021||Patiala||City pvt lab barred from taking samples for Covid test in Patiala||The Patiala Health Department has debarred a Chandigarh-based private lab from taking samples for Covid testing in areas under its jurisdiction. The action has been taken against the lab, identified as Atulaya Healthcare, for allegedly violating government orders.Officials of the department said the lab was collecting samples for coronavirus testing without informing them.Meanwhile, the lab claimed they had been keeping the state department in the loop.The department said the lab did a gross violation of government order by not using the local ID for registering Patiala patients for tests, leaving the district health authorities ‘clueless’. The department said: ‘The lab deliberately restricted the flow of information with regard to coronavirus.’The department, in its order, has stated: ‘Stop all activities regarding collection of samples for Covid RT PCR test in Patiala either by yourself or through any middlemen or franchise.”Notably, the lab had outsourced Covid testing to other private labs and middlemen.With regard to complaints of overcharging by the lab, the department said the liability of overcharging couldn’t be passed on to the sample collector as he was operating on their (accused lab) behalf. The officials said they would take action against the lab for overcharging.Earlier, the department had caught a representative of the lab demanding Rs 1,800 for a test. The state government has capped the price for the RT-PCR lab test at Rs 900 for private labs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/city-pvt-lab-barred-from-taking-samples-for-covid-test-in-patiala-202402
23-01-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University to get govt grant to pay salaries, pension||Facing continuous protests by its teaching and non-teaching employees on the campus, cash-strapped Punjabi University will now pay the pending salaries and pension with a grant to be received from the state government.Acting VC Ravneet Kaur said steps in this regard would be taken in a day or two. She said meetings with Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, Higher Education Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and others were held after which a decision for providing a special grant to the university was taken.While the final amount is yet to be decided, Ravneet Kaur said: “With the state government’s grant, we will be able to pay the pending salaries and pensions for the month of December worth about Rs 28 crore. We will also clear the amount of Government Provident Fund (GPF) which has been pending for months.”She said meetings in this regard were held with senior government officials while the Chief Minister himself took interest in the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-to-get-govt-grant-to-pay-salaries-pension-202403
23-01-2021||Patiala||Prez medal for Alisha||Alisha Malhotra, a student of BTech at Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, has been conferred the President’s Gold Medal and that of the institute for outstanding achievement in engineering. She has secured 10 CGPA in all subjects of her course in all semesters. She has been invited to an annual conference in Malaysia to present her works. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/prez-medal-for-alisha-202404
23-01-2021||Patiala||SYFI threatens protests||Student leaders of Punjabi University said today that they would hold protests on the campus over pending probe reports into ‘alleged scams’.Harvinder Singh Sandhu, former president of the Student Youth Federation of India, said the university administration had failed to act in respect to the previous inquiry reports. He said: “Valuable heritage furniture designed by architects Le Corbusier and Pierre Jeanneret, including tables, chairs, benches and almirahs, was sold to the Department of Cultural Affairs, Archives, Archaeology and Museums in June 2014 for a mere Rs70,000. The university is sitting on reports of various other ‘scams’ too”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/syfi-threatens-protests-202405
23-01-2021||Karam Prakash||Father at Singhu, son eyes Olympic medal||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 22On the one hand, Arpinder Singh, Asian gold medallist in triple jump, has been preparing to get an Olympic medal for the country, and on the other hand, his father has been protesting at the Singhu border for over a month now.Arpinder says he is a proud son of a farmer and is moved by his father’s grit and determination to have participated in the protest given his health problems. Singh, who is presently training in Ludhiana, said, “I also wanted to protest along with my father but I am preparing for a medal in the Olympics. I am proud of him because he is fighting in extreme weather conditions.”Proud of father’s courageI also wanted to protest along with my father but I am preparing for a medal in the Olympics. I am proud of him because he is fighting in extreme weather conditions. — Arpinder Singh, AthleteArpinder, who hails from Harsha Chinna village in Amritsar, said it was tough for his family because his father was the one who was managing everything at home. However, the family, including him, never complained about the sacrifice his father was making for the genuine cause. Singh said, “Mann hai sanu bapu te (We are proud of our father). However, the government should consider the demands of farmers immediately. We all are worried about their health.”Meanwhile, Jagbir Singh, father of Arpinder Singh, who had come to Singhu last month, said being a small farmer, it was his duty to fight against the three farm laws to save the agriculture sector. Jagbir Singh said, “The farmers’ protest has now gone beyond any individual or union. If we don’t fight against these today, tomorrow will not be safe.”Talking about difficulties during the protest, Jagbir Singh said, “When it rained for two days continuously in the first week of January, it was very tough. All the food and clothes were drenched.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/father-at-singhu-son-eyes-olympic-medal-202196
23-01-2021||Chandigarh||Speed up all development works: CM||Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today directed the Punjab Infrastructure Development Board (PIDB) to expedite all developmental works in the state at a meeting of its Board, which gave ex-post-facto approval to Rs 27.16 crore worth of urban environment improvement projects, along with development, upgrade and maintenance of various historic sites, including the Patiala Qila Mubarak.The CM is likely to virtually launch next week the Rs 8.58 crore project for upgrade, operation and maintenance of Ran Baas, Qila Mubarak Patiala, as Heritage Hotel on PPP mode, which is likely to be completed within 18 months. He will also launch the PPP project for maintenance of Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Memorial, Chhappar Chiri, at an estimated cost of Rs 2.54 crore with a concession period of 15 years.He was told that the Patiala bus stand construction would be completed by November at a cost of Rs 60 crore. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/speed-up-all-development-works-cm-202201
23-01-2021||Chandigarh||‘U’ grade if students skip exam, Thapar Institute tells HC||Taking up a petition filed by 159 undergraduate BTech students of the Thapar Institute of Engineering & Technology, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today asserted that Covid-19 situation had clearly eased to a certain extent. Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa also disposed of the petition after recording statement of the institute counsel that student-petitioners not appearing for the end semester terminal (EST) examination would be awarded “un-attempt” grade.The students had challenged a notice issued on December 25, 2020, whereby the institute decided to call the students to attempt EST examination through an offline mode commencing from January 25. Referring to the impugned notice, Justice Dhindsa observed ‘U’ or “un-attempt” grade would not be considered as a backlog. It will not be reflected in the grade card due to the pandemic.Justice Dhindsa added universities/colleges had taken decisions towards partial opening and conduct of examinations through the offline medium. Due the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the Government of India/state government and local administrative authorities, of course, had to be observed. Justice Dhindsa said the court had further been informed that petitioners belonging to states without a dedicated examination centre would be accommodated and afforded hostel facility for their participation in the examination, if they were to travel to Patiala with a recent Covid-negative report. As for the petitioners’ submission to advance ‘U’ grade examination from June/July to March/April, Justice Dhindsa said the students would be at liberty to approach the respondent-institute by submitting a representation in two weeks. “In the eventuality of any such representation being preferred, the competent authority under the respondent-institute will be obligated to consider it, to take a decision in such regard and convey it to the petitioners in two weeks from submission of the representation,” he said. — TNS ‘Won't be considered backlog’Referring to the impugned notice, Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa observed that ‘U’ or “un-attempt” grade would not be considered as a backlog. It would not even be reflected in the grade card due to the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/u-grade-if-students-skip-exam-thapar-institute-tells-hc-202209
