26-01-2021||Patiala||Sex ratio at birth: Patiala tops state||With a jump of 25 points, Patiala has topped the state in the sex ratio at birth (SRB). In fact, the sex ratio, average number of girls per 1,000 boys at birth, in the district reached 989 in 2020 from 935 in 2018.Patiala is followed by SAS Nagar (Mohali) while Barnala is at the third spot with the SRB of 967.The District Family Welfare Officer, Dr Jatinder Kansal, said measures such as strict enforcement of the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (Prohibition of Sex Selection) Act, early detection of pregnancy and awareness campaigns had led to the improvement in the SRB figures. Dr Kansal said to keep a check on female foeticide, they conducted raids last year. The team seized a Chinese ultrasound machine and nabbed an ANM for allegedly running a sex-determination racket in Patiala.He said: “The credit goes to foot soldiers, ASHAs and ANMs, who work day and night. Moreover, they carried out a regular follow up of pregnant women to reduce perinatal mortality.”The Health Department said they had constituted a district monitoring committee that kept tabs on pregnant women who already had one or two girl children.Meanwhile, the Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said the Health Department had shown a lot of improvement in its functioning over the past few years. He said: “Our teams always keep vigil on the ultrasound centres in the district. Moreover, regular raids are being conducted to stop illegal acts.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/sex-ratio-at-birth-patiala-tops-state-203658
26-01-2021||---||Padma Shri for Patiala orthopaedist, Ludhiana businesswoman||Patiala/Ludhiana, January 25A Patiala orthopaedist and a Ludhiana businesswoman are among five from Punjab to receive this year’s Padma Shri — the fourth-highest civilian award — announced by the Union Government on the eve of Republic Day today.Dr Ratan Lal Mittal, a former Professor and Head of Orthopaedic Department at Government Medical College, Patiala, is known for performing rare clubfoot surgeries free of cost. Dr Mittal has done cutting-edge research on severe, rigid and neglected clubfoot deformities — highly prevalent in lower and middle income countries, including India.Dr Mittal, while talking to The Tribune, said: “This is the result of my 60 years of hard work. I feel satisfied now.”Octogenarian businesswoman Rajni Bector rose from her backyard business with a paltry investment of Rs 300 to become an undisputed business tycoon. The IPO of her company — Mrs Bectors Food Specialities — made history by getting oversubscribed 198 times and listed at 74 per cent premium on the offer price. “I feel blessed and express my gratitude to the government for recognising my services,” she said.The other recipients of the award are Prakash Kaur (social work), Lajwanti (art) and Kartar Singh (art).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/padma-shri-for-patiala-orthopaedist-ludhiana-businesswoman-203577
26-01-2021||Aman Sood||Driven by cause, it’s now or never for young farmers||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 25Braving the chill and fog, thousands of farmers are on the road with only one destination in mind — Delhi — to participate in the January 26 tractor parade. Long tractor queues on the entire national highway run up to the national capital borders.All through the route, people are seen showing flags, waving and even bursting crackers to boost the morale of the Delhi-bound farmers. Even at 11.30 pm, residents are seen standing alongside the Sonepat roads, some with candles while others waving at the passing farmers.Enthusiasm of Mansimrat Singh Riar, a youth from Naina village in Patiala who travelled the entire Sunday night to reach the border, encapsulates what is the driving force behind the farmers’ agitation. With a farmer union’s flag flying high in front of his tractor, the music system on the vehicle plays songs from ‘Bhag Milkha Bhag’, a film on the life story of famous athlete Milkha Singh. The song “Zinda hai toh…” perfectly describes the farmer’s struggle against the three laws. “We are not on a picnic. We have left the comforts of our home and family members for a cause. The struggle is of principles. We will die or win this,” says Riar, who has been to the Delhi borders almost four times in the past over a month.At Ambala, the cavalcade of tractors led by Riar stopped over at a dhaba for dinner. The dhaba owner refused to charge anything. “My friends and I are serving our farmer friends. It is our humble contribution,” says Depanshu Kambhoj who belong to Sanaur.Near Panipat, a former Chief Engineer, JS Dullat, along with his friends, is on his way with ration and other items loaded in their contingent of 20 tractors. “I retired as an engineer but my veins have a farmer’s blood. This is the second time I am going to Delh,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/driven-by-cause-its-now-or-never-for-young-farmers-203589
