28-01-2021||---||Punjab Chief Minister honours frontline Covid warriors, cops||Patiala, January 27On the occasion of the 72nd Republic Day, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday felicitated 24 doctors and health workers, besides six police personnel for their distinguished services.Capt Amarinder Singh honoured 24 doctors and health workers as corona warriors in recognition of their exceptional service during turbulent times of the Covid-19 pandemic.Those awarded include Dr Nidhi Sharma, former Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra, Dr RPS Sibia, Dr Vishal Chopra, Dr Rupinder Bakhshi, Dr Jatinder Kansal, Dr Sumit Singh, Dr Lavleen Bhatia, Dr Tript Kaur Bindra, Dr Balwinder Kaur Rekhi, Dr Harjit K Singh Chawla, Dr Amandeep Singh Bakhshi, Dr Sachin Kaushal, Dr Svati Kapoor, Dr Simarjit Singh, Dr Rajwinder Singh, Dr Komal Parmar, male staff nurse Sapinder Pal Singh, isolation ward in-charge Gurkiran, ward attendant Jogeshwar Rai, staff nurse Sarbjit Kaur, ANM Aneeta, ward attendant Rajkumar and physiotherapist Diwan Nasrudin.“I feel honoured after receiving the award. It was a tough time with over six months of hard work during the pandemic. As a doctor I put in my best efforts to take care of my patients,” said Dr Nidhi Sharma, who was felicitated on the occasion.The Chief Minister’s Medal for outstanding devotion to duty was presented by Capt Amarinder Singh to six police officials, including AIG Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh, DSPs Gurjit Singh, Gurcharan Singh and Arun Sharma, Inspector Inderjit Singh, and ASIs Pawan Kumar and Kashmir Singh.Ashu unfurls the National Flag highlighted achievements of Capt. Government.Ashu unfurls Tricolour at SirhindThe 72nd Republic Day was celebrated at the sports stadium during a district-level function held in Sirhind. Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Minister for Food and Civil Supply, unfurled the National Flag and took salute from contingents of the Punjab Police, Home Guards and NCC cadets.In his address he highlighted the importance of the Republic Day and how the people were assigned rights and duties by the constitution. He recounted the supreme sacrifices of freedom fighters for the nation.Various tableaus depicting development projects and public oriented schemes initiated by the government were displayed on the occasion.Ashu honoured all those, who worked tirelessly during the pandemic, besides families of freedom fighters and personalities, who excelled in their respective fields.Also, Republic Day was celebrated at Bassi Pathana, Khamano and Amloh subdivisions of the district wherein respective MLAs and SDMs unfurled the National Flag.PSTCL celebrates Republic DayPunjab State Transmission Corporation Limited celebrated the 72nd Republic Day with enthusiasm but in a simple manner. Director (Administration) Sanjeev Kumar unfurled the National Flag during the celebrations. He also paid tributes to freedom fighters, who sacrificed their lives for the country.Director (Finance and commercial) Vinod Bansal and director (Technical) Yogesh Tandon were the guest of honour on the occasion. All senior officials along with their families attended the Republic Day celebrations.Celelebrations at school in Punjabi UniversitySenior Secondary Model School, Punjabi University Patiala celebrated Republic Day. Dean Academics, Dr Amritpal Kaur unfurled the national flag while School band played the national anthem. Later, NCC cadets of the school organised a google meet. Gurpreet Kaur, student of IX class threw light on the role of various freedom fighters in the freedom movement and the significance of Republic Day. The principal of the school Dr Nirmal Goyal urged the students to take inspiration from our freedom movement and strengthen the foundations of the republic. Also present on the occasion were teachers of the school and ANO Satvir Singh.NPL celebrates Republic DayMarked by patriotism, Nabha Power Limited celebrated the 72nd Republic Day of India on the premises at its 2x700MW Rajpura Thermal Power Plant, dedicating its operations to the service of the nation. Chief Executive Officer, NPL, Athar Shahab, hoisted the National Flag which was followed by the National Anthem. Speaking on the occasion, the CEO called upon the sacrifices made by the freedom fighters and lauded their undying spirit to bring ‘Swaraj’ in India. He also hailed the contributions being made by people from all walks of life to make India stand out in the world as a union of diverse cultures, creeds and regions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjab-chief-minister-honours-frontline-covid-warriors-cops-204301
28-01-2021||Karam Prakash||Ignored, mortuary marshals raise questions over R-Day awards||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 27Mortuary marshals at Government Rajindra Hospital, who have to shift dead bodies of coronavirus patients from isolation ward to cremation ground, are feeling ignored in the wake of the awards given to Covid warriors by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Republic Day.In fact, they were the ones, who came in direct contact with the virus, when even kin were scared to touch their loved ones, said marshals. Notably, around 24 frontline workers sans marshals were felicitated on the Republic Day.Bharpur Singh, a frontline worker, said, “Despite social boycott, we worked for hours wearing PPE kits. However, we have never been felicitated by the hospital or the district administration.” Another mortuary marshal Rohit Mann said, “District administration never honoured us. I don’t know why our work was not recognised.”Meanwhile, some doctors felicitated by the CM are said to be indulging in private practices, thereby, violating rules of the government that felicitated them. Doctors were doing private practice even during pandemic.One of the doctors felicitated by the CM in August was asked to home quarantine himself after a Covid positive patient revealed that he got his treatment from a private clinic, run by the said doctor.However, Surbhi Malik, in-charge, Covid ward, said, “Services of mortuary marshals are not overlooked. We are thankful to each and every frontline health worker. The awards were given to workers, who went beyond their duties. However, more awards will be given in the future.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/ignored-mortuary-marshals-raise-questions-over-r-day-awards-204306
