03-10-2021||New Delhi||LIC to file draft IPO papers with SEBI next month||Country’s largest insurer LIC is likely to file draft papers with the SEBI by November for the largest IPO in country’s history, a finance ministry official has said.“We target to bring the IPO within this fiscal and we have set strict timelines. The DRHP would be filed by November,” the official told PTI.The government last month appointed 10 merchant bankers, including Goldman Sachs (India) Securities Pvt Ltd, Citigroup Global Markets India Pvt Ltd and Nomura Financial Advisory and Securities (India) Pvt Ltd to manage the mega initial public offering of country’s largest insurer LIC.Other selected bankers include SBI Capital Market Ltd, JM Financial Ltd, Axis Capital Ltd, BofA Securities, J P Morgan India Pvt Ltd, ICICI Securities Ltd, and Kotak Mahindra Capital Co Ltd.Once the draft red herring prospectus (DRHP) is filed, merchant bankers will hold global and domestic road shows for investors by January, the official said.Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas has been appointed as legal advisor for the IPO.The government is aiming to list the insurance behemoth within the current financial year ending March.The ministry is in the process of estimating the embedded value of the life insurer and once that is done the ministerial panel on disinvestment will decide on the government stake that will be divested through IPO, the official said.The government has appointed actuarial firm Milliman Advisors LLP India to compute the embedded value of LIC ahead of the initial public offering.The government is also mulling allowing foreign investors to pick up stakes in country’s largest insurer LIC. As per SEBI rules, foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) are permitted to buy shares in a public offer. However, since the LIC Act has no provision for foreign investments, there is a need to align the proposed LIC IPO with SEBI norms regarding foreign investor participation.The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs had in July cleared the initial public offering proposal of Life Insurance Corp of India.The listing of LIC will be crucial for the government in meeting its disinvestment target of Rs 1.75 lakh crore for 2021-22 (April-March).So far this fiscal, Rs 9,110 crore has been mopped up through minority stake sales in PSU and sale of SUUTI stake in Axis Bank. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/lic-to-file-draft-ipo-papers-with-sebi-next-month-319597
03-10-2021||Mumbai||RBI may again opt for status quo on key policy rate next week: Experts||Amid rising global commodity prices and the need to contain inflation at home, the Reserve Bank is likely to maintain status quo on interest rates for the eighth time in row in its upcoming bi-monthly monetary policy review later in the week, according to experts.The Reserve Bank had last cut repo rate by 40 basis points in May 2020 to 4 per cent to spur demand in the COVID-hit economy. Since then, the RBI has refrained from taking any action on interest rates. The RBI Governor headed six-member Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) is scheduled to meet for three days from October 6. The decision taken at the meeting would be announced by Governor Shaktikanta Das on October 8.A Morgan Stanley research report expects the RBI to continue to keep rates on hold and retain its accommodative stance in the upcoming policy review. “We opine headline CPI to remain range bound around the 5 per cent mark in the current fiscal year, even as core inflation remains sticky and pressures emanate from higher global commodity prices. We will remain watchful of the RBI’s tone and guidance regarding the likely path of policy normalisation. We see the risks of a rate hike (base case in 1Q22) as skewed to delay as growth concerns might dominate given that inflation will likely track below RBI’s forecast,” it said. SBI Chairman Dinesh Khara had recently said that it looks like that interest rate should remain as it is. “Growth is only showing green shoots. So, I think perhaps, rate may not really go up, but commentary could talk about inflation. To my mind inflation is essentially on account of the supply chain disruption and once this disruption gets addressed, inflation may not really raise its head, as much as it was seen at the time of the last policy decision,” he had said. On his expectations from the MPC meet, Ramesh Nair, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), India and Managing Director, Market Development, Asia Colliers, too anticipates that the repo rate will remain unchanged in the upcoming monetary committee meeting.             “This will go a long way in rekindling momentum in the housing market. Stable housing prices, a cut in stamp duty in some states, and an inclination to own homes has revived housing demand from the fourth quarter of 2020...A stable repo rate will ensure banks keep their home loans rates low. It will definitely lead to an uptick in sentiments, after a dull Q2 2021 due to the second wave of COVID,” Nair said. Rumki Majumdar, Economist, Deloitte India opined that there is pressure on the RBI to change the monetary policy stance.“A lot of it is because there has been an increase in speculations about monetary policy stances in the industrial nations as recovery in industrial countries is leading to higher inflation and rising commodity prices,” Majumdar said. According to the Deloitte India economist, the Reserve Bank may decide to continue with the status quo and not change its monetary policy stance or increase interest rates. Majumdar also said that with falling Covid infection rates and rapid inoculation, India’s growth outlook and prospects are very promising. The September edition of EY Economy Watch, authored by D K Srivastava, Chief Policy Advisor, EY India, said given that CPI inflation has remained under pressure, the RBI may not undertake any further repo rate reduction in the near future.The monetary policy would only be playing a supportive role while the main impetus to growth may need to come from the fiscal side, it added. If the RBI maintains status quo in policy rates on Friday, it would be the eight consecutive time since the rate remains unchanged.The central bank had last revised the policy rate on May 22, 2020, in an off-policy cycle to perk up demand by cutting interest rate to a historic low. The RBI has been asked by the central government to ensure that the retail inflation based on the Consumer Price Index remains at 4 per cent with a margin of 2 per cent on the either side.The Reserve Bank had kept the key interest rate unchanged in its after monetary policy review in August citing inflationary concerns. The RBI has projected the CPI inflation at 5.7 per cent during 2021-22 -- 5.9 per cent in the second quarter, 5.3 per cent in third, and 5.8 per cent in the fourth quarter of the fiscal, with risks broadly balanced. CPI inflation for Q1 2022-23 is projected at 5.1 per cent. The CPI inflation was at 5.3 per cent in August. The inflation data for September is scheduled to be released on October 12. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/rbi-may-again-opt-for-status-quo-on-key-policy-rate-next-week-experts-319596
03-10-2021||New Delhi||M-cap of eight of top-10 valued companies tumble over Rs 1.80 lakh-crore||Eight of the top 10 valued companies together suffered an erosion of Rs 1,80,534.34 crore in their market valuation last week, with IT majors Tata Consultancy Services and Infosys emerging as the biggest laggards.From the top-10 list, only Reliance Industries Limited and State Bank of India emerged as gainers.During the last week, the 30-share BSE benchmark plunged 1,282.89 points, or 2.13 per cent. Market benchmarks faced losses for the fourth straight session on Friday.The market capitalisation (Mcap) of Tata Consultancy Services declined Rs 52,526.53 crore to reach Rs 13,79,487.23 crore.The valuation of Infosys tumbled Rs 41,782.4 crore to Rs 7,06,249.77 crore. HDFC’s valuation tanked Rs 22,643.11 crore to Rs 4,90,430.74 crore and that of ICICI Bank plunged Rs 21,095.77 crore to Rs 4,79,985.13 crore.The market capitalisation of Bajaj Finance eroded by Rs 16,438.9 crore to Rs 4,54,026.68 crore and that of HDFC Bank dipped Rs 10,410.41 crore to Rs 8,76,329.45 crore.The valuation of Hindustan Unilever Limited declined by Rs 9,222.14 crore to Rs 6,34,977.04 crore and that of Kotak Mahindra Bank by Rs 6,415.08 crore to Rs 3,95,563.67 crore.In contrast, Reliance Industries Limited added Rs 25,294.38 crore taking its valuation to Rs 15,99,346.41 crore.The valuation of State Bank of India jumped Rs 9,773.33 crore to Rs 4,03,169.33 crore.In the ranking of top 10 firms, Reliance Industries Limited remained the most valued company followed by Tata Consultancy Services, HDFC Bank, Infosys, Hindustan Unilever Limited, HDFC, ICICI Bank, Bajaj Finance, State Bank Of India and Kotak Mahindra Bank. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/m-cap-of-eight-of-top-10-valued-companies-tumble-over-rs-1-80-lakh-crore-319586
03-10-2021||New Delhi||Petrol, diesel prices touch all-time highs as rates hiked again||Petrol and diesel prices were hiked again on Sunday to send rates soaring to new record highs across the country but top government officials insisted oil companies haven’t passed on the entire increase warranted from international oil and gas rising to three-year highs and have ensured UK-like situation of pumps going dry isnt seen anywhere in India.Petrol price for the third straight day hiked by 25 paise a litre and diesel by 30 paise, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers.This sent petrol price in Delhi to its highest ever level of Rs 102.39 a litre and to Rs 108.43 in Mumbai. Diesel rates too touched a record high of Rs 90.77 in Delhi and Rs 98.48 in Mumbai.Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes.Petroleum Secretary Tarun Kapoor said oil companies are taking their own decision on aligning retail rates with the cost but they are ensuring extreme volatility is avoided.“We are watching the situation and trying to ensure the impact of global volatility is moderated to a large extent,” he said.The basket of crude oil India buys has jumped to a near three-year high of USD 76.71 per barrel. International prices of petrol, against which local rates are benchmarked, have risen from USD 85.10 per barrel to USD 87.11 in just one day while diesel has gone up from USD 85.95 a barrel to USD 87.27.This sudden spike in international oil prices follows global output disruptions but the entire increase in retail rates necessitated by such an increase is not being effected, another official with direct knowledge of the matter said.“Just look at LPG rates. They have gone up from USD 665 to USD 797 in one month but oil companies haven’t passed on the increase warranted from that,” he said adding state-owned companies were absorbing a lot of volatility.The increases, he said, have been “mild to moderate”.“Some people are making a big deal out of the 62 per cent hike in natural gas prices. But if you look at the rates previously at USD 1.79 per million British thermal unit were abnormally low and way below cost. They have now gone up to USD 2.9. They still are less than the cost of production of USD 3.5 per mmBtu and are certainly lower than the USD 4.2 price that was prevalent in India a decade back,” the official said.Naturally, the hike in natural gas price will warrant an increase in CNG price but the increase is again being moderated there too, he said adding internationally the price of LNG in the spot market last week soared to an unprecedented USD 35.“Compare to what is happening worldwide, we have managed the situation well,” the official said. “Some of the developed nations such as the UK have seen petrol pumps go dry but you won’t have heard of such a situation anywhere in India. Our oil companies are not just moderating retail prices but also ensuring uninterrupted supplies.”     Officials said India believes the situation internationally is temporary and abnormal and things should stabilise over the next few days and weeks.The fifth increase in its rates in less than a week’s time has sent petrol prices above Rs 100 in most major cities of the country.Similarly, the eighth increase in prices in 10 days has shot up diesel rates above Rs 100 mark in several cities in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.State-owned Indian Oil Corp (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd (HPCL) resumed daily price revisions on September 24 after international oil prices neared a three-year high. Global benchmark Brent crude is trading above USD 78 per barrel.In eight price increases since September 24, diesel rates have gone up by 2.15 paise per litre. Petrol price has increased by Rs 1.25 per litre in five instalments this week.When international oil rates fell in July and August, retail prices of petrol and diesel in the Delhi market were reduced by Rs 0.65 and Rs 1.25 per litre.Prior to that, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. Diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 during this period.India is dependent on imports to meet nearly 85 per cent of its oil needs and so benchmarks local fuel rates to international oil prices. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/petrol-diesel-prices-touch-all-time-highs-as-rates-hiked-again-319585
