19-10-2021||New Delhi||IndiGo cautions candidates against fake job offers||IndiGo on Tuesday cautioned candidates to be cognizant of fake job offers, saying certain people are using the name of airline's employees to demand money in exchange for interviews, jobs or trainings.In a statement, the airline stated: "The airline does not charge any money for conducting interviews, providing jobs, or imparting trainings on joining."  IndiGo "strictly" advises to report the matter to the police if someone asks for money and promises a job at the airline. "IndiGo is also taking appropriate actions for cases that get reported, along with spreading awareness," the statement mentioned. The carrier said it is conducting anti-fake jobs campaign across social media to raise awareness on how certain people claiming to represent IndiGo are misusing the brand name and the names of its employees to demand money in exchange for jobs, interviews or trainings. "We believe that as the market leader, it is our responsibility to identify and control such malpractices that not just impact IndiGo but also other companies in the sector," IndiGo CEO Ronojoy Dutta said.  "We have been working in close collaboration with law enforcement department to identify these offenders with success in the past. We hope to put an end to this menace with support from the police department and awareness amongst people," he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/indigo-cautions-candidates-against-fake-job-offers-326611
19-10-2021||Mumbai||Market snaps 7-day winning run on profit-booking; ITC tanks over 6 pc||Snapping their seven-session rising streak, equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended with marginal losses on Tuesday as investors booked profits at record levels.After touching its lifetime high of 62,245.43 during the session, the 30-share BSE Sensex settled 49.54 points or 0.08 per cent lower at 61,716.05.Similarly, the Nifty shed 58.30 points or 0.32 per cent to close at 18,418.75. It touched a new intra-day record of 18,604.45 in early deals.ITC was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, tanking over 6 per cent, followed by HUL, Titan, Tata Steel, UltraTech Cement and PowerGrid.On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, L&T, Infosys, Bajaj Finserv, Kotak Bank and HDFC Bank were among the gainers.“Indices met with profit taking even as the IT Index stood tall through the day which indeed had several bouts of volatility,” said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities.Market breadth too was weak with declines outpacing advances led by the big names of the FMCG sector as the street awaits a slew of primary market offerings in the near term, he noted, adding that the broader markets clearly witnessed profit booking in several top performing midcap names.Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo ended with gains.Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading on a positive note in the afternoon session.International oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.66 per cent to USD 84.89 per barrel.The domestic currency market was closed on account of ‘Id-E-Milad’ holiday. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/market-snaps-7-day-winning-run-on-profit-booking-itc-tanks-over-6-pc-326565
19-10-2021||Mumbai||Sensex at fresh record high as bull run continues||Equity indices darted up for the seventh straight session on Monday to close at fresh lifetime highs as investors remained in risk-on mode despite a bearish trend overseas. IT, bank and metal stocks witnessed hectic buying, while profit-taking in pharma and auto counters capped the gains.IT, bank stocks sparkleAfter touching a lifetime peak of 61,963.07 during the session, the 30-share BSE Sensex finished 459.64 points higher at its new closing record of 61,765.59. Similarly, the Nifty surged 138.50 points to its all-time closing high of 18,477.05. It touched a new intra-day record of 18,543.15.Infosys was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, jumping 4.47%, followed by Tech Mahindra, Tata Steel, ICICI Bank, ITC, Maruti, SBI and Axis Bank. On the other hand, HCL Tech, M&M, Dr Reddy’s, Asian Paints, Bajaj Auto, HDFC Bank and Bharti Airtel were among the laggards, slipping up to 2.36%.“The domestic market traded at record highs withstanding the weak trends in the global market due to disappointing Chinese GDP numbers and global inflationary pressure as a result of energy shortage. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/sensex-at-fresh-record-high-as-bull-run-continues-326553
19-10-2021||New Delhi||CDSL glitch hits sale of stocks on brokerages||Investors of several brokerages, including Zerodha and Paytm Money, faced difficulty in selling shares on Monday due to “an issue” related to Central Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL). The issue was resolved by CDSL in the afternoon.Several investors opened up about their challenges in selling stocks on Twitter. In addition, Zerodha and Paytm Money, a wholly owned subsidiary of Paytm, too warned investors about possible problems in executing sell orders.Zerodha tweeted, “You may face an issue with authorising the sale of your stocks due to an issue with CDSL. We are in touch with CDSL to have the issue resolved at the earliest.” — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/cdsl-glitch-hits-sale-of-stocks-on-brokerages-326554
19-10-2021||New Delhi||RBI penalises SBI, StanChart||The RBI on Monday imposed a penalty of Rs 1 crore on SBI and a Rs 1.95 crore-fine on Standard Chartered Bank for the violation of various guidelines.Fine levied on SBI for non-compliance with the directions contained in ‘RBI (Frauds classification and reporting by commercial banks and select FIs) directions 2016’, the RBI said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/rbi-penalises-sbi-stanchart-326555
19-10-2021||Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Anurag Thakur along with SBI chairman Dinesh Khara inaugurated the SBI Regional Business Office at Una recently.||Anurag Thakur inaugurates SBI’s regional office at Una||ALLEN’s student bags AIR 1 in JEE Advanced examMridul Agarwal, a student of ALLEN Career Institute, has achieved All India Rank-1 in JEE Advanced exam. He scored 348 marks out of 360.LG Electronics inaugurates new Best Shop in DhakoliLG Electronics has inaugurated new Best Shop, Ashoka Enterprises, in Dhakoli. It was inaugurated by Navneet Karkara (Regional Business Head-Greater Punjab), Sanjay Chitkara (Sales Head) & Manish Kwatra (Branch Manager, Chandigarh), LG Electronics.Godrej Appliances expands EBO footprint in PunjabGodrej Appliances has expaned its presence in Punjab with the launch of first Exclusive Brand Outlet (EBO) in Ludhiana. It has now three EBOs in Punjab.Bikano launches range of gift hampers for DiwaliBikano has launched a range of 15 new gift packs for Diwali. These products are available at different price points starting from Rs 160 to Rs 750.Bonn Group holds contest to invite unique bread recipesBonn Group has organised a contest to invite unique bread recipes. Cooking enthusiasts can share their recipes on their own Instagram and Facebook pages with the #MAIBHIBONNCHEF hashtag using Bonn Bread and Bakery.Madame opens revamped retail outlet in RohtakMadame has opened its revamped retail outlet in Rohtak. The store offers curated selection of apparel, shoes accessories and handbags for women.Brampton Immigration organises education fairBrampton Immigration Consultancy recently organised education fair and immigration seminar at 15 different locations in India. The top management counselled people during the seminar.Spiritual education need of hour: Akal UniversityAkal University, Talwandi Sabo, has launched UGC-recommended programme ‘Mulya Parvah’ to enrich students with value-based education. Prof Gurmel Singh, VC, said as per the vision of Kalgidhar Trust, the university has planned a series of talks on the importance of human values.Adidas unveils ‘Impossible is Nothing’ campaignAdidas has launched ‘Impossible is Nothing’ campaign with cricketer Rohit Sharma, Olympians Manpreet Singh, Mirabai Chanu, Simranjeet Kaur and Lovlina Borgohain, bringing three noble causes — ‘Save The Rhinos, Save The Corals and Plastic Free Oceans’ to the masses.Hero MotoCorp’s welfare package for Covid-hitHero MotoCorp has announced a welfare package for 25 Covid-hit families in association with Raman Kant Munjal Foundation in Rewari. The initiative — a part of company's CSR platform ‘Hero We Care’ — aims to support women from the affected families.Castrol’s 4th edition of ‘Super Mechanic Contest’Castrol has launched the 4th edition of ‘Super Mechanic Contest’. It provides a platform for car and bike mechanics to hone their skills, demonstrate talent, and earn recognition.Volvo rolls out ‘customer lifetime parts warranty’Volvo Car India has launched “customer lifetime parts warranty” scheme. It is applicable on genuine parts bought from October 1 onwards and installed at an authorised Volvo workshop. The warranty is valid till the ownership of the car doesn't change.Kotak Bank launches ‘Khushi ka Season’Kotak Mahindra Bank has launched the 4th edition of ‘Khushi ka Season’ — a month-long campaign that offers bumper deals on loans, marquee brands and smart EMI offers. Elizabeth Venkataraman, joint president — Consumer, Commercial & Wealth Marketing, Kotak Bank, said, “We have expanded the reach by tying up with local stores, giving our customers more choices.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/anurag-thakur-inaugurates-sbis-regional-office-at-una-326557
19-10-2021||New Delhi||Tata Motors drives in Punch at Rs 5.49 lakh||Tata Motors on Monday expanded its model range in the country with the launch of Punch, a sub-compact SUV, priced between Rs 5.49 lakh and Rs 9.09 lakh (ex-showroom). It comes with a 1.2-litre petrol engine mated to both manual and automatic transmissions. PTIBeijingChina’s economy weakens as Q3 GDP grows by 4.9%China’s GDP grew by 4.9% in the third quarter, down from 7.9% in the second, confirming the slowdown of the world’s second-largest economy which was under pressure from the crisis-hit property sector, curbs on energy and tardy recovery from the Covid pandemic. PTINew DelhiAvenue Supermarts wipes out early gains, dips over 8%Shares of Avenue Supermarts on Monday wiped out all its early gains and closed over 8% lower. In morning trade, the stock jumped nearly 11% after the company reported a two-fold increase in its second quarter profit. It later faced profit-taking and closed 8.16% lower at Rs 4,894.90. PTINew DelhiNykaa, Adani Wilmar, Star Health get SEBI nod for IPOAs many as six companies, including Nykaa, Adani Wilmar and Star Health & Allied Insurance, have received capital markets regulator SEBI’s go-ahead to launch IPO. Penna Cement Industries, Latent View Analytics and Sigachi Industries too received nod to raise funds through the IPO. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/tata-motors-drives-in-punch-at-rs-5-49-lakh-326558
