23-10-2021||New Delhi||Petrol price up Rs 36 a litre, diesel 27 in less than 18 months||Petrol and diesel prices were hiked for the fourth consecutive day on Saturday by 35 paise per litre, pushing the total increase in rates on petrol to Rs 36 per litre and on diesel to Rs 26.58 since early May 2020 when taxes on the two fuels were raised to record levels.Petrol in Delhi now costs Rs 107.24 a litre and diesel comes for Rs 95.97, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers.The latest increase that follows the unrelenting hike in international oil prices has pushed rates across the country to their highest-ever levels. While petrol is above Rs 100-a-litre-mark in all major cities, diesel has crossed that level in more than a dozen states.The total increase in petrol price since May 5, 2020 decision of the government to raise excise duty to record levels now totals Rs 35.98 per litre. Diesel rates have during this period gone up by Rs 26.58 per litre.The government had raised excise duty on petrol and diesel to mop up gains that would have otherwise accrued to consumers from international oil prices crashing to as low as USD 19 per barrel. While international prices have since recovered to USD 85, excise duty has remained at Rs 32.90 per litre on petrol and Rs 31.80 on diesel. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/petrol-price-up-rs-36-a-litre-diesel-27-in-less-than-18-months-328628
23-10-2021||London||Bitcoin: Why its value has rocketed once again||Bitcoin’s journey into mainstream finance has reached another major milestone – and another record price.The cryptocurrency was trading at USD 66,975 (£48,456) following the launch of an exchange traded fund (ETF) in the US which has dramatically increased bitcoin’s exposure to investors.The fund, which opened on October 19, allows investors to speculate on the future value of bitcoin – without actually owning it. It is the first time investors have been able to trade an asset related to bitcoin on the New York Stock Exchange, and was preceded by much media attention and hype in financial markets.It began trading at USD 40 (£29) a share and finished the day up 5% with some USD 570 million (£412 million) of assets, making it the second most heavily traded new ETF on record (the first was set up by BlackRock, the world’s biggest asset management company).And the impact on the price of bitcoin has been extraordinary. It soared past its all-time high of USD 64,895 to the new record of USD 66,975 and at the time of writing, was hovering around USD 65,000. This is a big change from mid-July 2021 when bitcoin hit a 2021 low of under USD 30,000, reflecting its huge volatility.Many financial institutions have previously tried to get approval for bitcoin ETFs without success. Until now, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) (the US government agency which protects investors) has been reluctant to approve any. This was partly due to the intense volatility of bitcoin, as well as broader concerns about the unregulated industry of cryptocurrencies.But Gary Gensler, chairman of the SEC, said the commission would be more comfortable with “future-based” ETFs because they trade on a regulated market. This is a significant change of direction for the SEC which has happened since Gensler arrived at the helm in April 2021.ETFs trade like any normal stock, are regulated, and anyone with a brokerage account can trade them. This new fund, named the ProShares Bitcoin Strategy ETF (or BITO for short), is the first to expose mainstream investors to the highs and lows of bitcoin’s value, without them having to go through the complex process of purchasing the coins themselves.Although US investors could already buy bitcoin futures directly from the regulated Chicago Mercantile Exchange and unregulated exchanges such as BitMEX (as well as bitcoin directly from unregulated exchanges), the launch of an ETF opens up the market to a wider variety of investors, including pension funds – and adds to the growing acceptance of bitcoin in the financial markets.Some are still sceptical of bitcoin due to its link with criminal activity, although a recent report suggests this seems to be diminishing. And Jamie Dimon, the CEO of investment bank JP Morgan, claims bitcoin is “worthless” and that regulators will “regulate the hell out of it”. (Nevertheless, JP Morgan gave its wealth-management clients access to cryptocurrency funds in July 2021.)Banking blockbusterEric Balchunas, a senior analyst at Bloomberg, is not surprised by the price appreciation and described the ETF launch as “a blockbuster, smash, home run debut (which) brings a lot of legitimacy and eyeballs into the crypto space”.But what impact will BITO have on the cryptocurrency space? As a new product it has already exposed more investors to the ups and downs of bitcoin’s value in a regulated market. Many of these are likely to have previously felt uncomfortable buying cryptocurrencies from unregulated exchanges and having to store the asset themselves.Other investment funds with an interest in cryptocurrencies will be no doubt be encouraged by BITO’s success, and keen to list ETFs of their own which are exposed to bitcoin and its rivals. Several other ETF providers are likely to launch their bitcoin ETFs in the days following ProShares’ debut, including Invesco, VanEck, Valkyrie and Galaxy Digital.It is a development which is bound to make investing in cryptocurrencies easier and more common – and an important stepping stone for their adoption into mainstream finance. — The Conversation||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/bitcoin-why-its-value-has-rocketed-once-again-328599
23-10-2021||New Delhi||Singapore tribunal rejects Future’s plea to lift ban on Reliance deal||The Singapore-based arbitrator, SIAC, has rejected Future Retail’s plea to lift the interim stay on its Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Retail, giving a major relief to Amazon that is contesting the transaction.The development comes a day after the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) held that Future Retail is a party to the ongoing arbitration between Amazon and Future group in the dispute over the sale of its assets to Reliance Retail.Future had contended before the SIAC that it should be excluded from arbitration proceedings because it is not a party to the dispute between its promoter Future Coupons Pvt Ltd (FCPL) and Amazon.In a regulatory filing on Friday, Future Retail Ltd (FRL) said it has received SIAC’s decision dated October 21, 2021 on its plea to vacate the Interim Award of the Emergency Arbitrator dated October 25, 2020.“The Tribunal is satisfied that the orders set out in… the EA Award was correctly granted, and have not been vitiated by any subsequent events or proceedings. Further or alternatively, the Respondents have not demonstrated that circumstances have materially changed to justify any change to the EA Award,” the filing said. The company would be deciding on its future course of action based on the legal advice and available remedies in law, it added.Amazon, which is trying to block Future’s Rs 24,713-crore sale of its retail, wholesale, logistics and warehousing assets to Reliance Industries’ retail arm, has alleged that the Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL)-Future deal breaches its own pact of 2019 with the Kishore Biyani-led company. — PTIRs24,713-crore transaction||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/singapore-tribunal-rejects-futures-plea-to-lift-ban-on-reliance-deal-328470
23-10-2021||Vijay C Roy||Digitalisation helps software testing industry grow||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 22The Covid pandemic has hit many industries, but some businesses have been growing significantly. Software testing is one such sector which has seen a significant growth amid the digitalisation. According to the industry, with the current wave of digitalisation due to the pandemic, the industry is bound to grow exponentially.“After an initial setback for three months, the demand for software testing services has picked up significantly due to the high amount of digitalisation. The sectors such as education, healthcare, banking, insurance and communications saw new solutions being built to support remote operations, fuelling the growth of software testing services. Our company grew by 33% during the pandemic year and we expect 50% growth in the current fiscal,” said Manish Gupta, CEO of Chandigarh-based TestingXperts.TestingXperts is the world’s fifth largest pure play quality assurance (QA) and software testing company. Software testing implies checking IT system prior to its implementation for multiple aspects such as functionality, reliability, usability, security, compliance and performance. Manish said there were only a handful of firms operating in pure play specialist software testing and QA space.In any large digital transformation programme, 60-65% cost and effort go into design and development and the rest 35-40% goes into QA and testing. While most of the companies in the IT industry focus on development services, TestingXperts has focused on the QA and testing space, which is less crowded.According to data, the global Pure Play Software Testing Services market is estimated to grow at a CAGR of almost 15% during the forecast period 2021-2024. However, amid the significant growth, the industry is marred by challenges. “The biggest challenge being faced by the testing industry is on the talent side — hiring and retention. As the industry is growing, the availability of quality manpower is low and in case of experienced manpower, the attrition rate is high,” said one of the recruiters for software testing companies.Demand rises significantly amid pandemicThe demand for software testing services has picked up significantly amid the pandemic due to high amount of digitalisation in various sectors. — Manish Gupta, CEO, Testingxperts||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/digitalisation-helps-software-testing-industry-grow-328469
23-10-2021||New Delhi||RIL Q2 profit jumps 43%  to Rs13,680 cr||Billionaire Mukesh Ambani's Reliance Industries on Friday reported a 43% jump in its September quarter net profit as its businesses from oil to retail fired on all cylinders, growing both sequentially and on a year-on-year basis.Net profit of Rs 13,680 crore, or Rs 20.88 per share, in July-September compared with Rs 9,567 crore, or Rs 14.84 a share, in the same period a year back, the company said.While better realisation and a sharp rise in crude oil prices benefited the old-economy business, retail saw footfalls at stores reach pre-Covid levels and per user earning from telecom business rose. Revenue was up 49% at Rs 191,532 crore. Jio Platforms reported a 23.5% higher net profit at Rs 3,728 crore in the second quarter. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/ril-q2-profit-jumps-43-to-rs13-680-cr-328468
23-10-2021||Mumbai||Forex reserves up by $1.492 bn to $641 bn||New DelhiPVR reports net loss of Rs153 cr in Sept quarterMultiplex chain operator PVR Ltd on Friday reported narrowing of its consolidated net loss to Rs 153.13 crore for the second quarter ended September 30. Its revenue from operations was up nearly three-fold to Rs 120.32 crore during the quarter under review. PTINew DelhiYes Bank Q2 profit jumps 74% to Rs225 croreYes Bank on Friday reported a 74% increase in standalone net profit to Rs 225 crore for the second quarter ended September. Total income slipped to Rs 5,430.30 crore during the July-September period from Rs 5,842.81 crore in the same quarter last year. PTINew DelhiNykaa IPO to open on Oct 28; fixes price bandFSN E-Commerce Ventures Ltd, which runs online marketplace for beauty and wellness products Nykaa, has fixed a price of Rs 1,085-1,125 a share for its Rs 5,352-crore initial public offering, which will open on October 28. PTINew DelhiMercedes-Benz rolls out new format of selling carsMercedes-Benz on Friday rolled out a new format of retailing cars in India with a ‘direct to customer’ model, under which it will sell new vehicles via appointed franchise partners, by invoicing them directly to the customers. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/forex-reserves-up-by-1-492-bn-to-641-bn-328467
