09-11-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Senior executive of online retail store commits suicide in Gurugram||In a shocking incident, a regional manager of a renowned online retail site allegedly committed suicide in a Sector 14 PG here.Identified as 28-year-old Anu, her body was found hanging from a ceiling fan in her room today morning.Her mother has accused her daughter’s fiancé of abetting the suicide and an FIR has been registered against the accused at Sector 14 police station.According to the complaint filed by Kanpur resident Sudha Srivastav, mother of the deceased, her daughter was engaged with Sudhanshu Srivastav, who is a software engineer in a MNC in Gurugram.They were known to each other since the last eight years and were supposed to be married in December with their family’s consent.“At the time of the engagement there was no issue of dowry but recently Sudhanshu asked Anu that the family had a tradition of giving gold necklace and bangles in Tilak ceremony and his mother Geeta Srivastav also insisted on getting the same. She threatened to break the marriage if we did not abide. On October 26, my other daughter Khushbu also visited Anu’s place in Gurugram and Sudhanshu also raised the demand in front of her. He was not only harassing her for dowry but also abusing her and drove her to the extreme step,” mother of the deceased told police.It was yesterday when Anu did not pick any calls, her family reached at her PG where they found her body hanging from a ceiling fan and police was called.Following the complaint, an FIR has been registered against UP native Sudhanshu under Section 304A (abatement to suicide) of the IPC.“We are investigating into the matter. The address of the accused in Gurugram is not identified yet and we are trying to nab him,” said ASI Trilok Chand, the investigating officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/senior-executive-of-online-retail-store-commits-suicide-in-gurugram-168399
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||2,427 fresh coronavirus cases, 7 more fatalities in Haryana||Haryana on Monday reported 2,427 fresh novel coronavirus cases taking the caseload in the state to 1,85,231 and seven more people died taking the COVID-19 related death toll to 1,919, a health bulletin stated.Of the latest fatalities, three were from Fatehabad, two from Sirsa and one death each was reported from Gurugram and Charkhi Dadri districts, according to the state health department's daily bulletin.Among the districts which reported a big spike in cases included Gurugram (697), Faridabad (570), Hisar (283) and Rohtak (110).Active cases in the state currently are 16,717 while the recovery rate was 89.94 per cent. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-427-fresh-coronavirus-cases-7-more-fatalities-in-haryana-168397
09-11-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Woman executive’s murder: Gurugram police announce Rs 5 lakh reward||Gurugram, November 9Having failed to get any major leads on assailants who shot dead a woman executive, Gurugram police have announced a reward of Rs 5 lakh for info on them.The woman was shot in the head when she refused to lower window pane of the car she was travelling in after being intercepted by the accused.Three police teams investigating the case have got CCTV footage from the area where the incident happened and experts have started preparing sketches of suspects on the basis of the footage.The MNC executive, Pooja Sharma (26), native of Chhattisgarh was shot in the head in a failed robbery attempt by three bikers while she was on a long drive with a friend last Tuesday night. She was succumbed to the bullet injury on Thursday.Police commissioner K K Rao today announced a reward of Rs 5 lakh for providing info leading to arrest three unidentified robbers.A senior investigating officer said they have got CCTV footage from Golf Course Extension road where the incident happened. Three men on a bike are seen speeding at the time of incident but their faces are not clear. “Our teams are investigating the matter with some technical aspects and hope that the accused will be nabbed as soon as possible,” said K K Rao, CP, Gurugram.The three accused intercepted the car, pulled out a gun asking Pooja to lower the window pane. When she didn’t, they shot and fled. An FIR of murder attempt was registered at Sector 65 police station in which Section 302 (murder) of IPC has been added today after her death on Thursday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-executives-murder-gurugram-police-announce-rs-5-lakh-reward-168378
09-11-2020|| Chandigarh||Haryana moots new housing policy for the elderly||The Haryana Government is considering a “retirement housing policy” to cater to the state’s elderly population, an official said on Monday.Haryana government’s new draft policy that moots new retirement homes says such projects must have an elaborate safety and security mechanism inside the residential complex, including medical services, fitness facilities, safety measures such as installation of CCTVs, senior citizen-friendly kitchens and bathrooms and ramps and staircases. Besides, the promoter must provide common dining facility, parks and adhere to occupancy norms for retirement homes and dormitory/hostel.Additionally, only retirement home projects registered with the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) can be sold.Besides, the promoter must provide common dining facility, parks and adhere to occupancy norms for retirement homes and dormitory/hostel. It will also be mandatory for the promoter to file an annual report containing the list of occupants and facilities provided to the Monitoring Committee to be chaired by the Deputy Commissioner.   “With an ever-increasing ageing population and the increasing trend of nuclear families, there is an emergent need for development of commercially-viable  and professionally-managed  retirement housing,” K Makrand Pandurang, Special Secretary, Town and Country Planning, said about the draft policy. Pandurang said the senior citizens living in such retirement projects were likely to be vulnerable to harassment, breach of contract and violation of their basic rights by the developers operating these projects.”Hence, there is need for a policy for regulated development  of retirement housing projects to address to address the needs of the senior citizens, who are able and willing to pay for such accommodation, services and facilities,” Pandurang  said. What to expect in retirement homes *Medical services and fitness facilities *Installation of CCTV cameras, other security gadgets. *Senior citizen-friendly kitchens and washrooms. *Common dining facility, parks. *Apartments, dormitory/hostel facility.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-moots-new-housing-policy-for-the-elderly-168370
09-11-2020||New Delhi||ACMA urges Haryana govt to reconsider 75 pc reservation policy for locals in private enterprises||Auto component industry body ACMA, on Monday, requested the Haryana government to reconsider the 75 per cent employment reservation for locals in private enterprises, saying the move will adversely impact the ease of doing business in the state.On November 5, the state assembly passed the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill that mandates 75 per cent reservation in factories and other blue-collar jobs in the private sector for locals.Stressing on the need for reconsidering such a provision, ACMA President Deepak Jain said the Indian auto and component industry was a global one and the production not only catered to the domestic demand but also the international markets.The Indian component industry today exported more than 25 per cent of its production, with the US and Europe being the leading markets, he added.“Our industry requires a skilled workforce to produce high-quality products that are globally competitive. Hiring in our sector is done on the basis of talent and skills needed by the industry rather than on the domicile of the candidates. Such a move would not only adversely impact the ease of doing business in the state but also be detrimental to Haryana's image of an industry-friendly state and in attracting future investments,” Jain said.Automotive Component Manufacturers Association of India (ACMA) is the apex body representing the interest of the Indian auto component industry. Its membership of over 850 manufacturers contributes more than 90 per cent of the auto component industry's turnover in the organised sector.Currently, the turnover of the auto component industry is USD 57 billion, contributing 2.3 per cent to India’s GDP. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/acma-urges-haryana-govt-to-reconsider-75-pc-reservation-policy-for-locals-in-private-enterprises-168319
09-11-2020||AK Sharma & AD Pathak||Sugarcane farming: Labour productivity the key to sweet success||THE sugarcane sector plays a significant role in Indian economy as it provides raw material for sugar and industries producing alcohol, paper, chemicals and cattle feed. The sugarcane processing network consisting of 762 installed sugar mills has a number of associated industries and backward and forward linkages. Due to multi-purpose uses of sugarcane and its byproducts in various industries, the demand for increased production of sugarcane is growing.With an area of 5 million hectares, sugarcane cultivation in India is carried out on about 2.57 per cent of the total cropped area. It provides employment and livelihood to around 60 lakh sugarcane growers, in addition to indirect employment to lakhs of people in associated industries.There has been a steady growth in area under sugarcane cultivation in India. The area was only 17.07 lakh hectares in 1950-51; it increased to 51.11 lakh hectares in 2018-19. The production of sugarcane was about 123.86 million tonnes by the mid-seventies, which rose to 400.15 million tonnes in 2018-19. The average productivity was 78.23 tonnes/hectare in that year. Uttar Pradesh is the main sugarcane-growing state in the country, allocating about 22 lakh hectares for cane cultivation, followed by Maharashtra with about 8.98 lakh hectares. Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh are other major cane-growing states in the tropical region. In the sub-tropical region, Bihar, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Punjab are the key cane-growing states, besides UP.The growth over the years (as depicted by compound growth rates or CGRs) in the all-India sugarcane area and yield was positive and around 1 per cent per year from 2001-02 to 2017-18 period. In Uttar Pradesh, the area growth was less than 1 per cent, but the yield growth was 1.249%. In Maharashtra, there was positive area and yield growth, with the area growth being much higher than that obtained in Uttar Pradesh. Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat have recorded a significant negative growth rate in the area under sugarcane. In the sub-tropical region, Bihar exhibited positive CGR of 7.345% in the area, followed by Maharashtra (4.279%) and Karnataka (3.147%).It is thus evident that Bihar and Uttar Pradesh in the sub-tropical region and Maharashtra and Karnataka in the tropical region have exhibited positive growth both in area and yield levels during the past 17 years. This points to scope for further expansion of the sugarcane sector in these states. In other states, more incentives and development efforts will be required to retain the already achieved levels of area coverage under sugarcane.Labour absorptionSugarcane is a labour-intensive crop of long duration (12 months in the sub-tropical region and 12-18 months in the tropical region), which requires 150-180 labour days per hectare in sub-tropical and around 250-300 days in the tropical south region. Most of the operations in cane cultivation are carried out manually and the use of machinery is limited to operations like field preparation by a majority of the farmers. The human labour (HL) component accounted for 32.3% of the total cost of sugarcane cultivation and the factor share of labour in the value of output has marginally increased from 4.5% to 4.7% at the all-India level. The labour productivity in sugarcane cultivation has increased by 28.1%.An analysis of the trends in labour absorption in sugarcane cultivation reveals that the labour use per hectare of sugarcane crop is high in the tropical states compared to the sub-tropical states. The major cane-growing state, Uttar Pradesh, consumed 1,191.4 hours per hectare of the crop, while Maharashtra used 1,728.8 hours per hectare. The labour absorption in sugarcane at the national level witnessed a decline by 15.36% to 1,337.7 hours from 2000-01 to 2016-17. The decrease in labour use per hectare of sugarcane crop during this period was found to the extent of 16% in Maharashtra, just 1.6% in Uttar Pradesh, and 30-43% in other tropical states.The labour absorption pattern has not remained the same in all the zones within a single state. Less sugarcane-intensive zones like Central Plain Zone (CPZ) in UP and the Transition zone-2 (TRZ2) in Maharashtra have emerged as important zones exhibiting increase in labour absorption in sharp contrast to traditionally sugarcane-intensive zones in these states.The proportion of hiring of humans, machines as well as bullock labour is also higher in these zones compared to other zones of the states. Higher labour use in these zones may be attributed to the adoption and diffusion of modern technology by the farmers, as well as the growth of custom-hiring business services in sugarcane production and mechanisation.Impact of mechanisationMechanisation is considered to be a major labour-displacing technological change, whereas innovations in irrigation/water-saving and in planting methods are regarded as labour-augmenting changes. Technology-aided productivity improvements in the form of sub-soilers, improved planting methods like trench planting, drip irrigation and mechanised harvesting are thus required to ensure increasing share of the output to the labourers.The human labour will continue to be the most important component of sugarcane crop cultivation. Hence, a system for monitoring the enforcement of standard labour laws should be established, especially in Maharashtra, where the use of migrant labour is quite prevalent. The negative impact of labour displacement needs to be reversed by developing non-farm employment avenues as well as the deep penetration of technological change for increasing labour productivity.The authors are Principal Scientist and Director, respectively, ICAR-Indian Institute of Sugarcane Research, LucknowCash crop||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sugarcane-farming-labour-productivity-the-key-to-sweet-success-168256
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||Three HCS officers transferred||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-hcs-officers-transferred-168008
09-11-2020||---||2,380 cases, 15 deaths in Haryana||Chandigarh, November 8With 2,380 new Covid cases reported on Sunday, the state’s tally reached 1,82,804. The death toll reached 1,912 with 15 more succumbing to the virus.Gurugram reported the maximum of 964 cases followed by Faridabad (390), Hisar (172) and Rohtak (103).A maximum of four deaths were reported from Hisar followed Bhiwani (3), Gurugram and Mahendragarh (2 each) and Faridabad, Karnal, Yamunanagar and Jind (1 each).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-380-cases-15-deaths-in-haryana-168009
09-11-2020||Karnal||Three-day online workshop||Professors get int'l rankingKurukshetra: In the recent international ranking of 1.5 million most eminent scientists and researchers based on the Scopus database in the journal, "Updated science-wide author doubts of standardised citation indicators", the names of Dr Mahesh Pal, professor, department of civil engineering, National Institute of Technology (NIT) Kurukshetra, and Dr Ashwani Kumar, professor, department of electrical engineering are included. According to the research journal, Dr Mahesh Pal was ranked 130th for research in the field of geological and geomatics engineering while Dr Ashwani Kumar was ranked 2,383 for research in the field of energy. Apart from this, Dr Mahesh Pal has been classified as number 1 in India for working in the field of geological and geomatics.BTech students appear in AMCAT testHisar: Training and placement cell, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, organised aspiring minds computer adaptive test (AMCAT) under the technical education quality improvement programme-3 (TEQIP-3) for BTech students of all streams. As many as 780 students appeared in the online exam. Pratap Singh Malik, director, training and placement cell, said the cell had been organising this test for the past three years free of cost as per the instruction of NPIU of Ministry of Human Resource Development and with the funding of Technical Education Quality Improvement Programme. Prior to test, an online orientation session was conducted by Sidharth Tiwari, regional manager, Aspiring Minds on October 24. In this orientation session, students were told about the importance and pattern of the test. Director Placement told that the duration of the test for BTech second and third year students was two hours and for the students of BTech fourth year was three hours. The test contained questions of English, reasoning, quantitative, personality and domain knowledge. The test was coordinated by student volunteers Ashish Sheoran and Ankit Verma.Programme on innovations, patentsFaridabad: The department of civil engineering of JC Bose University in collaboration with REC, Ambedkar Nagar (Uttar Pradesh), organised an online programme on 'innovations and patents'. Over 100 participants from across the country participated in the programme, which was sponsored under TEQIP-III. The chairperson of civil engineering Prof ML Aggarwal emphasised the increasing need of innovations and patents for self, society and industrial development. As many as four invited speakers from academic institutions and industry addressed the webinar.8 scholarships won by studentsKurukshetra: Eight students of Gurukul Kurukshetra have added another feather to their caps by winning eight scholarships in the National Talent Search Examination (NTSE). NTSE offers scholarships to 1,200 meritorious students with high intellect and academic talents at the national level every year. This year Abhishek Kumar, Harsh Bankura, Kanwar Prashant, Abhijeet, Harsh Rana, Divyansh, Chirag Jain and Shivang Kakkar brought laurels to their alma mater. Director and Principal Col Arun Datta applauded the efforts put in by the teachers for preparing the students for NTSE under its flagship career guidance and counselling programme to guide its students for NDA, IIT, KVPY, PMT, NEET and CLAT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-day-online-workshop-168013
09-11-2020||Karnal||20 Covid warriors honoured||Mixie Chowk renovatedAmbala: Known for its mixie industry, the Ambala City got a renovated Mixie Chowk on Saturday. While inaugurating the chowk after renovation, local MLA Aseem Goel said, “Ambala City is also known as mixie city. As far as I know, Delhi, Ahmedabad and Ambala are known for the mixie industry.” He appreciated the industrialists and said that a mixie cluster was coming up in Ambala to revive the industry. The industrialists, on the occasion, demanded that the GST on mixers should be reduced from 18 per cent to 5 per cent. Aseem assured that he would raise the matter with the Union Finance Minister.Farmer holds feast to honour dead bullHisar: A family of farmers in Barsola village of Jind district organised a feast to mark the ‘satarhvi’ (17th day) of the demise of its bull. Dharamvir Khatkar said that the animal named Bhola breathed his last on October 29. He said that his family is thankful to Bhola as he was like a member of the family for nearly 25 years and had served the family well. “We consider him a good omen for the family,” he said. Village sarpanch Joginder Singh said that 2,000 persons from the village and outside attended the event.Fete ‘Vocal for Local’ endsPanipat: The three-day fete ‘Vocal for Local’ held at SD Vidya Mandir here on Sunday concluded. Om Prakash Dhankar, state BJP chief, chaired the concluding programme. During the programme, Dhankar said using indigenous products is also patriotism. The event was organised by the Vimukt Ghumantu Janjati Kalyan Manch, Sewa Bharti, IOCL Panipat, district unit of the BJP along with some social organisations. The theme of the fete was to improve the skills of women as well as youth and to increase the consumption of indigenous products. Women self-help groups and other people brought their homemade products and sold those here. A group of SD PG College students presented a skit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/20-covid-warriors-honoured-168015
09-11-2020||THE traffic lights installed at Shaheed Major Sandeep Sagar Chowk (roundabout of Sectors 7/18/8/17) in Panchkula have remained non-functional for the past few years. The indifferent attitude of the authorities concerned often results in a worrisome scenario. One wonders as to why the public money was spent on the installation of these traffic signals if these were not to be used? Those responsible for this should be taken to task. —SK Gupta||Non-functional traffic lights||Ban on sale, use of firecrackers a good stepBAN on sale and use of firecrackers of any kind in the city by the UT administration is a welcome move. With a host of festivities, including Diwali, Kali Puja and Chhat Puja, around the corner, a number of states such as Karnataka, Delhi, West Bengal, Sikkim, Odisha and Rajasthan have already imposed the ban and Haryana is also joining the fray. It is also one of the ways to prevent the second wave of Covid-19 infections and also to check the worsening air quality index. —Gopal Mittal, PanchkulaElectricity wires pose a threat to commuters PERILOUSLY suspended electricity cables, hanging just few feet over House Numbers 27 to 31 in Sector 12 Part 2 have put the lives of residents in danger. The concerned department must take a note of this and get the needful done immediately before these result into a mishap. The matter must not be ignored and safety of residents should be ensured. —GC Arora, KarnalEffective implementation of policies must be ensuredTHE government had started old-age pension scheme old age samman allowance to help senior citizens but it is not serving the purpose at ground level. A senior citizen is toing and froing since April to get it started but to no avail. At first, he applied for it through an Atal Seva Kendra in April but the case was rejected due to some discrepancy. Later, when he reapplied after correcting the discrepancy, it got stuck as ‘Parivar Pehchaan Patra’ was made mandatory with it, which could not be made because of some technical glitch. Finally, when that too was made, the ‘untrained owner’ of the kendra uploaded it wrongly and now there is no option for either correcting it or cancelling the wrong application. There are many such cases hanging fire due to similar situations and several elderly are facing problem due to these problem. The concerned authorities must look into the issues and get them resolved to ease the elderly people. The state government too should ensure effective implementation of policies. Ravinder Kwatra, shahabad markandaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?THE TRIBUNEinvites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/non-functional-traffic-lights-168016
09-11-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Haryana schools reopen, 25% attendance in 1st week||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 8Only 25 per cent attendance was reported in government schools of the state in the first week of their reopening after a long hiatus of more than five months due to the Covid-induced lockdown.Sources say even though the attendance in Classes IX to XII increased over the course of the last week, parents are still reluctant to send their wards to schools.“The government hopes the number of students attending classes will double in the coming week,” Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar said.He further said the government re-opened government schools to gauge the response of the parents and the public. “Over the course of the last week, the number of students increased gradually. This is an encouraging sign. Seeing the response, the government has decided to reopen private schools and colleges. Wait for another week,” Gujjar said.Pvt schools to open soonOver the course of the last week, the number of students attending classes increased gradually. This is an encouraging sign. Seeing the response, the government has decided to reopen private schools and colleges as well. Wait for another week. —Kanwar Pal Gujjar, Education MinisterThe district-wise break-up of attendance shows that government schools in Yamunanagar saw the poorest response with only 14 per cent students attending school. Ambala and Kukukshetra saw only 17 per cent students return to classes, while 18 per cent students attended school in Sonepat.The most “encouraging” response came from Panchkula and Mahendragarh, where 39 per cent students attended classes in the first week. Rewari recorded an attendance of 38 per cent.While 32 per cent students attended school in Charkhi Dadri, 31 per cent returned to their classes in Bhiwani and Fatehabad. In other districts, the attendance varied between 21 and 29 per cent.“The government has asked all schools to follow the Covid protocols such maintaining social distancing and making masks mandatory in classes. The attendance of students in the headquarters is being monitored as well,” the minister said.The entire teaching staff remain present in schools, while class timings for students have been reduced to three hours.Additional Secretary (School Education) Mahavir Singh said, “Students of senior class are already attending classes. The government is yet to take a call on resuming classes for students from Class I to VIII.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-schools-reopen-25-attendance-in-1st-week-168000
09-11-2020||---||Hooda’s remark on House affairs irresponsible: Haryana Vidhan Sabha Speaker||Chandigarh, November 8Haryana Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today engaged in a war of words over the conduct of proceedings of the Haryana Assembly whose session ended on November 6.Taking strong exception to the statement of Hooda wherein he had alleged that “end of democracy” was witnessed in the session, Gupta termed it as irresponsible.The proceedings of the House were conducted completely in accordance with rules. Still, the Leader of Opposition has expressed his pessimistic views on it, he asserted.Gupta said in a democratic system, every party and public representative had the right to speak in the House, but for that, it is necessary to adhere to the rules. These rules apply equally to both the ruling party and the Opposition. If the Congress was to come up with a resolution in the Vidhan Sabha against the three agriculture Acts passed by Parliament, it was important to adhere to the rules of the Vidhan Sabha, but the Congress did not do so, he said.He said several experienced Congress leaders are members of the House. Hence, they are well aware of the rules that any non-government resolution or private member’s Bill should be introduced 15 days prior to the session.On November 6, the entire Congress was suspended by the Speaker for unruly behaviour for their insistence on voting on the official resolution and amendment moved by the Congress without discussion.Hooda had accused the Speaker of being biased against the Congress by not allowing voting on the resolution and running the House against rules and regulations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hoodas-remark-on-house-affairs-irresponsible-haryana-vidhan-sabha-speaker-168001
09-11-2020||Faridabad||Nikita  Murder: Condolence meet held amid security||The condolence meeting of 21-year-old Nikita Tomar, who was killed outside her college on October 26, was held under strict police supervision at a community centre here on Sunday.More than 150 policemen were deployed to avoid a repeat of the November 1 violence after a mahapanchayat here. All roads leading to the venue were barricaded.“A heavy posse of police officers was posted in the region. At the venue, around 25 cops were deployed,” said Ballabgarh ACP Jaiveer Rathi.Hundreds of local residents attended the condolence meeting, but none was allowed to address the gathering.Mool Chand, father of Nikita, said the district authorities had given permission to hold the meeting on the condition that no one would express their views.Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma, Faridabad NIT legislator Neeraj Sharma, former Ballabgarh MLA Sharda Rathaur, state Congress secretary Baljit Kaushik and Karni Sena head Suraj Pal Amu were among those who paid tributes.Earlier, the district administration had rejected a proposal of holding the condolence meeting at Dashera Grounds in Ballabgarh, where violence had erupted after a mahapanchayat on November 1. Ten cops were injured.The authorities, however, on Saturday allowed Nikita’s family to hold the meeting on two conditions: one, a gathering of not more than 200 persons would be allowed and, two, no one would address the gathering. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nikita-murder-condolence-meet-held-amid-security-168002
09-11-2020||Hisar||2-hour relaxation for sale, use of crackers on Diwali||The state government has announced two-hour relaxation in sale and bursting of crackers on Diwali evening, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said during an interaction with mediapersons in Fatehabad town today.He said the ban on fireworks had been imposed in view of the soaring air pollution index, which was also a reason for the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the state.The ban (with two-hour relaxation) had been imposed to adhere to the guidelines of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and also to bring down the air pollution level, Khattar said.The decision to give the relaxation has come a day after the Haryana Fireworks Association submitted a memorandum asking for two-hour permission for fireworks.Association president Bijender Beniwal had mentioned in the letter that low emission fireworks were manufactured as per the instructions of the Supreme Court and Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, therefore, the question of air pollution did not arise. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-hour-relaxation-for-sale-use-of-crackers-on-diwali-168003
09-11-2020||Panipat||Main accused held||The Sonepat police on Sunday arrested the main accused in the hooch deaths case. The accused has been identified as Mohit of Thana Kalan village of Sonepat district. He was produced in court and sent to three days’ police remand.The police had on Thursday unearthed an illegal liquor unit at Kharkhoda and arrested one Ankit of Khanda village. They had seized 395 quarters of spurious liquor, a machine, fake labels and fake holograms from there.The police also arrested a liquor supplier, identified as Ranbir of Baghru village, on Sunday. He reportedly admitted to supplying spurious liquor to Shashtry Colony, Indian Colony and Garhi Brahmanan locality in Sonepat district.The death toll due to consumption of illicit liquor has reached 48.Besides, the Murthal police have nabbed Lokender of Mainpuri district in Uttar Pradesh. — TNSEx-CM seeks relief for victims’ kinFormer CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda has demanded financial assistance and a government job for a family member of those who died after consuming spurious liquor in Dhansauli village of Panipat district and Gumar village of Sonepat district. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/main-accused-held-168004
09-11-2020||Rohtak||Private agency booked for fraud at PGIMS||A case of financial irregularities, allegedly committed by a private agency in connection with the remuneration of outsourced safai karamcharis working at the Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) here, has come to the fore.The PGIMS police station has lodged a case under Section 420 of the IPC against the agency on the complaint of Dr Sandeep, Deputy Medical Superintendent (DMS)-cum-Nodal Officer, PGIMS.Dr Sandeep told The Tribune that the PGIMS authorities had formed an inquiry committee on August 10 to look into a complaint pertaining to the financial irregularities committed by the agency.Sources said the agency was accused of depositing the remuneration of some employees in the bank account of other persons by tempering with a soft copy of employees’ details, which was submitted to the bank by the agency for transferring the remuneration to the employees’ account.“The inquiry committee submitted its report to the PGIMS authorities on September 22 and found the agency guilty of committing financial irregularities by tampering with the details in soft copy of the bank transfer list. The copy was submitted by the agency directly to the bank. The authorities then sent the case to the legal cell for opinion,” sources said.Dr Sandeep, in the complaint, has stated that the authorities later passed the orders that criminal proceedings must be initiated against the agency and persons concerned. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/private-agency-booked-for-fraud-at-pgims-168005
09-11-2020||---||Memorial to 1857 revolt heroes to be raised in Ambala Cantt||Chandigarh, November 8To ensure that the genesis of the First War of Independence, which took place in Ambala in 1857, is stamped in the memories of the youth, Ambala Cantonment will soon be having a memorial named ‘Aazadi Ki Pehli Ladai Ka Samarak’.State Home and Urban Local Bodies Minister Anil Vij on Wednesday held a meeting with officers of the departments concerned and directed them to expedite the work on the project. He also directed them to constitute a committee of historians, which would authenticate the information to be displayed in the memorial.A digital walkthrough and interactive screens coupled with traditional art will add to the magnificence of the monument.5-D AUDITORIUM AMONG MAIN ATTRACTIONSA detailed presentation was given by an architect, who said the attractive features of the memorial included audio-visual and short films, and a 5-D auditorium to showcase various events of the First War of Independence. Likewise, paintings of freedom fighters will also be on display along with pre and post-Independence maps of the country.A separate gallery will be created for the freedom fighters from Haryana. The memorial will house a massive and attractive 210-ft tower, as well as a 20-ft high wall, where the names of the freedom fighters will be inscribed. It will have six lawns that will mention the names of the bravehearts and a museum on the history of Ambala and freedom fighters from Haryana in the 1857 revolution is also being built.He said five buildings were being constructed — interpretation centre, open air theatre, auditorium, museum and memorial tower. Other arrangements will be made along with an open air theater hall, food court, exhibition and modern lift in the museum building. The open theatre located in the auditorium will house 20 types of fountains, water curtains as well as two platforms and seating arrangement. A spacious car parking and helipad are also being built.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/memorial-to-1857-revolt-heroes-to-be-raised-in-ambala-cantt-168006
09-11-2020||Karnal||Karnal streets turn into gaming zones on Sundays||Aimed at utilising streets, roads, dead spaces and parking spots for pedestrians, Karnal Smart City Limited has initiated the “Streets for People Challenge” by transforming these places into gaming zones to ensure community participation.Nishant Kumar Yadav, CEO, Karnal Smart City Limited, a special purpose vehicle looking after the Smart City project, started this concept that is being encouraged by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, Government of India. Competitions such as painting, dance, tug of war and snakes and ladders among others were organised for children.Streets for People Challenge“To provide a platform to the children, we have taken this initiative. Apart from children, other residents can also participate in games. It will be a permanent feature. The same concept involving different sports activities will be conducted on every Sunday in various parts of the city,” Yadav said.He said designated streets and roads would be available to conduct different games under the Smart City Mission. “We will block the earmarked roads and streets for certain hours and people can use them for games,” said the DC.After providing suitable alternative roads, these streets will be closed for vehicular traffic, Yadav said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-streets-turn-into-gaming-zones-on-sundays-168007
09-11-2020||Vishav Bharti||In Punjab, 15% spurt in coronavirus cases, experts advise caution||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 8After a lull for around two weeks (between October 17 and October 31), Punjab is again witnessing a spike in Covid cases. It registered around 15 per cent increase in the number of active cases over the past one week.As per the state Health Department statistics, the number of active cases started declining after mid-October and came down to 4,277 by the third week of October. It remained static till October-end. Since the beginning of this month, the cases, however, have started increasing. On Sunday, the number of active cases increased to 4,910, which means around 15 per cent increase over the October figure. Experts say people should take precautions, otherwise there might be a spike in cases as it happened in September.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-punjab-15-spurt-in-coronavirus-cases-experts-advise-caution-168070
09-11-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Haryana cops get clues on ENA suppliers||Tribune News ServicePanipat, November 8The spurious liquor which claimed 48 lives in Sonepat and Panipat districts was manufactured in a 50 sq feet two-storey building at Naina Tatarpur village.Sources say the accused manufactured hooch using extra neutral alcohol (ENA), which is easily available in the state. A case of 12 bottles of ENA costs Rs 300-400.As per preliminary probe, the accused had been running the illicit liquor trade from the same location for about six months. The building is owned by a government schoolteacher, identified as Vijay, who has been arrested. Documents seized from the unit revealed the source of raw material. The accused hobnobbed with tanker drivers involved in the transport of ENA and pilfered the chemical.SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said they had got vital clues about the identity of those who supplied the raw material, including ENA. “We have seized some bills and other documents from the busted unit. The accused had bought a bottling plant from Shamli district in Uttar Pradesh. Empty bottles were procured from Delhi,” he said. Meanwhile, the police today arrested Amit Rathi, another partner in the illicit distillery. His accomplices Ajit of Sitawali and Vicky of Saidpur village were arrested yesterday.“Two more accused — Naresh alias Nesha and Mandeep alias Setha — are still on the run. Raids are on to nab them. We have arrested over 24 people in the case,” Randhawa said.SIT formed for statewide probe||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cops-get-clues-on-ena-suppliers-168143
