10-11-2020||Gurugram||In U-turn, Gurugram administration bans sale and bursting on firecrackers||Following NGT orders, the Gurugram administration took a U-turn on its previous orders allowing community bursting of firecrackers for two hours.The DC issued orders banning the sale and bursting of firecrackers in the city.Earlier, issuing an order, DC Amit Khatri had earmarked eight areas in the city with relatively better air quality and open spaces for bursting crackers. The residents were to be allowed to burst green crackers and that too from 8 pm to 10 pm only.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-u-turn-gurugram-administration-bans-sale-and-bursting-on-firecrackers-168839
10-11-2020||Rohtak||Baroda bypoll result no-trust vote against govt: Hooda||Former Haryana Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Tuesday stated that the result of the Baroda by-election indicated that the people of the state were fed up with the BJP-JJP government.“The result of the by-election is a no-confidence motion passed by the voters against the ruling coalition. The wave of change will sweep the entire state and reach Chandigarh in due course,” Hooda said at a news conference here.The Congress leader remarked that the BJP-JJP combine misused the government machinery, employed foul means and tried to lure the people of the constituency to ensure their candidate’s victory in the by-election, but they have been given a befitting lesson by the electorate.“The victory registered by Congress candidate Induraj Narwal is quite significant in the state’s politics. It will give confidence to the residents that persons from simple families can enter politics and make their mark by registering big wins,” he maintained.The voters of Baroda have given a loud and clear message that the Haryana electors will not get trapped and vote on the basis of the ground realities and real issues concerning them, said Hooda.“I had dared the chief minister to contest the Baroda by-election, but he had replied that any ordinary worker of the ruling party was capable of winning it. Now, it is for all to see an ordinary worker of which party has won the election,” he stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/baroda-bypoll-result-no-trust-vote-against-govt-hooda-168835
10-11-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Nepal man 'strangulates' live-in partner at Gurugram; hides her body in blankets||A Nepal resident allegedly murdered his live-in partner, and hid her body in-between blankets before bolting.The couple lived as tenants at a retired sub-inspector house in Ashok Vihar area.An FIR has been registered at Sector 5 police station, but the accused is still at large.According to the police, the deceased has been identified as 41-year-old, Naina Sunawar— a native of West Bengal. She was living with a chowmein seller, a Nepal resident, Bharat alias Sagar Thappa.Around a month back, they started to live on the first floor of the retired sub-inspector of Gurugram police house, and Thappa went missing a week back.The house was locked, and the house owner assumed, that they had gone out of the station, but on Tuesday morning when an unbearable stench came from the first-floor, the landlord called the police.A police team arrived, and opened the door after breaking the lock. They found the body of the woman wrapped in a blanket.Another cloth was found wrapped over her neck, and the police said, that she was first strangulated to death, and then covered with the blanket.On the complaint of the house owner, an FIR was registered against Bharat alias Sagar Thapa under sections 302 (murder), 201 (hiding the evidence) of IPC at Sector 5 police station.“We kept the body in the mortuary and trying to identify her family. The suspect is still missing, but the probe is on”, said sub-inspector Devi Charan, the investigating officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nepal-man-strangulates-live-in-partner-at-gurugram-hides-her-body-in-blankets-168822
10-11-2020||Noida (UP)||Air quality improves but still 'severe' in Noida, Ghaziabad, Faridabad, Gurgaon||The air quality improved slightly but remained 'severe' in Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad, Faridabad and Gurgaon in the National Capital Region (NCR) on Tuesday, according to a government agency.Concentration of major air pollutants PM 2.5 and PM 10 remained high in the five immediate neighbours of Delhi, according to the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.The average 24-hour AQI at 4 pm on Tuesday was 455 in Noida, 448 in Faridabad, 444 in Ghaziabad, 436 in Greater Noida and 427 in Gurgaon, according to the CPCB's Sameer app.On Monday it was 482 in both Gurgaon as well as Ghaziabad followed by 478 in Greater Noida, 477 in Noida and 456 in Faridabad.PM 2.5 and PM 10 were the prominent pollutants in these satellite cities of Delhi, according to the app.The CPCB states that an AQI in the 'severe' category "affects" healthy people and "seriously impacts" those with existing diseases.The AQI for each city is based on the average value of all stations there.Noida, Faridabad, Ghaziabad have four stations each, while Gurgaon has three and Greater Noida two, according to the app. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/air-quality-improves-but-still-severe-in-noida-ghaziabad-faridabad-gurgaon-168805
10-11-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Wanted gangster eliminated in encounter in Gurugram||Rohit alias Lambu (23), a notorious member of Kaushal gang, carrying a reward of Rs 50,000 allegedly involved in the murder of Faridabad Congress leader Vikas Chaudhary was eliminated in an encounter by Gurugram police in the wee hours of Tuesday.His associate, Satender Pathak alias Gudda (30), also a wanted gangster, was shot in the leg and arrested.In ten rounds of cross-firing between the police and criminals, the head of crime unit Sector 17, Inspector Narender Chauhan, had a narrow escape as a bullet hit his bullet proof jacket. Both the accused were working for gangster Kaushal and were also in touch with him even in Hisar jail where Kaushal is currently lodged.Kaushal according to police was in touch with his gang members through one Saini, a member of Rajesh Bharti gang, said police.A stolen Swift car, two country-made pistols and a live cartridge have been recovered from the possession of the accused. An FIR has been registered at Kherki Daula police station.According to the police, it was around 5 am today, when these two criminals were travelling in a Swift car.On a tipoff, Inspector Narender Chauhan intercepted them near the Bar Gujjar-Taurau Road check-point.It was around 4:30 am when the police team signalled them to stop but the criminals hit the police barricade and tried to flee.“When their car was stuck they started firing and tried to flee. They fired at the police party and our crime unit inspector narrowly escaped. In the crossfire, both criminals received bullet injuries on their legs. They were rushed to hospital where Rohit alias Lambu succumbed while Pathak is being treated. We will be interrogating him soon,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, Crime.Sangwan added that deceased Rohit alias Lambu was the prime accused in the murder of Congress leader Vikas Chaudhary who was shot dead in Faridabad last June.A reward of Rs 25,000 each had been announced by Faridabad and Gurugram police on their heads. The arrested accused Pathak revealed that they used to work for the Kaushal gang.Police said that they were involved in the Swift car robbery in Pataudi, firing at a house in Jamalpur village last year and also shot at two car owners during a robbery attempt.“The accused were trying to commit some crime but they were caught by our team. The probe is on and we are trying to identify their other associates,” added ACP, Crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wanted-gangster-eliminated-in-encounter-in-gurugram-168803
10-11-2020||Gurugram||28-year-old Gurugram woman 'commits suicide' over dowry demand||A 28-year-old woman in Gurugram allegedly killed herself and her body was found hanging from a ceiling fan in her paying guest (PG) accommodation here, police said on Tuesday.The PG caretaker at Sector-14 reported the incident to the police.According to the police, the deceased has been identified as Annu Srivastava, a native of Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh. She was a manager in a private company in Gurugram. The woman used to live alone.The mother of the victim, Sudha Srivastava, has filed the police complaint against the fiance, Sudhanshu Srivastava, for abetment to suicide. The accused also hails from Uttar Pradesh and used to work in a private firm in Gurugram as a software engineer.The complainant stated that Annu and Sudhanshu had known each other for eight years. With the consent of the family, both were to be married on December 11."The marriage preparations are going on but Sudhanshu and his mother Geeta Shrivastava were demanding gold jewellery as dowry from Annu and threatened to cancel the marriage if their demands were not met."They repeatedly threatened to break up the alliance. Being upset, she ended her life. Besides this, the accused had also abused the victim on several occasions," the victim's mother told the police."On Monday Sudhanshu had called Annu but the calls went unanswered. He informed the victim's friend Laxmi to check with Annu, why she was not answering his phone calls. When Laxmi reached the victim's PG, she found her hanging from a ceiling fan inside her room. She immediately informed the PG caretaker, who reported the matter to the police," Subhash Boken, spokesperson of the Gurugram police said.The body was handed over to the family on Monday evening."A case of abetment to suicide has been registered against the man on the complaint filed by the deceased's mother at Sector-14 police station. Further investigation is on," he said.IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/28-year-old-gurugram-woman-commits-suicide-over-dowry-demand-168746
10-11-2020||Chandigarh||Congress's Indu Raj Narwal wins Baroda bypoll in Haryana||Congress candidate Indu Raj Narwal on Tuesday defeated his nearest rival and BJP nominee Yogeshwar Dutt in the Baroda Assembly seat of Haryana with a margin of over 10,000 votes, said officials.The opposition Congress has retained the Baroda seat.This is the second time that Olympian wrestler Dutt has lost the polls from this constituency.Dutt had lost the 2019 Assembly poll by about 4,800 votes to Congress candidate Krishan Hooda.The seat fell vacant in April following the death of Hooda, who had won it thrice in the 2009, 2014 and 2019 Assembly polls.Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja said that with their decision, the people of Baroda had given a “befitting reply” to “anti-farmer and anti-labour forces”.“The victory of Indu Raj Narwal is a win of farmers and labourers. I assure residents of Baroda that the Congress will live up to their expectations,” tweeted Selja. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congresss-indu-raj-narwal-wins-baroda-bypoll-in-haryana-168734
10-11-2020||---||Haryana decision on revision of fee structure for MBBS draws flak||Chandigarh, November 9The state government’’s new policy on the revision of fee structure for MBBS course in government medical colleges has come under criticism from different quarters, with the Opposition Congress threatening to move court on the issue.Terming it a “Tughlaqi farmaan”, Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala alleged that the Manohar Lal Khattar-led government’s decision to revise the fee structure for MBBS course would “shatter” the dreams of many aspiring children of poor parents of become doctors.On November 6, the state government had brought a policy regarding incentivising the doctors to opt for Haryana Government medical service in the public health institution or government medical colleges.Under this policy, a candidate selected for an MBBS degree course shall have to execute an annual bond of Rs 10 lakh, which shall be paid at the start of each calendar year.Giving the option of facilitating an education loan for the bond amount to the candidate, the state government shall repay the installment of the loan in case the candidate gets employment with the public health institution after completing the course. The government would pay the loan amount if the doctor serves the government institution for seven years, otherwise he would have to pay the loan amount if he leaves the service in between.The candidate can also pay the bond amount and free himself. The total fee for the over four-year course is pegged at Rs 3,71,280. The total bond amount comes to Rs 36,28,720.Meanwhile, parents of aspiring medical students submitted a memorandum to Dadri MLA Sombir Sangwan, alleging that the new policy would encourage the migration of meritorious Haryana students to other states.A parent said while the meritorious poor and middle class students would be put to disadvantage, the policy would favour students from rich families placed much lower in the merit list.Surjewala said currently, the fee for MBBS course in private medical colleges ranged between Rs 15 to 18 lakh and these colleges would further increase their fee after the government decision. Besides, the “anti-youth” policy would force students to seek admission in the private colleges, he added.NSUI to protest fee hikeThe state unit of National Students Union of India (NSUI) has condemned the hike in MBBS fee and announced to hold protests against it at all medical colleges.Holding a press conference today, state NSUI president Divyanshu Budhiraja said the meritorious students would not be able to fulfill their dream of doing MBBS in the BJP-JJP misrule, because the students would now be forced to pay Rs 10 lakh per annum as bond amount along with the enhanced fees.“The government has resorted to a weapon called bond to increase this fee, while in reality it is a hike. Naming it a bond is fooling the parents,” he claimed.“The government has also made it clear that it is not obliged to provide employment to all MBBS graduates,” he said. After 5 years, the loan of Rs 45 lakh will be due from the remaining students, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-decision-on-revision-of-fee-structure-for-mbbs-draws-flak-168562
10-11-2020||Ravinder Saini||Covid takes toll on earthen diya business, sales down by 50%||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, November 9Covid-19 has hit the business of earthen diyas (lamps) hard as the district recorded a drop of 50 per cent in their sale this festival season, as compared to last year, leaving potters worried.Though many potters had made a large number of diyas and stocked these during the lockdown to fulfill the demand at the time of Diwali, they have not received the expected number of orders.“More than 50 per cent of our customers from Maharashtra and Gujarat did not place orders this year as they were apprehensive about the sale of diyas following the pandemic. We had prepared diyas in a large quantity during the lockdown to ensure its instant supply on getting the orders during the season but the plan did not work,” said Inderpal Kohal, a potter.Kohal claimed that he and his brother had supplied more than one crore diyas last year but only 50 lakh diyas have been supplied so far this year. “Many of our customers belong to Maharashtra and Gujarat and they used to buy diyas by taking loans. This time, they did not want to take the risk due to the prevailing uncertainty in the Covid-affected market,” he added.Sadhu Ram, another potter, said not even a single order had been received from Kolkata, Mumbai, Jaipur and Surat cities this season, where he had been supplying lakhs of diyas every season for the past several years. “We are now finding it hard to even sell the ready stock. Only local traders are approaching us for diyas, that too in small quantities,” he rued.Ram Lal, another potter in the city, said: “We used to earn good every season but this time, we are unable to even cover our input costs. Every year, the orders for diyas started coming in March and we used to send all deliveries a month before the festival season. But the pandemic has ruined our business this time,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-takes-toll-on-earthen-diya-business-sales-down-by-50-168563
10-11-2020||---||Prof Som Nath Sachdeva to head KU||Kurukshetra, November 9After a wait of more than seven months, Prof Som Nath Sachdeva has been appointed as the new Vice Chancellor of Kurukshetra University (KU) on Monday. Sachdeva has 33 years of administrative, teaching, research and consultancy experience.In an order issued, Governor and KU Chancellor Satyadeo Narain Arya has appointed Prof Som Nath Sachdeva of the department of civil engineering, NIT, Kurukshetra, as the new VC of the university for a period of three years. Sachdeva is likely to take charge on Tuesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/prof-som-nath-sachdeva-to-head-ku-168564
10-11-2020||Parveen Arora||Farm fires continue unabated||Tribune News ServiceKarnal/Kaithal, November 9Despite efforts to raise awareness not to burn stubble, farmers in the state continue to violate norms and are burning stubble, due to which the number of farm fires is increasing by the day.358 CASES ON SUNDAY ALONEHaryana has witnessed 7,712 cases of stubble burning this season between September 25 and November 8. On Sunday alone, 358 stubble-burning cases were reported across the state.With 1,418 cases, Kaithal is leading the tally, followed by Fatehabad (1,260) and Karnal (1,020). Kurukshetra witnessed 831 cases, followed by Jind (816), Ambala (793), Yamunanagar (476), Sirsa (352), Hisar (241), Sonepat (127), Palwal (113), Panipat (80), Rohtak (79), Panchkula (33), Jhajjar (23), Bhiwani (17), Gurugram (8), Faridabad (8), Charkhi Dadri (5), Mahendragarh (4), Nuh (4) and Rewari (4).Karam Chand, Deputy Director, Agriculture, Kaithal, said of the 1,418 cases reported by the Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC), 696 were not traced as per the GPS locations given to them.“We have been making all-out efforts to check stubble-burning incidents. A total of 31 cases have been registered and a fine of Rs 15 lakh collected from 595 violators,” he added.Teams of various departments had traced 91 fire incidents and imposed fine. Aditya Dabas, Deputy Director, Agriculture, Karnal, said almost 80 per cent paddy had been harvested in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farm-fires-continue-unabated-168565
10-11-2020||Gurugram||Rs 5 lakh reward for info on highway murderers||Having failed to get any major leads on the highway robbers who shot a woman MNC executive, the Gurugram police have now announced a reward of Rs 5 lakh in the case.Around 11.15 pm on Tuesday last week, the car of MNC executive Pooja Sharma (26), a native of Chhattisgarh, was intercepted by the accused while she was on a long drive with a friend. They pulled out a gun asking her to lower the window pane but she did not, so they shot her and fled. She succumbed to the injuries on Thursday. An FIR of attempt to murder was registered at the Sector 65 police station in which Section 302 (murder) of the IPC has been added today.Three police teams are investigating into the case. They have got CCTV footage from the area where the incident took place and the experts have started preparing sketches of the suspects based on the footage.However, groping in the dark so far, Police Commissioner KK Rao today announced a reward of Rs 5 lakh to anyone providing information leading to the arrest of the three unidentified robbers.“A reward of Rs 5 lakh has been announced for providing information leading to arrest of the three unidentified robbers. Our teams are investigating into the matter with some technical aspects and we hope that the accused will be nabbed at the earliest,” Rao said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-5-lakh-reward-for-info-on-highway-murderers-168566
10-11-2020||Ambala||Two killed in road mishap||Two persons were killed and three injured when the car they were travelling in collided with a truck in Mullana on Sunday night. The deceased were identified as Mohit and Anil of Yamunanagar.Vivek Kumar of Jagadhri stated that he went with his friends Arun, Vijay, Mohit, and Anil to Kalpi village to attend a wedding.He said around 10 pm, when they were on their way back, a truck collided with the car head on near the Hemamajra curve. The truck driver fled the spot. The injured were taken to a hospital, where Mohit and Anil were declared dead. The police registered a case. The bodies were handed over to their kin after postmortem examination. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-killed-in-road-mishap-168567
10-11-2020||Geetanjali Gayatri||Battle of nerves, stakes high||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 9With counting of votes for the Baroda bypoll slated for Tuesday, the stakes are high not only for the ruling BJP-JJP alliance and the Congress, but also for their leaders for different reasons.The BJP and JJP, which came together post election, are looking at wresting the seat from the Congress since they are in the government.Though the outcome has no bearing on the numbers game in the 90-member House, where the BJP is comfortably placed after joining hands with the JJP, a defeat will reflect poorly on the alliance after one year of being in power, especially since the entire top brass was camping in Baroda right through the campaign.Besides, in a caste-ridden election, the outcome will be a measure of the sway the Jat-non-Jat alliance of the BJP and JJP has. While state BJP chief OP Dhankar is a Jat, the poll will gauge the impact of the JJP’s Dushyant Chautala, also the Deputy Chief Minister in Manohar Lal Khattar government, among voters, essentially because the party and its leaders have marketed the Jat card all along.“We will win because there is no match for Yogeshwar Dutt, while the Congress candidate was nowhere in the picture and the leaders were asking for votes in their name. We fought the poll on our development agenda,” Dhankar said.While the outcome will decide whether or not the public is with the Congress stand on the farm laws and other issues of unrest among various sections of society under the BJP rule that the party raked up right through the campaign, it will also be a reflection on CLP leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s dominance in the area, especially since he and his MP-son Deepender Hooda managed the entire campaign from the word go.Maintaining that the Congress would win the seat, the CLP leader said the Congress performance during the 10-year rule under his leadership and the failure of the BJP in the last six years would clinch the seat for the party.Despite contentions of a win by both parties, the verdict in the Baroda bypoll, whichever way it goes, will not just be about the parties vying with each other, but also about the leaders and the clout they carry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/battle-of-nerves-stakes-high-168568
10-11-2020||---||Hooda hits back at Speaker for disallowing voting on farm laws||Chandigarh, November 9Former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Monday hit back at Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta over not allowing voting on the Centre’s three farm laws during the session.Voice suppressedThe Speaker rejected most of the amendments and proposals made by the Congress. Also, it seemed that the government had called the session just to settle its legislative business. - Bhupinder Singh Hooda, LOPIn a press statement, Hooda said, “The Opposition was consistently seeking voting on the three farm laws. It would have shown the people backing these laws and those siding with the farmers. But the Speaker repeatedly refused voting, citing Rule 184, which was unfortunate. It seems that he does not fully understand the rules, as number 183 precede 184.”He said it was clear in the rules that the Speaker could get voting under Rule 183, if he wished.“We demanded that either an amendment be made to the three farm laws to include provisions guaranteeing the MSP or a separate law should be brought, which will make it mandatory for private firms to buy at the MSP and punishment be given out to those who purchased the crops below that price. But none of our demands were accepted,” he added.“The way the voice of the Opposition was suppressed in the House, it’s clear that the government didn’t have the answers to our questions,” Hooda claimed.He said even the last session was called for a day only and the government ran away from answering on important issues, by making an excuse for Covid. “This time too, the duration of the session was kept for just two days to avoid discussing issues like farm laws, MSP on crops, liquor and registry scams, rising unemployment, PTI, increasing crime and deaths due to spurious alcohol,” Hooda added.“If the legislators wanted to raise their voice inside the House, they were named and thrown out. Despite this, if the Speaker says the proceedings of the House were in accordance with the rules then it is his opinion, the Opposition does not agree with this,” Hooda said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hooda-hits-back-at-speaker-for-disallowing-voting-on-farm-laws-168569
10-11-2020||---||Counting of votes today||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/counting-of-votes-today-168570
10-11-2020||Gurugram||Retail store executive ends life||The regional manager of an online retail site committed suicide at Sector 14 here today.Identified as Anu (28), the deceased was found hanging from a ceiling fan in her PG room. Her mother, Sudha Srivastav of Kanpur, has accused Anu’s fiancé for abetting her suicide by demanding dowry.She said Anu and softerware engineer Sudhanshu Srivastav of UP were to get married next month. “Recently, Sudhanshu asked Anu that the family had a tradition of giving gold necklace and bangles and that his mother, Geeta Srivastav, threatened to break the marriage if the demand was not met.”Anu didn’t take any calls from her family yesterday, which later reached her PG, only to find her body hanging.A case has been registered against Sudhanshu under Section 304A of the IPC. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/retail-store-executive-ends-life-168571
10-11-2020||Pradeep Sharma||Govt moots housing policy for elderly||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 9The state government is considering a “retirement housing policy” to cater to the state’s elderly population, an official said on Monday.Safety mechanism“With an ever-increasing ageing population and the increasing trend of nuclear families, there is an emergent need for development of commercially-viable and professionally-managed retirement housing,” said Town and Country Planning Special Secretary K Makrand Pandurang about the draft policy.Pandurang said the senior citizens living in such retirement projects were likely to be vulnerable to harassment, breach of contract and violation of their basic rights by the developers operating these projects. “Hence, there is need for a policy for regulated development of retirement housing projects to address the needs of the senior citizens, who are able and willing to pay for such accommodation, services and facilities,” Pandurang said.Under the policy, only retirement home projects registered with the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) can be sold. The draft policy says such projects must have an elaborate security mechanism inside the residential complex, including medical and fitness facilities, safety measures such as CCTVs, senior citizen-friendly kitchens and bathrooms and ramps and staircases.It will also be mandatory for the promoter to file an annual report containing the list of occupants and facilities provided to the Monitoring Committee chaired by the Deputy Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-moots-housing-policy-for-elderly-168572
10-11-2020||Chandigarh||7 deaths; 2,427 cases in Haryana||With 2,427 fresh Covid cases, the overall tally in the state went up to 1.85 lakh on Monday. Seven deaths were reported — three from Fatehabad, two from Sirsa and one each from Gurugram and Charkhi Dadri.So far, 1,919 deaths had been reported in the state, with 1,689 of these patients having comorbidities. The fatality rate was 1.04 per cent. A total of 2,151 patients recovered in the state in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of recovered cases to 1.67 lakh.The maximum fresh cases were reported from Gurugram (697), followed by Faridabad (570), Hisar (283), Rohtak (110), Sirsa (97) and Rewari (96). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/7-deaths-2-427-cases-in-haryana-168573
10-11-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Dhabas supply points for ENA: Probe||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, November 9The preliminary investigation into the hooch death case has brought out that extra neutral alcohol (ENA), which is used to manufacture sanitisers, perfumes and medicines, reached illicit liquor manufacturers via dhabas situated on national highways.Inquiry report awaited, says DC To unearth the supply network of illicit liquor manufacturers, the Sonepat police have approached their counterparts in Rajasthan.The Rajasthan Police had recently unearthed an illegal liquor manufacturing unit in Bhiwadi of Alwar district. An Ambala connection was found in that case, sources say.The spurious liquor has claimed 48 lives in Sonepat and Panipat districts.The sources say drivers of ENA-laden tankers, which started from Bhind in Madhya Pradesh, supplied the raw material to dhaba owners en route. Dhaba owners, on their part, sold the ENA to illicit liquor manufacturers.The investigation has brought out that people involved in manufacturing illicit liquor had a nexus with dhaba owners.It has also been found that some tankers seized by the Rajasthan Police were owned by an Ambala man. A man from Jind and another from Chandigarh were also named in that case, the sources say.Superintendent of Police (SP) Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said one of arrested accused, Kishor of Bihar, had admitted to having supplied the essence, a concentrated liquid which gives flavour to liquor, and empty bottles to illicit liquor manufacturers. He arranged the material from a factory at the Bawana industrial area in Delhi, the SP said.“We are in touch with the Rajasthan Police. We have got vital clues on the ENA supply. The details cannot be disclosed at this stage because the inquiry is under way,” the SP added.Besides Kishor, the police have nabbed Ankit and Mohit, owners of an illegal liquor unit in Kharkhoda which was unearthed on Thursday last week.The police had recovered 395 quarters of spurious liquor, 8,800 empty quarters, a machine, fake labels and holograms and other material from the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dhabas-supply-points-for-ena-probe-168575
10-11-2020||---||One more dies of illicit liquor in Faridabad, toll 3||Faridabad, November 9Spurious liquor has claimed the life of one more man in the district, taking the toll to three. Jind resident Jasbir (30), who worked at a fuel station, died in hospital on Sunday night.Besides, five men, who fell sick after drinking spurious liquor, are under treatment.Although the police have received complaints regarding the death of two men, they are yet to register an FIR.The bottle from which Jasbir drank liquor had been recovered and it had been sent for forensic examination, a police official said.Earlier last week, two men identified as Roop Lal and Krishan Kumar from Faridabad’s Machhghar village had died after reportedly drinking illicit liquor. They were among four men who had consumed spurious liquor on November 3.Meanwhile, a man was arrested on Sunday for allegedly operating an illegal liquor vend in the district’s Seekri village. In another incident, the police recovered 138 bottles of illicit liquor from a private vehicle in Palwal district on Sunday night and arrested a man identified as Pradeep, a native of Gurugram.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/one-more-dies-of-illicit-liquor-in-faridabad-toll-3-168576
10-11-2020||Karnal||Yogendra Yadav urges farmers to join Delhi protest on Nov 26, 27||Hundreds of farmers belonging to various organisations took out a protest march on Monday against the three farm laws. They demanded that the government abolish these laws.The farmers were led by the Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sangharsh Samiti working group member Yogendra Yadav. He condemned the move of the Union Government and urged the farmers to join the protest in Delhi on November 26 and 27. “Farmers of the country will participate in a protest in Delhi against these acts,” he maintained and threatened to continue the protest against the acts.“These acts are against the farmers and should be rolled back. These Bills have been passed to provide benefits to certain capitalists of the country,” Yadav said while addressing the gathering.Earlier, the protesters tried to gherao the Chief Minister’s camp office but were stopped by the police. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yogendra-yadav-urges-farmers-to-join-delhi-protest-on-nov-26-27-168577
10-11-2020||---||Congress: Khattar govt ignoring peasants||Ambala, November 9All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary and Punjab state affairs in charge Harish Rawat today criticised the Haryana Government for not protecting the rights of farmers under the pressure of the Central Government.While speaking to mediapersons during his stay in Ambala while on way to Punjab, Rawat said: “The Haryana Government has completely failed to protect the rights of farmers. At a time when the community is struggling, the government has been raking up issues to divert attention from the real problems. The foremost responsibility of a political party, if it claims to be the well wisher of farmers, is to resolve the issues that the community has been facing. The Haryana Government has failed to focus on the farmers’ issue.”“The Centre should have a dialogue with farmers and get the movement of trains restored in Punjab. Why is it not talking with farmers, are they from Pakistan? Not all tracks are blocked and the trains should be run wherever possible. The farmers had deferred their agitation on the request of the Punjab Government. The Central Government should have taken the advantage and resolved the issue. Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh has taken a very mature step. He has not allowed things to go out of control. The government should talk and get the tracks cleared,” he stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-khattar-govt-ignoring-peasants-168578
10-11-2020||Saurabh Malik---||Hold officials accountable for arbitrary decisions: HC||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, November 9 In a scathing indictment of public servants acting capriciously while distributing the state’s largesse, the High Court has ruled that it will become difficult to rein them in unless they are held accountable for their patently arbitrary and unconscionable decisions. The observations by Justice Anil Kshetarpal came in a case where a fuel station allottee was “pitted against the wife of a politician, who was a former minister in the state government”. The allottee, Meena Yadav, had moved the High Court against Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited and other respondents for quashing a communication dated August 17, 2019, declaring her ineligible for allotment of retail outlet dealership. Her application was rejected on the grounds that the site offered by her on the Rewari-Narnaul road did not meet the NHAI norms since there was a break in the median at a distance of 68 metres. In the meantime, a fresh draw of lots was held and the wife of a former minister and MLA was held successful. The Bench was told that the respondent was powerful in every sense and as such, an illegal median was created overnight to create an excuse to disqualify her. Justice Kshetarpal pointed out that members of a land evaluation committee were at least expected to grant an opportunity of hearing before declaring the petitioner ineligible and verify the facts from the NHAI, but they chose to bypass the procedure. Quashing the communication, Justice Kshetarpal asserted that the Constitution’s vision of justice provided that the “state shall not deny to any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws within the territory of India” and its basis structure provided that there would be no discrimination. Justice Kshetarpal added that fundamental rights were listed in Part III of the Constitution, which started with Article 12 defining “the state”, which included not only the Central and state governments, but also took within its sweep all local and other institutions controlled by the governments. “With the authority and power to decide comes a  big responsibility to decide correctly. Unless the institutions hold  such persons, who have been conferred such authority, accountable for  their patently arbitrary and unconscionable decisions, it becomes difficult to rein them in,” Justice Kshetarpal added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hold-officials-accountable-for-arbitrary-decisions-hc-168579
10-11-2020||---||Spurious liquor deaths: SIT formed by Anil Vij holds first meeting||Chandigarh, November 9A Special Investigation Team (SIT), which was constituted by Home Minister Anil Vij on Sunday to probe into the death of 48 men caused by spurious liquor, held its first meeting here on Monday.Shrikant Jadhav, ADGP, State Narcotic Control Bureau, who is heading the SIT, presided over the meeting attended by Ambala Range IGP Y Puran Kumar, Kurukshetra SP Rajesh Duggal, Karnal SP Ganga Ram Punia, Nuh SP Narender Bijarniya, Panipat SP Manisha Choudhary and Sonepat SP Jashandeep.Sources said the SIT collected copies of all FIRs registered in Panipat and Sonepat districts, which have been hit by the hooch tragedy.The SIT has been mandated to inquire into the source of the spurious liquor. It is empowered to seek the assistance of any officer, be it from the IPS cadre or the HPS, during the course of investigation.The SIT has been asked to submit its report in 15 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/spurious-liquor-deaths-sit-formed-by-anil-vij-holds-first-meeting-168580
10-11-2020|| ---||Two held for ‘cruelty to animals’||Palwal, November 9 The police have booked and arrested two persons in connection with the alleged incident of cruelty to animals in the district.  The accused identified as Junaid of Nuh district and Guddu of Rajasthan’s Jaipur district were caught carrying 37 buffaloes in a truck, which came from Rajasthan and was headed to Dasna in Uttar Pradesh. A spokesperson of the police department said the truck was intercepted near Maheshpur village after a tip-off. He said the buffaloes were being transported in a cruel manner and were rescued and sent to a gaushala. The accused booked under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act had been arrested, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-held-for-cruelty-to-animals-168581
10-11-2020||---||13 days on, no paddy buying in Karnal||Karnal, November 9 Scores of arhtiyas on Monday approached DC Nishant Kumar Yadav as paddy was not being procured from the past 13 days at Karnal grain market. The arhtiyas demanded that the process be started with immediate effect at the grain market.  Besides, they apprised the DC that the FIR registered against the market committee secretary, eight gate operators and arhtiyas for issuance of 294 ‘fake gate passes’ was not feasible. They handed over a memorandum to the DC in this regard. Karnal Arhtiyas Association president Rajnish Chaudhary led the delegation and said the procurement was stalled at the Karnal grain market on October 29 without prior notice to the association.  He said the FIR which was registered by the police on the recommendation of the Karnal SDM was not feasible as the gate passes were issued on the request of farmers and arhtiyas and the portal was also not working properly. “We are against the issuance of any fake gate passes, but in this case, no illegal practice was adopted,” he said. DC Yadav said the agencies had stopped procurement following the investigation on a complaint regarding issuance of fake gate passes.  In the initial inquiry, the Karnal SDM found that around 294 online gate passes were issued for around 28,000 quintals of paddy without actual arrival of PR paddy at mandi gates. He said the process would resume on Tuesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/13-days-on-no-paddy-buying-in-karnal-168582
10-11-2020||Kurukshetra||Meet on communication engineering||Global mathematics webinarRohtak: The department of mathematics at Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) organised an international webinar on 'Mathematical models, artificial intelligence and pandemic responses'. Keynote speaker Prof Arni SR Srinivasa Rao, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta University, focused on the role of artificial intelligence in the identification of Covid patients. He said the convergence of mathematics, statistics, computer science with medical sciences could be helpful for advanced research during the pandemic.KU Profs in world rankingsKurukshetra: Emeritus Prof A Pal from the department of chemistry and Prof Rajneesh Kumar from the department of mathematics of Kurukshetra University have made it to the coveted list of the world's top scientists. The list has been published by the Stanford University, US, in October 2020. While Emeritus Prof Pal has been ranked 448th in the world ranking of chemical engineers, Prof Rajneesh stands at the 897th position among the top mathematicians. Prof A Pal has published 224 research papers in national and international journals and Prof Rajneesh has 525 research papers to his credit in reputed journals. KU Vice-Chancellor Dr Nita Khanna congratulated Professor A Pal and Prof Rajneesh Kumar for the noteworthy achievements.MDU introduces three coursesRohtak: Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) under the aegis of Chaudhry Ranbir Singh Institute of Social and Economic Change (CRISC) has introduced three new academic programmes from the session 2020-2021. CRISC director Prof Inderjeet said online applications had been invited for one-year diploma programme in gender studies, one year diploma programme in heritage and culture and six-month certificate programme in academic writing. The details are available on the MDU website. The last date for the submission of online application form is November 16.Scholar prepares electrode materialPanipat: The chemistry department of Deen Bandhu Chhotu Ram University of Science and Technology, Murthal, has prepared a new electrode material for making fast and efficient super capacitors. Rinki Malik, a PHD scholar, has prepared an electrode comprising polypyrrole and carbon quantum dots as a new material under the supervision of Prof Suman Lata and Rajender Singh Malik of the department. Vice-Chancellor Prof Rajendra Anayat congratulated the entire team. Dr Malik said the material was tested for capacitance, scan rate, mass loading, power and energy where the capacitance was 1073.5 F/g with 1.4 g/cm2. This value is quite higher than the other similar electrodes prepared for these purposes.Talk on lockdown impactFaridabad: The BBA and business economics department of the DAV Institute of Management organised a webinar on the "Impact of lockdown on Indian economy". Speakers, including Amita Rana, associate professor, CISKMV, Pundri; and Kamal Agarwal, associate professor, SRM University, expressed their views on the macro-economic challenges India faces and covered the fiscal measures the government has put in place. They reviewed the current scenario, emerging trends and predictions looking into 2021 and beyond, both from a general and sector-specific perspective. The query handling session was managed by Shweta Baghel under the guidance of Dr Sunita Bishnoi.Special lecture organisedRohtak: A special lecture on the topic "Exploring happiness in this fad-filled world" was organised by the Dean, Students' Welfare Office, of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU). Prof. Shalini Singh of the department of psychology and director, alumni relations, said: "Happiness is a choice we make in life. A positive mindset, adaptability to prevailing circumstances, self- motivation helps in achieving happiness." IMSAR director and Dean, Students' Welfare, Prof Raj Kumar said the DSW office was organising a special lecture series on health, hygiene and wellness to motivate the students during the Covid pandemic. Faculty member of IMSAR Dr Sapna conducted the online special lecture programme. Invited speaker Prof Shalini Singh answered the queries of the students after her lecture. Students of university teaching department(s) took part in the online lecture programme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/meet-on-communication-engineering-168709
10-11-2020||The level of pollution in the state is increasing at an alarming rate. As per a report by the Central Pollution Control Board||Alarming rise in pollution levels||Subhash C Tanejam, GurugramMonkey menace in Panchkula sectorTHE increasing monkey menace in Sector 8, Panchkula, is posing a big threat to the residents. The fear of monkeys keeps people indoors, as the troops come in waves. The menace is adding to the residents' woes as the city already has many challenges to face such as stray dogs. Sadly, the MC has miserably failed to control these fast-growing problems. The most obvious question that arises among the residents is that on whom should they fall back upon in such a worrisome circumstance? The concerned authorities must look into the issue immediately and get the needful done.SK Gupta, PanchkulaCelebrate brotherhood this Diwali, shun crackersWith number of Covid cases still on the surge in the state, and pollution levels too rising at an alarming rate, people should resolve to observe a firecracker-free Diwali this year. In the present situation, people should avoid planning any get-togethers or parties in large groups and should think of some quality ways to celebrate this Diwali with sharing and caring nature. Focus should also be laid on ways to mark the auspicious festival as a day of giving and forgiving and not as a way of show of wealth or sycophancy. There is no need of race for giving gifts, thereby resulting into heavy rush on roads and increasing the chances of spread of Covid pandemic. Why have we already started hearing the sound of bursting of crackers? Were farm fires not enough? Why are we adding to the pollution, and causing discomfort to animals and birds? People should act responsibly and change the ways to observe festivities. Let it be a day of spreading brotherhood. At the end of the day, Diwali should leave us with a happy and kind heart.Col RD Singh (retd), Ambala canttWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/alarming-rise-in-pollution-levels-168710
10-11-2020||Mansa||Sweets smuggled from Haryana seized in Mansa||After the seizure of liquor and drugs, the authorities have now recovered a large quantity of adulterated sweets in Mansa district which were being smuggled in a car from the Jakhal area of Haryana. The seized sweets include 375 kg patisa, 21 kg dhoda and 17 kg barfi.As per information, a Health Department team led by District Health Officer (DHO) Gurpreet Singh and Food Safety Officer Seema Rani, besides Kularia police post in charge Avtar Singh, nabbed a driver, Paras, a resident of Jakhal, while smuggling adulterated sweets in a car at Kularia village in the Bareta area of Mansa following a tip-off on Sunday.Kularia police post in charge Avtar Singh said: “The individual used to bring sweets from Jakhal and supply it to Mansa and nearby areas. The police are trying to identify the buyers.”Sale of spurious ghee, sweets and food items has been a perennial problem in the region. Despite raids by the the Food and Drugs Administration, unhygienic sweets are being offloaded in markets during Diwali. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sweets-smuggled-from-haryana-seized-in-mansa-168451
10-11-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||Days before Diwali, Haryana air ‘hazardous’||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, November 9Diwali is still a couple of days away, but the air quality is already going from bad to worse in Haryana.Heavy smog engulfed Faridabad city, the state’s industrial hub, this morning as the particulate matter (PM) 2.5 touched 463. Ten other cities — Manesar, Dharuhera, Gurugram, Bahadurgarh, Sonepat, Rohtak, Bhiwani, Fatehabad, Hisar and Jind — too recorded “hazardous” air quality (between 411 and 484), according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s app Sameer, which provides hourly updates.“The smog that has engulfed the region is unlikely to go away soon,” said an official of the Pollution Control Board here. The air quality index (AQI) 60 or less is considered “safe” and above 400 is hazardous.Attributing the condition to pollutants and fog due to low temperature and poor wind speed, Regional Officer, Pollution Control Board, Smita Kanodia said the situation would improve only with rainfall or if the wind speed increased. Stubble burning worsened the situation too, she added.Meanwhile, sources said the Haryana Government would have to comply with the NGT order on cracker ban. In a flip-flop, the state had announced a 2-hour relaxation in the ban yesterday after completely banning crackers on November 6.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/days-before-diwali-haryana-air-hazardous-168493
10-11-2020||Chandigarh||Don’t lower your guard against pandemic, warns PGI Director Jagat Ram||Amid a resurge in Covid cases, PGI Director Prof Jagat Ram, in a statement released today, warned city residents against lowering their guard and adhere to “Covid-appropriate behaviour”.“With the Covid positive cases rising for the past one week, there are chances of another spike in view of the festive season, winters and increasing pollution levels,” said Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI.“Respiratory viruses such as SARS, influenza, show seasonal variance with cases spiking in winters. So, there is a possibility that the coronavirus infections might also rise in the coming months. Furthermore, low humidity promotes evaporation of viral particles and aerosol formations, which can increase the airborne spread of disease,” he said.He said: “Rise in the pollution level in winters is lethal for respiratory health. If one contracts Covid now, it’s likely to be more severe. Till the time a vaccine is out, wearing a proper mask, following hand hygiene and social distancing are important.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dont-lower-your-guard-against-pandemic-warns-pgi-director-jagat-ram-168467
