14-11-2020||Chandigarh||On visit to Shimla, Haryana CM Khattar gets unwell, undergoes tests at local hospital||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar was taken to a Shimla hospital for a health check up on Saturday after he did not have a proper sleep in the night, doctors said.Khattar, who is on a visit to Shimla, underwent some tests at Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital and all reports were fine, they said."There is no problem,” Khattar told reporters after coming out from the hospital.Asked how he was feeling and if there was any respiratory distress, Khattar said, “I am completely alright."Khattar had contracted COVID-19 infection in August and was admitted to Medanta hospital in Gurugram for over two weeks after recovering from the disease.IGMC's Principal Dr Rajnish Pathania told PTI that "the Haryana CM had some problems in getting sleep during the night and as a precautionary measure he was brought for a routine check up. All tests, including blood, echo, X-ray etc, were done and all reports are alright”.On Friday, Khattar had met Himachal Pradesh Governor Bandaru Dattatreya where Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur was also present.Khattar's media advisor Amit Arya said the chief minister is healthy and there is nothing to worry."He later had lunch with the Himachal Pradesh chief minister,” Arya said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/on-visit-to-shimla-haryana-cm-khattar-gets-unwell-undergoes-tests-at-local-hospital-170611
14-11-2020||Chandigarh||Celebrate green Diwali, appeals Haryana CM||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Saturday greeted the people and appealed to them to celebrate green Diwali.While wishing the people on the festival of lights, Khattar urged the people to celebrate by taking care of themselves by wearing masks and maintaining social distancing.He asked the people to use earthen lamps and refrain from fireworks on this festival so that the atmosphere remains pollution-free.In a message, the Deputy Chief Minister said the people should adhere to the guidelines of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) owing to the pandemic and rising pollution levels. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/celebrate-green-diwali-appeals-haryana-cm-170567
14-11-2020||Faridabad||As pollution rises, Haryana shuts 120 stone crushers, mix plants in 2 districts||The Haryana State Pollution Control Board has closed down over 120 stone crushers and hot mix plants in Faridabad and Palwal districts till November 17.The move comes following the order of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to shut hot mix plants and stone crushers in view of a spike in air pollution in Delhi-NCR.While particulate matter (PM) 2.5 was 497 (hazardous) on November 9, the air quality falls in the “very poor” category in both districts.“Considering the fact that the air quality index (AQI) is “very poor” and may deteriorate further, the implementing agencies must ensure that hot mix plants and stone crushers remain closed till November 17,” said the order passed by the CPCB. Besides, the CPCB has also asked the NCR authorities to go in for mechanised cleaning of roads and water sprinkling, particularly on road stretches with high dust generation potential. The apex pollution watchdog had said guidelines and standard operating procedures for dust mitigation at construction sites should be adhered to under the GRAP measures.Stating that the governments of Punjab and Haryana had been asked to take immediate stringent actions to curb stubble burning and authorities in Delhi-NCR to check biomass burning, an official said the agencies had been told to comply with the NGT order banning firecrackers during the period.“All 90 stone crushers have been shut down,’’ said Smita Kanodia, Regional Officer, PCB, Faridabad. “Thirty crushers were non-functional. Five hot mix plants in Palwal have also been shut,” said a district official. Municipal Corporation officials said over 500 challans have been issued for violation of pollution norms in the city in the past two weeks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/as-pollution-rises-haryana-shuts-120-stone-crushers-mix-plants-in-2-districts-170393
14-11-2020||Karnal||Online certificate course concludes||KU gets copyright of ‘Kulgeet’Kurukshetra: The ‘Kulgeet’ of Kurukshetra University has been given the copyright by the Copyright Office, Government of India. On this achievement, the Vice-Chancellor of Kurukshetra University, Prof Som Nath Sachdeva, said, “It is a matter of pride for the university as Kulgeet is a symbol of pride for students, teachers, alumni and employees of any university.” He further said Kurukshetra University was the oldest university in Haryana with A+ ranking by NAAC. Prof Som Nath congratulated head, department of music and dance, Prof Suchishmita and her entire team for this achievement. The Kulgeet of the KU is directed by Prof Shuchismita Sharma, with vocal composition and singing by Prof Shuchismita and Dr Manish. Dr Vibha Aggarwal, Dr Dinesh Dadhichi and Dr CDS Kaushal have played important roles in lyric writing. The Director, Public Relations, KU, Prof Brajesh Sawhney, said the Kulgeet of Kurukshetra University, 'Vedabhoomi, this Karmabhoomi” will now be sung and played before the official programmes of the KU and its affiliated colleges.Diwali card-making contestYamunanagar: Under the aegis of the department of history of MLN College, Radaur, Diwali car-making competition was held online in which students participated enthusiastically. Out of the 39 entries received, the team of judges comprising Dr Richa Sikri, Prof MD Aggarwal and Prof Pinki judged Diwali cards from various parameters. The card made by Meenu of BA-second year was adjudged the best. Mohit, a student of BA-second year bagged the second prize. Swati was declared the third.KUK introduces new coursesKurukshetra: The New Education Policy focuses on developing creative potential and holistic development of students by improving their cognitive capabilities. University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET), Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra, has taken the lead in introducing new courses in emerging areas of artificial intelligence and machine learning, data science, internet of things (IoT), cyber security, blockchain for the B-Tech students for the award of honours degree with specialisation/minor degree.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/online-certificate-course-concludes-170268
14-11-2020||Hisar||Two die in road mishap in Hisar||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-die-in-road-mishap-in-hisar-170269
14-11-2020||Chandigarh||HSAMB officer, vet held for graft||The Vigilance Bureau has caught Sanjeev Kumar, Assistant Secretary, Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board (HSAMB), and Khurshid, a veterinary doctor, in connection with corruption cases.Adampur’s Rohit Mittal alleged that HSAMB official Kumar had demanded bribe in lieu of issuing a commission agent licence.In another matter, Tauru resident Sirajudin, in his complaint, alleged veterinary doctor Khurshid had demanded bribe in lieu of issuing a medical certificate to a buffalo, for which he had taken a loan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hsamb-officer-vet-held-for-graft-170270
14-11-2020||Mahendragarh||MLA’s son booked for thrashing cop||Praveen Yadav, son of BJP MLA from Ateli Sita Ram Yadav, and others have been booked on the charges of tearing uniform and beating up constable Bhupender posted in Ateli.In his complaint, Bhupender stated the MLA’s nephew misbehaved with him when he intercepted his pickup vehicle in Ateli. Later, the MLA’s son called him to his office and he (the MLA’s son) and others thrashed him and tore his uniform.A case under IPC Sections 323, 332, 342, 353, 506, 379-B and 34 has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mlas-son-booked-for-thrashing-cop-170252
14-11-2020||---||Heroin seized from African in Karnal||Karnal, November 13The Karnal police have arrested an African man with 80-gram heroin from ITI Chowk on Thursday late evening. The market value of the seized heroin is Rs 4 lakh.The accused identified as Kenmonagne Fencois, a resident of Cameroon, is currently residing in Delhi and used to supply drugs to various parts of Haryana, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, said Harjinder Singh, incharge, detective staff of Karnal police.“On a tip-off, the accused was arrested with the contraband and a case was registered against him in Sector 32/33 police station under the NDPS Act,” said Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/heroin-seized-from-african-in-karnal-170271
14-11-2020||---||Thief nabbed with 60 stolen mobikes in Panipat||Panipat, November 13The Panipat police have claimed to have busted a vehicle thief gang and arrested a member of the gang. The police team recovered 60 motorcycles on his disclosure during his five-day police remand.The accused has been identified as Hasim alias Mota of Bhadal village in Baghpat of Uttar Pradesh and at present living at a rented accommodation in Kairana of Shamli district.Satish Vats, DSP (Headquarters) in a press conference said the CIA-1 team of the district police had nabbed Hasim on November 11, in connection with a motorcycle stealing case registered at the Chandnibagh police station on September 14. The accused has been produced in the court and the court sent him on five-day police remand. The accused revealed during interrogation that he along with his one associate, Murshid of Kairana, had stolen 100-125 motorcycles from Panipat in the past one-and-a-half year.Following his disclosure, the police team recovered 60 motorcycles which he had stolen from various areas in Panipat city. All motorcycles have been impounded, the DSP asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/thief-nabbed-with-60-stolen-mobikes-in-panipat-170272
14-11-2020||---||Rewari, Bhiwani in race for Toilet Day Award||Rewari, November 13Rewari and Bhiwani districts in the state have been nominated for World Toilet Day Award for raising awareness about access to safe/hygienic toilets and overall relevance of sanitation. These are among top 20 districts across the country selected for the award.A letter to this effect was sent to Deputy Commissioners of both districts by the Department of Drinking Water and Sanitation of the Ministry of Jal Shakti, Government of India, on Friday evening. The award will be given away by the Jal Shankti Minister in a virtual event to be held on November 19.Sources said all 20 districts across the country had been nominated for the award on the basis of their overall performance in the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan (gramin).“As part of the celebrations, events are organised at the national and state level which includes IEC campaigns, community mobilisation activities on the ground. This year due to Covid-19, a virtual event with states/ union territories is being organised by the Department of Drinking Water and Sanitation on November 19,” reads the letter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rewari-bhiwani-in-race-for-toilet-day-award-170273
14-11-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Hooch deaths: 21 lives, not 42, lost in Sonepat: Inquiry panel||Tribune News ServicePanipat, November 13A special committee headed by Sonepat Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Munish Sharma has concluded that 21 people, and not 42 as confirmed by several sources, lost their lives after drinking spurious liquor in Sonepat district.He submitted the report to Deputy Commissioner (DC) Shyam Lal Poonia on Thursday. Earlier, the Sonepat administration had claimed that only 12 people had died after consuming spurious liquor.In all, 50 lives, including eight in Panipat, have been lost because of illicit liquor.The DC told The Tribune that the committee divided the deaths into three categories — first, persons whose postmortem was conducted; second, those who were admitted to hospital but their postmortem was not conducted; and third, those who were not admitted to hospital but their families claimed they died after drinking spurious liquor.“The report classifies 12 deaths in the first category, five in the second and four in the third,” the DC said, adding that “the families of 12 persons, whose deaths have been classified in the first category, are eligible for Rs 2 lakh financial assistance announced by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar”.“The decision to provide nine other bereaved families with relief rests with the government. The district administration has sought the opinion of the authorities in this regard,” Poonia added.ENA supplier held||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hooch-deaths-21-lives-not-42-lost-in-sonepat-inquiry-panel-170240
14-11-2020||---||Covid-19: Toll crosses 2K mark in Haryana||Chandigarh, November 13With 27 deaths in the last 24 hours, the Covid toll of the state crossed 2,000-mark on Friday. So far, 2,006 people have lost their lives with 1,767 having co-morbidities. As many as 2,688 fresh cases pushed the tally to 1.95 lakh today.Among the casualties, 10 fatalities were reported from Hisar today, followed by four in Rewari, three each in Panipat and Gurugram, two each in Fatehabad and Faridabad, and one each in Karnal, Sirsa and Jhajjar.The maximum number of fresh cases came from Gurugram at 797, followed by 632 from Faridabad, 210 from Hisar, 125 from Rohtak, 97 each from Rewari and Sirsa and 96 from Sonepat. In view of the apprehensions of the health experts regarding the spike in Covid cases during the upcoming festival and winter season, Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla today directed that more vigilance and advance planning for the next three months should be done in the National Capital Region (NCR), so as to ensure the containment of the infection.Haryana Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan said directions had been issued for increasing the testing facility, intensifying the drive being run for mass awareness .||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-toll-crosses-2k-mark-in-haryana-170241
14-11-2020||---||1 held for selling crackers in Faridabad||Faridabad, November 13In the first case of the violation of the cracker ban, the police have arrested a person for selling crackers in the city. About 23.7 kg of crackers have been seized from him.According to the police, the accused identified as Yadram, a resident of Subhash Colony here, was nabbed last night after a tip-off. The police said he had kept crackers in his house and was trying to sell these in a secret manner.A case under various Sections including the Indian Explosives Act has been filed. The accused was sent to judicial custody today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-held-for-selling-crackers-in-faridabad-170242
14-11-2020||---||5 arrested for honour killing in Gurugram||Gurugram, November 13The police have arrested five persons following the death of a 28-year-old man of Alwar in Rajasthan, who was allegedly thrashed on Monday for marrying a Dalit woman from the Badshahpur area.Aakash Singh had married a Dalit woman in July against her family’s wishes and started staying in Bhondsi with his brother. His brother said Aakash had been getting threats since his marriage.They called him to Badshahpur and thrashed him, his brother claimed. “His brothers-in-law and their friends attacked him with sticks and rods,” said the complainant.The police booked the suspects on Monday and added Section 302 on Thursday. The police arrested Ajay alias Prami Jatav, Ravi Singh Jatav, Pawan Jatav, Dharmender Jatav and Mohit Jatav, all residents of Badshahpur.Aakash had been getting threats: BrotherAakash Singh had married a Dalit woman in July against her family’s wishes and started staying in Bhondsi with his brother. His brother said Aakash had been getting threats since his marriage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-arrested-for-honour-killing-in-gurugram-170243
14-11-2020||---||Firefighters, police, doctors on Diwali duty in Ambala||Ambala, November 13They believe in the adage “duty before self”. This Diwali, like previous Diwalis and for that matter any other festival, they will be out in the field, away from their families, ensuring that other people can celebrate the festival with their loved ones in a safe and secure environment.These always-on the-job professionals are police officers, firefighters and doctors, whose role becomes all the important during the festival of lights. Police officer Inderjeet Singh says his is a 24-hour job. “Any mishap during Diwali and the first call goes to the police. Cops are on their toes. It’s our duty and we swore to do it while joining the force. So there are no two ways about it,” he says firmly.He will burst crackers at his place of posting, but will miss the company of his wife and children. “Diwali is synonymous with the family get-together,” he says with resignation.Firefighter Sewak Ram has a similar story to tell. For him, celebrating the festival with his family is simply out of question. When his children were small, he says, they threw tantrums and insisted that he returned home early on Diwali. Most of the times, he would be on duty.“Unfortunately, fire mishaps take place every Diwali. So my colleagues and I are on duty well into the night trying to save lives,” Ram says.Paramilitary force personnel, however, follow a different strain of thought. Most of them are posted away from their hometowns. A guard deployed as a security guard of a local official says: “I can enjoy a few festive moments with the family I’m working for.” For doctors, duty is paramount. Paediatrician Dr AP Singh says, “To serve patients is in itself a celebration of Diwali. The family is always there, but somebody has to come forward to help society in times of need.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/firefighters-police-doctors-on-diwali-duty-in-ambala-170245
14-11-2020||---||Builder’s wife declared PO in Manesar land scam case||Chandigarh, November 13A special court in Panchkula declared Sona Bansal, wife of builder Atul Bansal, a proclaimed offender (PO) in the Manesar land scam case as she did not join the judicial proceedings. Sona had shares in her husband’s companies.On the run since 2018The order was pronounced during a resumed hearing on November 12.The court had earlier declared Atul a PO.The Bansals, who earned the maximum profit in the scam, have been absconding since 2018, when the judicial proceedings in the case began.The scam pertains to purchasing land from farmers at meagre rates and then earning profits by getting it released from the acquisition process in connivance with bureaucracy and politicians.A notification under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, with respect to 912 acres at Manesar, Lakhnaula and Naurangpur villages in Gurugram district was issued on August 27, 2004. An Industrial Model Township was planned there.Of the 912 acres, 224 acres were released from the acquisition process after hearing objections from farmers under Section 5-A of the Act. Subsequently, a notification under Section 6 was issued.The Enforcement Directorate (ED), which is investigating the case, said Atul was aware of the acquisition proceedings, but he continued to purchase notified land in the name of his companies — Aditya Buildwell Private Limited (now known as ABWIL), Jassum Estates Private Limited, Jassum Towers Private Limited and Jassum Infrastructure Private Limited.He knew that he would get the land released, the ED said. He also purchased 12 landowning companies having the notified land. In total, he got 239 acres.Atul applied for licences for 190 acres on December 28, 2006, on behalf of 15 companies though he did not have authorisation of 11 firms. This fact was overlooked by the Director, Town and Country Planning.In connivance with “bureaucrats” and the “government machinery”, he procured six licences and sold three of them, earning Rs 169.25 crore as proceeds of crime, the ED said.The CBI is also pursuing the Manesar land scam separately. Former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, along with 33 others, is an accused in that case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/builders-wife-declared-po-in-manesar-land-scam-case-170247
14-11-2020||---||Minister stops convoy to help accident victims in Ambala||Ambala, November 13Showing gesture of a good samaritan, former Indian Hockey Captain and Minister of State for Sports and Youth Affairs Sandeep Singh helped the accident victims injured in a road mishap that occurred here on Friday morning.Sandeep Singh, Sports ministerAppeal to peopleI was on my way towards Delhi when I saw the accident. Luckily, all victims were safe and no life was lost. I appeal to the people to come forward and help accident victims. When you help a person, it gives you personal satisfaction. The incident took place when the car they were travelling in overturned after colliding with an auto-rickshaw loaded with vegetables near Shastri colony, Ambala Cantonment, on the national highway here.Around 7 am, Sandeep Singh, who was travelling from Chandigarh towards Delhi to attend a meeting, stopped his convoy to check on the accident victims and rushed to help them along with his staff. The minister found that a driver and some women were stuck in the car involved in the mishap. He got them rescued and got an ambulance arranged for them. He directed the health officials to provide best medical care to the victims.The minister said, “I was on my way towards Delhi when I noticed the accident. Luckily, all victims were safe and no life was lost. I appeal to the people that every person should come forward and help the accident victims whenever they notice such an incident as they too comprise of someone’s family. When you help a person, it gives you personal satisfaction and by saving someone’s life you are protecting a family itself.”SHO Parao police station Devender Singh said, “At least five persons were injured. No complaint has been received.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minister-stops-convoy-to-help-accident-victims-in-ambala-170249
