23-11-2020||Vibha Sharma ||Will prepare policies to control stubble burning, says new air quality panel||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, November 23The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas said it will take steps and prepare policies to control stubble burning on a day AAP MLA and chairperson of Environment Committee of Delhi Assembly Atishi urged the newly-appointed green panel to hold chief ministers of Punjab and Haryana liable for causing pollution in the national capital.According to Environment Ministry spokesperson, the three (AAP) MLAs requested the Commission to take prompt action against Punjab and Haryana for “criminal negligence regarding stubble burning” and suggested options, including the in-situ decomposition technology developed by IARI, for large-scale adoption.“The Commission informed them that it is seized of the matter and will take required steps, including formulation of  appropriate policies and strategies to control stubble burning, in due consultations with stakeholders concerned on a priority basis,” the MoEFCC official said.Official and non-official members of panel met the three MLAs following a request from the Chairperson of the Committee on Environment, Delhi Government.Atishi later said they raised two main issues, one was asking them to “direct Haryana and Punjab governments to implement as soon as possible the solution by the Pusa institute and the Delhi government in dealing with the stubble burning issue”.“Earlier it used to be said there is no solution to the issue of stubble burning but now a solution has come so it should be implemented,” she said. Atishi said she told the commission that just giving direction is not enough and that it is the responsibility of Haryana and Punjab to stop stubble burning. “If they don’t do it, strict action must be taken against them. The commission can file FIR and imprison anyone for up to 5 years for causing pollution in Delhi-NCR (National Capital Region) so we have asked it to hold the CMs of Haryana and Punjab liable and accountable and take strict action against them,” she added.According to scientists at the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, “Pusa bio-decomposer” solution can turn crop residue into manure in 15 to 20 days and therefore, can prevent stubble burning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-prepare-policies-to-control-stubble-burning-says-new-air-quality-panel-174737
23-11-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Gurugram cops to attend, videograph Covid protocol violations in weddings||Gurugram, November 23With the forthcoming wedding season being touted as ‘Covid superspreader’, the city cops will be mandatory guests at local marriages.Owing to gathering cap of 50 persons in Delhi and parts of UP and with people making a beeline for Gurugram venues, the local police are on their toes.Following commencement of wedding season on November 25, the local cops shall not only mandatorily visit each wedding in the area, but also videograph violations ranging from excessive gathering to non-usage of masks and will issue challans.With pre-wedding functions being held across Gurugram, police teams are out checking the venues to prevent Covid infection.Police commissioner K K Rao said all DCPs, ACPs and SHOs have been told to identify crowded areas in their jurisdiction and go there and make people comply with the orders/guidelines issued by the government.Inspire and distribute masks and ask them to wear masks as well as take prompt action against those who disobey the rules, police personnel have been told.Following the directions, 995 challans were issued by police in a single day on Sunday. Till now, 91,707 people who have violated the orders of the government by not wearing masks have been penalised.As per the plan, cops will attend weddings without any invitation. SHO of every police station will investigate to ensure Covid rules are followed during the function. A case will be filed against those who violate the rules. In addition police would issue challans to those without masks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-cops-to-attend-videograph-covid-protocol-violations-in-weddings-174718
23-11-2020||Chandigarh||Second highest COVID-19 cases in last 7-day period in Haryana||The week ending November 22 recorded the second highest number of COVID-19 cases at 17,426, since the onset of the disease in Haryana on March 17.  The highest number of cases so far was recorded in the week September 14-20, when 17,616 patients had come.  Described as the third surge, the state has been witnessing a rise in number of cases every week.The week from October 26 to November 1 witnessed 10,576 cases which rose by 31.7 per cent to 13,924 in the next week-November 2-8.   The cases further jumped by 22.6 per cent to 17,070 in November 9-15. The week ending November 22 saw a rise of 2.1 per cent over the previous week.  The Covid mortality in Haryana at 1 per cent is lower than neighbouring Himachal Pradesh (1.5%), Chandigarh (1.6%) while Punjab with 3.2 per cent has the highest rate in the country.  But Haryana’s cases per million population (8,482) are much higher than Himachal Pradesh (4,909) and Punjab (5,251) and is even more than national figure (7,513). However, Chandigarh has reported 15,719 cases per million population. Out of total 2,188 deaths till November 22, 61 per cent were on ventilators (1,328), 6 per cent were brought dead (121), 19 per cent were on oxygen (422) and 13 per cent were on BiPAP (288) while 1 per cent (29) are under investigations. There were 24 deaths in home isolation too.  Among the districts, Fatehabad leads all with 2.2 per cent mortality rate. Here, 89 deaths took place out of a total of 4,053 cases. It is followed by Yamunanagar, having 2 per cent fatality rate with 111 deaths out of 5,445 cases, and Jind, having 1.9 per cent death rate with 67 deaths out of 3,592 cases.However, Gurugram and Faridabad which has recorded the highest number of cases in the state have 0.6 per cent and 0.8 per cent fatality rates respectively.  “The reasons behind high mortality in Fatehabad, Yamunanagar and Jind could be late reporting due to level of awareness and availability of facilities,” said Director General Health Services Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj.   Haryana has an overall positivity rate of 6.9 per cent. Among districts, it is Faridabad which leads with 12.5 per cent positivity rate, followed by 9.8 per cent in Gurugram, 8.7 per cent in Rewari, 8.4 per cent in Hisar, 8.1 per cent in Panchkula and 8 per cent in Panipat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/second-highest-covid-19-cases-in-last-7-day-period%C2%A0in-haryana-174705
23-11-2020||---||School teacher, two sons end life in Fatehabad||Hisar, November 23A government school teacher committed suicide along with his two teenaged sons by jumping in a canal near Pili Mandori village in Fatehabad district on Monday.The victims have been identified as Kuldeep, 40, a resident of Ramsara, his sons Virender, 15, and Nitish, 13. The police recovered the bodies from the Bhattu Kalan branch near Pili Mandori village.The family members informed the police that Kuldeep along with his sons left their residence on November 19 on two-wheeler. When they did not return, the family members started a search and found a helmet and a blanket of Kuldeep from near Bhattu Kalan branch.Sources said the victim was having marital discord with his wife for some time. Fatehabad DSP Satyendra Kumar said the police have brought the bodies to the civil hospital for post-mortem. He added that they are taking statements from their family members and will take further action after preliminary enquiry. The motive behind the suicide is not clear yet, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/school-teacher-two-sons-end-life-in-fatehabad-174701
23-11-2020||Chandigarh||Minimum temperatures hover below normal at many places in Haryana, Punjab||The minimum temperatures hovered below normal limits at many places in Haryana and Punjab on Monday.Hisar in Haryana was the coldest place recording a minimum of 5.9 degrees Celsius, five notches below normal limits, meteorological department officials said here.Narnaul also experienced a cold night recording a low of 6 degrees Celsius, down three degrees against normal. Rohtak registered a low of 7 degrees Celsius, also three notches below normal.Karnal and Bhiwani also recorded below normal minimums at 8.1 degrees Celsius and 8.3 degrees Celsius, respectively. However, night temperatures in Ambala and Sirsa settled within the normal range at 9.6 degrees Celsius and 9 degrees Celsius, respectively.In Punjab, Bathinda was the coldest place recording a low of 5.6 degrees Celsius.Gurdaspur also experienced a cold night at 6 degrees Celsius.However, Amritsar and Ludhiana recorded above normal minimums at 11 degrees Celsius and 10.7 degrees Celsius, respectively.During the past few days, minimum and maximum temperatures at most places in Haryana and Punjab have hovered below normal limits. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minimum-temperatures-hover-below-normal-at-many-places-in-haryana-punjab-174696
23-11-2020||Bhartesh Singh Thakur ||Audit report highlights sorry state of Haryana’s Child Care Institutions||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, November 23 More than 52 per cent Child Care Institutions (CCIs) in Haryana don’t have counsellors, 67 per cent don’t have medical officers, 58 per cent don’t have sick rooms and 54 per cent don’t have staff residence. These facts have come to light in a social audit of all the 88 CCIs across the state.The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) had conducted the nationwide audit of the CCIs. In Haryana, the audit has raised questions over the functioning of the CCIs. Last week, a case of illegal confinement of a 5-year-old mentally challenged girl had come to light at a Panipat shelter home after which Haryana State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (HSCPCR) had recommended for the closure of the facility. “We have released the report recently and the respective departments of states have already been informed about the findings,” said Priyank Kanoongo, Chairperson, NCPCR.   In Haryana, there are 54 children homes, 20 shelter homes, eight specialised adoption agencies, four observation homes and two special homes. Out of 88 CCIs, 63 come under NGOs or trusts, while 25 are run by government. As per Juvenile Justice Model Rules, 2016, every CCI should have a management committee and it should meet at least once every month.Eleven CCIs don't have management committees, and out of the remaining 77, at 61 places the committees don’t meet every month.The audit also pointed out that close to 65 per cent of the CCIs in the state don't have child welfare officers, over 76 per cent don't have paramedical staff, over 69 per cent don't have housekeeping staff, 17 per cent don't have cooks, close to 40 per cent don't have storekeeper-cum-accountants and over 37 per cent don't have house mother or house father.On infrastructure front, only 58 per cent of the CCIs have recreation rooms, and just 42 per cent have counselling rooms. Over 76 per cent have bathrooms and 68.2 per cent have toilets. Close to 32 per cent don’t have child friendly exclusive toilets and about 24 per cent don’t have child friendly exclusive bathrooms, mentioned the audit report.   Chairperson, HSCPCR, Jyoti Bainda said, “We will take required action on the basis of the social audit report.”   According to Juvenile Justice Model Rules, 2016, the children have to be grouped on the basis of age, nature of offence or kind of care required. But 25 per cent of the CCIs don't follow the segregation process as per age-group for stay and other activities.As many as 85 per cent of the CCIs don't have a copy of child protection policy and in 18 per cent there are no adequate measures to prevent any form of physical or emotional abuse of children. As per rules, every CCI has to maintain case history and counselor's report of each child but it is not followed in 24 per cent institutions.The audit says that state inspection committees have to randomly carry out checking, but it has not happened in case of more than 51 per cent homes.   Other shortcomings||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/audit-report-highlights-sorry-state-of-haryanas-child-care-institutions-174682
23-11-2020||Sunit Dhawan||Azad, Sibal, Anand Sharma damaging Congress at BJP’s behest, should be expelled: Haryana leaders||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, November 23Alleging that senior Congress leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad, Kapil Sibal and Anand Sharma were working at the behest of the BJP leadership to damage the Congress, Haryana Congress leaders and former state ministers Subhash Batra and Krishan Murti Hooda have sought their expulsion from the party.Addressing a joint news conference here today, Batra and Hooda stated that Azad, Sibal and Sharma were “power-hungry” leaders who were issuing damaging statements against the Congress leadership under the influence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“We will write to the central Congress leadership and seek the expulsion of the leaders who were working against the party’s interest,” maintained Batra.Asked about the stance of the Haryana Congress leadership regarding the matter, Batra said he had no idea about it but he was disgusted with the anti-party remarks made by the aforesaid leaders and hence decided to oppose them tooth and nail.Krishan Murti asserted that they would stage a protest demonstration at the residence of Azad and other leaders involved in anti-party activities if the Delhi Police and administration gave them the requisite permission.In response to a query, Murti stated that they would stage a protest demonstration at the residence of former Haryana Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda if he worked against the party’s central leadership.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/azad-sibal-anand-sharma-damaging-congress-at-bjps-behest-should-be-expelled-haryana-leaders-174660
23-11-2020||---||Panipat SP, 2 other police personnel booked in ex-councillor suicide case||Panipat, November 23In the latest development in former councillor Harish Sharma suicide case, Panipat Superintendent of Police, the then police post in-charge and ASI Mahavir Singh have been booked under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 of the IPC in Model Town police station here.Sharma had jumped into the canal on Thursday morning allegedly following harassment by the police.The family claimed that Harish was mentally upset for the past few days after the police had registered a case against him and his councillor daughter, among 10 people, for allegedly selling crackers openly and misbehaving with police on Diwali night.The family alleged that the police was pressed for his arrest on Wednesday night.A National Disaster Response Force team on Sunday fished out his body from Delhi parallel canal in Sonepat district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-sp-2-other-police-personnel-booked-in-ex-councillor-suicide-case-174625
23-11-2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha Governor Ganeshi Lal's wife dies of post-Covid complications||Sushila Devi, the wife of Odisha Governor Ganeshi Lal, died at a private hospital here following a brief illness, officials said on Monday.The first lady of the state, who was 75, breathed her last on Sunday night, they said."With profound grief and heavy heart, we inform that the First Lady of the State Smt Sushila Devi passed away yesterday night. Let us pray for the departed holy soul. Om Shanti!," the official Twitter handle of the Odisha Governor said.She is survived by husband, four daughters and three sons.A constant companion in various activities of the governor, she was religious and had a passion for socio- cultural pursuits, Raj Bhavan sources said.A host of dignitaries, including Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik and Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan, expressed deep grief at her demise.Describing her as a very warm and pious person, Patnaik conveyed his deep sympathy to the governor and other members of the bereaved family. "May her soul rest in peace," he said in a message.Union Petroleum and Steel Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said he was praying to Lord Jagannath to give enough strength to the governor's family.Among others, BJP national vice-president Baijayant Panda, state BJP President Samir Mohanty and Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee (OPCC) president Niranjan Patnaik condoled the passing away of the first lady.Andhra Pradesh Governor Biswabhusan Harichandan also mourned the demise of Sushila Devi, describing her as a warm and kind person, who actively participated in several programmes for the welfare of the poor and needy.The governor, his wife and four other family members had tested positive for COVID-19 earlier this month, the sources added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/odisha-governor-ganeshi-lals-wife-dies-of-post-covid-complications-174621
23-11-2020||Sanjay Yadav||With Delhi’s wedding guest list cap, hosts pick Gurugram venues||Gurugram, November 22With the Delhi Government limiting the number of attendees in social gatherings, including weddings, to 50, party hosts have started making a beeline for Gurugram venues, which are allowing 200 guests. The declaration by the Delhi Government has come as a blessing in disguise for venue owners in Gurugram, struggling with economic woes post Covid. Many had even shut their premises.People are now flocking to the venues with booking requests for wedding functions starting from November 25. A majority of these requests have come from those who had planned functions in Aero City hotels and Chattarpur resorts and farmhouses.“I had virtually shut my marriage lawn, meant for over 300 people. We had no booking this season, but were suddenly flooded with calls from Delhi residents, ready to pay double the price per plate. We have five big back-to-back bookings,” said a jubilant Alok Yadav, owner of a wedding garden on the CRPF Road in Sector 12.The banquet manager of a high-end hotel in Udyog Vihar said: “A majority of Gurugram residents had got bookings done in Aero City owing to competitive prices, but now everybody was back. We have booked all available venues in the hotel in the past two days.”All sought-after venues are already full for the upcoming days. People have now gone as far as Manesar to seek alternatives. While venue owners are rejoiced, people are a harried lot.“My daughter is scheduled to get married on November 30. I had invited 150 guests and this happened at the last moment. I had booked a premium venue in Chattarpur and paid the minimum price for 100 plates. I have now changed the venue to a hotel in Sector 29, Gurugram. I have to pay double for a plate and am not even getting a refund,” said Suresh Aggarwal, a resident of Sector 14.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/with-delhis-wedding-guest-list-cap-hosts-pick-gurugram-venues-174275
23-11-2020||Karnal||Citizens pedal to promote fitness||With an aim to promote cycling and to create awareness about fitness, Cyclothon-2020 was organised in the city under the ‘cycling for a change’ challenge by Smart City Limited.  Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, who is also CEO Smart City, Ganga Ram Punia, Superintendent of Police, and Vikram Singh, Commissioner, Karnal Municipal Corporation, along with hundreds of residents pedalled in the city to promote cycling. The cyclothon started from Sector-8 and ended at the same place after passing through various roads of the city on Sunday. Counting the aims of this initiative, the DC said that one should adopt cycling to save the environment from pollution as the number of vehicles on the roads was increasing day by day. “We have taken up cycling for a change concept which will encourage people to adopt cycling,” the DC maintained. He appealed to the residents to adopt cycling in their daily routine so that the environment could be saved and people’s health could be maintained. SP Punia also encouraged people to cycle and also appealed to them to say no to drugs. A signature campaign was also launched. The DC and SP administered an oath against drugs to the people present there. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/citizens-pedal-to-promote-fitness-174276
23-11-2020||Parveen Arora---||Dec 1 e-office deadline for govt staff in Karnal||Tribune News Service Karnal, November 22 The files going missing and time being wasted in accessing and sorting these will become a thing of the past as all government offices in the district are set to be e-office compliant. The Karnal district administration has fixed December 1 as the deadline for the implementation of e-office to ensure good governance and transparency. All files in government offices will be filed online and no one can change notings on these, with the step helping in tracking files. “As part of the digital India initiative under good governance, implementation of e-office will be done by December 1. On December 25, which is Good Governance Day, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar will inaugurate it through videoconferencing,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner. It will be implemented in all government offices, he said, adding that the step would enhance productivity as well as save time. “Employees will send all files online through the e-office portal. Working will be paperless with this step,” he said, adding that accountability would be fixed for delay of files as tracking of files would be easy. He hoped that the step would minimise the possibility of fraud in dealing with any files as senior officials could easily check files. Mentioning another feature, he said nobody would be able to make an entry on the files with a backdate, which would help in checking corruption. “Through this step, the possibility of misplacing files will be a thing of the past,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dec-1-e-office-deadline-for-govt-staff-in-karnal-174277
23-11-2020||---||Officer suspended over  ‘anomalies’ in subsidy||Chandigarh, November 22 The state government has suspended Anshul Anand, District Horticulture Officer, Sonepat, for alleged irregularities in the payment of subsidy to vegetable growers. The action follows a complaint by farmers from Sonepat district filed at the CM’s window. They accused Anand of committing irregularities in the purchase and distribution of mulching sheet under the Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture (MIDH). In permaculture, sheet mulching is an agricultural no-dig gardening technique that attempts to mimic the natural soil-building process in forests. When deployed properly and in combination with other permaculture principles, it can generate healthy, productive, and low maintenance ecosystems. Under the MIDH, farmers are entitled to Rs 16,000 subsidy per hectare of mulching sheet.  The Sonepat administration was given a target of covering 250 hectares with mulching sheet and a financial targetof Rs 40 lakh during the 2020-21 fiscal. As the districtcovered 243.60 hectares, 180 farmers were entitled to Rs 38.97 lakh in subsidy. The horticulture officer, however, allegedly paid the subsidy amount to a single supplier firm based out of Jind without physical verification and without complying with the financial and direct benefit transfer (DBT) rules, sources say. Meanwhile, the Sonepat Zila Parishad CEO has been appointed as the inquiry officer to probe the case. An FIR has been registered against the Jind-based firm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/officer-suspended-over-anomalies-in-subsidy-174278
23-11-2020||Chandigarh||Govt: Book officials, contractors for graft||The state has issued directions to the authorities concerned to register criminal cases against officials and contractors in corruption-related matters and recover Rs 40.94 lakh from them. The directions came on the recommendation of the Vigilance Bureau. A government spokesperson said the first matter related to the use of substandard material in the construction of the Lahoria Chowk-DCM Mill Gate road in Hisar. The VB probe revealed that a contractor, who bagged the tender for road work, used substandard material in connivance with the then executive engineer, subdivisional engineer and junior engineer of the Haryana Agriculture Marketing Board, causing a loss of Rs 32.13 lakh to the state exchequer.  The second matter is related to the irregularities in several works under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan in Panchkula. It was found during the VB inquiry that the irregularities caused a loss of Rs 8.81 lakh. The spokesperson said the state had directed the departments concerned to recover the amount from contractors and initiate action against one executive engineer, two municipal engineers and three junior engineers for causing irregularities. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-book-officials-contractors-for-graft-174279
23-11-2020||---||Will distribute 1 cr masks: Manohar Lal Khattar||Chandigarh, November 22With the state recording between 2,500 and 3,000 Covid cases on a daily basis, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday said the state government would distribute 1 crore masks among the public.He appealed to people to distribute masks among those who not wearing these and called for maintenance of social distancing in public.“Punishment is a must for not wearing a mask in public. The amount is Rs 500 in Haryana, but there is no point in increasing it like in Delhi,” he said.Ruling out the possibility of a lockdown, Khattar said when lockdowns were imposed from March to May, several people had lost their jobs, many others had to migrate to their respective home states and state governments had to suffer loss in revenue.In his address to Haryana residents on Sunday, he pointed out that the Covid fatality rate in the state was 1.01 per cent, whereas it was 3.2 per cent in neighbouring Punjab.He asserted that 35,000 tests were being conducted on a daily basis and so far, 12.5 per cent of the population had undergone tests. “The sero survey pointed out that some people had got infected, but recovered as well,” he said.He pointed out that there were 28 laboratories for testing, 46,000 beds in Covid care centres and five plasma banks at present.“There was a lot of pressure on opening educational institutions as everyone did not have resources for online lectures. We restarted classes for those in Class IX to XII, but a number of students and teachers tested positive. We had to close schools and now, only those with negative test report would be allowed in schools,” he stated.He praised Health Minister Anil Vij for volunteering for phase 3 trials of Covaxin. “The vaccine will be available in a few months, but we have to take precautions till then,” he said.Speaking on farmers’ protests against farm laws, he said they were being misled by unions and opposition parties. “The Centre has been taking initiatives for doubling farmers’ income. These laws are only a part of these. The Opposition has been saying that MSP will be abolished though various crops are being procured on MSP at present,” he said.He cautioned farmers about the arrival of bajra from Rajasthan as it was being sold at a low price in the neighbouring state.He said that due to shortage of fertiliser in Punjab, it was being procured from districts bordering the state. “Our urea should not be allowed to go to Punjab. This can harm the interests of our farmers. There is special quota for each state,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-distribute-1-cr-masks-manohar-lal-khattar-174280
23-11-2020||---||In spite of CM assurance, farmers’ payment held up||Karnal, November 22Even after the directions of the Chief Minister of releasing the payments of farmers before Diwali, a large number of arhtiyas and farmers of the district are waiting for their payment, which is around Rs 114 crore.As per the information gathered by The Tribune, four procurement agencies have procured 12.59 lakh MT paddy till November 17. Three procurement agencies including Food and Civil Supplies, Haryana Warehouse Corporation (HWC), Hafed are major buyers in the district.The Food and Civil Supplies Department had procured 8.3 lakh MT, costing Rs 1,567.81 crore. Of this, it has made payment of Rs 1,495 crore while around Rs 72 crore is yet to be paid to the farmers.Similarly, Hafed has procured 2,55,925 MT costing around Rs 483 crore. Of that, it had made payment of Rs 455 crore and Rs 28 crore of the farmers and arhtiyas is pending.HWC had purchased 1,67,260 MT for Rs 315.75 crore. Of the total procured, the HWC has released a payment of Rs 301.24 crore and a sum of Rs 14.5 crore is pending, the data said.Arhtiyas’ associations blamed the procurement agencies for not providing the list of those whose payment had been released so that they could tally the details with I-forms.“We have been demanding that the procurement agencies should provide us the list of the I-forms against which the payment has been released, but we have not been given the list by the agencies,” said Rajnish Chaudhary, president, Karnal Arhtiyas Association.He said that they have approached the DC, DFSC and officials of the various agencies, but to no avail so far.Nishant Kumar Yadav, DC, said that he has directed all the agencies to clear the dues of the farmers. “I have reviewed the status of the payment of paddy and directed the agencies to clear the dues this week,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-spite-of-cm-assurance-farmers-payment-held-up-174281
23-11-2020||---||2 paddy-laden trucks from Bihar seized in Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra, November 22The Food and Civil Supplies Department in Kurukshetra has seized 1,056 bags of paddy, which was brought from Bihar, from Guru Nanak Rice Mill in Thanesar. It was loaded in two trucks and is worth over Rs 6 lakh.Case registeredSDM Thanesar Akhil Pilani got a tip-off about the stock reaching Kurukshetra, following which the SDM conducted the raid and found the loaded trucks on November 18.District Food and Civil Supplies Department inspector Kuldeep Singh said, “It was found that the paddy has been brought from Bihar at cheaper rate to cheat the government. As per the documents seized, the stock (over 470 quintal at a price of Rs 1,440 per quintal) was sent by a Bihar-based firm for a Karnal-based rice mill, but it has been seized from Kurukshetra. The stock has been seized and a case under Section 420 of the IPC has been registered against the rice mill. The rice mill is under HAFED. This is the first such recovery in the district in this season.”District Manager, HAFED, Shish Pal Gauri said, “The rice miller has claimed that the stock didn’t belong to his mill and the trucks were wrongly parked. The stock was also found loaded in the trucks and not dumped in the mill. As per the documents seized, the stock was sent by a Bihar-based firm for an Assandh-based rice mill in Karnal. But after the miller didn’t accept the stock, it reached Kurukshetra.“The procurement agency had given around 39,000 quintal paddy for milling to the mill and the stock was found complete during the physical verification. Further investigation is still on. The Assandh-based rice miller and the agent will be included in the investigation. The billing from Bihar to Assandh is proper but no bill from Karnal to Kurukshetra has been found. Moreover, the stock shouldn’t have been inside the mill. The miller has to prove his claim, he said.”SDM Thanesar Akhil Pilani said, “I got information about the trucks reaching Kurukshetra following which our team followed the trucks and later, we conducted a raid at the mill and seized the stock. Now, it will be checked how the stock reached here when it was supposed to be delivered in Karnal.”DC Sharandeep Kaur said, “The SDMs and the procurement agencies were directed to keep a close watch on paddy trading. No illegal trading or malpractice will be allowed in the district.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-paddy-laden-trucks-from-bihar-seized-in-kurukshetra-174282
23-11-2020||epender Deswal||BJP mobilises people in Covid hotspot Hisar||Tribune News ServiceHisar, November 22Even as Covid cases and casualties have risen alarmingly in Hisar, the Bharatiya Janata Party is busy mobilising its cadre for participation in a state-level function, scheduled to be addressed by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar in the old college ground on November 29.Deputy Speaker Ranbir Singh Gangwa, MLA from the Nalwa Assembly segment in Hisar, has taken upon himself to ensure the success of the rally, being organised to express gratitude to the Chief Minister for allocating 8 per cent reservation to the Backward Community (A) in Panchayati Raj Institutions.The Deputy Speaker has been on a tour of the entire district to mobilise people for attending the function in the old college ground. The venue is located in the heart of the town, which is a congested area.Gangwa said about 10,000 people from across the state were expected to turn up at the function. “We will adhere to Covid guidelines and place chairs at a distance. To reduce the number of participants, we are inviting 10,000 people. Otherwise, it would have been a bigger function,” he stated.The Deputy Speaker maintained that there was no rethink on organising the function. He had been holding public meetings for about a week in villages and towns across the state to invite people for the function. He visited the Adampur Assembly segment on Sunday and was scheduled to visit six villages on Monday.Meanwhile, five more deaths were reported on Sunday, putting the death toll at 207. A total of 106 persons were found positive in Hisar district, which took the total number of positive cases to 14,681. Hisar was ahead of Gurugram and Faridabad in the number of deaths in phe last 36 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-mobilises-people-in-covid-hotspot-hisar-174283
23-11-2020||Faridabad||Faridabad district leads in critical cases||Faridabad, the most populated city in the state, continues to report the most critical Covid cases and deaths due to the virus. The number of patients admitted to hospitals in a critical condition on Saturday was 128 — 29.35 per cent of the cumulative figure of 436 patients across the state.The number of patients on oxygen support on Saturday was 103 (27.46 per cent of the total patients). Besides, 25 patients (40.98 per cent) were on ventilator support.The district has the grim milestone of leading in number of casualties. So far, 300 deaths have been reported. Gurugram is placed second.Meanwhile, the district lost a second doctor to the virus within a week.Dr Santosh Grover (63), who owned a nursing home in NIT here, succumbed to infection on Saturday. She had tested positive two weeks ago while treating patients, it is claimed.25 more succumbChandigarh:With 2,279 cases on Sunday, the tally went past 2.17 lakh. In all, 25 deaths pushed the toll to 2,188. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-district-leads-in-critical-cases-174284
23-11-2020||Parveen Arora||New toll plaza on Karnal-Jind NH, resentment brewing||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, November 22The newly opened toll plaza on the Karnal-Jind National Highway 709-A near Peont village, 20 km from here, has led to resentment among villagers living nearby as they have to pay toll to visit the district headquarters. They have demanded that the toll plaza be shifted to the Assandh-Jind border.A commuter has to pay Rs 65 for a one-way trip and Rs 90 for a round trip.The residents said the toll had added to their ever-increasing budget.“Be it any work, big or small, residents of Shekhpura, Jalmana, Salwan, Ballah, Assandh, Rahra, Gangatheri, Popra, Chochra, Ardana, Rattak, Danoli, Bandrala, Bahri and Moond villages need to visit the district headquarters. Residents living in the vicinity of 35 km of the toll plaza should be exempted from paying toll,” said Malak Singh, a resident of Pabana Hasanpur village.Prabhjot Singh, a resident of Shekhpura village, said the state government should have considered villagers’ demand for constructing the toll plaza on the Assandh-Jind border.Local Congress MLA Shamsher Singh Gogi had requested with Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and local MP Sanjay Bhatia to shif the toll plaza out of the district.“At first place, the toll plaza should not have been constructed near Peont village. And if the government was adamant on not heeding to the demand of villagers, it should have given Assandh the status of district. I had apprised the CM and the local MP of the matter. The CM had assured me to look into the issue, but no action was taken,” Gogi said.He alleged the road was still incomplete, but Kalyan Toll Plaza, the company managing the toll plaza, had started charging tax.Manoj Tomar, incharge of the toll plaza, said: “The company has been bagged the tender to operate the toll for three months. It has exempted private non-commercial vehicles of four villages and given a discount of 50 per cent on commercial vehicles. After three months, the new tender process will be started.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/new-toll-plaza-on-karnal-jind-nh-resentment-brewing-174285
23-11-2020||Nitin Jain||World class sports hostel comes up in Ambala||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, November 22Finally, an international-standard hostel facility for sportspersons has come up in Ambala Cantonment. While the construction of the building has been completed, the entry gate and finishing work to spruce up the state-of-the-art project, which has come up at an estimated cost of Rs 13 crore, is in the advanced stage of completion.“The facility will be ready to use soon and will be formally opened this month,” a senior official said.The sports hostel, the first big ticket project to be completed in Ambala Cantonment, is part of the Rs 122-crore sports development project comprising an international football stadium, a state-of-the-art gymnastic hall and an all-weather swimming pool, which would give a big leap to the sports arena here. The pool would be the first all-weather 50-metre government swimming pool in the state.A four-storey building that has come up opposite War Heroes’ Memorial here, the sports hostel would be equipped with a wrestling gymnasium, library, dining hall, office spaces, physiotherapy clinics, table tennis hall, dormitory and state-of-the-art rooms for the stay of sportspersons.It would have 41 air-conditioned rooms equipped with all modern day facilities with 180 beds. Besides, a proper kitchen and dining hall facility, dressing room and a conference hall has also been constructed at the hostel.The football stadium here has international-standard poly turf and synthetic track, costing Rs 85 crore. The gymnastic hall has been constructed at Rs 10 crore, swimming pool at Rs 14 crore and the estimated cost of the sports hostel was Rs 12.96 crore, the officials involved in the ongoing construction work revealed.Home Minister Anil Vij had approved the project and sanctioned the funds to execute the same in April 2017 as the local MLA and Sports Minister in the Khattar 1.0 Cabinet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/world-class-sports-hostel-comes-up-in-ambala-174286
23-11-2020||Hisar||Two killed in Hisar mishap||A woman and a 14-year-old boy were killed after a car rammed into them here on Sunday. The police have registered a case against an unidentified car driver. The car driver first ran over the woman, whose identity could not be ascertained, near a hospital. About a km ahead, the driver again rammed into a cycle near a roundabout, killing 14-year-old Jatin, a budding boxer. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-killed-in-hisar-mishap-174287
23-11-2020||---||23-km-long pipeline to augment canal water supply to Ambala||Ambala, November 22 To augment canal water supply, state Home Minister Anil Vij on Sunday laid the foundation stone of a 23-km-long pipeline and a 30-MLD water supply plant at Adho Majra village in Ambala.  The project approved under the AMRUT (Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation) scheme will cost Rs 106.14 crore. On this occasion, Anil Vij said the project was mooted in view of the depleting groundwater level. The project aims to provide clean water to every house till the fourth floor without motor in Ambala Cantonment. The minister said, “A nearly 23-km-long straight pipeline from Adho Majra village to Ghasitpur village will be laid. Through four already constructed water tanks and a treatment plant in Ghasitpur, the water will be cleaned. With the help of boosters, canal water will be provided to the residents.” He also said that water is already being made available to the people through five boosters. But following an increase in population, the city area has increased and the rural areas have also been included in the area. Now with seven new boosters, the number of boosters will increase to 12.  The minister directed the construction agency to complete the work before May next year. He also directed the officials of the Public Health Department to get the boundary work of the booster plant at Rangia Mandi area done at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/23-km-long-pipeline-to-augment-canal-water-supply-to-ambala-174288
23-11-2020||Ravinder Saini---||Low-key wedding for Bajrang Punia, Sangeeta||Tribune News Service Rohtak, November 22 Only family members and close relatives will be part of the wedding ceremony of international grappler Bajrang Punia with grappler Sangeeta Phogat, daughter of Dronacharya Awardee Mahavir Phogat, at Balali village in Charkhi Dadri district on November 25. Twenty- six- year- old Bajrang, who has qualified for the Tokyo Olympics scheduled in July 2021, is a resident of Khuddan village in Jhajjar district but the family resides in Sonepat. Hence, the ‘baraat’ will leave for Balali village from Sonepat city. A pre-wedding bash will also be hosted at home in Sonepat on November 24 for near and dear ones while a wedding reception has also been planned at Jurassic Park, Sonepat, on November 27 for VIP guests, including sports personalities, ministers of the central and state governments, Balwan Singh Punia, father of Bajrang, told The Tribune. “Merely 50 family members and close relatives will be part of Bajrang’s ‘baraat’. The number of ‘baraatis’ has been confined to the minimum keeping in view the Covid cap fixed by the government. “A pre-wedding bash will be hosted at our home in Sonepat a day before the marriage for which 250 persons, including friends of Bajrang and other family members, have been invited,” said Balwan. He maintained the wedding reception of Bajrang and Sangeeta had been planned for VIPs on November 27. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda and other prominent political leaders, besides eminent players of wrestling and other games, are likely to attend the ceremony. Arrangements for 250 guests had been made at wedding reception, he added. “We will not take dowry and the bride’s family has been apprised of it as we have everything that is required for a home,” said Balwan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/low-key-wedding-for-bajrang-punia-sangeeta-174289
23-11-2020||---||In Karnal, 16% fall in accidents in 10 months||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, November 22The district witnessed a fall of around 16 per cent in road accidents between January and October in comparison with the corresponding period last year — a trend which can be attributed to the Covid-induced lockdown.In all, 266 people lost their lives in 500 accidents from January to October. In the same period last year, 306 people died in 603 accidents.The data obtained from the police has revealed that the number of accidents increased in the past four months after the lockdown restrictions were relaxed.In July, 25 people died in 53 accidents. The next month, 35 lives were lost in 63 accidents. In September, 33 people died in 57 accidents, while 33 persons lost their lives in 69 accidents in October.The data revealed that 740 accidents were reported in the entire period of last year, in which 382 people died and 562 sustained injuries.Superintendent of Police Ganga Ram Punia said, “The police identified four black spots, where five or more than five accidents took place in the past few years. We reviewed the reasons for mishaps during monthly road safety meetings. In the last meeting held on November 20, we discussed several issues pertaining to illegal cuts.”“According to a study on road accidents, rash driving, overspeeding, overloading and drunken driving are major reasons for mishaps,” the SP said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-karnal-16-fall-in-accidents-in-10-months-174290
23-11-2020||---||Begging menace goes on in Karnal||Karnal, November 22 The begging menace is increasing with each passing day in Karnal, but law enforcement agencies, including the district administration, police and Child Welfare Committee, seem to have turned a blind eye to the menace. Surprisingly, the number of minors is also high among beggars. Residents are fed up with the menace as at every traffic light crossing and in markets, particularly outside eateries, there are lots of beggars who come to residents for alms. A large number of beggars, including children, can be seen begging across the city, particularly at Hospital Chowk, Kunjpura road, Sector 13 market, traffic lights of Sector 12, Nirmal Kutia, Government College Chowk, Meerut road chowk, ITI Chowk, Model Town and other parts of the city. “We have started a campaign against it and recovered three children while begging,” said Umesh Chanana, chairman of the Child Welfare Committee. “I have held a meeting with the Child Welfare Committee Chairman and started a drive against the menace,” said Ganga Ram Punia, SP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/begging-menace-goes-on-in-karnal-174291
23-11-2020||Karnal||Course on health, fitness begins||MPhil, PhD admissions from todayRohtak: Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) has issued the admission notice for MPhil and PhD programmes and award of the University Research Scholarship (URS) for the session 2020-2021. MDU Registrar Prof Gulshan Lal Taneja said the online registration for the admission process would commence on November 23 while the last date for the submission of applications is December 14. The details of seats, entrance exam syllabi and admission schedule, etc will be available on the MDU website, Prof Taneja added.Webinar on technical educationKurukshetra: A daylong national webinar was organised by Technology Education and Research Integrated Institutions in collaboration with the Shikha Sanskriti Uthhan Nyas on the theme – Technical education: Significance and opportunities. Jagram, north regional convenor of the Shiksha Sanskriti Uthan Nyas, initiated the webinar mentioning that no religion was higher than service. Dinesh Kumar, professor in the department of mechanical and industrial engineering, delivered the keynote lecture on the Internet of things and industry 4.0. Dr. VK Goel, vertical head, iNurture Education Solutions Pvt Ltd, Bengaluru, deliberated his vision on one of the latest technologies that revolutionised our digital world and explained how scientists use a large volume of data to interpret the consequences, which helps in taking decisions for future in the respective field. Profe Ajai Jain from the mechanical engineering department, NIT, delivered a lecture on the integration of process planning and scheduling. Prof Chhagan from the electronics and communication engineering department explained the significance of cognitive radio networks for 5G and beyond. Prof Rajneesh from the mechanical engineering department, NIT, shared his extensive research on ‘Bio-energy: Technology and transitions’.Talk on national harmonyKurukshetra: Satish Kumar, national organiser of the Swadeshi Jagran Manch, said Kurukshetra University (KU) should create a model of self-sufficiency in the country. “The KU is known across India as it has great potential to make more than 5 lakh students learn self-reliance. The KU teachers should provide a platform for the students to develop their inner skills so that they can become role models of self-reliance.” Kumar was speaking as a keynote speaker under the joint programme of the department of youth and cultural affairs, KU and Swadesh Swavalamban Trust, under the National Communal Harmony Campaign Week. The topic of talk was ‘Swadeshi to self-reliance and national harmony’. He said Swadeshi was not just a matter of procurement but had a deep sense of nationalism embedded in it. Satish said Covid had severely disrupted the economies of all countries of the world. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi sees this time as a good business opportunity for India. Only locally manufactured products have shown us the way forward. This should be the mantra to become self-reliant.” Meanwhile, KU Vice Chancellor Prof Som Nath Sachdeva said the Trust works to increase brotherhood in the country and maintain national unity. Swadeshi means ‘Made by India’, meaning that more than 50 per cent of the rights were with the Indians.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/course-on-health-fitness-begins-174596
23-11-2020||Instead of proper waste disposal||Private clinics, hospitals lack waste disposal system||Open manholes pose a threatThe photograph captured on the road from Mahaveer Chowk to Maharaja Agrasen Chowk and Sector 46 market gate in Gurugram shows a number of open manholes on te pavement. At certain places, the passages are broken, where minor accidents take place almost daily, hence causing inconvenience to pedestrians. It is tough to walk and at times, even stray cattle get stuck here. I fail to understand as to why these manholes have never caught the attention of the top brass. Also, it goes without saying that there is neither any social audit nor a senior officer to monitor the spot. The authorities concerned should take cognisance of the issue and get the things done in a proper manner.Gian Parkash and Aarohi Kansal, GurugramNo room for laxity in Covid fightEveryone’s fate depends upon the conduct of each person. A casual approach and taking undue advantages of the relaxations has resulted in the recent spurt in Covid cases. A penalty of Rs500 for not wearing a mask is enough and increasing it four times in Delhi smacks of a ‘martial law diktat’. The police need to offer free masks to those being challaned for not wearing one. The manufacturers of consumer goods should be mandated to include a complimentary mask in their packing so that every household has enough protective gear within easy reach. Markets and other public places need to bar entry in groups or without masks. There is no room for laxity on precautionary measures.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaVIrus surge a cause for concernA sudden spike in Covid cases in the NCR has become a cause for concern. On Saturday, 7,546 new cases and 131 fatalities were reported in a day, which crossed the previous figure. So far, 8,000 people have lost battle to the virus. The situation is alarming and needs to be dealt with iron hand because any further rise in Delhi cases affects the NCR too. Subhash C Taneja, Gurugramencroachments continue unabatedA swift action is required by the MC Commissioner and the HSVP administrator against shopkeepers and booth owners encroaching upon roads in Panchkula markets. They display their products in corridors, which is illegal, arbitrary and unjustified. Even street vendors are backto their places from where they were removed before Covid. An anti-encroachment drive is the need of the hour. Ramit Bagga, PanchkulaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/private-clinics-hospitals-lack-waste-disposal-system-174597
23-11-2020||Rohtak||Rohtak lad felicitated||Plasma donation awarenessKarnal: The National Integrated Forum of Artists and Activists (NIFAA), a social-cultural organisation, with the help of other NGOs of the country has started “Samvedna”, a nationwide blood and plasma donation awareness campaign. The drive commenced with the purpose to organise 1,500 blood donation camps across the country to collect 90,000 units of blood on the 90th Martyrdom Day of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Rajguru, Sukhdev on March 23. At a meeting of NIFAA members at Vikas Sadan here on Sunday, chairman Pritpal Singh Pannu said apart from the families of the three martyrs, the campaign was getting support from prominent personalities such as famous Bollywood singer, composer and music director Kailash Kher; eminent actor and philanthropist Sonu Sood; noted actor Randeep Hooda, world-famous author Shiv Khera; Punjabi singing legend Gurdas Maan; renowned producer-director Karan Razdan; film, television and theatre actor Mohan Joshi; professional footballer Jeje Lapekhlua; and acclaimed youngest singer Esther Hnamte. In a rare gesture, all organisations joining hand for this blood and plazma donation drive will be given a certificate personally signed by the above mentioned celebrities along with Abhay Singh Sandu, nephew of Shaheed Bhagat Singh; Satyasheel Rajguru, nephew of Shaheed Rajguru; and Anuj Thapar, grandson of Shaheed Sukhdev. Similarly, all blood donors will also get an appreciation certificate.Toilet Day Award for RewariRewari: Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat bestowed the World Toilet Day Award on the Rewari district administration for raising awareness about access to safe/hygienic toilets and overall relevance of sanitation. Rewari was among the 20 districts across the country selected for this prestigious award. DC Yashendra Singh received the award digitally. “It is a big achievement and the participation of representatives of the Panchayati Raj Institutions, anganwadi workers, social activists and other social groups in the Swachh Bharat Mission (Gramin) have played a vital role in getting this prestigious award,” Yashendra said.e-Clinic, nursing unit launchedGurugram: A mobile e-Clinic and nursing unit was launched within the upscale M3M Golfestate condominium in Sector 65. Launched by M3M along with Medanta, the facility will cater to the medical needs of the residents by connecting them with the hospital’s super-specialist doctors through remote consultation. The residents will have access to immediate healthcare advice and treatment while ensuring patient’s safety. The e-Clinic was inaugurated by Pankaj Bansal, M3M director, along with Dr Naresh Trehan, chairman and managing director, Medanta. The e-Clinic has provided the residents of the society with trained medical staff, support for medical emergency and virtual consultations. “The e-Clinic will support medical needs of residents to ensure essential and specialised care for all,” said Pankaj.Official’s transfer raises eyebrowsFaridabad: The transfer of the Faridabad Municipal Corporation (MC) chief engineer within days of joining the duty has raised a few eyebrows. Birender Kardam, who had joined here as the chief engineer on November 18, was relieved from the post as per an order issued by the office of Additional Chief Secretary, Urban Local Bodies Department, on Sunday. While this has taken the official circles of the MC by surprise, the authorities have ordered to give the charge again to Thakur Lal Sharma, who was transferred from this post on November 16. Sharma who was posted as the chief engineer of the Sonepat MC has now been given the additional charge of Faridabad. “This action has not only put a question mark over the purpose of the transfer in such a manner, but will certainly affect the working of the Faridabad MC,” says Yogesh Dhingra, a former municipal corporator.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-lad-felicitated-174598
23-11-2020||Mukesh Tandon||NH-44 blocked for hrs after ex-councillor’s body found||Tribune News ServicePanipat, November 22The body of former Panipat councillor Harish Sharma was fished out from the Delhi Parallel Canal by an NDRF team on Sunday following which hundreds of protesters blocked the national highway (NH-44), demanding that criminal cases be filed against police officials, including Panipat SP Manisha Chaudhary, for allegedly driving Sharma to “take the extreme step”. The traffic, held up for at least three hours, was finally cleared at 8 pm.Stuck in the jam on the elevated flyover, harried commuters alleged that the police did nothing to lift the blockade. It was a two-hour ordeal for truck driver Mohanjeet Singh of Ludhiana, who was on his way to Surat in Gujarat. “The police could have opened alternate routes to allow the traffic to flow,” he remarked angrily. Delhi resident Vikas Kumar, who was on his way to Chandigarh with his family, accused the police administration of “total failure”. As soon as the body of the former councillor was brought home at 5 pm after a postmortem examination at the General Hospital in Sonepat, the family members of the deceased and hundreds of residents gathered near the Tehsil Camp turn on NH-44, bringing the traffic to a halt. The cops on duty tried to divert the traffic through the flyover, but were obstructed by the protesters, who arrived there in large numbers.Refusing to budge and raising anti-police slogans, they demanded that the ‘guilty’ officials, including the Panipat SP, a DSP and ASI Mahavir Singh, be booked immediately. The protesters, who later gathered near the underpass, were lathi-charged by the police. Several of them were injured.The former councillor is believed to have jumped into the canal on Thursday morning. His family alleged that he was being harassed by the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nh-44-blocked-for-hrs-after-ex-councillors-body-found-174532
23-11-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Punjab farmers buy urea at higher rates from Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 22Farmers in Punjab are facing an acute shortage of urea, which is forcing them to buy it at abnormally higher rates from Haryana.With the National Fertilizers Limited (NFL) plant at Bathinda stopping the supply to farmers, the latter are accusing both the Central and state governments of an attempt at “hitting them financially”.As the protest by farmers against the three agriculture laws enters the next phase of ‘Delhi Chalo’, farmers are blaming the Union Government for withholding the urea-filled rakes and the state government of being unable to get urea from outside by road. The first application of urea is made in the third week of November to ensure high yield.Yudhjit Singh, a farmer of Tarkhanwala village in Bathinda, says many in his village are running from pillar to post to get urea for wheat. For his 8.5 acres of land, he has bought urea from Dabwali in Haryana. “Farmers were earlier getting a rationed supply of urea from the NFL plant at Bathinda but for past two days, it has stopped the supply. The least the state can do is to ensure that all urea produced by the plant is supplied to farmers within the state,” he says.The Tribune has learnt that presently, Punjab is facing a shortage of six lakh tonnes of urea. Though there are two plants of the NFL in the state (Bathinda and Ropar), they have already supplied the 60,000 metric tonnes of urea to Punjab as mandated in the agreements signed with the state government. “The remaining requirement of urea is to be met from outside the state. As of now, 3.90 lakh metric tonnes of urea is held up in transit,” a top official in the Markfed said. He said the opening stock of 50,000 tonnes of urea that the state had has already been distributed to cooperative societies.Ever since the train services were suspended in Punjab 60 days ago, the state has not received its supply of urea. With farmers who had sown cotton in their fields ready to sow wheat now, they are now urgently in need of urea, which is not available, leading to panic in the cotton belt of the Malwa region. The urea meant for Punjab is stuck at the NFL plants in Panipat (Haryana) and Aonla (Uttar Pradesh).Kulwant Singh, a farmer from Kishangarh village in Mansa, says the farmers have been pushed to the wall and have no choice but to buy urea from Haryana. “In Ratia, the dealers are selling urea at Rs 300 per bag against the price of Rs 265 per bag. Other than this, farmers of Punjab are also forced to buy chemical fertilisers from dealers if they buy urea. We have no option and our input cost for urea has doubled,” he adds.Punjab’s Agriculture Commissioner BS Sidhu said, “The urea should reach the state in three to four days once train services are resumed on Tuesday.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-farmers-buy-urea-at-higher-rates-from-haryana-174461
