26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 25 more COVID-19 deaths, 2,122 fresh cases||Haryana reported 25 more fatalities due to COVID-19 on Thursday, taking the death toll to 2,316, while 2,122 fresh cases pushed the state's infection tally to 2,26,611.Faridabad registered five deaths, Hisar, Jhajjar and Rohtak three each, and Gurgaon, Rewari, Panchkula, Kurukshetra and Jind districts two each, according to the state health department's daily bulletin.Among the districts which reported a sharp hike in cases are Gurgaon (698), Faridabad (457) and Sonipat (101).The state's active cases stand at 20,778, while the recovery rate is 89.81 per cent. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-reports-25-more-covid-19-deaths-2-122-fresh-cases-176234
26-11-2020||Gurugram||Five girls injured in celebratory firing in Gurugram||Five girls sustained injuries during celebratory firing at a wedding in the Sohna area here, the police said on Thursday.According to the police, an unknown person probably from the groom’s side opened fire while he was drunk during a wedding in Kharoda village here on Wednesday evening which injured five girls.The victims have been identified as Pooja, Kanishka, Kavita, Tannu and Komal. All the girls are aged between 7 to 10 years.Reportedly one of the girls has lost her eyesight and was admitted to a private hospital in Gurugram, while the other four girls have been admitted to Safdarjung hospital in Delhi and are undergoing treatment.Gurugram Police spokesperson Subhash Bokan said a case has been registered at Sohna Sadar police station on the complaint of Lalit and started the investigation. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/five-girls-injured-in-celebratory-firing-in-gurugram-176225
26-11-2020||Hisar||Wrestling couple Sangeeta Phogat and Bajrang Punia tie the knot; take 8 'pheras'; read why||Wrestler Bajrang Punia tied the knot with Sangeeta Phogat in a private ceremony in Balali village of Dadri district on Wednesday night.  Sangeeta Phogat is the younger sister of the Dangal girls—Geeta and Babita. Sangeets is also a wrestler. Keeping in mind the COVID protocols, a limited number of guests were present at the function. Punia, who is a Khel Ratna and a Padma Shri awardee, and top-most wrestler in his weight group in the world, belongs to Khudan village in Jhajjar district and is presently, living in Sonipat.  The newly-wedded couple took eight 'pheras'. The eight 'phera' was dedicated to the girl child as they vowed for the 'Beti Bachao Beti Padhao'—a government campaign. Sangeeta's father, sisters—Geeta and Babita, and coach expressed their happiness over her marriage. Punia has represented India in 65kg weight category, and has won three medals, including one in silver, and two bronze, in world wrestling championships. Despite this, he has also won a gold and silver medal in Asian games and Commonwealth Games.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wrestling-couple-sangeeta-phogat-and-bajrang-punia-tie-the-knot-take-8-pheras-read-why-176222
26-11-2020||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Gurugram police launch drone surveillance to ensure COVID protocols||To keep a close check on COVID protocol violations, Gurugram police on Thursday launched special drone surveillance.The drones would record 18 key crowded areas of the city, and cops would issue challans accordingly. This drive was initiated from Khandsa road, and moved towards Sadar Bazaar, and then to the bus stand of the city.Besides this, the drone would also act as an awareness tool."During this special operation, people including shopkeepers, who violate the rule are being monitored through the drone and the police teams would be deployed at the identified places. Gurugram police are also taking prompt actions against the shopkeepers, and people found violating the rules regarding COVID-19 through done recording. People are also being made aware of voice messages, and this campaign will continue," said the police commissioner, KK Rao.Apart from this, Gurugram police, while interacting with the representatives of the market, requested them to maintain social distance in the market, and motivate the shopkeepers, and all the people coming to the market to wear masks.In this episode of prevention of COVID infection, masks were distributed by the Gurugram police to the poor, and needy people, and motivated them to use them, and maintain social distance.A total of 938 challans were issued for those who did not wear masks on Wednesday, while 95,694 challans were issued by police till today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-police-launch-drone-surveillance-to-ensure-covid-protocols-176213
26-11-2020||---||Khattar asks Amarinder to 'stop inciting farmers'||Chandigarh, November 26Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday launched a scathing attack on his Punjab counterpart, Captain Amarinder Singh, over the farmers' stir.Khattar urged Amarinder in his tweets that he should "stop inciting farmers".“@capt_amarinder ji, I’ve said it earlier and I’m saying it again, I’ll leave politics if there’ll be any trouble on the MSP - therefore, please stop inciting innocent farmers,” Khattar said..@capt_amarinder ji, I've said it earlier and I'm saying it again, I'll leave politics if there'll be any trouble on the MSP - therefore, please stop inciting innocent farmers.  In a series of tweets, he also urged the Punjab Chief Minister to avoid cheap politics.Also read: Amarinder slams Khattar govt for stopping farmers marching towards Delhi“I’ve been trying to reach out to you for the last 3 days but sadly you decided to stay unreachable - is this how serious you are for farmer’s issues? You’re only tweeting and running away from talks, Why?” he wrote in another.I've been trying to reach out to you for the last 3 days but sadly you decided to stay unreachable - is this how serious you are for farmer's issues? You're only tweeting and running away from talks, Why?  “Time for your Lies, Deception and Propaganda is over - let the people see your real face. Please stop putting the lives of people in danger during the Corona pandemic. I urge you to not play with the lives of the people - atleast avoid cheap politics during the time of pandemic.” Khattar wrote.Time for your Lies, Deception and Propaganda is over - let the people see your real face. Please stop putting the lives of people in danger during the Corona pandemic. I urge you to not play with the lives of the people - atleast avoid cheap politics during the time of pandemic.  The Punjab Chief Minister strongly condemned Haryana’s forcible attempts to stop farmers from marching to Delhi in protest against the farm laws. Amarinder warned the BJP-led government against pushing them to the brink.Urging the Khattar government to allow the agitated farmers to pass through the national highway to take their voice to Delhi peacefully, Amarinder questioned the need to stop them from proceeding.Haryana has completely sealed its borders with Punjab to prevent farmers from entering the state for their ‘Delhi Chalo’ protest march against the Centre’s farm laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-asks-amarinder-to-stop-inciting-farmers-176173
26-11-2020||---||Borders sealed, traffic diverted, tourists coming from hills stranded||Chandigarh, December 27With protesting farmers from Punjab assembling at the Delhi-Haryana borders on Thursday morning, the police in the national capital stepped up security and put barricades at several places. The police said they have denied the requests from the farmers' groups to hold protests in Delhi.The Delhi Police in coordination with the Haryana Police was seen checking vehicles entering the capital, and have put even cemented barricades and sand trucks to stop the protesting farmers who are marching towards Delhi in large numbers in their tractors and trolleys.The Haryana Police have issued a travel advisory, asking commuters to avoid certain national highways along the state borders with Punjab and Delhi in the wake of the farmers’ protest.The main focus points of the protesters originating from within Haryana will be the four major national highways leading towards Delhi, i.e., Ambala to Delhi, Hisar to Delhi, Rewari to Delhi and Palwal to Delhi.Many tourists coming from the hills had to stay on the road all night.A huge contingent of police comprising the Rapid Action Force has been deployed to deal with any untoward situation. They tried to evict farmers gathered since Wednesday evening.Residents of several towns located along the Punjab-Haryana borders faced a harrowing time due to the heavy deployment of the security forces and snapping of the bus services in the past 24 hours.Farmers have swarmed roads and other open spaces. Several link roads entering Haryana have also been barricaded.Section 144 of the CrPC has been imposed and the entire borders have been turned into a fortress.The protesting farmers have threatened to block all the roads leading to Delhi if they are denied the permission to travel towards the national capital.Barred from entering Haryana, the leaders of farmers' organisations announced that they will sit on 'dharna' at the Dabwali barrier between Bathinda and Sirsa districts for a week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/borders-sealed-traffic-diverted-tourists-coming-from-hills-stranded-176152
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Amarinder, Khattar in twitter spat over farmers' Delhi Chalo march||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and his Haryana counterpart Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday engaged in a war of words over farmers’ Delhi Chalo march against the Centre’s farm laws.While Singh slammed Khattar for stopping farmers from moving towards the national capital, terming it as “totally undemocratic and unconstitutional”, the latter told the Punjab chief minister to stop “inciting innocent farmers”.Singh took to Twitter for lashing out at his counterpart in Haryana after farmers were stopped from entering the state to move towards Delhi.For nearly 2 months farmers have been protesting peacefully in Punjab without any problem. Why is Haryana govt provoking them by resorting to force? Don't the farmers have the right to pass peacefully through a public highway? @mlkhattar pic.twitter.com/NWyFwqOXEu  Haryana has completely sealed its borders with Punjab to prevent farmers from entering the state for their protest march.“Why is @mlkhattar govt in Haryana stopping the farmers from moving to Delhi? The tyrannical use of brute force against peacefully protesting farmers is totally undemocratic and unconstitutional,” said Singh in a tweet.He said farmers have been peacefully protesting in Punjab against the farm laws for two months.“Why is Haryana govt provoking them by resorting to force? Don’t the farmers have the right to pass peacefully through a public highway,” Singh asked.It’s a sad irony that on #ConstitutionDay2020 the constitutional right of farmers is being oppressed in this manner. Let them pass @mlkhattar ji, don't push them to the brink. Let them take their voice to Delhi peacefully. pic.twitter.com/48P0rvILVU  The Punjab chief minister said it was a “sad irony” that the constitutional rights of farmers were being “oppressed” on Constitution Day.Let them pass @mlkhattar ji, don’t push them to the brink. Let them take their voice to Delhi peacefully,” Singh said.He also appealed to the BJP to direct the Khattar-led government not to indulge in “strong arm tactics” against the farmers.Shortly after Singh lambasted him, Khattar sternly told the Punjab chief minister to stop “inciting innocent farmers”.Khattar asked Singh to desist from misleading farmers, highlighting that he has already pledged to quit politics if the Minimum Support Price mechanism is ever dismantled.“@Capt Amarinder Ji, I’ve said it earlier and I’m saying it again, I’ll leave politics if there’ll be any trouble on the MSP—therefore, please stop inciting innocent farmers,” Khattar tweeted.He accused Singh of “only tweeting” and “running away from talks” with him on the issue.“I’ve been trying to reach out to you for the last 3 days but, sadly, you have decided to stay unreachable --  is this how serious you are for farmers’ issues? You’re only tweeting and running away from talks, why,” Khattar asked in another tweet.Launching a scathing attack on Singh, the Haryana chief minister told him, “Time for your lies, deception and propaganda is over—let the people see your real face.” “Please stop putting the lives of people in danger during the corona pandemic. I urge you not to play with the lives of the people - at least avoid cheap politics during the time of the pandemic,” Khattar told Singh.Singh expressed shock at his response.“Shocked at your response @mlkhattar ji. It’s the farmers who’ve to be convinced on MSP, not me. You should’ve tried to talk to them before their #DilliChalo. And if you think I’m inciting farmers then why are Haryana farmers also marching to Delhi,” he asked.As for endangering lives during #COVID19, have you forgotten that it was @BJP4India led central govt that pushed through those #FarmLaws amid the pandemic, uncaring about the impact they’d have on our farmers? Why didn’t you speak out then @mlkhattar Ji,” Singh asked Khattar. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/amarinder-khattar-in-twitter-spat-over-farmers-delhi-chalo-march-176143
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Amarinder, Khattar pay tributes to victims of 26/11 terror attacks||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and his Haryana counterpart, Manohar Lal Khattar, on Thursday paid tributes to those killed in the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks.On the 12th anniversary of the strike that claimed 166 lives, Singh said it was an occasion to reaffirm our pledge to collectively stand against all forms of terrorist violence.I join the nation in paying tribute to the brave martyrs & victims of #MumbaiTerrorAttack. We shall never forget their sacrifice & will forever be indebted to them. It is an occasion to reaffirm our pledge to collectively stand against all forms of terrorist violence. Jai Hind!🇮🇳"I join the nation in paying tribute to the brave martyrs & victims of #MumbaiTerror Attack. We shall never forget their sacrifice & will forever be indebted to them," he said in a tweet.Khattar also took to Twitter to pay tributes to the security personnel and the civilians who died in the dreaded terror strike.On November 26, 2008, 10 Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists from Pakistan arrived by sea route in Mumbai and opened fire, killing 166 people, including 18 security personnel, and injuring several others during a 60-hour siege in the city. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/amarinder-khattar-pay-tributes-to-victims-of-26-11-terror-attacks-176141
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana forms 3-member committee to look into laws framed to tackle love jihad||Haryana’s Home Minister Anil Vij on Thursday said the state government had set up a three-member committee to draft a law against “love jihad”, a term used by BJP leaders to describe religious conversions in the guise of marriage.The minister’s statement comes days after the Uttar Pradesh government cleared a draft ordinance against conversion through force or fraudulent means.But even before the UP ordinance was cleared, Vij had announced that a committee was being set up in Haryana to frame a new law.“The Haryana committee will also study laws enacted by other states on the issue,” Vij said.He tweeted that the “drafting committee formed to frame law on love jihad” in Haryana will be made up of state Home Secretary TL Satyaprakash, Additional Director General of Police Navdeep Virk and Additional Advocate General Deepak Manchanda.A three member Drafting Committee formed to frame law on Love Jihad in Haryana comprising T L Satyaprakash IAS Secretary Home, Navdeep Sing Virk IPS ADGP and Deepak Manchanda Additional Advocate General Haryana Committee will study the Love Jihad law formed in other states also.  Earlier this month, Vij had told the Haryana Assembly that the state government was considering a law against “love jihad” and had sought information from Himachal Pradesh.The Himachal Pradesh Assembly had passed a bill last year against conversion by force, inducement or through a marriage solemnised for the “sole purpose” of adopting a new religion.The minister was then replying to a calling attention motion in the House on the murder of a young woman in Ballabhgarh.“Anyone can marry anyone, anyone can fall in love with anyone. But if there is a conspiracy for changing religion by trapping someone in love, then it is very important to stop that conspiracy. We will take whatever steps are required,” he had said.Recently, he also praised the Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government in Uttar Pradesh for approving a draft ordinance to deal with religious conversion for the sake of marriage, which could land violators in jail for up to 10 years if the woman is a minor.Vij has also told reporters earlier that with the enactment of the Haryana law, strict action will be taken against anyone indulging in religious conversion through pressure, by luring someone or in the name of love. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-forms-3-member-committee-to-look-into-laws-framed-to-tackle-love-jihad-176133
26-11-2020||Sangrur/Chandigarh/Ambala||Delhi Chalo march: Punjab farmers face water cannons, push through Haryana barricades||Farmers from Punjab faced water cannons and broke police barriers at the state’s border with Haryana as they pushed towards the national capital on Thursday on their “Delhi Chalo” march against the Centre’s farm laws.By late evening, a large group of them had reached the road toll plaza at Panipat, about 100 km from Delhi. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Haryana) leader Gurnam Singh said the protesters planned to spend the night there and will resume the march the next morning.There were traffic snarls during the day at Delhi’s border with police checking vehicles coming in from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Metro services between Delhi and NCR areas were restricted.At the Punjab-Haryana Shambhu border, police and Punjab farmers in their tractor-trolleys were locked in a confrontation for a couple of hours in the morning.Police made announcements on loudspeakers asking the farmers assembled on the Punjab side to disperse.But as protesters tried to push through barricades, the Haryana Police used a water cannon and lobbed teargas shells. Farmers chucked some steel barricades into the Ghaggar river from the bridge where they had been stopped.Apart from this confrontation in Ambala district, there were face-offs between the protesters and police in Haryana’s Sirsa, Kurukshetra, Fatehabad and Jind districts bordering Congress-run Punjab.Tension spiralled at the Shambhu interstate border as police used water cannons and teargas to disperse hundreds of farmers from Punjab who broke barricades, throwing some into the river, determined to enter the state.Haryana Police handled situation with ‘great restraint', says DGP The Haryana Police acted with “great restraint” against Punjab-based farmers who broke barricades during their “Delhi Chalo” march to ensure law and order, DGP Manoj Yadava said on Thursday.He said the farmers took an aggressive stand and tried to disturb law and order by “pelting stones” at police at many places.Some police personnel sustained injuries and police and private vehicles were damaged, Yadava added.The Haryana Director General of Police said farmers were marching towards Delhi but police would try to stop them without resorting to force.The BKU Ekta Ughran in its state committee meeting has announced that they would move for Delhi tomorrow at 11.30 am from Dabwali and Khanauri.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha and All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) said “more than 50,000 farmers will be standing at the Delhi border by today evening”.“The numbers are expected to swell through the night as thousands of tractors and trolleys are carrying farmers, women and children from interior areas of Punjab,” a statement by farmers’ coordination body said.A large number of farmers marching from grain market in Boha to Delhi for “Delhi Chalo” agitation against three farm laws, entered Haryana by breaking the police barricades at Bahmanwala border.On reaching the border, the farmers staged a protest and shouted slogans against the Union government for implementing three farm laws and trying to suppress the farmers by further imposing up to Rs 1 crore fine and sentence for stubble burning.They told the Haryana Police to allow them to go to Delhi, but police did not allow them as they had sealed and barricaded the road, but as farmers outnumbered the Haryana Police personnel deployed there, the farmers broke the barricading and went further towards Delhi.Karnal: One farmer of Punjab received injury after the police used tear gas and water cannons near Karna Lake.Farmers broke Behmanwala barrier in Boha area in Mansa district to enter Haryana.Similarly, farmers entered Hansipur in Haryana by breaking police barricade at Sardulgarh in Mansa district.Farmers crossed Bastaraa toll plaza and moved towards Panipat.Punjab farmers are getting ready to cross over to Haryana's Sirsa district near Dabwali town.After crossing Ambala, the Punjab farmers reached Kurukshetra where the administration had put up barricades and used water cannons to stop the farmers near Tyora village but the angry farmers broke open the barricades and continued their march towards Delhi on Thursday.Similarly, at the Tukar border of Pehowa in Kurukshetra the Punjab farmers broke open the barricades, throwing some into the Markanda river, to enter Haryana. The police also used water cannons to disperse the farmers but to no avail.किसानों से समर्थन मूल्य छीनने वाले कानून के विरोध में किसान की आवाज सुनने की बजाय भाजपा सरकार उन पर भारी ठंड में पानी की बौछार मारती है।किसानों से सबकुछ छीना जा रहा है और पूंजीपतियों को थाल में सजा कर बैंक, कर्जमाफी, एयरपोर्ट रेलवे स्टेशन बांटे जा रहे हैं। #FarmersProtest pic.twitter.com/al8dG8ZZhi  A few protesters and cops were injured in the scuffle as thousands of peasants removed police barricades and heavy concrete boulders blocking their way to Delhi.The injured were being shifted to hospital in an ambulance. The police have parked trucks in the middle of the highway in another bid to stop farmers' 'Delhi Chalo' march.As farmers and police faced off at a bridge with the Ghaggar river flowing below, tractors and trucks were lined up and people could be seen waving black flags and shouting slogans.Police made announcements on loudspeakers to ask the farmers assembled on the Punjab side of the border to disperse. As smoke from the teargas clouded the air and uniformed security personnel milled around, people could be seen standing on top of trucks. Television visuals also showed some bricks lying on the road.Some farmers tried to cross the barricades and remove them and some chucked them into the Ghaggar river. The Shambhu border point is about 200 km from Delhi.Leaders of All India Kisan Sabha, who have been entrusted with the responsibility of ensuring a smooth movement of farmers from the border, say that there are almost 50,000 farmers at the spot.Bracing overnight rains and chilly winds, thousands of protesting farmers on Thursday assembled at various places along the Haryana borders in Punjab amid mounting tension.Haryana had completely sealed its borders with Punjab. There was heavy deployment of Haryana police on the borders with Punjab, officials said.हुकूमत से जीतने की जद्दोजहद तभी करता है कोई किसान, जब उसने अपनी जिंदगी दांव पर लगा रखी हो|  केंद्र सरकार के तीनों खेती बिल किसान विरोधी हैं। ये बिल वापिस लेने की बजाय किसानों को शांतिपूर्ण प्रदर्शन करने से रोका जा रहा है, उन पर वॉटर कैनन चलाई जा रही हैं। किसानों पर ये जुर्म बिलकुल ग़लत है। शांतिपूर्ण प्रदर्शन उनका संवैधानिक अधिकार है।  The Haryana Police in adequate strength has also been deployed along the state's borders with Delhi, they said.Farmer bodies said they will hold a dharna wherever stopped from moving towards the National Capital.The BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) has claimed that over two lakh farmers associated with it will enter Haryana through Khanauri and Dabwali.Farmers have brought ration, vegetables, wood and other essentials for their march. In view of cold weather conditions, they have stocked quilts, blankets and covered their trolleys with tarpaulin. Haryana Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni had said on Wednesday that “even if police use lathis and force, nothing can stop farmers".In the fight against three farm laws, the farmers “Delhi Chalo” agitation has got overwhelming response from the women, children and youth as large number of them have come out from their houses and are participating in these protests taking place across the state at Haryana borders.A six-year-old, Shahbaz Singh, of Chak Fatte Singhwala village has also reached at the protest holding farm union flag in his hand. While talking to The Tribune, Shahbaz said Modi government is taking their lands, due to which he has come along with his family to protest against these black Bills and “save our land”. Even school going girls wearing jeans and tops with union badge were also spotted at the Dabwali border protest. Even many youngsters were seen carrying flags in their hand and chanting slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union government over these three farm laws.BKU Ekta Ugrahan women wing president Harjinder Kaur Bindu said around 25,000 women are participating in the protest today. “We have run campaign by holding jaggo and mashal marches in 800 villages in the region to encourage women and youth to participate in the protest,” she said.Videography, including using drone cameras, is being done at the state borders with Punjab and other sensitive points.Amid the anti-farm law demonstration by several farmers’ outfits, the commuters on Delhi-Gurugram Expressway faced huge traffic snarls throughout the day.The commuters on National Highway-48 were stuck near the Delhi-Gurugram border on the Expressway as Delhi Police had put up barricades and were checking every vehicle in view of the “Delhi Chalo” call given by the farmers’ bodies protesting the Central farm laws passed by the Parliament in September.Scores of vehicles were seen lined up from the Delhi-Gurugram border to the Shankar Chowk on the National Highway.As a precautionary measure, the Haryana Police were also checking every vehicle to prevent the protesters from entering the national capital.On the other hand, the impact of the agitation by the farmers’ organisations was negligible in Gurugram district as the situation remained peaceful throughout the day, with no untoward incident getting reported from anywhere in the district.In view of the protests by various farmers’ bodies, the district administration and the Gurugram police had made elaborate arrangements to maintain law and order in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/delhi-chalo-march-punjab-farmers-face-water-cannons-push-through-haryana-barricades-176110
26-11-2020||I am from Uttar Pradesh||Singer Kaka riding high on the success of his Haryanvi song Bholenath||When I was 15-16 years old I developed a passion for singing.I am grateful to Mohit Bansal and Shubham Bansal of Pellet Drum Productions for showing faith in me and launching Bholenath’s music video at such a huge scale. It’s a big boost for a regional artiste like me. They have a great sense of music and come out with futuristic ideas.Bholenath is a song based on the love story of Lord Shiva and Parvati.The response has been amazing. Within few days, we have already crossed 5 million views on YouTube channel and still counting.I am a non-actor and have never acted earlier in any of my music videos. I have done lip syncing, but in Bholenath, I have acted for the first time. Arvindr Khaira is the one who extracted the acting bit from me. He is a great director.We shot in a village with a small crowd and took all the necessary precautions—wearing marks, using sanitizers and maintaining social distancing.The planning is on, and we want to do something big. I can’t reveal anything right now. The song should be out in a month or so.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/singer-kaka-riding-high-on-the-success-of-his-haryanvi-song-bholenath-176014
26-11-2020||Nitish Sharma||Water cannons used in Kurukshetra, Ambala to disperse farmers||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, November 25After breaking barricades and facing water cannons, hundreds of farmers led by Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni crossed Ambala and Pipli in Kurukshetra on Wednesday to continue their march to Delhi to protest against the three farm laws.Gurnam Singh Charuni, farm leader Charuni’s no to Khattar’s inviteWe have received a message that the Chief Minister is ready to talk and has invited five members, but we have refused their invite. Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala has betrayed farmers.On the ‘Delhi Chalo’ call given by various farm unions, a large number of farmers under the banner of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha from various districts, including Ambala, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar, assembled near the Mohra grain market in Ambala on the NH-44. Raising anti-government slogans, they started their march towards Delhi.The Ambala administration had put up barricades near Farauli village, but angry farmers broke the barricades in no time. Besides the police, Rapid Action Force was deployed. After removal of barricades, langar was served to farmers amid a drizzle.Adamant on their march, farmers proceeded on their tractor-trailers and other vehicles, forcing police personnel to make way. Charuni and other farmer leaders standing on a vehicle fell when the driver sped up.“Our fight is not against the state government. We want to reach Delhi to raise our voice against wrong policies of the Union Government. We had been protesting and raising our voice for the past four months, but no attention was paid. The state government should not try to disturb our march and let us go peacefully, otherwise it will be responsible for the consequences. We will reach Delhi at any cost,” said Charuni.He said farmers would resume their protest march to Delhi at 8 am on Thursday. At present, they were camping at Samanabahu village.Ambala DC Ashok Sharma said, “Our purpose was to ensure that the law and order situation remained under control. Traffic was diverted and a large number of farmers went back.”“The BKU chief was not ready for dialogue. Farmers pelted us with stones and damaged barricades. They tried to run policemen over and disturb the law and order situation. We avoided direct confrontation. Since no force was used, it was hard to stop them. Appropriate action will be taken as per the law and cases registered,” said SP Rajesh Kalia.The Kurukshetra administration had put up barricades near Tyora village in Kurukshetra. After being stopped for nearly two hours, angry farmers managed to break barricades and continued their march. The police used water cannons, but failed to stop farmers.SIDELIGHTSChautala’s vehicle stoppedHisar: INLD supremo Om Prakash Chautala was stopped by farmers near Khuyan Malkana toll plaza on the Dabwali-Sirsa road when he was going to Sirsa from Chautala village on Wednesday. The farmers had blocked the road at the toll plaza. The staff accompanying Chautala urged the protesters to let their vehicles go but the protesters refused. Chautala later took an alternative route via Neelanwali village to reach Sirsa. The police have placed stones on the highways connecting Haryana and Punjab in Sirsa and Jind districts.Deputy CM in line of fireDeputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala is in the line of fire once again. Farmers are agitated with the JJP and its leaders for keeping mum during protests against the farm laws. All India Kisan Sangharsh Co-ordination Committee leader Inderjit Singh sought a reply from Dushyant for the government’s action against the farmers’ agitation. “Dushyant claims to be a well-wisher of farmers, but is nowhere to be found when farmers are being suppressed by the police at the instance of his government. This is a violation of fundamental rights of the people and anti-national as well.” he said.Grooms stuck on NHThe protest has resulted in long queues on NH-44 near Taraori, Karnal. Hundreds of vehicles including the ones carrying bridegrooms are waiting for traffic clearance. Due to ‘Dev Uthani Ekadashi’ and ‘Tulsi Vivah’, the day is considered auspicious for solemnising marriages. “Today is my marriage and we left for Delhi from Ludhiana at 11 am. We had to reach Delhi before 8 pm. But at 8.30 pm, we are stuck in Karnal,” said a groom from Ludhiana.Cops invited to have foodBonhomie was witnessed between farmers and police during langar when the farmers invited the on-duty policemen to have lunch with them soon after a small face-off between them on the NH in Ambala. Though the policemen refused the invitation politely as they were on duty, the farmers continued to call them and said that there was no rift between them as they both (farmers and police) were performing their respective duties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/water-cannons-used-in-kurukshetra-ambala-to-disperse-farmers-175964
26-11-2020||Jhajjar||1,500 cops deployed  in Jhajjar||A total of 1,500 police personnel were deployed and 11 nakas set up at various places bordering Delhi on Wednesday. Sandeep Khirwar, IGP, Rohtak Range, said they were fully prepared to tackle any situation.“A total of 1,200 personnel have been deployed in Bahadurgarh and 300 in Beri and Jhajjar. We have arranged 50 buses to transport those breaking the law,” said Rajesh Duggal, Jhajjar SP.All inter-state and inter-district borders had been sealed, said DC Jitender Kumar. “Section 144 has been imposed in the district. Officials of all government departments have been told not to leave the district headquarters till Friday and not to switch off their mobile phones,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-500-cops-deployed-in-jhajjar-175965
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court notice to Haryana over detentions of farmers||The Punjab and Haryana High Court put Haryana on notice on Wednesday on a habeas corpus petition filed by a farmers’ union, alleging illegal midnight raids and illegal detention of farmers to sabotage “peaceful protest planned against the three contentious farm laws viewed as anti-farmer”.Appearing before the Bench of Justice Sant Parkash through video-conferencing on behalf of the Haryana Progressive Farmers Union, counsel Pardeep Kumar Rapria submitted that the petitioner was an advocacy group formed by farmers from various parts of Haryana for the welfare of cultivators.They were seeking issuance of a writ in the nature of habeas corpus for direction to the state and other respondents to release the detainees enumerated in a list. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-notice-to-haryana-over-detentions-of-farmers-175966
26-11-2020||---||Long traffic jams at borders, commuters a harried lot||Panipat, November 25The Sonepat district administration has sealed the inter-state borders, especially the Kundli border, to stop the farmers’ movement towards Delhi. Traffic has also been diverted.Following directions, the police allowed the vehicles to cross the borders after searching them properly. As a result, long queues of vehicles were witnessed on Kundli border since Wednesday morning. The commuters had to face problems due to a long traffic jam.Besides, the Panipat-UP border at Sanoli has also been sealed.Sonepat District Magistrate Shyam Lal Poonia and Panipat Duty Magistrate Manoj Kumar on Wednesday promulgated prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC banning the assembly of five or more persons in the district, organising demonstration and carrying of firearms.Poonia appointed 19 duty magistrates in the district along with police officers to avert any untoward situation in wake of the proposed ‘Delhi Chalo’ protest.The Panipat DM, too, deputed 20 duty magistrates in the district and also appointed special officers at Panipat toll plaza and in Samalkha near Nirankari Centre on NH-44 to stop farmers.The ban order will remain in force till November 27 in Sonepat district and for a week in Panipat.Sonepat DC Shyam Lal Poonia and SP Sonepat Jashandeep Singh Randhawa reviewed the security arrangements from Haldana border to Kundli border on NH-44. The administration diverted the traffic on the national highway to rural roads for hassle-free travel to people going to Delhi and Chandigarh.The Sonepat administration has established a temporary jail at IFCI infrastructure building in Sewli village to detain farmers.Satish Vats, DSP Headquarters, Panipat, said that two companies have been deployed at two ‘nakas’ near the toll plaza and near Nirankari centre on the national highway.Karnal: Commuters on the national highway had to travel extra miles which, as per the commuters, has led to wastage of time and fuel. “I have to reach Chandigarh at 5 pm, but due to traffic diversion earlier in Sonepat and now in Karnal, I am already running an hour late,” said Nikhil, a resident of Chandigarh who came from Delhi.Ambala: As thousands of farmers from the neighbouring agrarian state started marching towards Delhi via Ambala this afternoon, the heavy police force deployed at Shambhu and Saddopur barriers on Haryana-Punjab border and on Ambala-Delhi highway at Mohra put up barricades and heavy concrete boulders to block their way.Temporary jail set up||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/long-traffic-jams-at-borders-commuters-a-harried-lot-175967
26-11-2020||Deepender Deswal||Farmer families from Punjab camp near Jind||Tribune News ServiceHisar, November 25Carrying food, warm clothes and other essential items, farmers on about 100 tractors reached near Data Singhwala village of Jind district located along the Punjab border on Wednesday.The Jind administration has blocked their entry in Jind by putting huge stones on the road. The farmers have put up their camp along the road about half a km from Haryana border.The protesting farmers hailing from various districts of Punjab are accompanied by women. They are carrying food, including flour and ghee, kitchen utensils and warm clothes, on their tractor trailers. About 100 tractors started reaching the Jind border on Wednesday morning which is continuing till the filing of this report.The farmers maintained that around 10,000 farmers on about 2,000 to 2,500 tractors would reach this spot by Thursday morning and they would proceed from Data Singhwala to Delhi on Thursday morning.“We have enough food and other essential items for staying in camps for one month. We will procure more goods as and when required,” said one of the farmers.“Nobody can stop us from moving further. We have taken a halt for our brethren coming from far,” he said, adding that they are fully equipped and required no help mid-journey.Ramraji Dhull, a Bharatiya Kisan Union from Jind who reached Data Singhwala village, said that the Punjab farmers were “unstoppable” even as the police have been deployed near the border in large strength. He said that the police have sealed all the roads leading towards Delhi and other districts of Haryana from Jind.“It took me four hours to reach Data Singhwala village from Jind. Police are deployed at every exit and entry point. I had to walk for two hours to reach the village to meet the Punjab farmers. They said that they need no logistical help as they are carrying all kinds of necessary items,” he told The Tribune after meeting the Punjab farmers.Meanwhile, Haryana farmers from Hisar, Jind, Sirsa, Fatehabad and Bhiwani districts are also planning to march to Delhi on Thursday.Sources said that that farmers from different villages have decided to get divided into small groups that will start their march towards Delhi by vehicles and on foot.The Hisar administration has imposed Section 144 in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmer-families-from-punjab-camp-near-jind-175968
26-11-2020||---||Farmers’ panel flays sealing of borders||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, November 25The Haryana chapter of the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) — a joint platform of several farmers’ outfits — has strongly objected to the Khattar government’s act of sealing all border points in the state leading to Delhi and Punjab in order to prevent the farmers from going to Delhi on November 26 and 27 to protest against the three farm laws.“The state is acting at the behest of the Centre to suppress the farmers’ agitation by dictatorial methods. The government should not remain under any illusion that it will succeed. The only democratic option is to withdraw the three black laws. We appeal to all political parties to express solidarity with the farmers by condemning the state government for its anti-national act of sealing the borders,” AIKSCC leader Inderjit Singh told the media here on Wednesday.Inderjit Singh also sought an answer from Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala for the government’s action against the farmers’ agitation.“Dushyant claims to be a big well-wisher of farmers, but why is he keeping mum when farmers are being suppressed by the police,” he asked.Congress, INLD attack govt||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-panel-flays-sealing-of-borders-175969
26-11-2020||Ravinder Saini||No tokens, 4,797 registered farmers fail to sell bajra||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, November 25Despite getting themselves registered on the government portal, as many as 4,797 farmers in Rohtak, Rewari and Mahendragarh districts could not sell their bajra produce to the agency.As many as 2,343 farmers among them are from Rewari, 1,530 from Rohtak and 924 from Mahendragarh district.Rohtas Kumar, Deputy Director (Agriculture), RohtakVerified details to be uploadedThe details of authentic farmers will be uploaded on the government portal soon. Thereafter, the bajra procurement will be started as per the schedule.The figures came to the fore during the verification of registration done by the district authorities concerned following the directives of the state government in this regard. The authorities have sent these names to the government, which is likely to restart the procurement of bajra soon.Sources say a majority of the farmers didn’t get a token while the ones awaiting their second turn also couldn’t sell the produce due to the same reason. Now, these farmers will be able to sell their produce as soon as the government restarts the procurement.The procurement season commenced on October 1 and ended November 15. A large number of farmers in the districts remained deprived of selling their produce, leading to acute resentment among them. They demanded from the government to buy their produce as they had got themselves registered on the portal and it would be injustice to them if their produce was not procured.Keeping in view their demand, the government later extended the bajra procurement season up to November 27 but directed the Deputy Commissioners to verify the registered farmers of their district concerned.“A team of officials from different departments verified the registration claims of 3,500 farmers in Rewari and 2,582 in Mahendragarh. Of these, the registration of 2,343 farmers in Rewari and 924 in Mahendragarh farmers was found to be valid,” said Jaswinder Singh, Deputy Director (Agriculture), Mahendragarh.Meanwhile, Rohtas Kumar, Deputy Director (Agriculture), Rohtak, said the registration of 1,530 farmers out of 2,044 had been found authentic. “Their details will be uploaded on the government portal soon. Thereafter, the procurement will be started as per the schedule,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-tokens-4-797-registered-farmers-fail-to-sell-bajra-175970
26-11-2020||---||Haryana records 42 Covid deaths, highest in a day||Chandigarh, November 25In all, 42 people died of Covid in the last 24 hours in the state, taking the toll to 2,291. It is the highest number of fatalities in a day ever since the virus broke out.Director General (Health Services) Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj has confirmed this. The previous highest toll was 33 reported on November 24, he said.Six deaths each were reported from Faridabad and Panipat districts, five each from Rohtak and Bhiwani, three each from Gurugram, Hisar and Fatehabad, two each from Rewari and Sirsa, and one each from Ambala, Karnal, Panchkula, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar, Jind and Charkhi Dadri.In all, 426 patients are critical. Of them, 51 are on ventilator and 375 on oxygen support.Meanwhile, 2,197 new cases were reported on Wednesday taking the tally to 2.24 lakh. The maximum cases of 661 were reported from Gurugram followed by Faridabad (485), Hisar (147), Sonepat (100), Rewari (93) and Rohtak (92).November 28 to be sampling day“On Wednesday, as many as 37,244 samples were collected, with a maximum of 14,209 from Faridabad. Now, we have decided to observe November 28 as sampling day in the state. The minimum sample limit is 50,000 per day, of which 80% should be for the RT-PCR test,” said Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-records-42-covid-deaths-highest-in-a-day-175971
26-11-2020||Nitin Jain||Property tax amnesty over, Ambala civic bodies tighten noose on evaders||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, November 25With the extended amnesty scheme offering 25 per cent rebate on arrears getting over, the civic bodies in the twin towns of Ambala have once again tightened the noose around property tax defaulters.Besides targeting private defaulters, the MCs have also put the government departments on final notice for default in property tax payment.Of the total arrears of over Rs 36 crore, both the civic bodies have been able to recover over Rs 17.5 crore from the defaulters before the amnesty scheme, offering 25 per cent rebate without penal interest, ended on October 31.In Ambala City, several government departments owe over Rs 3 crore to the Municipal Corporation, which has asked the defaulting departmental heads to clear the arrears without any further delay, else the civic body would be constrained to initiate punitive action for the recovery of the tax.While Rs 7 crore tax was yet to be recovered in Ambala City, over 500 property owners have not paid Rs 11.5 crore arrears in Ambala Cantonment.Earlier in March, the civic bodies of Ambala twin towns had launched a drive to seal the properties of major defaulters under the provisions of the MC Act and drag them to competent courts for the recovery of arrears but later, the drive was put off due to the Covid lockdown.“Since the commercial and business operations resumed in June, we have asked the defaulters to immediately clear their arrears otherwise we will formally declare them defaulters and resume the properties of major habitual offenders,” said a senior MC official.Before the amnesty scheme was launched, Ambala City MC was struggling to collect Rs 16 crore property tax arrears from almost 1.56 lakh owners for the past seven years (2011-11 to 2018-19) while over 1,000 defaulters owed Rs 20 crore tax to the Municipal Council in Ambala Cantonment.Availing the benefit of the amnesty scheme, a majority of the defaulters had paid their arrears while the remaining will be taken to task, the officer said.Meanwhile, Ambala City MC Commissioner Parth Gupta instructed the civic officials in the district to expedite the recovery of the remaining arrears and initiate legal proceedings, including sealing the premises, against the major defaulters, who fail to clear the arrears.GOVT DEPTS OWE Rs 3CR TO MC IN AMBALA CITY||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/property-tax-amnesty-over-ambala-civic-bodies-tighten-noose-on-evaders-175972
26-11-2020||---||Haryana Govt employees to go on strike today||Chandigarh, November 25Government employees under the banner of Sarv Karamchari Sangh will go on a strike on Thursday to protest the state and Central government policies.According to Sarv Karamchari Sangh President Subhash Lamba, all government departments, boards, corporations and those employed in universities and urban local bodies would participate in the strike.The strike is being observed after 10 central trade unions gave a call for the strike. Employees of public sector enterprises, petroleum and gas companies, Air India, postal department, income tax, shipping, roadways and power sector would participate in the strike at national level.“It will be a historic strike and the Covid protocols will be taken care of in the strike,” said Lamba.He said the employees were angry over the three farm laws, ending of 44 labour laws and non-implementation of old pension policy. “Besides protesting at their departments, the employees would also carry out a procession at block and district levels,” said Lamba. He said emergency services such as health, ambulance, fire and power department would not be disrupted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-employees-to-go-on-strike-today-175973
26-11-2020||Parveen Arora||25 hearing impaired to be issued driver’s licence in Karnal||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, November 25The district administration has started the process of identifying hearing impaired people, who want to have a driver’s licence. So far, 25 such persons have been identified by the office of the Sub-divisional Magistrate (SDM).Their application files are under process. Before undergoing the driving test, they will be educated about traffic rules with the help of sign language translators.“There is a general perception that hearing impaired people cannot get a driver’s licence. This is not true. If they clear medical and driving tests, they can get a licence. On getting the licence it will be mandatory for them to affix a sticker, which would read ‘Driven by a hearing impaired person’, on their vehicles,” said SDM Ayush Sinha.The Centre had, in 2016, issued a notification to all states to not deny driver’s licences to hearing-impaired people, but the process could not be started due to lack of awareness, sources say.“The Welfare Association of the Deaf, Karnal, raised the matter with the district administration. After reviewing all notifications related to the issue, we started the process of identifying hearing impaired people who want to get a driver’s licence. After undergoing training and clearing the test, they will be eligible for the licence,” the SDM said.The district administration has been making efforts to provide hearing impaired people with driver’s licences free of cost under the corporate social responsibility (CSR).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/25-hearing-impaired-to-be-issued-drivers-licence-in-karnal-175974
26-11-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad contractors’ strike hits works||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, November 25Development works within municipal corporation (MC) limits have come to a halt following a strike by the contractors of the civic body here over delay in payment of pending dues.Sources in the MC said the contractors of the civic body had stopped the work after serving a notice alleging that the civic body had failed to clear their outstanding payments for long. It’s claimed that this has led to a stalling of works worth Rs 30 crore.Though a meeting of the MC and the contractors’ body was held on Saturday, it could not resolve the issue.Charging the MC of adopting dilly-dallying tactics and not releasing the payments on time, MC Contractors Association president Giriraj Singh said payments of around Rs 200 crore had been pending since April 1, 2018. He said a previous outstanding amount of Rs 62 crore was cleared only after the High Court’s direction in March.MC Financial Controller Krishan Yadav said pending payments would be cleared soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-contractors-strike-hits-works-175975
26-11-2020||Faridabad||Nikita  murder: SUV used in 2018 abduction case seized||The police on Wednesday recovered an SUV, in which Nikita Tomar, a 21-year-old student who was killed outside her college in Ballabgarh on October 26, was kidnapped in 2018.Additional Commissioner of Police (ACP) Anil Kumar, SIT head, said SUV Duster was recovered from Kota in Rajasthan. It was recovered following the confession by Tausif (22), who had allegedly been stalking Nikita for long and later killed her.“The SUV is registered in Delhi in the name of one Ashraf, a relative of Tausif’s father,” the ACP said.Tausif was taken on two days’ police remand on Tuesday following a production warrant by the SIT in the kidnapping case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nikita-murder-suv-used-in-2018-abduction-case-seized-175976
26-11-2020||---||Man booked on rape charge in Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar, November 25A man from Bathinda (Punjab) allegedly raped a local woman several times on the pretext of marriage, the police have said.The accused, Ratnesh Babbar, has been booked under Sections 376 and 506 of the IPC. The case was registered at the woman’s police station here on Tuesday.The victim said she and Ratnesh became friends through Facebook a few years ago. “He raped me on the pretext of marriage. He even clicked my obscene photographs and made objectionable videos,” she alleged.On November 16, Ratnesh refused to marry me and threatened to upload my photographs and videos on social media if she approached the police, she alleged. The police said the accused would be arrested soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-booked-on-rape-charge-in-yamunanagar-175977
26-11-2020||Faridabad||Open counselling at YMCA University||Faculty development programmeFaridabad: A one-week online faculty development programme on “Technology computer-aided design simulation of devices for microelectronics beyond 2020” has been organised by the department of electronics engineering of the JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA. The programme is sponsored under TEQIP-3. Chancellor of the Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research Chandra Shekhar was the chief guest in the inaugural session, which was presided over by Vice Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar. Former director of CEERI, Pilani, Raj Singh; Anil Kumar from Naina Semiconductor Private Limited and Prof B Prasad from Kurukshetra University were the speakers during the session.Constitution Week celebratedYamunanagar: The NCC unit of Guru Nanak Khalsa College celebrated Constitution Week and NCC Day. The programme was held under the supervision of 14 Haryana Battalion Commanding Officer Col Ajay Pal Kaushish and administrative officer Col Suresh Chaudhary. Keeping in mind the Covid pandemic and maintain social distancing, the cadets made e-posters and put it on their social media accounts. College principal Maj Harinder Singh Kang encouraged the cadets to participate in these activities. Major Kang informed the cadets about the importance of celebrating NCC Day and Constitution Week.GJUST student gets placedHisar: A fourth-year student of BTech (Computer Science Engineering), Jaideep Sharma, of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (GJUST) has been selected in the Infosys through its Hackwithinfy contest. Pratap Singh, placement director, said Infosys had recently concluded the grand finale of the third edition of HackWithInfy, which was a countrywide hackathon open to all BE, BTech, ME and MTech students graduating in 2021. The objective of HackWithInfy is to provide students an enriching learning experience.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/open-counselling-at-ymca-university-175978
26-11-2020||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Streetlights ON during day||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.comSTREETLIGHTS in Panchkula are functional even during day in Panchkula. The accompanying photograph was captured in Sector 8, around 12 noon, where streetlight can be seen functional during day. This is a colossal wastage of electricity. The concerned persons behind such dereliction of duty should be made accountable and steps should be made to keep a check on such wastage of energy. SK Gupta, PanchkulaEncroachment menace in PanchkulaAPROPOS ‘Authorities go slow on encroachers in Panchkula’ (Chandigarh Tribune, November 23), it is frustrating to learn that despite clear-cut instructions from Haryana Assembly Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta, encroachments have continued unabatedly and causing nuisance at various market places across the city. How come a large number of Panchkula-based shopkeepers and vendors, enjoy the privilege of encroaching upon the roads, corridors, footpaths and park areas freely and fearlessly as per their own whims and choices? Notably, the repeated attempts made by the residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) to take up the matter with the authorities have also failed to yield the desired results. But, as some of the officials belonging to the city's monitoring agencies could possibly be hand in glove with these violators, an independent probe needs to be carried out so as to identify all wrongdoers and also fix their personal accountability. Vinayak G, PanchkulaOnline record of court cases should be preparedTHE executive officers at the Mini Secretariat lack interest in pending revenue and other such cases due to which such cases are not settled for years and the people bear the brunt of this dereliction in duty. Such attitude of these officers tarnishes the image of the government in the public eye. The government should decide the day and time for all executive officers to sit in the courts regularly. Online record of every case should be prepared and all orders and final judgments passed by them should be uploaded immediately. Monthly progress report should also be made for all such pending cases. Shakti Singh, KarnalPeople should not flout precautionary guidelinesTHE Hisar administration is doing its best to stride with the commitment to keep the city clean. Besides capturing many heads of stray cattle, door-to-door garbage collection is also going on regularly. Despite all these efforts, the number of Covid cases in the district is increasing at an alarming rate with each passing day. The tremendous spike in the cases can be attributed to the flouting of precautionary measures such as wearing of face mask, practicing social distancing and using sanitiser or washing hands with soap frequently by the people. By adopting a callous approach to the obedience of these guidelines, people are suo-motu falling prowl to the virus. By the time a vaccine is invented, the above precautions need to be followed religiously to stay safe. Baljeet S Deep, Hisar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/streetlights-on-during-day-175979
