30-11-2020||Chandigarh||130 khap panchayats of Haryana to join stir from Tuesday||At least 130 khap panchayats (community courts) of Haryana on Monday announced that they would join the ongoing farmer agitation on Delhi borders from Tuesday.“All khap men are first farmers and then leaders,” khap spokesperson Jagbir Malik told the media.“They are associated with the farmer agitation from day one. As Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the farmers of the state were not associated with the agitation, it is a wrong statement. The farmers of Haryana have been associated with this agitation,” he said.Also read: Dadri MLA resigns from livestock development board’s chairman post to support farmers’ stirNo social distancing at protest, farmer leaders says new laws bigger threat than coronavirusThe farmers of Haryana have also been appealing to the Central Government to listen to the farmers.Malik said all khaps of Haryana have unanimously decided to support protesting farmers by all means.The importance of the khaps, especially in the politically dominant Jat community, is such that even Prime Minister Narendra Modi, at a rally in Jind, had to seek their blessings for the BJP for the 2014 assembly elections. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/130-khap-panchayats-of-haryana-to-join-stir-from-tuesday-178037
30-11-2020||Deepender Deswal||Dadri MLA resigns from livestock development board chairman's post to support farmers’ stir||Tribune News ServiceHisar, November 30Announcing to join the farmers’ agitation, the Independent MLA from Dadri assembly segment in Charkhi Dadri district, Sombir Sangwan, who was appointed chairman of the Haryana Livestock Development Board, has resigned from the post on Monday.Sangwan, who is the pradhan of the Sangwan Khap having influence in 40 villages in Bhiwani and Dadri districts, wrote his resignation letter to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, stating that he was quitting the post to extend support to farmers.He had backed the BJP-JJP government after the Assembly polls last year, after which he was made the chairman by the state government.Murmurs of dissent over the farmers’ stir are becoming visible in the Haryana government as the JJP MLA from Barwala assembly segment in Hisar, Jogi Ram Sihag, too, had turned down the post of chairpersonship of the Haryana Housing Board last month citing his disagreement with the government over the farmers’ issue.Talking to The Tribune, Sangwan said farmers of Dadri too had joined the stir and were staying put at the Delhi-Haryana border. He said he was leaving the post in view of the decision of the khap panchayats and in view of the prevailing circumstances.“We will start a march toward the Delhi border in tractor-trolleys tomorrow morning and will not return until the Centre Government listens to and redresses the issues of farmers concerning the three Farm Acts. There seems to be some confusion over the assurance from the Centre about ensuring the minimum support price (MSP) to the produce of farmers,” the MLA said.Though the government is saying that the Act is for the benefit of the farmers, then why are they hesitating in making a written provision. There is something amiss somewhere. Thus, the farmers are not able to lay faith in the government”, the MLA added.Sangwan said there was no pressure from government or any other side on him as he represented the khap panchayat.“I will do my duty as a true representative of khap,” he said.Sangwan was among the four Independent MLAs who were appointed as chairman of the boards and corporations by the Khattar government last year. The BJP had to get the support of the Independent MLAs (seven Independents) and JJP (10 MLAs) after it fell short of getting majority with 40 members.Besides the Sangwan khap, other khap panchayats — including Kalirawan khap, Chahal khap, Kher Khap, Daran Khap, Thua khap — have also extended the support to the farmers’ stir and announced to join the agitation.A group of farmers from Ladwa village of Hisar, under the banner of the BKU, left for Delhi today. They were led by district president Shamsher Nambardar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dadri-mla-resigns-from-livestock-development-board-chairmans-post-to-support-farmers-stir-178032
30-11-2020||Sonepat (Haryana)||No social distancing at protest, farmer leaders say new laws bigger threat than coronavirus||Amid fears that the “Delhi Chalo” protests by farmers will lead to coronavirus spreading faster, their leaders have said the “black laws” enacted at the Centre are a bigger threat than the contagion.There had been few signs of social distancing as thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana began their protest last week against the three new agro-marketing laws, setting off on a march to the national capital.On the way, they skirmished with police at barricades and since Friday are massed at Delhi’s entry points, many of them sheltering inside tractor-trolleys.Masks appear to be a rarity and there is little attempt at keeping distance from each other, safeguards meant to prevent the infection from spreading.But as experts fear that the event could become a coronavirus “superspreader”, farm leaders say there are more pressing concerns before them.Also read: Farmers protest at Delhi borders may act as COVID-19 ‘superspreader’ event: Experts“The new farm laws brought by the (Narendra) Modi government are a bigger threat than coronavirus as farmers fear they will lose their livelihood with the implementation of these laws,” Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan told PTI over the phone.Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher asked why coronavirus posed a serious threat to life only during the farmers’ agitation, and not during the recent Bihar assembly polls.“When Bihar elections took place, where was COVID-19? When any political gathering takes place, where is coronavirus,” he asked, in an apparent reference to the election rallies.He claimed that the issue comes up only when farmers begin agitation for their rights.The Delhi Police initially declined permission for the farmers’ protest in the city, citing the threat of COVID-19.On Sunday, Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar lashed out at his Punjab counterpart Amarinder Singh, saying he will be responsible if the gathering of farmers worsens the coronavirus situation. Singh has backed the protest.A spokesperson for the BKU’s Haryana unit, led by Gurnam Singh Charuni, on Monday claimed that farmers were trying their best to keep COVID-19 at bay.“As much as we can, we are trying to follow the guidelines. But at the moment thousands of farmers are saying that getting the Centre’s farm laws rolled back is the first priority as these will anyway destroy them,” he said.He said it was now up to the Centre to accept their demands.When asked if they fear that the infection may spread as thousands have gathered over a large area, he said: “No farmer fears this disease at the moment. All they have on their minds is to get these laws rolled back.”In Sonipat, a Haryana Health Department official said they have so far distributed 5,000 masks to the protesting farmers.“Also, after every kilometre we have stationed an ambulance. Mobile toilets have also been installed at various points and sanitisation is being regularly carried out,” he said.The health department also plans to carry out random tests for COVID-19.“We are trying to take all necessary measures so that everyone remains safe amid the pandemic,” he said, adding: “We are also urging farmers to wear masks and try to maintain social distancing.”Unions have expressed apprehension that the new agri-marketing laws enacted at the Centre will lead to the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving farmers the mercy of big corporates.The government, however, says that the new laws give farmers options to get higher prices for their crops and the MSP regime will still continue. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-social-distancing-at-protest-farmer-leaders-say-new-laws-bigger-threat-than-coronavirus-178018
30-11-2020||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||People must follow Covid prevention guidelines||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.comPeople must follow Covid prevention guidelinesTHOUGH the state government had restricted the number of persons attending wedding functions, crowds of people are still assembling at many other public places without any fear of pandemic. I saw a bus running from Narwana to Gurugram with full capacity of 50 which ideally should have been 25. Similarly, large crowd of people can be seen at hospital OPDs, tehsils, railway stations, vegetables and grain markets, also with no mask and social distancing. People should comply with Covid prevention guidelines and stop the chain of infection in masses. Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaFootpath encroachments irk residentsIT is a matter of great satisfaction that the department of town and country planning (DTCP) and Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) are conducting a survey of all major sector roads in the city to identify encroachments of footpaths and green belts. As a matter of fact that these large scale encroachments have become major hurdles for common people and commuters. The problem should be solved at the earliest so that public is relieved. Subhash C Taneja, GurugramAdministration must rope in dronesTHE local administration/police authorities should employ drone surveillance to keep a tab on Covid-protocol violators, encroachment by shopkeepers, stray cattle, suspicious movement, chain snatchers, mob gathering, fire incidents, traffic bottlenecks, building bylaw violations, upkeep of parks, security needs, loss verification/assessment, voice messages and aerial photography etc in the entire city and issue challan to the violators. Ramit, Ritu Bagga, PanchkulaResidents must act responsiblyWITH reference to 'Panchkula civic body to act tough against property tax defaulters, officials directed to prepare list, send them notices' (Chandigarh Tribune, November 28), the concern displayed by officials over the 'non-payment' of property tax by certain individuals is appreciated as they have has also called for the preparation of a list of the 'defaulters' and send notices to them on priority. With regards to the MC Chief seeking 'implementation' of the cleanliness campaign on war footing and making it a mass movement, he should himself lead the campaign from the front. He must take some sudden yet 'incognito' visits across the city, without informing his subordinates, to get at the actual position thereabout. Maintaining cleanliness is not only the government's responsibility but every persons's duty. SK Gupta, PanchkulaDonate blood to save livesTHE Panchkula Welfare Trust, MDC, Sector 4, Panchkula, and the Wishwas Foundation, Panchkula, organised a blood donation camp (near the main post office) in Sector 8. A large number of youngsters contributed for the noble cause. We must actively come forward for such events and do our bit in contributing to the society and the humankind. Such events should be organised on regular basis and people must equally participate in them. Vinayak G, Panchkula||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/people-must-follow-covid-prevention-guidelines-177710
30-11-2020||Kaithal||Seminar hall inaugurated||Online campus placement driveHisar: Seven students of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology (GJUS&T) have been selected in the e-campus placement drive of Bangalore-based Pinclick Property Management Pvt Ltd organised by Training and Placement Cell of the university. Vice-Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar and Registrar Dr Avnesh Verma congratulated the selected students. Placement Director Pratap Singh said e-campus placement drive was conducted virtually by the company. A total of 28 MBA students participated in the drive, out of which seven final year students got selected. Director placement expressed thanks to Prof Karampal Narwal, Director, Haryana School of Business, Dr Anjali Singhal and Pramod, Training and Placement coordinators of the department, for guiding and motivating the students. Aditya Vir Singh, assistant director, said the selected students included Bhavesh, Sagar, Rohit, Rajat, Pankaj, Mohit and Manish Kumar Rohil from MBA 2021 passing out batch.Online technical fest ‘Altius 2020’Kurukshetra: The Technical Festival ‘Altius 2020’ was launched online at the National Institute of Technology (NIIT). Director of the Institute Padma Shree Dr Satish Kumar was present online as the chief guest and said such technical festivals provide an important platform for students to demonstrate and develop their technical and managerial skills. He also urged the students to participate in more than 40 competitions organised in the technical festival. He said, “With such technical programmes, we get to understand the challenges faced in life and their solutions.” After this, he said about the Siemens Skill Development Centre established in the institute, that the students of the institute can take advantage of the facilities of the state-of-the-art lab to do internship. In the end, he wished for the successful organisation of ‘Altius 2020’, praising the efforts of faculty members and students. Dean of the Institute (R&C) Prof Mahesh Pal while thanking all the guests and students present during the programme, said the technical festival would discuss some of the complex and important problems through technical talks and discuss their solutions. Altius 2020 Chairman Prof VK Bajpai threw light on the activities taking place during the fest. He said during the two-day event, around 40 competitions would be held online. He also said students of various institutes and universities were also participating in the technical festival lasting two days.MDU inks MoU with MSMERohtak: Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) inked memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise (MSME) Technology Centre (Rohtak), Government of India, to facilitate industrial training, technical skill development, cutting-edge skills for industry employment and entrepreneurial skill development of university students. MDU Registrar Prof Gulshan Lal Taneja and MSME Technology Centre Deputy Manager Ashwani Kant signed the MoU on Sunday in the presence of MDU Vice-Chancellor Prof Rajbir Singh and other senior functionaries of university. The VC said the MoU was a new beginning which would facilitate employability of students. He said the focus of the New Education Policy (NEP) 2020 too was on skilling the students. The MoU will serve the purpose of skilling the university students. He said industry-ready internship, practical training on latest machines and equipment and capacity building would be a part of the MoU. Further, university students would develop entrepreneurial skills to initiate start-ups as a part of self-reliant India. MSME Technology Centre DGM Ashwani Kant said the university students would be trained as per industry needs so that they get gainful employment. Career Counselling and Placement Cell (CCPC) Director Prof Sumeet Gill briefed about the salient features of the MoU. Academic Affairs Dean Prof AK Rajan and Students’ Welfare Dean Prof Raj Kumar also shared their inputs related to the collaborative venture. Registrar Prof Gulshan Lal Taneja congratulated CCPC, MDU for the initiative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/seminar-hall-inaugurated-177711
30-11-2020||Karnal||Cops’ go green drive in Karnal||Pedalling with passionRohtak: After starting cycling as a hobby, several enthusiasts are taking it to the next level. “Abhishek Malik and Sahil Sahu of the Rohtak Bicycling Club have participated in the National Cycling Games. Several other members of the club are undergoing training to qualify for the games,” said Parveen Gehlawat, president of the club. Club secretary Gaurav Juneja said the club had more than 500 members and organised weekend cycling expeditions and related events.Researcher moves upHisar: Priyanka Jood of Hisar has been elevated to the post of senior researcher (professor) at the Global Zero Emission Research Centre of the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology, a public research organisation in Japan. The centre is headed by Dr Akira Yoshino, a Nobel laureate, and its mandate is to solve global environmental issues by integrating various advance technologies. Jood’s research focuses on developing materials and devices which can convert waste heat from sources such as automobiles, factories and thermal power plants into useful electrical energy.Contributed by Parveen Arora, Sunit Dhawan and Deepender Deswal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cops-go-green-drive-in-karnal-177708
30-11-2020||Palwal||3 held for murder||Three men Karambir, Amit and Umesh have been arrested on the charge of murdering 20-year-old Pravin hailing from the district’s Karna village earlier this month, the police have said. Their accomplice is on the run. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-held-for-murder-177703
30-11-2020||Faridabad||Employees back farmers in Haryana||Employees’ associations (unions) associated with the Sarva Karamchari Sangh (SKS), Haryana, staged a march in support of the farmers. They decried the alleged use of force by the authorities to stop the farmers from raising their voice.Activists and members of various associations, including the Haryana Retired Karamchari Sangh, Kisan Sangharsh Samiti, Nagarpalika Karamchari Union, AITUC and Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Sabha, took out a march from BK Chowk to Neelam Chowk here on Saturday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/employees-back-farmers-in-haryana-177704
30-11-2020||Rohtak||Haryanan Chief Minister must apologise for anti-farmer remarks: Sabha||The state committee of the All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) has demanded an apology from Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for the registration of police cases against the farmers and making statements against the agitation.“The CM has acted against the Constitution by allowing the police to use tear gas and water cannons on farmers who were peacefully carrying out their campaign against the three black laws. Now, Khattar is making irresponsible statements against the farmers. That clearly shows his frustration,” Inderjit Singh, state vice-president, AIKS, told mediapersons here on Sunday.He said the CM was levelling filthy allegations of the farmers’ link with Khalistan and terming the agitation as Congress-sponsored. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryanan-chief-minister-must-apologise-for-anti-farmer-remarks-sabha-177705
30-11-2020||---||Capt Amarinder Singh trashes Haryana CM Khattar’s call records||Chandigarh, November 29Trashing the call records released by his Haryana counterpart, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday said if ML Khattar really wanted to connect to him, he could have used official channels or called up on the mobile phone.Why would i not talk to him?If I can talk to Central leaders, including the Prime Minister, on the issue of the farmers’ protest, why would I try to wriggle out of talking to Khattar? - Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief Minister“If at all someone from his office called my residence, why were the calls made to an attendant? Why were official channels not used to get in touch with me?” asked the Punjab Chief Minister.“Top officials from the Principal Secretary to DGP have been in touch with each other on the farmers’ issue for past several days, yet none conveyed Khattar’s desire to talk to me at any point in time,” the CM said.“How many times in the past has Khattar used the attendant channel to get in touch with me?” he asked the Haryana CM. Captain Amarinder further said: “I have an attendant to receive calls at my residence from 9 am to 5 pm. Khattar could simply have picked up the phone and called me on my mobile phone.”Captain Amarinder lambasted the Haryana CM, saying he was out to suppress the farmers and had no serious intent of discussing their protests with him. The Chief Minister also lashed out at Khattar over his remarks that “Amarinder would be responsible if Covid spreads now due to the farmers’ protest.”“If he (Khattar) was so concerned about farmers spreading Covid in Haryana, whose track record in the pandemic remains extremely poor, he should not have stopped them within the state, but should have allowed them to move quickly through to Delhi,” said the Punjab CM.On Khattar’s remark that farmers should not block Haryana’s borders, Captain Amarinder pointed out that it was Khattar’s government and police that had been blocking the borders for the past three days by forcibly stopping the farmers from proceeding.Captain Amarinder alleged Khattar’s lies on the issue had been exposed by the Haryana farmers themselves, as they had not only rejected their CM’s claims that no farmer from his state had joined the march but had shown their ID cards, duly issued by the Haryana government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/capt-amarinder-singh-trashes-haryana-cm-khattars-call-records-177797
30-11-2020||Ambala||Mullana MLA to give month’s pay to growers||Congress Mullana MLA Varun Chaudhry has announced to give a month’s salary and to dispatch food items from Mullana segment for the agitating farmers.Varun Chaudhry said, “The aim of (donating salary) is to start a campaign...to motivate other people as well as MLAs to come forward and start contributing for the farmers who have been protesting against wrong policies.“The Congress is standing with the farmers. We will not allow the BJP government to suppress the voice of farmers,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mullana-mla-to-give-months-pay-to-growers-177707
30-11-2020||Ravi S Singh||Pat for state over Centre’s water, cleanliness missions||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, November 29Union Minister of State for Jal Shakti Rattan Lal Kataria has praised the Haryana Government for implementing Central schemes, including the Jal Jeevan Mission and Swachh Bharat Mission.“The Haryana Government has been sincere in synchronising its efforts and administrative goals with those of the Narendra Modi government when it comes to implementation of the welfare policies of the Centre,” he said on Saturday.Kataria represents the Ambala Lok Sabha constituency in Parliament, and is among the senior-most BJP leaders in the state. He is BJP’s prominent SC and Backward Caste face.“Haryana ranks third in the country in implementing the Jal Jeevan Mission. I am sure the state will catapult to the top position by 2022,” the minister said.The Jal Jeevan Mission was launched on August 15, 2019, with the objective of providing every rural household with piped water by 2024.Kataria also referred to the state’s success with regard to the crop diversification programme to boost the agriculture sector and augment farmers’ income.“The crop diversification programme has encouraged the cultivation of maize. It provides Rs 7,000 per hectare to farmers who switch over to maize plantation,” the BJP leader said, adding the Centre had appreciated state’s intervention.Kataria, who is also the Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment, said the ministry had received a proposal from Haryana for building drug de-addiction centres in all districts, especially those bordering Punjab.The ministry plans to construct 272 de-addiction centres across the country, including in Haryana.“I have spoken with Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar regarding the matter,” Kataria said.A team of the ministry will soon visit the states and meet with the authorities concerned to strengthen ameliorative measures, including therapy and rehabilitation of victims of substance abuse.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pat-for-state-over-centres-water-cleanliness-missions-177687
30-11-2020||Yamunanagar||Son, his friend held for Yamunanagar man’s murder||The Yamunanagar district police have arrested a person and his friend for allegedly murdering his father.After completion of one-day police remand, they were on Sunday produced before a duty magistrate here, who sent them to judicial custody.Arjun Singh (50) of Kansali village here was found murdered in Ratauli village of the district on November 19 and a case of murder against an unknown person.Superintendent of Police Kamal Deep Goyal asked CIA-II incharge Mehroof Ali to solve the murder mystery. Mehroof Ali said they had arrested Arjun Singh’s son Shunti and his friend Ravi Kumar of Sasauli Majri village on November 27. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/son-his-friend-held-for-yamunanagar-mans-murder-177688
30-11-2020||---||Withdraw cases: Congress||Chandigarh, November 29State Congress president Kumari Selja on Sunday demanded the immediate withdrawal of FIRs registered against more than 10,000 farmers in Haryana and asked the state government to release those arrested.She termed the points mentioned by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in “Mann Ki Baat” about agricultural laws as hollow. She said the conditions laid by Union Home Minister Amit Shah for talks with farmers showed that the intention of BJP government at the Centre was not good.Selja said the government first committed heavy atrocities on agitating farmers and now FIRs had been lodged against them. The governments at the Centre and in the state were bent on completely crushing farmers, she added.Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda expressed surprise over Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s statement that farmers from Haryana were not involved in the agitation.Hooda said farmers from Haryana had been agitating for many months and he had repeatedly urged the government to withdraw these laws or bring in a new law to guarantee MSP to farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/withdraw-cases-congress-177690
30-11-2020||---||Numbers swell, Khattar warns of Covid spike||Chandigarh, November 29The local administrations in Sonepat and Jhajjar have started making arrangements for mobile toilets and medical facilities and begun distributing face masks and sanitisers among the protesting farmers. With entry points to Delhi through the Singhu and the Bahadurgarh-Tikri borders sealed, there was a surge on the Haryana-Delhi border with farmers from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand joining the agitation today.The traffic on NH-44 remained paralysed and a number of vehicles carrying perishables, including milk, were stranded. Even as local farmers chipped in with ration and set up medical facilities for the protesting farmers, an angry Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar warned that he would hold his Punjab counterpart Capt Amarinder Singh responsible, if the farmers’ gathering on the state’s borders with Delhi led to any aggravation of the Covid-19 situation.Meanwhile, senior Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda slammed the Haryana CM for his remark that Haryana farmers were not part of the stir against the new farm laws, warning of a “bigger movement” if the farmers’ problems were not solved soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/numbers-swell-khattar-warns-of-covid-spike-177745
30-11-2020||---||Punjab, Haryana among eight states with 71% daily fatalities||New Delhi, November 29Punjab and Haryana are among the eight states that contributed around 71 per cent of the 496 Covid-19 deaths over the past 24 hours while the national toll rose to 1,36,696.The other six states with top daily fatality load are Delhi, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan.Delhi reported the maximum new fatalities (89) followed by Maharashtra (88), West Bengal (52), Haryana (30) and Punjab (28).No shortcuts on Covishield: CEOSerum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawala has said the firm was not looking for shortcuts to distribute Covishield vaccine. It would start formalising distribution plans only after the Drug Controller General of India granted the institute an emergency use licence based on efficacy, he said.Twenty-two states and Union Territories have case fatality rate less than the national average of 1.46%. These include Haryana (1.03%) and Ladakh (1.39%).India’s Covid case count today reached 93,92,919 with 41,810 new infections in a day as against 42,298 recoveries. The active caseload remains below 5 lakh at 4,53,956, which is 4.83% of the total confirmed cases.Of the 41,810 fresh confirmed Covid cases, 70.43% are from Kerala, Maharashtra, Delhi, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, and Chhattisgarh.Kerala leads the tally with 6,250 new cases followed by Maharashtra (5,965) and Delhi (4,998). Total recovered cases stand at 8,802,267, taking the national recovery rate to 93.71%.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, over 13.95 crore samples have been tested up to November 28 with 12,83,449 samples being tested on Saturday alone.The Union Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent deaths occurred due to comorbidities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-haryana-among-eight-states-with-71-daily-fatalities-177768
30-11-2020||Rohtak||Lockdown bitter pill for type-1 diabetic||A study conducted by the PGIMS here has revealed that the Covid pandemic adversely affected the health of type-1 diabetic patients during lockdown. On an average, the patients’sugar level went up by 30 per cent and the HbA1c (three-month average blood sugar) level hiked by 14 per cent, indicating poor glycemic (presence of glucose in blood) control.The reasons were low availability of insulin/glucostrips, poor compliance with the recommended diet and decreased physical activity in the lockdown period.Insulin shortageRohtak PGIMS study attributes the poor glycemic control to low availability of insulin/glucostrips, poor compliance with the recommended diet and decreased physical activity during the lockdown period.The research was conducted by Dr Anjali, Assistant Professor at the Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS) here, on 52 patients of type-1 diabetes. As many as 27 patients were below 10 years, 19 between 11 and 20 years and six between 21 and 30 years.The study aimed at ascertaining the impact of the lockdown (March 25 to May 31) on the patients’ glycemic control. Their post-lockdown health condition was compared with their follow-ups before the lockdown.Type-1diabetes, a chronic condition in which the pancreas produces little or no insulin, usually appears during adolescence. Its patients need regular treatment to maintain normal blood sugar levels through insulin therapy, diet and exercise, said Dr Sanjeev Nanda, Head, Pediatric Department, UHS.“The main reason behind the rising level of sugar was the low availability of insulin/glucostrips due to restrictions in transportation,” Dr Anjali said.During the lockdown, children were at home with their non-diabetic peers and other family members, leading to poor compliance with the recommended diet, she said.“The break from school resulted in a longer screen time and decrease in physical activity for children, causing poor glycemic control,” Dr Anjali added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lockdown-bitter-pill-for-type-1-diabetic-177786
30-11-2020||Parveen Arora||Prime Minister lauds farmer’s stubble-management measures||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, November 29Australia-returned farmer Virender Yadav (32) of Faras Majra village in Kaithal district is on cloud nine after Prime Minister Narendra Modi shared his story of earning money from stubble management while addressing the nation in his monthly radio programme ‘Mann ki Baat’ on Sunday.Yadav has been receiving greetings from people as well as officials of Kaithal and surrounding districts. Kaithal Deputy Commissioner Sujan Singh as well as Deputy Director Agriculture, Kaithal, Karam Chand lauded his efforts.At a time when people are struggling due to air pollution partly due to stubble burning, Yadav has set an example by making money by selling stubble to agro energy plant and paper mill.Yadav had never imagined that the PM would highlight his efforts. “I had never imagined that our PM would share my story in his ‘Mann ki Baat’. I am happy that the PM has appreciated my stubble management steps,” Yadav told The Tribune over the phone.He said, “After spending four years in Australia, I came back to India in 2018. I had purchased a baler machine and tractor for crop management. When I had started doing this, people considered it to be petty work, but I started selling straw.”He belongs to a small farming family, but takes land on lease. “My father motivated me to do some business related to agriculture. I consulted other farmers as well as officials of the department and formed an agriculture society,” said Yadav.Later, with the help of other farmers, he established a custom hiring centre for the management of straw with various agricultural implements. Encouraged by the success of the first society, he formed another and availed 80 per cent subsidy from the Agriculture and Farmer Welfare Department in both the societies. He also involved around 200 farmers in his business, said DDA Karam Chand.He said Yadav has been managing paddy straw with the help of four baler machines and also engaged in in-situ management.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/prime-minister-lauds-farmers-stubble-management-measures-177684
30-11-2020||---||1 held for giving info on DTO staff location||Yamunanagar, November 29A person was arrested for allegedly chasing a vehicle of officials of District Transport Officer (DTO), Yamunanagar, and informing transporters of overloaded vehicles about its location.The accused has been identified as Akram of Sadhaura town of Yamunanagar district.Informed transporters on WhatsApp groupOn the complaint of Inspector Puran Singh, posted at DTO office, Yamunanagar, a case was registered against Akram under Sections 186 (whoever voluntarily obstructs any public servant in the discharge of his public functions), 353 (criminal force used to deter public servant from discharging his duty), 120-B (hatching a criminal conspiracy) and 117 (abetting commission of offence by the public or by more than 10 persons) of the IPC at Sadhaura police station on November 26.“Akram was produced in a court at Bilaspur on November 27. The court granted him bail that day,” said Balbir Singh, SHO, Sadhaura police station.Complainant Puran Singh said that they had gone for checking of overloaded vehicles in Sadhaura area of the district on November 26.He said that a car was chasing them for long and when they signalled to the driver of the vehicle to stop, he didn’t do so.“Somehow, we succeeded in stopping that car. When we checked the phone of the car driver identified as Akram, we found that he was sharing our location in WhatsApp group ‘Bhaichara’, causing us difficulty in catching overloaded vehicles,” alleged the complainant in his police complaint.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-held-for-giving-info-on-dto-staff-location-177686
30-11-2020||Parveen Arora||New ground for hockey players in Karnal by March-end||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, November 29Budding hockey players, who have been left without a government ground for the last two years due to construction of a synthetic track at Karan Stadium, will get a new ground in Gapuwala Bagh in Ward No. 14 on Hansi road.The district administration has finalised six-acres of land here and the tender process for hockey and volleyball grounds has been started. The work on both the grounds is expected to be completed by March 2021.Nishant Kumar Yadav, DCTenders invited: DCWe have finalised the plan to develop hockey and volleyball grounds here, for which we have called tenders. These grounds will be constructed by March 2021. The step is being initiated under one of the themes of the Smart City Mission. According to it, green spaces are to be preserved and transformed into attractive public space. Recreational areas as parks and open spaces within the neighbourhood constitute an effective and healthy built environment in the city, said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner who is also the CEO of Karnal Smart City Ltd.“Under the mission, 77 parks in the city are being facilitated by Karnal Smart City Ltd with open-air gyms, separate meditation/wellness space, sports grounds etc. The overall approach and methodology for the development of parks and open spaces is contextual, need based, thematic and in consent to the neighbourhood community,” said the CEO.One of the parks in the city, Gappuwala Bagh park, has also been selected for redevelopment along with providing sports infrastructure and running track for public. “We have finalised the plan to develop hockey and volleyball grounds here, for which we have called tenders. These grounds will be constructed by March 2021,” said Yadav.Apart from full-size hockey field and volleyball court, there would be pedestrian pathways all around the boundary wall of the park along with an open-air gym at two locations and a tot lot area in one location, he said, adding that benches would be installed in seating area around trees and garden. Along with it, landscaping and plantation of trees all around the boundary wall would be done and LED lights would be installed on poles.With the decision, the hockey players are happy. “After the construction of synthetic track in Karan Stadium, we had lost our ground and had been struggling to practise in the absence of a ground,” said Neeraj, a hockey player. Akash, another player, said it was good that the administration had considered their demand and finalised a plan to construct the ground.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/new-ground-for-hockey-players-in-karnal-by-march-end-177685
30-11-2020||Bijendra Ahlawat||8 years on, Palwal ISBT hanging fire||Tribune News ServicePalwal, November 29The construction of the Inter-State Bus Terminus (ISBT) in Palwal proposed in 2012, when the Congress was in power, is still hanging fire.The ISBT was planned at a location where the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) expressway ended. It would have allowed commuters to bypass the traffic of Delhi and NCR to reach their destinations in Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh.“Had the ISBT been constructed, it would have reduced inter-state bus traffic in Delhi and NCR,” said an official of the Transport Department.Another official said local leaders had made several promises about the construction of the ISBT, but the project failed to take shape, leading to the speculation whether or not the plan had been shelved.“The ISBT could have benefited city commuters as well as long-distance travellers. Long-route buses could have bypassed congested roads via Faridabad and Delhi,” he added.The present bus stand, which is located in the centre of the city, does not serve long-distance travellers as buses starting from here do not ply on the KMP and KGP expressways. At present, the bus stand, which is under renovation, is serving up to 5,000 commuters daily.When contacted, Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma said he would enquire about the status of the ISBT from the authorities concerned. Deputy Commissioner Naresh Narwal’s response was no different.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/8-years-on-palwal-isbt-hanging-fire-177689
30-11-2020||---||High Court stays construction on plea over encroachments||Chandigarh, November 29Acting on a petition seeking directions to Haryana and its functionaries to remove encroachments and permanent structures within 30 to 50 metres of highways in Gurugram, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ordered that construction on the “disputed land” will not be raised by any of the parties without the leave of the court.The direction by the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli came on a plea by RTI activist Harinder Dhingra. The petitioner contended that he was concerned over the manner in which encroachments and permanent structures had been or were being put up within 30 to 50 metres of highways having “direct illegal access to NH-8 on the Gurugram-Sohna highway by big and small corporates”.He added that it was, in the process, destroying space for mandatory green cover and was in violation of the High Court judgment in Ahuja Vaishno Dhaba case. Elaborating, he contended that the High Court had laid down in the judgment that construction could not be allowed within 30 to 50 meters on either side of the highways.Taking up the matter through video-conferencing, the Bench also issued notice of motion to Haryana and other respondents before fixing the case for further hearing on February 8.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-stays-construction-on-plea-over-encroachments-177701
30-11-2020||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court notice to HSVP Chief Administrator||Chandigarh, November 29The Punjab and Haryana High Court has issued notice to IAS officer and HSVP Chief Administrator Pankaj Yadav. He and another officer have been asked to show cause why proceedings under the Contempt of Courts Act be not initiated for non-compliance of High Court orders.The notice by Justice BS Walia on a petition filed by Ashok Malik and another petitioner came on a petition seeking action against Yadav and the other respondent under provisions of the Contempt of Courts Act for not complying with an order dated May 27.The matter pertains to land acquisition. In all, 359 appeals were disposed of by the High Court in its order on a regular first appeal.Appearing before the Bench through video-conferencing, counsel Ramdeep Partap Singh contended that the High Court, vide order dated May 27, held the petitioners entitled to compensation to be paid within three months.The counsel pointed out that despite lapse of time period specified, compensation was not paid. He added that non-compliance of the High Court order by the respondents amounted to contempt of court as they had intentionally, wilfully and deliberately disobeyed the same.“Issue notice to the respondents for January 8, 2021, to show cause as to why proceedings under the Contempt of Courts Act be not initiated against them for non-compliance with the orders,” Justice Walia stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-notice-to-hsvp-chief-administrator-177702
30-11-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 26 deaths; 1,809 fresh cases in Haryana||The Covid-positive count went up to 2,32,522 with the addition of 1,809 cases in Haryana on Sunday. The death toll was pegged at 2,401 with 26 more deaths.Gurugram reported a maximum of 479 cases followed by Faridabad (380), Hisar (130), Sonepat (114) and Jind (66).A maximum of seven deaths were reported from Faridabad followed by Hisar (6), Gurugram (5), Karnal, Rohtak and Bhiwani (2 each) and Kurukshetra and Sirsa (1 each). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-26-deaths-1-809-fresh-cases-in-haryana-177698
30-11-2020||---||Covid makes Gita Mahotsav go online||Kurukshetra, November 29The International Gita Mahotsav, one of the biggest festivals of this region which will be celebrated in December in Kurukshetra, is all set to go virtual due to the Covid pandemic this year.After the state government asked the district administration and Kurukshetra Development Board (KDB) to come out with a strategy regarding the celebrations, the authorities have decided that except for the evening ‘aarti’ at Brahma Sarovar and a saint ‘sammelan’ with a limited gathering as per Covid guidelines, there will be no events with physical gatherings during the upcoming mahotsav.This year, it will be a nine-day festival (from December 17 to 25). There will be different events including evening aarti, webinars on Gita and a saint sammelan. The mega event of reciting of Gita shlokas by 18,000 children will also be online. There will be no Saras and Craft Fair.The administration is eyeing a viewership of over 20 lakh people per day by doing live streaming of the events through all gram panchayats, universities, Red Cross societies, Bal Bhawans, jails across the state and also the official site of Kurukshetra Development Board. The administration will also collaborate with other states for the live streaming.Besides the KDB and district administration, different departments and institutions, including the Education Department, Tourism Department, North Zone Cultural Centre and Kurukshetra University, will also collaborate for the festival.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-makes-gita-mahotsav-go-online-177700
30-11-2020||---||Haryana Govt committed to ‘sabka vikas’: Chief Minister||Hisar, November 29Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has said that it is the priority of the state government to ensure the overall development of the most underprivileged person of society by delivering the benefits of government schemes to him first.While addressing the people during a rally organised under the chairmanship of Haryana Vidhan Sabha Deputy Speaker Ranbir Singh Gangwa here today, the Chief Minister said that he believed in the mantra ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas’ and ‘Haryana Ek, Haryanvi Ek’.Manohar Lal Khattar, Chief MinisterFAMILY I-CARDS The system to identify eligible and ineligible needs improvement and for this ‘Parivar Pehchan Patra’ are being issued.The Chief Minister said that there was a time when government jobs were given to people who had money, but now recruitments are being made ‘Bina Parchi, Bina Kharchi’. Middlemen have been excluded from the system, he added.He said that Antyodaya, Saral Kendra, e-Disha Kendra, and Atal Seva Kendra have been set up everywhere to deliver the benefits of government schemes to the general public. The amount of the schemes is sent directly to the accounts of eligible beneficiaries, he added.The Chief Minister said that despite all this, he is still not satisfied. The system to identify eligible and ineligible needs further improvement and for this ‘Parivar Pehchan Patra’ are being issued, he added.Ranbir Gangwa thanked the Chief Minister on behalf of the backward classes for giving eight per cent reservation to the backward class in Panchayati Raj elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-committed-to-sabka-vikas-chief-minister-177706
30-11-2020||Mukesh Tandon||1,000 trucks carrying essential items stuck at Singhu border||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, November 29More than 1,000 trucks laden with fruits, vegetables, milk and medicines have been stranded in the traffic jam at the Singhu border in Delhi because of farmers’ protest against the three controversial agricultural laws.Thousands of farmers have staged a dharna at the Singhu border on the NH-44, which is the lifeline of Delhi because essential items are supplied to the Capital via this stretch.Jaspal Singh, Jalandhar residentThree days and countingI started for Delhi on November 25 carrying milk and curd in a refrigerator van. Stuck on the NH-44 for the past three days, I suggested to my employer to distribute the items among farmers because the stock will last till Monday morning.Rajesh Kumar, a canter driver, said he had been stuck in the logjam for the past three days. “I started from Ambala carrying medicines packed in ice packs on November 25. It was mandatory to change the ice within 72 hours. As I don’t have the ice stock, the medicines will be rendered useless,” he said.Jaspal Singh of Jalandhar started for Delhi on November 25 carrying milk and curd in a refrigerator van. Stuck on the NH-44 for the past three days, he called up his employer.“I apprised my employer of the situation and suggested to him to distribute milk and curd among farmers because the stock will last till Monday morning,” he added.Aftab Ahmad of Jammu and Manjoor Ahmad of Baramulla (Kashmir) have been stuck at the border for five days. They are carrying apples in their trucks.“About 300 apple-laden trucks are stuck on the highway. Traders are calling us for delivery, but we are helpless. It is mandatory to deliver apples within three days of packing, otherwise the fruit will rot,” Manjoor said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-000-trucks-carrying-essential-items-stuck-at-singhu-border-177692
30-11-2020||Ravinder Saini & Mukesh Tandon||Resolute farmers hold their ground||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, November 29Thousands of Punjab farmers stayed put on the 10-km stretch between Jakhoda bypass in Bahadurgarh and Tikri border on the Rohtak-Delhi highway for the second consecutive day on Sunday. They said they would not move until the new farm laws were rolled back as they had enough ration to agitate for months.With tractor-trailers, buses and other vehicles of farmers parked on the highway, the district administration diverted traffic to alternative routes. The Bahadurgarh-Tikri border remained shut, with heavy police posse deployed on the spot.“We have come from Punjab to fight a long battle against the government, which has enacted the three laws to ruin farmers. We are carrying out our movement peacefully and will not budge until our demands are met,” said a protester.The Jhajjar administration made arrangements for mobile toilets and the district Red Cross started a medical facility for the protesters after pitching a tent near the dharna spot. Sanitation workers were deputed to ensure cleanliness of toilets.The police called four companies of the Rapid Action Force, with a temporary police lines being established near the spot for the cops performing duty in two shifts. Three DSPs would remain on duty in each shift.The local population was coming to support and help farmers while commuters were using routes through villages to reach their destinations in Delhi.Sonepat: Farmers continued their protest at the Singhu border on NH-44 for the third consecutive day on Sunday. The farmers’ committee decided to stay put at the border till further directions.The number of farmers at the spot was rising. Local farmers also started reaching the dharna spot. Thousands of vehicles were stuck in a long traffic jam.Darshan Pal, working group member of the All India Kissan Sangharsh Coordination Committee and president of the Krantikari Kisan Union Punjab said they had decided to continue the protest at the Singhu and Tikri borders.Some farmers from Uttarakhand, who had reached the Burari ground in Delhi, came to this location, he said. Farmers from UP had reached the border and were staging a dharna, he added.Jagmohan Singh, state general secretary of the BKU (Dakaunda), said farmers had come to Delhi to fight for their rights and would not move back till the Centre revoked the three farm laws.“We are prepared to stay here for a long time if we are not heard or our demands are not met,” said Malkeet Singh of Hoshiarpur.“Farming is our livelihood and we are sitting here in the chill at night to save our livelihood,” said 72-year-old Gurmeet Singh of Amritsar.SIDELIGHTSSAD MLA thrashed at Singhu borderPanipat: Farmers on Sunday thrashed a SAD MLA from Punjab who reached the Singhu border to extend support to them. However, the security personnel intervened and took away the MLA from the site. Farmer leader Surjeet Singh Phool said that no political leader was allowed to address the farmers from the stage.Covid test counter at protest siteSonepat: The district administration has established health counters and Covid test centre near Singhu border for the farmers. DC, Sonepat, Shyam Lal Poonia said masks had been distributed to 5,500 farmers. Medicines have been distributed to 6,400 farmers.Arhtiyas’ outfit extends supportKarnal: The Haryana Arhtiyas Association has decided to observe a day’s strike on Tuesday in support of farmers. Arhtiyas will keep their shops shut and not buy paddy that day. Rajnish Chaudhary, working president of the outfit, said: “The Centre should address farmers’ concerns.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/resolute-farmers-hold-their-ground-177694
30-11-2020||---||Will supply food, medical aid to protesters, says SGPC chief||Kurukshetra, November 29Newly elected Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee chief Bibi Jagir Kaur today said that the SGPC would continue to provide uninterrupted food and medical aid to the farmers belonging to Haryana and Punjab who are protesting against the Centre’s farm laws.She slammed the CMs of Haryana and Punjab and accused them of trying to weaken the farmers’ agitation.She was here at Gurdwara Chhevin Patshahi. She addressed SGPC members and supporters on this occasion.She assigned duties to SGPC members and directed them to ensure that langar and medical aid are supplied uninterruptedly. She told them to go to the dharna site to support farmers.Bibi Jagir Kaur alleged, “Despite the use of force, farmers kept their cool and didn’t clash with the police. The governments of Haryana and Punjab are working on the directions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. They are trying to weaken the farmers’ struggle.”The SGPC chief criticised the Haryana Government and Chief Minister for booking agitating farmers under attempt-to-murder charges. She alleged it was strange that the Prime Minister has no time for farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-supply-food-medical-aid-to-protesters-says-sgpc-chief-177696
30-11-2020||---||Punjab CM Capt Amarinder in line of fire, again||Hisar, November 29The verbal duel continues between the Chief Ministers of Haryana and Punjab over the farmers’ agitation. On Sunday, Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar attacked his Punjab counterpart Capt Amarinder Singh, claiming that the latter used “inappropriate language” that did not behove a CM.“It is better not to respond to the Punjab CM’s utterances. People on social media are commenting that a Chief Minister should not behave in such a manner with his counterpart. At least, I should show restraint and stay away from responding in the same vein,” he told the media on the sidelines of a function here.Khattar reiterated that the farmers’ agitation was sponsored by the Congress and the Punjab Government. “The state forces used water cannon and tear gas shells to stop farmers marching from Delhi. This cannot be construed as use of force.”When asked whether or not the state acted under pressure mounted by the Centre, Khattar said, “The state government acted in view of the Covid pandemic. The state government has been following the Covid protocols in organising functions. I am surprised at the Punjab Government which sponsored the agitation during the pandemic. Who will be responsible if the virus spreads because of the protest? Of course, the Punjab Government.”The CM said he tried to talk to Capt Amarinder to discuss the matter, but he did not respond. “Initially, the Punjab CM denied that I had tried to contact him. But when we put forth the records, he was caught off guard,” he added.Amarinder to blame: VijAmbala, November 29Home Minister Anil Vij has blamed Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh for the farmers’ agitation.“Farmers across the country have accepted the new laws. But in Punjab, they are protesting mainly because of political reasons and manoeuvring of Capt Amarinder. The Centre has invited farmers for a meeting. We hope the farmers will realise that the laws will benefit them and end the protest,” Vij said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-cm-capt-amarinder-in-line-of-fire-again-177709
