07-12-2020||Editorials||Balance order and dissent | HT Editorial||As a show of strength, and their opposition to the farm reforms, agitating farmer unions have called for a Bharat Bandh on December 8. This call has now been supported by almost the entire spectrum of Opposition parties. The bandh has been called in the backdrop of a movement that has already severely disrupted the right to liberty, movement, and trade of fellow-citizens. It also comes in the backdrop of three rounds of unsuccessful talks between the government and farm leaders, where the central government has indicated that repeal of laws is not an option and the protesters have made it clear that nothing less than a total repeal will be acceptable. In a democracy, citizens are allowed to express their will both within the confines of institutions — through Parliament, legal challenges, opinion-building through media — and outside institutional confines but within constitutional means — through street protests and mass mobilisation. But when interest groups resort to the latter, it comes with greater responsibility. Those who lead protests have to discipline their followers into adopting peaceful means, and must exercise their rights without infringing on the rights of other citizens. The Bharat Bandh is a legitimate political tactic — but calling for it brings the responsibility on farm leaders to ensure that it is peaceful and not violent, that their opposition does not result in coercion against other citizens, and their mass protests do not, at a time when the pandemic is still raging, result in a sharp spike in cases due to the violation of social distancing norms. Both farm unions and Opposition parties must abide by this on Tuesday. At the same time, the onus lies on the State to first engage with all dissenting stakeholders to prevent a call for a bandh in the first place. But if it is happening, then instruments of the State — particularly the security forces — have a responsibility to respect the democratic right to dissent, and exercise utmost restraint. The use of excessive force to quell a protest or harm protesters in any way is not only wrong but can also lead to further alienation and create a more vicious cycle of anger and repression. And, therefore, on December 8, there must be a delicate balancing act, the responsibility for which lies on both sides, to both maintain order and express dissent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/balance-order-and-dissent-ht-editorial/story-T951Jr69SLnr5k4rH924rO.html
07-12-2020||Editorials||A boost for defence ties in West Asia | HT Editorial||Indian Army chief Gen MM Naravane’s groundbreaking visit to Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) offers significant possibilities for elevating defence ties with two key West Asian powers at a time when that region is witnessing rapid changes in its political and security scenario. West Asia watchers cannot recall another visit to Riyadh by such a senior Indian military official. Gen Naravane is set to hold talks with the military and civilian leadership of both countries. This is the Army chief’s third consecutive foreign visit with diplomatic overtones, following his trips to Myanmar and Nepal, the second of which helped smooth over rancour caused by a border row. India has good reasons for describing West Asia as part of its extended neighbourhood — the region is home to nine million Indians, or 30% of the total expatriate workforce, whose annual remittances amount to about $48 billion. This alone is a good reason to bolster security ties with a country such as Saudi Arabia, home to three million Indians and one of the top two energy sources for India. It is also significant the visit is taking place in the wake of the UAE normalising ties with Israel and reports of back channel contacts between Riyadh and Tel Aviv, and there are indications India will benefit from its proximity to both the Arab states and Israel. Security ties between West Asian states and India have hitherto largely focused on intelligence-sharing and counterterrorism and Gen Naravane’s visit could lead to greater military exchanges, including joint exercises and defence cooperation, with a region that occupies a significant space in India’s national security interests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-boost-for-defence-ties-in-west-asia-ht-editorial/story-r6Pr614YiKWRafjvuzHz3O.html
07-12-2020||Editorials||The dangers of misinformation | HT Editorial||Over the weekend, Haryana’s health minister Anil Vij announced that he tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), leading many to draw connections with his participation in the trials of one of the vaccine candidates. The immediate media coverage and the social media conversations that followed conflated Mr Vij’s diagnosis with the trial in a way that suggested that the inoculation of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech may be ineffective. In reality, it is not known whether the minister was given a placebo or the actual inoculation. Even if he did get a shot of Covaxin, it is not meant to be protective until he gets at least two doses (he got only one) and his immunity has had 14 days after that to build the necessary protection against Covid-19.This is not the first instance in which inadequate information or improper understanding of a scientific process as complex as vaccine development has gained traction on mainstream as well as social media. Last week, cricketer Harbhajan Singh seemingly implied that recovery from natural infection appeared to offer more protection than vaccines, citing efficacy numbers that, in reality, hold no equivalence with disease recovery rates. A little earlier, at the end of November, the coverage of the adverse effect in a volunteer participating in the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine trial in Chennai amplified allegations that were later disproved.Helped by misleading semantics and a lack of awareness, such conversations around vaccines are prone to misinformation and could erode trust. This problem has been particularly pronounced in the West — recent polls showed only 60% of Americans are willing to take a vaccine — although it has not taken hold in a country like India, where most people have seen disease more closely. The enormous gains from vaccine campaigns like that of polio are still largely fresh in everyone’s minds. But this does not mean Indians are any less susceptible to misinformation on an issue where a difference between a headline and nuance could often be the line dividing fact and myth. Recent studies have shown that when it is amplified by sources that typically have high trust — like news organisations and celebrities — the spread of misinformation is more damaging and harder to mitigate. In these times, such groups must prioritise nuance. We must listen to experts first, before not just voicing but also forming our own opinions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-dangers-of-misinformation-ht-editorial/story-Dpn3kdORUkLH0RGA2HNixO.html
