09-12-2020||Editorials||The trouble with Russia | HT Editorial||Russia has become the Cheshire Cat of Indian foreign policy, in danger of slowly fading away, with a friendly smile its last visible remnant. Russia remains close to India, but increasingly only when it comes to secondary interests. There is shrinking convergence when it comes to India’s most important strategic concerns. New Delhi’s task is to manage this important bilateral relationship, preferably by reimagining Indo-Russian bonds but otherwise by dragging out the process of dissolution. The source of dissonance between India and Russia is a third party, China. Even before events in Ladakh, the growing aggression of Beijing was becoming India’s overriding strategic problem. Even relations with Pakistan are often little more than an offshoot of the larger Sino-Indian confrontation. For Russia, on the other hand, the Middle Kingdom has become the primary geopolitical and economic partner, especially when it faces Western sanctions. Squaring a spiky China circle with Russian desires to remain friends with India is proving increasingly difficult.Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov recently claimed that the Indo-Pacific and the Quad are Western attempts to seduce a naïve India into joining an anti-China alliance. This is untrue. India’s embrace of these strategic concepts, including its increased proximity to the United States (US), has been driven by unilateral Chinese acts of hostility over the past decade. Moscow’s attempts to serve as an intermediary between New Delhi and Beijing are an implicit recognition of where the problem lies. India has sought, equally unsuccessfully, to reduce friction between the US and Russia. That Vladimir Putin can publicly contemplate the possibility of a formal Sino-Russian alliance is a sign the China gap is almost too wide to bridge.India and Russia continue to cooperate closely in almost any diplomatic arena that does not involve Chinese interests. New Delhi has defied US sanctions to preserve its defence relations with Moscow, but as relations with China worsen, there will be an inevitable erosion of confidence in Russia. On the positive side, there is a widening economic relationship revolving around energy and, potentially, strategic minerals. While this will mean a relationship on a less intimate level than that which once existed, they are the sort of new foundations that would help mitigate the hard geopolitical logic that is driving these two middle powers apart.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-trouble-with-russia-ht-editorial/story-cOBbuCRLZmjWzck8bkq6CN.html
09-12-2020||Editorials||Farm groups must not be maximalist | HT Editorial||The farm protests are an expression of the democratic will of an important segment of India’s citizens — even though their method of disruption is unwarranted and has caused inconvenience to other citizens. The strength of the movement, primarily in Punjab, comes from real or perceived apprehensions about the recent farm laws. By sustaining their protest for weeks, mobilising large numbers of people, calling a Bharat bandh, farm unions have made their point and forced the government to the negotiating table. They have also got the Centre — which, as this newspaper has argued, made a mistake in not engaging in enough prior consultations — to make important concessions. These include a written reassurance on continuation of minimum support prices, enabling state governments to register and impose a cess on new markets, and an amendment to the law to ensure appeals to a civil court.Yet, there is a deadlock. And it must be said that this is due to a position of maximalism adopted by farm leaders. The all-or-nothing approach — reflected in the demand for an outright repeal of laws and unwillingness to settle for anything less — is not a mature way to approach political negotiations. Even as the voice of farmers is important, so is the fact that the government had the mandate to push its legislative agenda and Parliament has passed the laws. It would be far more productive for the agitating forces to negotiate in a more constructive manner, extract concessions on safety nets, but also recognise the current political reality of the government’s determination to stay the course. Moderation is key to a solution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/farm-groups-must-not-be-maximalist-ht-editorial/story-qhRGfhQundArasusdeksHO.html
09-12-2020||Editorials||India’s evolving energy diplomacy | HT Editorial||The recent decision of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to allow a muted increase in production in the first quarter of next year was welcomed by petroleum and natural gas minister, Dharmendra Pradhan, because of what it means for price stability rather than the hope it means cheaper oil.India stands to gain because oil producers need to generate revenues necessary to maintain the investment levels to ensure steady oil supply. India’s relations with the largest oil producers, notably the Persian Gulf monarchies and Russia, also increasingly revolve around them ploughing their earnings into India’s oil and gas sector. New Delhi’s ambitious plans for energy transition partly depend on the financial status of the largest OPEC members — a partnership OPEC acknowledged at the recent India-OPEC institutional dialogue. Mr Pradhan was notably more interested in potential OPEC investments in India than the ups and downs of oil production.Despite OPEC’s earlier production cuts and its projected increases, global prices have remained in the $40 to $50 a barrel range. Thanks to record foreign exchange reserves, India today can absorb somewhat higher global oil prices, and shift focus on attracting the massive investments needed for its natural gas and renewable energy plans. Implicit is the recognition oil is rapidly ceasing to be a strategic commodity. The real challenge for India’s energy diplomacy is preparing the ground for a post-oil future in a manner that ensures oil markets abet rather than disrupt this larger transition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/india-s-evolving-energy-diplomacy-ht-editorial/story-9UyHkF00O0Xkuz27VmY3UP.html
