11-12-2020||Editorials||Beyond the Paris pact | HT Editorial||The Paris Agreement to battle the climate crisis marks its fifth year with renewed hope and renewed urgency. The hope lies in the knowledge that the world’s largest economy, the United States (US), will rejoin the Paris pact next month. The urgency lies in the recognition that the agreement does not go far enough in keeping the world average temperature increase below the 2 degree Celsius danger mark. India can hold its head up high. The Narendra Modi government’s ambitious renewable energy programme has meant India will easily surpass its carbon emission commitments under the Paris agreement. Equally telling, a consortium of green think tanks recently declared India the only 2C compatible major economy in the world.Despite the agreement, the world experienced its highest temperatures over the past five years. Even a pandemic-induced economic lockdown only reduced carbon emissions by seven per cent. The coming task, as all governments recognise, is how to go beyond Paris. The decision of the US, Brazil and others to ignore their Paris commitments is a reminder that large, cumbersome multilateral agreements are not necessarily the only or even the best way to curb carbon. The return of the US opens the gate for large-scale financial and technological assistance for the renewable goals of countries such as India. And innovative ways to accomplish this bilaterally or otherwise will define global green policy in the coming decade.New Delhi must know the global green transformation will not be all smooth. Green technology will determine future global economic competitiveness. The European Union (EU) plans to introduce carbon tariffs next year and merge climate policy with trade wars. Working out the proper political equations will be as important as setting out market-friendly incentives at home to ensure investment flows down the proper green channels. The largest corporations of the world have already begun putting their money on a green future. Eleven of the Group of 20 countries have declared net zero carbon targets, with China, EU and Japan among the most recent economies to do so. Climate now has far greater public acceptance across the world than it has ever had — and the shock and awe of the Paris accord contributed to this new green consensus. But India must be ready for a new world of climate that will be as much about cooperation as it will be about competition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/beyond-the-paris-pact-ht-editorial/story-FB8TqjoROg2fqtCm8Pz1OM.html
11-12-2020||Editorials||In Bengal, preserve democratic space | HT Editorial||There is little doubt that the key political battle of 2021 — and indeed of the next four years till the 2024 general election — will be fought in West Bengal. Ever since the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) decided to aggressively expand in the east, and put up a formidable challenge in the Lok Sabha elections winning 18 of the 42 seats, the Trinamool Congress has been worried about the rise of a new challenger. This is healthy for democracy, for strong political and electoral competition gives voters choices and introduces checks and balances.But a key tenet of this democratic competition is the need for a peaceful political space — where all actors can exercise their right to mobilise citizens, organise political demonstrations, and campaign actively. West Bengal has had a history of political violence and strong-arm tactics by ruling dispensations. Indeed, the three-decade-plus rule of the Left front was marked not just by its progressive land reforms and welfare schemes, but also coercion and total capture of state institutions, down to the level of panchayats. No one knows this better than Mamata Banerjee, who braved physical assaults and fought a long battle to oust the Left.And that is why the onus is on Ms Banerjee to ensure a climate of peaceful and free political contestation. Repeated reports of attacks and harassment of BJP leaders and activists — based on control of State institutions and a coercive party machinery on the ground — are unacceptable in a democracy. Just as the BJP itself needs to allow this peaceful space for democratic challenges wherever it is dominant, the Trinamool must do so in Bengal. Only then will the 2021 contest be a true expression of popular will.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/in-bengal-preserve-democratic-space-ht-editorial/story-3Urydt0wvAVlaGvxq8EOKN.html
