13-12-2020||Editorials||The politics of farm protests | HT Editorial||The protests against the agrarian laws represent a significant moment in mass political mobilisation in India. There is no doubt that this is a genuine mass movement, especially in Punjab where across classes and the political divide, there is an overwhelming mood against the agricultural reforms. The government’s concessions, farm leaders have decided, are not enough and nothing less than a repeal would do — and with that objective, have intensified their protests. The government, on the other hand, believes that the movement has been taken over by “political” elements which are not interested in a solution.While the strengths of the farm movement are clear, the problem with the movement is not too much politics, but too little politics. Politics entails different elements, and agitation is only one of them. Good politics also involves the ability to negotiate, reconcile the demands of a movement with the possibilities of what can be attained, a recognition of the balance of power, and when to declare victory. This element of politics is missing in the farm movement. Once the protests escalated, and the government had no choice but to engage and offer concessions, good political leadership among protesters would have meant leveraging the moment. Symbolically claiming that a government led by a strong prime minister had to eventually listen to them, and substantially recognising that there is now a more equal playing field between mandis and markets with private traders and an assurance of continued minimum support price, would have helped calm tempers.But the fact that this political leadership is missing is visible in the competitive radicalism of the different unions which constitute the protests. No one wants to be seen as “compromising” for fear of being seen as “sold out” to the government or corporates — and no group has the courage to tell the farmers, whose fears they have stoked in the past four months, that the deal on offer is reasonable. Movements without this kind of political character often make the mistake of overreach and lose ground. The farm movement has brought the issue of the future of agriculture and the security of farmers to the centre stage; it has forced the government to climb down; it now needs to declare victory — perhaps after a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself — and allow the political process to continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-politics-of-farm-protests/story-41RpTvj6xhVlLKt8caJCHM.html
13-12-2020||Editorials||Focus on people, not the population | HT Editorial||The Centre has left no room for ambiguity in its submission to the Supreme Court that it is against enforcing the two-child norm. This was in response to a public interest litigation by a lawyer seeking to introduce a population control law on the grounds that basic amenities such as health, education and rights to clean air and drinking water could not be secured without limiting family size. The Centre’s response sends a clear signal to many politicians who have advocated restricting family size that it will have no truck with such sentiments.India’s family planning programme has been voluntary and non-coercive, a tribute to the State’s commitment to personal liberty and democracy. And this has largely been successful. India’s population trajectory has been encouraging— according to the National Family Health Survey (2015-2016), the total fertility rate for urban India was 1.8, for rural India 2.4, for women with no schooling 3.4 and 1.7 for women with 12 years or more education. The required fertility rate is 1.8 for India and it stands at 2.2 at present, just above the replacement fertility level of 2.1 which is the mark of population stabilisation.These figures indicate that education and health care are the most crucial inputs to reducing the population. It is a myth that the poor want more children. They have more children as they often have no access to reversible contraception methods, the cafeteria approach which the National Population Policy 2000 advocates. The Centre’s stand that family size is a personal right is welcome and sends out the message that if you take care of people, the population will take care of itself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/focus-on-people-not-the-population-ht-editorial/story-gLt4JCqLUZLJA5CWUqCt3L.html
