15-12-2020||Editorials||Why the winter session matters | HT Editorial||The pandemic has caused enormous disruption to lives and livelihoods, but among its other casualties has been the functioning of India’s most important democratic institution — the Parliament. This year will see no winter session, and the reason being offered is Covid-19. It is indeed true that holding the monsoon session was a difficult exercise, requiring an overhaul of logistics and seating arrangements. Despite precautions, dozens of parliamentarians and many more Parliament officials got infected. There is no debate on the fact that the pandemic is still here, caution is essential, and the health of India’s political leadership is important.But to suggest that this means Parliament itself cannot meet is disingenuous. The budget session this year was —rightly — prorogued earlier than scheduled because the pandemic had just hit India, a lockdown was in offing, and little was known about the disease. The monsoon session itself was truncated. Key legislations — including the farm bills, the opposition to which has moved to the sadak, streets, from the sadan, house, where it was not adequately discussed — were pushed through with the Opposition not getting the space and time to raise issues. And now India will only see Parliament meet for the budget session in 2021, where the focus will, understandably, be on the budget itself.But the need for elected representatives to meet in the sovereign house could not be greater. A farm movement has disrupted lives across north India; the management of the pandemic has been inconsistent with a varied track record across states; a framework for vaccine distribution is in the works; Centre-state relations remain fragile; the security situation is worrying with China continuing its aggression in Ladakh; and the economy, while recovering, is still not out of the woods. All of this merits open discussion and debate where the government offers its point of view and the Opposition critiques its performance and offers constructive suggestions. The fact that government is functioning with offices returning to a degree of normalcy, events are being held with leaders in attendance, a full election was fought in Bihar and bypolls were held across states shows that despite the pandemic, the Indian State has not gone dormant. Neither should Parliament. To show their commitment to citizens in these times of distress, India’s parliamentarians owe it to the country to get to work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/why-the-winter-session-matters-ht-editorial/story-UbO9LkHJ4VAKkvyalfKVXL.html
15-12-2020||Editorials||Keep a close watch on inflation figures | HT Editorial||Retail inflation, as measured by the Consumer Price Index (CPI), moderated from 7.6% in October to 6.9% in November. This is primarily a result of moderation in food prices, although the non-food component of the CPI has also come down. While the November numbers mark an end to rising inflation since August, headline inflation continues to be above Reserve Bank of India’s upper limit of 6% and is unlikely to come down in the near future. Rising crude oil prices along with higher tax component of petrol-diesel prices can generate additional tailwinds for inflation going forward. The fact that the current inflationary spike has come at a time when the economy needs every possible support to growth makes it a tricky situation for policymakers. RBI has kept the policy rate unchanged since May 2020 in view of rising inflation, even though the monetary policy stance has been kept accommodative. Some experts have pointed out that raising interest rates at this juncture will only end up attracting hot money from foreign markets which, while doing little to add the productive capacity in the economy, might hurt exports by forcing an appreciation of the rupee. A persistence of high inflation, especially in food items, might put a squeeze on household budgets and therefore mass demand. The Centre will present its budget in 45 days. It will need to project a nominal GDP growth rate for budgetary calculations. On this count, a higher inflation could actually be of help as it will boost revenues. Taxes, after all, are a fraction of nominal, not real incomes. The short point is, policy will have to be vigilant about inflation in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/keep-a-close-watch-on-inflation-figures-ht-editorial/story-QrFK8fNoVZJhq0S8YHCVYI.html
15-12-2020||Editorials||The life and legacy of a literary master | HT Editorial||John le Carre’s most famous Cold War spy, the dull and dreary George Smiley, was the exact opposite of Ian Fleming’s dashing spy, James Bond. But, the ordinariness of le Carre’s greatest character, Smiley, who he modelled on a colleague in MI5 where he worked running an espionage operation during the Cold War, caught the imagination of millions and established le Carre as a storyteller extraordinaire of the spy genre. Smiley took on an East German agent in le Carre’s debut novel, Call for the Dead, which was followed by A Murder of Quality. By then, le Carre had few, if any peers, in this particular world of thrillers. His literary legacy will endure. Many argue that Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy is the greatest spy novel of all time. The masterpieces never stopped. The Spy Who Came in From the Cold and The Honourable Schoolboy have all passed into the realm of classics. The foundations for many of his great works was the battle between the lofty concept of western freedom — the practice of which was often murkier than proclaimed — and that of life behind the Iron Curtain.When the Cold War ended, many asked — what next for le Carre? But he refused to be corralled by his own legend. He took on other themes such as big pharma in The Constant Gardener, the arms industry in The Night Manager and terrorism in A Most Wanted Man. He never ceased to be astonished by how his books came to be regarded as authentic documentation of espionage during the Cold War. A remarkably reticent man, he once said of his craft, “Out of the secret world I once knew, I have tried to make a theatre for the larger worlds we inhabit.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-life-and-legacy-of-a-literary-master-ht-editorial/story-epMOutsF6hEWdr24wzaLMP.html
