24-12-2020||Editorials||In Kashmir, the return of democracy||Local elections in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) are a significant moment in the political evolution of the new Union Territory. Ever since the state assembly was dissolved in 2018, and the state was subsequently bifurcated and turned into a Union Territory, it has witnessed a political vacuum — where voters haven’t really got an opportunity to express their aspirations and elect representatives, and political figures haven’t been able to channel citizen aspirations and shape policies and administrative action. For those worried about the democratic deficit in the new Union Territory, local elections come as a sign that India remains committed to the democratic path. A range of forces deserve credit for this development. The Union government and Lieutenant-Governor Manoj Sinha pushed for the elections; the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration — a conglomeration of Kashmir’s regional parties that is opposed to the constitutional changes — showed courage and chose to express its opposition by participating in the democratic exercise; and security forces kept relative peace when terrorists, sent from across the border, sought to undermine the democratic process. The results are telling too. The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration has swept the Kashmir valley — the alliance, led by National Conference and Peoples Democratic Party, fought on a clear platform. It was opposed to the effective nullification of Article 370 and the dilution of statehood. While it is important to understand the role of local factors in determining local electoral outcomes, it cannot be denied that People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration’s win is also evidence that the mood on the Kashmiri street is opposed to the revocation of Article 370. This is a message to the Centre, which did not follow due process and adopt an adequate consultative approach when it took the decision, and has been unable to reach out to the Kashmiri street and persuade it of the rationale of the move. This trust deficit must not be allowed to grow. At the same time, the Bharatiya Janata Party has emerged as the single largest force, propelled by its win in Jammu and a breakthrough in limited parts in the valley. This reflects the greater support for the constitutional changes in Jammu. It also reflects the persistent divide in the state on religious and regional lines. Deepening the trust between Jammu and Kashmir, and between Jammu and Kashmir and Delhi must be core policy goals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/in-kashmir-the-return-of-democracy/story-G9HNTXJfCj5HW5xNexbjTO.html
24-12-2020||Editorials||Ensuring education for the marginalised students||The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs on Tuesday announced that the Union government will increase its share of contribution to Post Matric Scholarship for students from the Scheduled Castes (SCs). The Centre’s assistance, which was around ₹1,100 crore annually during 2017-18 to 2019-20, will be around ₹6,000 crore annually during the 2020-21 to 2025-26 period. Under the scholarship scheme, the government provides financial assistance to SC students, whose household incomes are less than ₹250,000 annually, for higher education. The transfer of financial assistance to the students will be now in the Direct Benefit Transfer mode, preferably using the Aadhaar Enabled Payment System.This is a positive step to retain — and bring back — SC students in the schooling system who are often forced to drop out because their families are unable to meet schooling and related expenses, or have no choice but to join the informal sector workforce to supplement family incomes. While leaving school helps families tide over immediate economic challenges, such decisions rob students of the ability to access education, and of the opportunity to fulfil their potential.While ensuring more funds to retain students is commendable, the Centre must also iron out the systemic challenges that are dogging post-matric scholarships. Reports indicate unfortunate and inordinate delays, backlogs and improper disbursement, a blame game between the Centre and states over processes that need to be followed, and scams, misappropriations and non-allocations as far as the scholarship funds are concerned. Translate the positive decision into sound implementation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/ensuring-the-education-of-marginalised-students/story-kqYS7uQtKRCJybeFDFnBDI.html
24-12-2020||Editorials||The battle over the next Dalai Lama||Reincarnation is officially a geopolitical consideration. The United States (US) Congress has passed a Tibet Policy and Support Act that says the choice of the next Dalai Lama is the prerogative only of Tibetans. In addition, any attempt by the Chinese to interfere in the Dalai Lama’s succession would result in sanctions against that country. The Act is expected to be signed into law by President Donald Trump who made history by allowing Lobsang Sangay of the Tibet government-in-exile to make his first visit the US State Department. Washington has urged other governments to pass similar laws.While the Act reflects the Trump administration’s hard views on China, it also serves as a reminder of the coming global battle over the Dalai Lama’s succession. If traditional methods are followed, there will be a gap of over a decade before the 15th Dalai Lama will come of age. Beijing is fully expected to appoint its own Dalai Lama — and then use China’s economic and political influence to coerce other governments into recognising only their Dalai Lama. The new US law ensures that on reincarnation, Washington will stick to the straight and correct path. But other countries will find it harder to resist. One has only to see how Mongolia was brought to its knees after allowing the Dalai Lama to visit their country.This begs the question as to whether India needs to do more. New Delhi’s position has been that it does enough by playing host to the Dalai Lama, the government-in-exile and the largest Tibetan refugee population anywhere. Tibetan leaders are discouraged from expressing political views against China while on Indian soil. However, the Ladakh border clash has shown Beijing no longer feels the need to abide by such informal understandings. The Dalai Lama succession is the type of high stakes issue China will feel no reason to hold back on. India should prepare itself for a modern-day avatar aggression. One, it should officially declare that it believes the Dalai Lama and the Tibetan sect leaders outside of China have the final say in Tibetan spiritual issues. Two, it must review its present policies regarding Tibetan refugees whose numbers in India are shrinking rapidly. They provide an important source of legitimacy for Tibetan leaders in India but now number less than 75,000. Three, India must begin engaging with other governments and immunise them against the coming pretender to the Potala Palace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-battle-over-the-next-dalai-lama/story-jcLe6MFk6RVD0S5IopNMAJ.html
24-12-2020||Editorials||The debilitating impact of pollution on the economy||Delhi suffered the highest per-capita economic loss due to air pollution last year in India, according to a study published in The Lancet on Tuesday. The economic loss due to lost output from premature deaths and illness attributable to air pollution (outdoor and household) as a percentage of state GDP was 1.08% in Delhi. The highest loss to GDP was recorded by Uttar Pradesh (2.15%), followed by Bihar (1.95%), Madhya Pradesh (1.70%) and Rajasthan (1.70%). Overall deaths and disease due to air pollution, according to The Lancet, is responsible for a loss of 1.36% of the nation’s GDP. The impact of air pollution on the economy can be deep, yet not immediately obvious. For example, higher rates of asthma, diabetes or chronic respiratory diseases can lead to reduced ability to work and lower participation rates in the labour force. Children susceptible to asthma attacks also miss school days, which can severely impact their learning and subsequently future growth, while health care requirements can result in their parents taking extra time off from work. Deaths of children and young people bring an economic cost through lost contributions to society and the economy, which can be large. Earlier this year, a study released by MIT Sloan said that a large-scale review demonstrates that air pollution is not only detrimental to people’s physiological health, but also their psychological health. It increases depression, and impairs cognitive functioning and decision-making. In a developing country such as India, there is a continuing debate on carbon-intensive growth versus environment and health. But as The Lancet study shows, increasing pollution load is erasing the very economic and human development gains that the country aspires to achieve. The pollution-related losses will also hit the poorer states with weaker social infrastructure harder, deepening the already existing social and economic inequities further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-debilitating-impact-of-pollution-on-the-economy/story-pbRMLoPF6j01JmysGZeoeK.html
