28-12-2020||Editorials||Modi’s clear message | HT Editorial||Being “vocal for local” co-exists very uncomfortably with “zero effect, zero defect.” In every public speech these days, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi has spoken of the need for economic self-reliance, embodied in the slogan Atmanirbhar Bharat. His latest radio address was no different. He praised individuals who had purged foreign-made items from lists of daily-use products. This was blended with his larger vision of national revival, speaking of “things manufactured abroad” having “shackled” Indians. But the PM went on to demand “a clear message for our manufacturers that they should not compromise on the quality of the products.” Made in India products, he insisted, must “meet global standards.” It may not be obvious, but these two imperatives do no align with each other. If Indian consumers were to move en masse to only products made in their country, they would give domestic manufacturers a captive market. The impetus for an Indian factory-owner to then invest in improving his products would largely evaporate. Modi has remarkable powers of persuasion, but even he cannot change basic economic behaviour. The most important driver of innovation for a corporation is competition. Without the sense that a product is losing out to rivals, there is no incentive for a firm to invest in research or create a managerial environment conducive to change. Domestic competition is not enough. Cartelisation is almost inevitable in such situations, especially when regulators are weak. Price tags become inflated and global standards are sacrificed. Reviving the manufacturing sector would help create the jobs that would, in turn, feed a post-pandemic domestic recovery. Additionally, there is a strategic need to reduce China’s economic footprint in the country – the country is the single largest source of imported goods into India. There is a strong case for putting up barriers to Chinese products given deteriorating relations and their restrictions on Indian imports. The real danger is that the idea that pushing Indian products will help long-term growth will come to permeate policy-making. This could not be further from the truth. Any reduction in competition in a market economy can be guaranteed to ensure economic mediocrity. What Indian firms need is help to become globally competitive, not captive nationalistic consumers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/modi-s-clear-message-ht-editorial/story-1WtPgtO0QhbEOrpYxstPgK.html
28-12-2020||Editorials||Brexit: India could gain as of now||The longest political divorce in recent history is near completion, with the United Kingdom (UK) and European Union (EU) agreeing to a minimalist Brexit treaty. The treaty still needs acceptance by a slew of governments across Europe. But since the alternative is divorce without mitigation at year-end, green signals are inevitable. Indian industrial firms will be relieved that the Brexit agreement will allow them to continue to treat the UK as their investment gateway to Europe. London’s plans for becoming the financial gateway for the large capital flows coming into India are less certain. New Delhi was never enthusiastic about Brexit, seeing it as a weakening of western unity and a geopolitical gain for a rising China. More recently, however, it has seen opportunity in Britain’s desire to orient itself away from Europe and take a hard stand against China. The real test for India will be whether it can leverage the UK’s desire for some quick trade agreement successes and put together a 21st century economic partnership deal that stresses services, aligns data standards, and incorporates immigration. Brexit has given India an opportunity to show that it is not protectionist as much as forward-looking when it comes to trade, technology and investment. The question is whether the Modi government has a strategic enough sense of trade policy to grasp this chance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/brexit-india-could-gain-as-of-now/story-7NOMKrij5BFDo1I5rCwZeL.html
28-12-2020||Editorials||Farm talks: No end in sight yet||The major farm unions protesting a set of agricultural reforms have agreed to restart negotiations with the government. This comes as a relief, but not a breakthrough. Of the four demands of farmers, two are easier to accede to, while the other two are tricky and these are the ones that will determine the fate of these talks. Let’s look at the easier ones first. The farmers want changes to be made in the draft Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020 to protect their interests. The bill proposes to provide cash instead of subsidised power for agricultural use. The farmers say the switch from subsidy to cash transfer could increase power costs for them. They also want amendments in an ordinance so as to completely exclude farmers from any penalties for crop-residue burning, a major cause of air pollution. Both these demands are likely to be met whenever they come up on the table. The government has, in no uncertain terms, said it will make appropriate changes to laws to ensure both issues are addressed. It’s the other two demands — the farmers want these discussed first — that pose the real test. The farmers are adamant that when they meet the government’s negotiators again, the talks must be geared towards a complete repeal of three agricul-tural laws that farmers say will hurt their livelihoods. The laws essentially change the way the country’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government market places, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales and laying down a national framework for contract farming. Farmers say these laws will allow big corporations to dictate prices and erode their bargaining power. The Modi government is unlikely to scrap the laws altogether, but has advanced a clutch of amendments. These include some mechanism of regulating proposed free markets so that farmers feel more secure as they face big buyers and a written assurance on minimum support prices (MSPs). The unions have spelt out why the assurance on MSPs was not enough. Indian farmers receive lower prices for most produce than global averages. Farm unions want the government to adopt a comprehensive measure of cultivation costs that includes the imputed cost of capital and the rent on the land, called “C2” in economic parlance. Since both these demands are unlikely to be met, according to most economists, the government should keep a less market-distorting model of compensating farmers ready. For instance, some suggest India should move towards direct income support to farmers. A lucrative income support programme that can be funded by consolidating all subsidies into cash may do the trick.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/farm-talks-no-end-in-sight-yet/story-ZokoEfONAokvm7gdufOmXK.html
