29-12-2020||Editorials||Air pollution: CAQM’s role is still hazy||People in the national capital and nearby areas spent almost half of last week breathing severely polluted air. The concentration of ultra-fine PM2.5 and fine PM10 particles in the air was over 10 times the level considered safe for breathing. Blanketed by a layer of smoke and fog, the outdoors were hazardous for the young and the elderly. In the last five years, this description will hold true for possibly any random period of time in the winter. The problem became such that this year, the Supreme Court appointed retired Justice Madan Lokur to oversee the efforts of several disparate authorities — only to be convinced by the government to walk back on the move after it appointed a new statutory body, the Commission on Air Quality Management (CAQM). With statutory powers that cut across federal lines, CAQM was billed as a super commission, comprising officials from several states and agencies that can take the individual steps collectively pivotal to addressing the problem. CAQM was notified on November 5, almost in the middle of the November 1-15 period when the crisis typically peaks. Experts said the move was ill-timed, and amounted to reinventing the wheel at a time when the problem is most acute. Over the following weeks, many of these concerns were borne out as the authority admitted it needed time to familiarise itself with the problem and the machinery that exists at present. It was on November 13 that CAQM asked the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to coordinate efforts. More than a month later, there is still confusion about which agency has what sort of role in combating the problem. With the previous SC-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority dissolved, central and state pollution control boards — the agencies that issue directions — have lacked clear policy guidelines for preemptive and mitigating measures. One of the examples of this has been the lack of any curbs on construction work this year (although such a measure has been complicated by the Covid-19 lockdown earlier in the year). Last year, construction work — one of the most significant contributors of dust — was banned for most part of the winter. While it is understandable that any new agency will require time to come up to speed with a problem, Delhi and its neighbourhood should not need to submit itself to the mercy of the weather — at present the only factor that appears to mitigate the problem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/air-pollution-caqm-s-role-is-still-hazy/story-GTGeiondguWuogDlBEHwsN.html
29-12-2020||Editorials||Infection rates are falling in India, but there is no room for complacency||In the past week, India has, on average, reported 292 new Covid-19 deaths every day, and 21,072 new infections daily — both the lowest in around half a year. Since the peak of India’s first wave in mid-September, both these numbers have dropped nearly 80%. Also in the last week, the positivity rate — the proportions of samples tested that return positive for Sars-CoV2 — is at the lowest ever. This is a key metric key in determining how widespread the virus is in a community. According to the World Health Organization, if the positivity rate remains five per cent or below for two weeks, a region can be said to be keeping its outbreak under control. India’s positivity rate has been below this threshold for 45 days now — a remarkable feat for a country of this size. On the other hand, the grand exercise to vaccinate more than 300 million people by summer appears to be only days away with drug regulators expected to soon take a decision on emergency approvals for vaccines. On Monday, officials in four states carried out vaccination drills, testing arrangements for the first phase of the drive. The calm waters that India’s outbreak is in right now should not be taken as a sign that the tide has turned in the battle against the disease. States are tracking down passengers who have recently returned from the United Kingdom (UK), where a new and more transmissible virus variant has been discovered. On Monday, it emerged that some of them have tested positive for the variant. This serves as a warning sign to not let the guard down. Even if 300 million people are vaccinated by summer in India, it would mean that 75% of the country’s population remains vulnerable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/covid-19-infection-rates-are-falling-in-india-but-there-is-no-room-for-complacency/story-S7Pk55rT2p50KqpbChyzcI.html
29-12-2020||Editorials||We must realise global health requires a coordinated effort||The ongoing pandemic, with over 79 million people infected and 1.7 million lives lost, has become the most destructive infectious disease outbreak in recent human history with unprecedented human, social and economic costs. Countries are struggling to respond to new infections and virus mutations through a mix of containment measures- periodic lockdowns, domestic and international border-sealing and available, limited medical solutions.International trade and domestic economies were the first to take a hit. By the end of the second quarter, international trade was almost one-fifth less compared to second quarter of 2019. As 2020 closes out and vaccines are getting emergency use approvals, the Covid-19 shock is expected to cause a seven to nine per cent fall in global trade.Countries that were growing economically pre-pandemic, are now witnessing worrying trends. For instance, pre-Covid, unemployment in the United States (US) was at a half-century low but by the second quarter of 2020, its Gross Domestic Product (GDP) plunged by nearly 31.4% - a record held previously only by the Great Depression. In the United Kingdom (UK), unemployment hit a three-year high and over 800,000 people lost their jobs. Emerging and fledgling economies like India and South Africa are also experiencing historic contractions.But the impact of Covid-19 isn’t limited to economics and trade. It has magnified fault-lines, exacerbated inequities and inequalities and resulted in shadow pandemics such as mental health crises, violence against women, and disruptions in critical health services, possibly reversing recent improvements. It has forced hundreds of thousands of skilled and unskilled workers out of jobs and is expected to push an estimated 88-115 million into extreme poverty. Countries, rich and poor, have been affected by an economic emergency. Several low- and middle-income countries, battling existing political instability and conflict, coupled with weak health systems infrastructure have borne the worst of this impact. The pandemic has underscored that the world needs to rethink policies and programmes to bring back some semblance of equality and stability in societies. It needs to view global health as a security issue.For too long, the concept of security has assumed an anthropomorphised ‘other’ - an ‘us’ seeking existential security from another state or organisation. Here, state security is threatened in physical or cyber battle by potentially rational or irrational actors, who driven by distrust or ambition or power dynamics, launch threats to a state’s security. While these can be checked with negotiation, mediation and arbitration, or destruction, i.e. war; in case of disease, such an understanding is limited. Disease, and resulting hunger and poverty can cause destabilisation, political unrest, civil disorder, and international conflict– all of which threaten international peace and security. Covid-19 has also shattered the illusion of international collaboration. In the last two decades, these have emphasised good health and well-being, especially through the Millennium Development Goals and Sustainable Development Goals. But in the wake of Covid-19, countries that could launch a coordinated effort to check the impact of the pandemic have resorted to inward-looking policies. Ending the pandemic must be a global goal and a critical determinant of foreign policy, trade, and economic co-operation.Protectionism, isolationism, as seen through vaccine nationalism has reversed the efforts of international bodies and platforms to place health at the centre of the global development agenda. Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance; and the World Health Organization are working with governments and vaccine manufacturers to expedite vaccine research and ensure that the vaccine, when available, is accessible to all. But to ensure success wealthier countries must join hands and lend their support so that all countries can roll-out the vaccine, almost in parallel.As we see the light at the end of the tunnel, as vaccines get rolled out across the world, we need to collectively recognise that global health determines economic trajectories and requires a coordinated, concerted effort. To reap the benefits of globalisation, to ensure an equal world, global health must be central to international collaboration. It determines social and economic development for all. And peace is the logical result.Anjali Nayyar is executive vice-president, Global Health Strategies This article is co-authored by Pratyush Pranav and Anindita Bose, senior associates at Global Health Strategies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/we-must-realise-global-health-requires-a-coordinated-effort/story-zDKMFpTEvdKX6n2mmxqLjJ.html
29-12-2020||Editorials||Mental health issues are complex for India||The coronavirus crisis poses the greatest threat to mental health since the World War II, with the impact to be felt for years after the virus has been brought under control, United Kingdom (UK)’s leading psychiatrist and the president of the Royal College, Dr Adrian James, has warned. The numbers may rise, he added, as the full impact on disadvant-aged communities, care homes and people with disabilities becomes clear. While Dr James’s assessment/warning is specifically about the UK, the situation is not too different in India.Mental health issues in the context of Covid-19 are more complex and challenging due to a large proportion of socially and economically vulnerable population, high burden of pre-existing mental illness, constrained mental health services infrastructure, less penetration of digital mental health solutions, and, above all, the scare created due to misinformation on social media, says a study Mental health implications of Covid-19 pandemic and its response in India, published in the International Journal of Social Psychiatry in September.After the pandemic began, there were many reports of people suffering from increased stress, anxiety, depression, insomnia, denial, anger and fear in India. In response, the Centre announced intervention strategies, telepsychiatry consultations and toll-free numbers for psychological and behavioural issues. These need to expanded and made more accessible. The thrust now, as the paper suggests, should also be on developing need-based interventions with proper risk communication strategies and keeping on par with the evolving epidemiology of Covid-19, they should be instrumental in guiding the planning and prioritisation of mental health care resources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/mental-health-issues-are-complex-for-india/story-lgcuSxdhNTY13ROF3RY47J.html
