02-11-2020||North East||Tarun Gogoi admitted to hospital, put on ventillator support ||A week after his discharge from a hospital post-Covid-19 recovery, former Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi has been admitted to a state-run facility again and put on ventilator support as his health condition has deteriorated, a doctor treating him said on Monday. The 86-year-old Congress politician complained of restlessness on Sunday night, following which he was taken to the intensive care unit (ICU) of Gauhati Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), superintendent of the health facility Abhijit Sarma told reporters here. "A team of doctors is monitoring his health. His ammonia level is slightly high. We have put him on non- invasive ventilator support and his oxygen saturation level is normal now," he said. Gogoi is mentally stable and conscious, Sarma said. Asked if the veteran Congress politician will be shifted to a facility outside the state for treatment, the senior doctor said, "His health condition is serious but is taken care of. The situation does not demand as of now to shift him outside Assam." Gogoi's health condition is being monitored by a nine-member committee of doctors, which was formed by the state government after he had tested positive for Covid-19 in August. The three-time chief minister and veteran Congress leader was discharged from the hospital on October 25 after undergoing treatment for the coronavirus infection and other post-recovery complications. Since then, he was under observation of the team of nine doctors at his residence. Gogoi had tested positive for Covid-19 on August 25 and was admitted to the hospital the next day. The octogenarian leader's health condition had deteriorated on August 31 with a sudden fall in oxygen saturation level. He was administered plasma therapy and became stable later. In the days before he tested Covid-19 positive, Gogoi was at the forefront of the Congress initiative to form a 'grand alliance' comprising all the opposition parties for the 2021 assembly polls and holding meetings with all stakeholders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-38
02-11-2020||North East||Mizoram to get LPG from Manipur||Mizoram has decided to import LPG cylinders from Manipur following the lingering border standoff between Assam and Mizoram that impacted the supply of essentials despite hectic parleys between both governments. A top Mizoram government official told The Telegraph on Sunday that the “first” batch of trucks has reached the bottling plant in Manipur through the NH 150 that links Churachandpur district of Manipur and Mizoram’s Saitual district, about 90 minutes drive from capital Aizawl. “They will load the cylinders tomorrow (Monday) and other products and will return through Saitual by November 4 because the road condition is not that good. We had no option but to explore this route after efforts to resume supplies through Vairengte border check gate did not materialise because of  tension in Lailapur area of Cachar,” the official said. On Friday, trucks with petro products escorted from Mizoram House in Silchar to Lailapur from where it would enter Vairengte checkgate, the recognised border between the two states. “ But security personnel escorting the trucks deserted the trucks at Lailapur after locals protested by squatting  on the road. The truckers fearing for their security refused to ply their vehicles carrying highly inflammable products.  The trucks returned to Silchar, thanks to the presence of mind of an official from Mizoram House,” the official said. The Mizoram government then sent a letter to the Assam government on Saturday, requesting to provide their own security but it is unlikely Dispur will “agree” to the proposal as it might send a “wrong signal” about the Assam’s “handling” of the overall border situation, sources said. The border standoff turned serious on September 20 following the burning down of 20 deserted huts and stalls along the NH 306, 3km from Lailapur by a crowd from Vairengte in Mizoram’s Kolasib district in response to a stone-pelting incident involving people from Lailapur earlier. Seven people were injured. The arson took place about 3 km on the NH 306 inside Assam territory and then Mizoram increased its security presence in the area, officials from Assam claimed, said triggering tension in the area and disrupting movement of trucks to Mizoram. Vairengte check gate is the officially recognised border between the two states. It is about 6 km from Lailapur. The arson took place three km away from Lailapur and about one km away from Vairengte in Kolasib district, officials said. Vairengte is 120 km from Aizawl and about 60 km from Silchar. There are three flashpoints between the two states sharing a  164.6 km  long border, all in Barak Valley in south Assam. The situation was defused on October 23 with the intervention of the Union ministry of home affairs, leading to resumption of traffic but it flared up again on October 28 because  Lailapur locals were protesting the presence of Mizoram security forces. Assam has also been demanding withdrawal of security forces from Lailapur area but Mizoram has said that they will withdraw forces only after normalcy returns. There are others reasons too. The senior Mizoram official told the Telegraph they have to keep the forces in the Vairengte area because locals of Lailapur, whom the Mizoram locals see as illegal Bangladeshi nationals, have been instigating the Mizos, something the government fears could lead to more  unrest. “ Then a senior Assam Police official told the Kolasib police during an inspection trip that they need to withdraw or Assam too will deploy four times the forces and the situation could aggravate. This is one reason why we are building structures at the border to ward off trouble-makers. We are also for a peaceful resolution of the issue but we have to protect ourselves. We are for peace and assure full protection to the truckers,” the official said in reaction to a letter written by the Cachar DC to her Kolasib counterpart about building bunker-like structure at Kulicherra, another flashpoint in Cachar district, about 5 km from Lailapur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-38
02-11-2020||North East||Anti-ageing compound tech from IIT Guwahati||Researchers of Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati, have developed a low-cost membrane technology to produce psychoactive drugs and anti-ageing compounds from a wide range of agricultural resources. The technology doesn’t require any costly organic solvents and uses only water. “Hence, the cost of the process and price of pharmaceuticals thereon is much cheaper than that of existing solvent-based separation technique,” the institute said in a statement on Tuesday. It said the technology has enormous scope to replace existing costly organic solvent-based techniques and can be used for continuation mode of operation on an industrial scale. The technology will also support the Centre’s Make in India initiative, helping reduce the import of the said polyphenolic compounds and also create job opportunities in the agriculture sector, it added. The technology has been developed by Prof. Mihir Kumar Purkait, head, Centre for Environment, and professor, department of chemical engineering, and his MTech student V.L. Dhadge. Work on the project started in 2009 and was completed in 2010. It received a patent in 2017. Explaining the technology, Purkait told The Telegraph, “ The leaves/fruits/roots of either of these agricultural sources (camellia sinensis or tea plant, citrus fruits and peels, specially orange peels, berries, ginkgo, biloba, parsley, pulses, tea, sea buckthorn and onions) are cut into small pieces and extracted in hot water (less than 60 degrees Celsius). They are then screened and separated using different molecular weight cut-off membranes. The filtrates are then dried in freezer to get the powdered product. The selection and membrane is product specific.” “The developed technology does not use any solvent and several energy-intensive unit operations (including distillation, evaporation, etc) as in the conventional technique. So, at least three-fold less cost will be found for the extracted product using our developed membrane-based technology,” Purkait said. IIT Guwahati in a separate statement said it has launched a multi-surface protector named “BreatheEasy Safe 24”, in association with Berger Paints. The product protects surfaces from germs, bacteria and viruses for 24 hours and prevent its spread. The product can protect desk, car seat, door handle, keys, buttons, bags, etc. from viruses and one can spray it from a distance of 20 to 25cm and wipe the surface after 30 seconds of spraying. Alcohol-free and environment-friendly, the product has been developed by Prof. Biman B. Mandal, professor, department of biosciences and bioengineering, and his research team at IIT Guwahati. Mandal said, “... We feel that this product would make our everyday lives safer in these trying times and beyond.” As the Covid-19 pandemic has spread across the country, the government wanted the research institutions and corporates to merge ideas to form innovative solutions to help fight the coronavirus. Over the course of the past few months, India has led the way by building innovating products and BreatheEasy Safe 24 is a positive step in the journey, the institute said. IIT Guwahati director Prof. T.G. Sitharam said, “IIT Guwahati has been instrumental in designing several projects in helping the society and the nation fight Covid-19. BreatheEasy Safe 24 is a true outcome of academia-industry collaboration led by IIT Guwahati.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-38
02-11-2020||North East||Assam political row continues over museum ||Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Saturday that Congress MLA Sherman Ali Ahmed will “be sent to jail” in connection with the Miya museum controversy after next year’s state elections unless he publicly apologises for his statements on the issue. In response, the two-time Congress legislator has challenged the influential BJP leader to go ahead with his move instead of “waiting” for six months for the polls to be over. Sarma’s threat and Ahmed’s response is set to keep the controversy alive despite the Congress state unit’s apparent effort to put a lid on the controversy by formally restraining Ahmed from commenting on the “sensitive” issue. Sarma’s statements also suggested that the ruling BJP was confident of getting second straight term in the polls. He has also tried to differentiate between indigenous Muslims and migrant Muslims. The controversy was triggered by a Facebook post by Ahmed on October 19. In the post he had mooted setting up of a Miya museum at the Srimanta Sankardeva Kalakshetra before the Assembly’s departmentally related standing committee (DRSC) meeting and that his proposal was accepted. There was no mention of a expediting the process for setting up a museum for people living on the char chaporis (riverine areas) along the Brahmaputra in the post, something he had pushed for in his official letter to the director of museums a day earlier, something those opposed to his Miya museum proposal say was done “intentionally” by Ahmed to stoke the controversy for political gains. The ruling BJP has asserted that the state government will never construct any such museum at the Kalakshetra, an outcome of the 1985 Assam Accord, the culmination of the six-year-long Assam Movement against illegal foreigners, to showcase the culture of the Assam, and Miyas are widely seen as infiltrators in the state. Some consider “Miya” as  pejorative term, used to describe Muslim migrants from East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) living in the riverine areas, a community perceived as a threat to the culture and language of Assam’s indigenous communities. Other communities such as the Mising, Deori, Nepali and Bihari also live in the riverine areas. Leading organisations such as the AASU and the AJYCP have criticised Ahmed’s push. Sarma said: “He (Sherman) will be in jail. This is my commitment to the people of Assam. He has said that lungis (a colourful cotton fabric worn around the hip) will be kept at the Kalakshetra. He will be sent to jail once we come to power after the polls unless he publicly apologises.” The BJP’s pointsman in the Northeast said he has been unable to sleep since Ahmed’s lungi remark. “It is not acceptable. I don’t know why the intellectuals are silent. I don’t know what the Congress is thinking? Ahmed comment has only hurt the indigenous Muslims of Assam who are not in favour of any such museum. It is distortion of Assam’s culture.” Sarma had tweeted last week in response to Ahmed’s proposal: “In my understanding, there is no separate identity-and culture in Char Anchal of Assam as most of the people had migrated from Bangladesh. Obviously, in Srimanta Sankardeva Kalakhetra, which is the epitome of Assamese culture, we will not allow any distortion. Sorry MLA Sahab.” Assam PCC president Ripun Bora, overseeing preparations for the maiden visit of AICC general secretary Jitendra Singh’s maiden visit to the state as the in-charge of the state unit from Sunday, said he would not like to react to Sarma’s threat but added that the BJP wants to keep the controversy alive. Ahmed in response said that he would “ask urge/challenge” Sarma to go ahead with his move instead of waiting for six months because it may become difficult for him to arrest him because he will be getting more votes this time. Ahmed, 53, asked  why Sarma is so allergic to the term Miya. “Aren’t they not Indians? Aren’t they part of the greater Assamese society. They were brought by the Britishers in the 1850s. If they are not Indians, please issue a notification saying so? People have become so allergic to the term miya but don’t mainstream Assamese society refer to these people as Miyas?” This migrant population is pegged to about 7 million, both Hindus and Muslims. The two-time MLA also said that he had spoken about lungis and saris but he had also spoken about the contribution of the Miyas to the construction and agriculture sector, their boat-making quality, their delicacies and their songs. “But those have not been highlighted. If a Bodo or a Missing dress can be kept at Kalakhetra, why can’t the dress of a Miya. People are talking about my FB post, not my official letter where I have pushed for the char chapori museum. Forget about the name. Sarma should tell us whether char chapori museum will be constructed or not,” Ahmed said, his tone combative. “I feel proud to identify myself as a Miya from the greater Assamese community. As a politician, I have to stand up for my country, state and my community. If politicians stand up for these three there will be no problem whatsoever,” Ahmed said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-38
