05-11-2020||North East||Cong bid to reconnect with tea community||AICC general secretary Jitendra Singh launched his innings as the in-charge of Assam from the state’s tea belt on Sunday, even spending the night at the house of a garden worker in Dibrugarh district. The move is seen as a fresh push by the Opposition party to win over the electorally decisive tea community before the 2021 Assembly polls. The community had started drifting towards the BJP since it came to power in 2014. The desertion of the tea community — the Congress’s traditional support — had led to its debacle in the 2016 Assembly and 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Singh, appointed the Congress in-charge of Assam in September, held back-to-back meetings with its tea cell, Assam Chah Mazdoor Sangha (ACMS) and party leaders of Dibrugarh and Tinsukia districts upon his arrival in Dibrugarh on Sunday afternoon on a seven-day visit. PCC general secretary Diganta Choudhury and secretary Imdad Hussain told The Telegraph that after meetings with the tea community leaders, Singh suddenly decided to spend the night at the house of a garden worker at Lepetkata tea estate, around 10km from Dibrugarh town, to “understand and feel” their problems. The tea community vote is decisive in as many as 42 of the state’s 126 Assembly seats. ACMS general secretary Rupesh Gowala “politely” drove home some bitter truths at the meetings about the community’s grievances and plight, a reason for Singh to spend a night in a tea worker’s quarter. Singh and PCC chief Ripun Bora spent the night at Minu Ghatowar’s quarter in the Jungle line of Lepetkata tea estate. Minu, in her forties, said they were very happy that two mantris (ministers) spent time with them. Minu, whose family consists of her husband, three daughters and a son, said that life is tough in the garden. Singh was a former Union minister of state in the UPA government, while Bora, a Rajya Sabha MP, was a minister in the earlier Tarun Gogoi government. “They interacted with us till 2am and left around 4am,” Minu said. The BJP-led state government has also stepped up its effort to keep the tea community on its side, critical to its prospects. It had on Sunday laid the foundation of 119 model schools in gardens.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-37
05-11-2020||North East||More central forces for Assam||The Centre has sanctioned additional forces for Assam to maintain peace in areas bordering Mizoram following fresh tension triggered by the “abduction and killing” of a person from Lailapur allegedly by “miscreants” on Monday. Newly appointed Assam chief secretary Jishnu Baruah said in Silchar on Wednesday afternoon that central forces will arrive in a day or two and would be deployed along the border with Mizoram. “A notification for central forces is out. As and when the forces come, they would be deployed along the border areas in Cachar and Karimganj districts. When the forces come, there will be peace on both sides (of the border),” Baruah said. Senior officials in both states believe central forces will help instil confidence in the area because of its “neutrality”. A reason for the border standoff is the non-withdrawal of Mizoram security personnel from Lailapur in Cachar district area to restore normalcy despite repeated requests by Assam. Mizoram says forces have been deployed in its area to help maintain peace and check alleged illegal Bangladeshi miscreants from Lailapur. The inter-state border has been tense since October 18 but the situation flared up on October 20 after 20 deserted huts and stalls were burnt along National Highway 306, 3km from Lailapur, by a mob from Vairengte in Mizoram’s Kolasib district. The arson was in “response” to a stone-pelting incident in Vairengte involving people from Lailapur earlier in the day. Though peace was restored following intervention of the ministry of home affairs on October 23, it flared up again on October 28 due to a protest by residents of Lailapur over non-withdrawal of Mizoram security personnel “deployed” 3km inside Assam’s territory. The standoff has been aggravated by the death of one Intazul Laskar (named Intyaz Ali by Mizoram) in custody of Mizoram’s excise and narcotics department on Monday. Mizoram claims he was a drug peddler while Assam claims he was abducted and killed by Mizo miscreants. Mounting tension saw Mizoram seek the safety and security of its people living in Assam. Movement of trucks carrying essential commodities to Mizoram through NH 306, that links Vairengte and Cachar, too remains disrupted since October 28. Lailapur is one of the three flashpoints in the ongoing inter-state border row. The chief secretary, considered by many in the state bureaucracy as an authority on inter-state border issues, said, “We are absolutely clear about our constitutional boundary... And that is clearly defined by the Mizoram Act of 1986 when Mizoram was carved out of Assam. No one had any doubt about the constitutional boundary. Our official stand is that the constitutional boundary of Assam is sacrosanct and we will stick to that.” Baruah said certain elements — some non-state players — are playing a major part in stoking the fire of differences and disputes. Non-state actors are usually organisations and individuals that operate independently, neither controlled, backed nor funded by the government, an official said. Baruah said without elaborating that the constitutional boundary could have been something else, “but so long as the constitutional boundary as per the record and as passed by Parliament, it should remain as such”. He also said there are ways through which boundaries can be altered under Articles 2 and 3 of the Constitution. Baruah termed the prevailing situation as a law and order issue as well as a border dispute arising out of claims made by the Mizoram government, which is also holding talks with members of civil societies. “If the outcome is positive following the discussion, we will find out a solution soon,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-38
