08-11-2020||North East||Facebook tags as false Assam minister’s post ||A Facebook post by Assam minister and BJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma claiming that a crowd raised “Pakistan zindabad” slogans while receiving AIUDF chief Badruddin Ajmal at Silchar airport on Thursday has been flagged by the social media platform as “false information”. “Look at the brazenness of these fundamentalists anti-national people who are shouting PAKISTAN ZINDABAD while they welcome MP@BadruddinAjmal. This thoroughly exposes @INCIndia which is encouraging such forces by forging an alliance. We shall fight them tooth & nail. Jai Hind,” Sarma had posted on Facebook and Twitter on Friday with a 44-second video. Facebook later tagged the post with the following line: “Independent fact-checkers say this information has no basis in fact.” Facebook said it got the post checked by Boom Live, which said “no such slogan was raised by AIUDF supporters” and that the “false claim was amplified” by several news outlets. Boom is an independent digital journalism initiative with a mission to fight misinformation. Alt News, a non-profit fact-checking portal, said: “Upon closely listening to the audio, Alt News found that ‘Aziz Khan zindabad’ and not ‘Pakistan zindabad’ was chanted by AIUDF supporters.” Sarma’s post had triggered a furore, adding to the political temperature in poll-bound Assam. It saw BJP leaders not only condemning the slogans but going all out against the Opposition AIUDF and the Congress, which are in talks for an alliance for the 2021 elections. Two FIRs were filed in Silchar seeking action against those raising the slogans. The AIUDF said the people were shouting “Aziz Khan zindabad” for the party’s Karimganj South MLA, and not “Pakistan zindabad” as claimed by Sarma. AIUDF general secretary Aminul Islam on Saturday thanked Facebook and media outlets for standing up for truth. “Now we will request minister Sarma to withdraw his tweet with the same message on his own,” Islam said. The Congress, which had sought a thorough probe into the incident, asked Sarma to apologise for peddling false information and dared the chief minister to arrest him for spreading hatred. Ajmal is a three-time MP and a perfume baron. He founded the AIUDF in 2005 and is a key player in Assam’s politics. Sarma said many had posted on the slogans before him. “What will I say? It is their (Facebook) platform. I have heard. You also hear. Now forensic will examine the video,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-37
08-11-2020||North East||22 IIT Guwahati faculty on top scientists’ list||As many as 22 faculty members/researchers from Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati, have been included in the “World’s Top 2% Scientists’ List” created by Stanford University in the US, which is counted among the world’s leading teaching and research institutions. The Stanford University list, released on October 16 in the journal PLOS, also features seven faculty members from Assam’s Tezpur University. The San Francisco-based Public Library of Science, founded in 2000, is a non-profit institution providing open access to peer-reviewed science journals and literature. PLOS Biology, where these journals feature, focuses on publishing highly selective research papers across various global research reports. The list features more than 100,000 top scientists of the world of whom 1,494 are from India. All the scientists were classified into 22 scientific fields and 176 sub-fields. Led by IIT Guwahati director Prof. T.G. Sitharam, the institute’s faculty members have been ranked for their research publications citations for 2019 and their lifetime contribution to their specific fields of research, a statement released by the IIT on Friday said. IIT Guwahati was established in 1994. “This recognition of several faculty in the world’s top 2 per cent of scientists’ list has placed IIT Guwahati in the global map of science and has brought great pride to the institute. I congratulate all the 22 scientists and their hard work and commitment to furthering science,” Sitharam said. The IIT faculty members featured in the updated list are from various departments like civil engineering, mechanical engineering, physics, chemical engineering, biosciences and bioengineering. The report prepared by experts at Stanford University has listed over 100,000 scientists, whose published research manuscripts have accelerated progress in their respective fields and influenced the productivity of other researchers’ work, the statement said. The database report on field specific analysis was prepared by Prof. John P. A. Loannidis of Stanford University, and his team and was published in PLOS Biology. The database was created to provide updated analyses and a publicly available database of 100,000 top scientists, the statement said. The list of world’s top 2 per cent scientists prepared also features seven faculty members of Tezpur University in Sonitpur district, around 180km from Guwahati. Apart from IIT Guwahati and Tezpur University, the list also features faculty members from Cotton University, Gauhati University, Assam University (in Silchar), said a statement by Tezpur University.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-37
