09-11-2020||North East||Guwahati candlelight vigil for Stan Swamy aborted||A candlelight vigil in the city on Sunday seeking the release of Father Stan Swamy and the 15 other rights activists arrested in the 2018 Bhima Koregaon case had to be called off after the police denied permission. Northeast Solidarity (NES) had on Thursday sought permission to hold the vigil at Dighali Pukhuri from 4.30pm to 5.30pm on Sunday, demanding the release of the 16 accused “falsely implicated under the UAPA” in the Bhima Koregaon case. Apart from Swamy, arrested by the National Investigation Agency from Ranchi on October 8, several others among the accused such as Sudha Bhardwaj, Varavara Rao, Gautam Navlakha and Anand Teltumbde were elderly people, the NES said. NES members are mostly scholars from across the Northeast. The group meets regularly to discuss the changing situation in the country, Father Walter Fernandes, a Guwahati-based member, said. “The last to be arrested a month ago is the 83-year-old Jesuit Stan Swamy, who had been supporting the tribal communities of Jharkhand and demanding protection of their livelihood. They have been arrested on the false charge of being sympathisers of Naxalites,” a statement issued by Father Tom Mangattuthazhe of the NES said. Father Swamy has filed a plea before the special NIA court in Mumbai seeking a straw and a sipper cup as “I cannot hold a glass as my hands are unsteady due to Parkinson’s”. Reacting to the denial of permission for the march, Father Fernandes told The Telegraph the NES had not yet decided its next step. “We received the order at 4.30 on Saturday denying permission to hold the vigil without assigning any reason and we had no time to find out the reason. We feel it’s a part of the government’s strategy not to allow any questioning, any appeal or any discussion on any issue,” Fr Fernandes, a long-time colleague of Fr Swamy, said. “We wanted to question the arrest of Stan and so many others through the vigil. We are concerned about the situation where there is no freedom of thought or freedom of expression.” However, many asked why a rally seeking the release of arrested TV anchor Arnab Goswami was allowed in Guwahati on Sunday afternoon. Images of the rally were tweeted by cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who wrote: “Hundreds of people led by film stars, singers, cultural activists, academics… under Xocheton Nagarik Mancha joined a march to Rajiv Bhawan in Ghy as symbolic protest against @INCIndia in #Maharashtra. They demand immediate release of #ArnabGoswami.” City DCP (security and intelligence) Bedanta Rajkhowa confirmed the denial of permission to the NES to organise the vigil. Rajkhowa told this newspaper that permission had been denied because protests in the city can be held only at Chachal. “Dighali Pukhuri is not a protest site. There is a high court order against holding protests there. If anyone tries to hold a protest or rally without permission, it will be stopped,” he said. “Even the rally seeking the release of Arnab Goswami was stopped because there was no permission. They wanted to march to Rajiv Bhawan but were turned away.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-37
09-11-2020||North East||Memorial plan for Assam ‘debt’ victims ||Residents of Tulshibil in Assam’s Kokrajhar district have decided to build a memorial for the five members of a family who allegedly committed suicide on Monday apparently because they were “heavily” in debt. Around 1,000 people attended the adya shraddha (final ritual) of the victims conducted by five priests on Thursday. Those who attended the ceremony include state minister Pramila Rani Brahma, local MLA Rabiram Narzary, several contestants in the ensuing Bodoland Territorial Council polls and Kokrajhar deputy commissioner Bhaskar Phukan. Residents of Tulshibil feel the presence of a bank branch in the area may have prevented the alleged suicides of Nirmal Paul, 52, his wife Malika, 45, and three daughters — Puja, 25, Neha, 17, and Sneha, 15. The nearest bank branch is around 7km away. Phukan has promised to push the residents’ demand for a bank branch before appropriate authorities. Paul, who used to deliver LPG cylinders in the locality, ran up “debts” between Rs 25 lakh and 30 lakh after borrowing from individual lenders at “high” interest rates. Paul and his family are said to have cracked under the pressure to repay and took the extreme step of hanging themselves in one of the two rooms of their rented house in Tulshibari market, around 40km from the district headquarters. Police investigation into the case is on. Utpal Roy, who headed a 11-member committee formed to hold the shraddha, told The Telegraph that Paul’s youngest brother Adhir performed the final ritual, which was followed by a naam kirtan late in the evening. “Everybody joined hands and everything passed off smoothly. Over 1,000 people attended the shraddha. We will now decide where to build the memorial suggested by Pramila baidew (sister). It will keep the memories of the family alive. The family was liked by all and there is a lesson for all of us in this tragedy,” Roy, a student leader, said. Tulshibil has a significant population of Bodos, Koch Rajbongshis, Muslims, Bengalis, Adivasis and a few Hindi-speaking people. In a note purportedly written by one Paul’s daughters on the night they allegedly committed suicide, she said her father was under extreme pressure to repay and frequent calls and visits by lenders drove the family to take the extreme step. Paul had taken the loans a year ago from about 30 people. Roy said the deputy commissioner has asked them to submit a public representation so that he could push their request for a bank branch with appropriate authorities. “He was very keen to help. We will meet him in the next 3-4 days. We have also asked him to set up fire tenders, a hospital and public toilets for the Tulsibil market area,” Roy said. The nearest bank is at Bhowraguri, around 7km from Tulshibil market having about 1,000 small and big shops, catering to the need of about 45 villages. The population of Tulshibil area is about 3,000. Tulshibil Bebashaya Sanstha president Radhapadma Mahanta, 57, had told this newspaper that the demand for a bank branch is decades old. “Had there been a bank, we feel Nirmal would have availed of the loans at a reasonable interest rate and not fallen into a debt trap forcing him to take the extreme step. We hope the authorities will take a fresh look at our demand to avert another tragedy,” Mahanta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-37
09-11-2020||North East||Fresh tension on Mizoram border||A government school was  damaged in a  blast in Assam’s Cachar district on Friday night, the attack further fanning tension triggered by the ongoing inter-state border standoff with Mizoram. The development saw Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal calling Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday, requesting the Central government to take necessary steps to maintain peace and harmony in the border areas while assuring that Dispur would follow the directives of the Centre in managing the situation. Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla on Sunday afternoon held a joint video conference with the chief secretaries and DGPs of Assam and Mizoram to restore normalcy along the disputed border. Sources said all “recent” developments were discussed and that a “positive outcome” is expected in a couple of days. The day also saw SSB personnel deployed on the Assam side turn away a delegation led by leader of Opposition Debabrata Saikia to the border, about 3km from the Vairengte check gate, the officially recognised border between the two states. Earlier, MHA joint secretary, northeast, Satyendra Garg had visited both the states. The Upper Painom Lower Primary School is the second school government school at Khulicherra to have been targetted in the area since October 24. Mizoram claims the area to be theirs. “The Painom school is 3km inside the inter-state border and about 2km from Khulicherra in Cachar district. There has been no casualty since it was closed because of Covid. We are investigating the matter,” said Cachar SP Bhanwar Lal Meena. On the school bombing, locals and officials of the adjoining districts of Kolasib (Mizoram) and Cachar (Assam) are pointing fingers at miscreants from across the border. The government of Mizoram in a statement on Saturday vehemently “condemned such a dastardly act on an institution of learning and that too within its boundaries. A case has been registered at Vairengte police station.” The statement also said a police team and a forensic team left for the blast site before 2am. The attack came hours before the 12-hour bandh called by the All Assam Cachar Karimganj Students’ Association in protest against the death of a Intiaz Ali Laskar, 48, hailing from Cachar’s Lailapur in custody of Mizoram excise and narcotics department on November 2. Mizoram claimed that Laskar was a drug peddler, Assam asserts he had gone to fetch firewood in forest. Around 50 picketeers were detained across the three districts of Barak Valley but the bandh passed off peacefully. There has been tension in the inter-state border area since October 17 following accusation by Cachar residents that Mizoram has entered 3km inside Assam territory. Mizoram claims they are in their territory. However, small issues led to a flare-up on October 20 when locals of Lailapur in Cachar district clashed with Vairengte locals and they responded by burning down temporary stalls and huts at Lailapur, 3km inside Cachar. The Centre had to intervene to calm tempers on October 22 but it resurfaced again on October 28 with Lailapur locals demanding withdrawal of Mizoram security personnel from the area. Movement of trucks carrying essentials have been disrupted since despite efforts by both government to restore normalcy. The death of Laskar and the bomb attack on the two schools is likely to delay restoration of peace, residents said, even though the Central government has sanctioned two companies of Sashastra Seema Bal to Assam and three companies of Border Security Force to Mizoram for deployment along the border. Senior home department officials of both states told The Telegraph that they are in the process of deploying the forces. Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev, hailing from Cachar district, tweeted on Saturday, “The situation on the Assam Mizoram border is volatile. Land has been forcefully occupied & a school has been blown up in my constituency Cachar, Assam by the Mizo miscreants. Assam govt is failing & North East Democratic alliance is a joke,” tagging @AmitShah@himantabiswa@sarbanandsonwal.” Chief minister Sonowal reviewed the prevailing situation of Assam-Mizoram border at a meeting with chief secretary Jishnu Baruah and DGP Bhaskarjyoti Mahanta. Sonowal directed the top officials to maintain the peaceful environment and keep brotherhood and harmony intact at the Assam-Mizoram border areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-37
