12-11-2020||North East||Assam journalist’s death gives rise to suspicion among employers||A local television channel journalist died in Assam’s Tinsukia district after being knocked down by a vehicle, following which his employers alleged foul play. According to them, Parag Bhuyan was killed for exposing illegal activities and corruption in his area. Police said that Bhuyan, a senior correspondent at  'Pratidin Time', was knocked down by a vehicle near his house on NH 15 on Wednesday night. He was referred to a Dibrugarh hospital by a local medical facility following the accident, where he died Thursday morning. The vehicle was identified by CCTV footage and the Assam Police had alerted its counterpart at Arunachal Pradesh, a police official said. After this, the driver, who had escaped, was arrested along with his handyman. A probe into the incident has been launched and the police are interrogating the both. Officials added that the vehicle, owned by a woman in Arunachal Pradesh, is used by her son to carry leaves. Nitumoni Saikia, the editor-in-chief of the news channel issued a statement saying that the initial approach of the police was their reason for suspicion. . "... We suspect that the journalist was murdered as he has been doing a series of reporting exposing illegalities and corruption around Kakopthar." Saikia added that Bhuyan had received threats for these reports. "We at the Pratidin Time suspect it as a planned murder and demand a detailed inquiry into the whole incident and give justice to the family of late Bhuyan and Pratidin Time", said the statement. Bhuyan, a 53-year-old, was the younger brother of Asom Gana Parishad leader Jagadish Bhuyan and the vice-president of Tinsukia Press Club. Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal has directed the police to arrest all involved as soon as possible, and condoled his death. Ripun Bora, president of the Assam Pradesh Congress Committee, also demanded an investigation into Bhuyan's death. "We suspect foul play as the journalist was knocked down near his home and the driver of the vehicle fled from the spot".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-36
12-11-2020||North East||Meghalaya Democratic Alliance defeats no-confidence motion||The Meghalaya Democratic Alliance (MDA) led by Chief Minister Conrad K Sangma on Wednesday defeated the no-confidence motion moved by the oppostion Congress in the Assembly through a voice vote. Speaker Metbah Lyngdoh put the no-confidence motion to a voice vote after a discussion that lasted for about seven and half hours. MLAs from both the Opposition and the ruling MDA took part in the discussion in the House. The Opposition raised numerous issues, including mining of coal and management of the COVID-19 situation, besides health related issues. Leader of Opposition, Mukul Sangma, particularly raised the coal mining and transportation issue. Replying to the charges by the Opposition, Chief Minister Conrad K Sangma spoke extensively on the several developmental measures that his government has initiated for the welfare of the state. He cited that Meghalaya has been applauded as the 'second best' state in the country for good governance. The chief minister said that the state government had spent Rs 399 crore for ensuring safety of the people of the state facing the COVID-19 pandemic. He also listed out several allocations made for farmers and other working populace. The chief minister said the law and order situation in the state has improved and there has been a drastic drop in the cases of abduction and crime against women and children in the state. The chief minister told the assembly today that there was no illegal movement of coal from the state. He said task force were monitoring the movement of coal. He said an Education Policy has been enacted by the state government and every year 200 lower primary schools in the state would be developed. He said that Rs 800 crore would be spent in the education sector in the state, adding that returnees to the state were also being provided with financial assistance. The chief minister told the Assembly that his government would introduce e-coupons, the first of its kind in the country to all aspiring youth for skill development in various fields, including sports and music.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-37
