13-11-2020||North East||Ulfa (I) explosives expert surrenders||Ulfa (I) deputy commander-in-chief Drishti Rajkhowa and four of his close aides surrendered along with a large cache of arms on the Meghalaya-Assam-Bangladesh border on Tuesday, a result of “nine months of relentless pursuit”, a defence ministry statement said on Thursday. Rajkhowa, 50, an explosives expert, was an active member of the “terrorist outfit” of Ulfa for 30 years. His surrender will deal a blow to the banned Ulfa (I) as it had been trying to gain prominence and revive insurgency in lower Assam by undertaking large-scale recruitment, an official statement said. However, Ulfa (I) chief Paresh Baruah told the media that Rajkhowa, who hails from lower Assam’s Goalpara district, was allowed to surrender on “humanitarian grounds” because his wife was suffering from cancer and his two children were minors. The development comes amid a fresh push by the Centre to end all insurgency movements in the Northeast. Rajkhowa had been operating for Ulfa (I) along the Bangladesh, Assam and Meghalaya border but with Bangladesh stepping up its operations of late, he and the others crossed over to Meghalaya to surrender, sources said. The aides who have surrendered have been identified as Vedanta, Yasin Asom, Ropjyoti Asom and Mithun Asom.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-36
13-11-2020||North East||Meghalaya High Court refuses to quash scribe case||Meghalaya High Court has refused to quash a criminal case filed against Shillong-based senior journalist Patricia Mukhim for a July 4 Facebook post as it “apparently seeks to promote disharmony or feelings of enmity, hatred or ill-will between two communities”. Mukhim, a Padma Shri awardee, told The Telegraph on Thursday that she would contest the ruling in the Supreme Court as soon as possible because she had only “raised” the issue of “continued” attacks on non-tribals in the state in her post. The Facebook post had been written in connection with the July 3 attack on a group of youths playing basketball at Lawsohtun, Shillong, by another group of 20-25 unidentified youths, resulting in injuries to the victims. Seven persons were arrested. Police registered a criminal case at Laban police station accusing Mukhim of inciting communal tension between tribal and non-tribal communities and defaming a traditional village institution of the Khasis, the complainant. The police had also issued a notice under CrPC Section 41A on July 9 requiring Mukhim to appear before the investigating officer within seven days of receipt of the notice. The journalist then moved the court with a prayer to quash and set aside the July 6 complaint. However, in his November 10 order, Justice W. Diengdoh of Meghalaya High Court held that the Facebook post had “sought to create a divide to the cordial relationship between the tribals and non-tribals living in the state of Meghalaya, even alluding to the role of the state machinery as being biased in this regard”. “…What can be established herein is that prima facie, it appears that a case under Section 153A IPC is made out against the petitioner herein,” the court added. Section 153A of the IPC deals with promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc, and doing acts prejudicial to the maintenance of harmony. In her post, Mukhim had said: “...The attackers, allegedly tribal boys with masks on, should be immediately booked. This continued attack on non-tribals in Meghalaya whose ancestors have lived here for decades, some having come here since the British period, is reprehensible to say the least. The fact that such attackers and trouble mongers since 1979 have never been arrested and if arrested, never penalised according to law, suggests that Meghalaya has been a failed state for a long time now.” Requesting the state government and the police under DGP R. Chandranathan to take the matter with the seriousness it deserves, the post had added: “Show us, the public, that we have a police force we can look up to.... And what about the Dorbar Shnong of the area? Don’t they have their eyes and ears to the ground? Don’t they know the criminal elements in their jurisdiction? Should they not lead the charge and identify those murderous elements? This is the time to rise above community interests, caste and creed and call out for justice.” Dorbar Shnongs are traditional village institutions of the Khasis and are composed of all Khasi inhabitants of not less than 18 years of age. Prevailing age-old customary and traditional governance and adjudication are carried out at Dorbar Shnongs. The high court said after going through the Facebook post: “... What can be deduced is that there is an attempt to make a comparison between tribals and non-tribals vis-à-vis their rights and security and the alleged tipping of the balance in favour of one community over the other. “This, in the opinion of this court, would fall on the mischief of Section 153A (a) IPC as it apparently seeks to promote disharmony or feelings of enmity, hatred or ill-will between two communities.”Mukhim told this newspaper: “My Facebook post was not to create communal disharmony but to uphold the human rights of those assaulted by arresting the assaulters so that the rule of law is upheld for every citizen irrespective of community.” Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee had on Wednesday observed during the bail hearing of Goswami that the apex court was more concerned about a citizen’s fundamental right to liberty and that “personal liberty of citizens” must be upheld. Mukhim, who fears that her personal liberty is at risk, referred to Justice Chandrachud’s message to high courts that they “exercise your jurisdiction to uphold personal liberty…. Case after case, high courts are denying personal liberty.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-36
13-11-2020||North East||Bodoland People’s Front leader quits before council polls||Rajya Sabha MP and one of the mainstays of the Bodoland People’s Front (BPF), Biswajit Daimary, resigned as working president of the party on Wednesday, the first step before he formally joins the ruling BJP to work “at the state and national level for development of all”. The development, BPF watchers said, could impact the party not only in the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) polls next month but also the ties between the BJP and BPF, coalition partners at Dispur, after the election. BPF has been ruling the BTC since its first polls in 2005. “He was one of the BPF mainstays, part of the think tank. He used to help take care of the party’s affairs in Delhi and Dispur. His advice was valued. His departure will definitely have an impact,” a source said. A former All Bodo Students’ Union leader, Daimary, 49, was first elected as an MLA in 2001 and has been a Rajya Sabha member since 2008. His present Rajya Sabha term will end in 2026. Assam cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had announced a couple of days ago that Daimary will be leaving the BPF. Daimary, who is “very close” to Sarma, told The Telegraph that he has resigned from the party post on Wednesday and will join the BJP later this month, a development Congress said was aimed at weakening the BPF politically. “As a RS member, I need to take stock of the legal impactions of my move because I was elected as a BPF member. But today I have announced I am on my way out. I am joining the BJP shortly because I want to work at the state and national level as I think all issues related to BTC has been settled after the signing of the January 27 Bodo Accord in Delhi,” Daimary told this newspaper. Daimary said it was best for him to leave the BPF because there were “differences” with the leadership over the Bodo Accord, which BPF chief Hagrama Mohilary has not endorsed publicly despite being one of the signatories. Daimary also said there was no development roadmap. “I have always wanted to work for the people of my state and country which I think will not be possible within the BPF. Time to move on. I now want to work for the state and the nation and the BJP is the right platform,” he said. He also said BPF legislator Emmanuel Moshahary would be joining the BJP on November 20. The BPF has 12 MLAs in the Assembly of whom three are cabinet ministers in the BJP-led state government. Campaigning has picked up for the BTC polls which is going to be a hard fought one with the BJP contesting 26 seats, the Congress 13 and the AIUDF on 7. The BPF is contesting 37 seats. The polls were scheduled for April but had to be put off because of the coronavirus pandemic. The BJP has claimed that it will form the next council while the BPF is certain of retaining power despite the challenge posed by United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL), which is contesting on all 40 seats. Assam PCC general secretary and senior spokesperson Durga Das Boro said the developments suggest the BJP was out to finish the BPF by poaching their leaders. “The saffronisation of the BTC has begun,” Bora said. “The Congress-AIUDF combine will win more than 10 seats,” Boro, who is also the Bodoland Territorial Region Congress Coordination Committee chairman, said. He also criticised Daimary for allegedly stabbing the BPF in back. “BJP has today projected Daimary as the next BPF chief if they are in a position to form the council,” Boro said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-36
