17-11-2020||North East||IITG makes catalysts to put waste to use||A team led by IIT Guwahati scientists has developed efficient “pincer” catalysts having the potential to transform industrial/biomass waste into valuable chemicals. IITGs on Monday said tiny amounts of “pincer” catalysts repeatedly convert large amounts of industrial waste such as glycerol into lactic acid and hydrogen. Such catalysts also efficiently convert bioethanol, a low-energy density fuel, into high-energy density butanol. One could envisage pincer catalyst as an organic molecule (ligand) holding the metal with three arms, a member of the research team, which started work on the project last year, told The Telegraph. “This (pincer catalyst) is very similar to three fingers holding a sphere. The three connecting points provides a good control on stability as the metal does not easily leach out from the system. As the major portion of the metal is surrounded by the ligand, the available space will be selective for reactions to happen as only those molecules which fit in can react,” the member said. The findings have recently appeared in the Royal Society of Chemistry journals, Chemical Communications and Catalysis Science & Technology, IITG said, adding that the results of the experiments have been validated by theoretical studies. The conversion of valuable intermediates such as glycerol and ethanol, produced during the processing of biomass, into industrially useful chemicals has elicited much interest worldwide. Glycerol, for example, which is a by-product in biodiesel, can be transformed into lactic acid and hydrogen — the former used extensively in food, pharmaceutical, cosmetic and polymer industries, and the latter in the energy sector. Likewise, ethanol obtained from biomass can be converted into high quality fuel.  While bioethanol has lower energy density than gasoline and corrodes engine parts when used directly, it can be transformed into higher energy butanol that is immiscible in water and non-corrosive in nature. The research team, which believes that its work will have a global impact on the commercial production of lactic acid/biofuels and their multi-billion-dollar market worldwide, plans to take these bench-scale reactions to pilot-plant scale and ultimately to the commercial level with industrial collaboration. The research team included Dr Akshai Kumar Alape Seetharam, department of chemistry and Centre for Nanotechnology, Dr Hemant Kumar Srivastava, currently at National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER) Guwahati, research scholars Kanu Das, Moumita Dutta, Siriyara Jagannatha Prathapa, Eileen Yasmin and Dr Babulal Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-36
17-11-2020||North East||Baghjan well sealed after 5 months ||The Baghjan gas well, which suffered a blowout on May 27, was finally killed on Sunday afternoon after 172 days, bringing relief to energy major Oil India Limited and local residents. The well belonging to Oil India was controlled through snubbing, an operation that started on November 9 and involved eight foreign experts and about 60 Oil India personnel. Snubbing is a process through which pipes are inserted till the bottom of the well and chemical mud is injected through them to kill the well. Snubbing equipment were flown in from Canada to Calcutta last month and they reached Baghjan, about 530km east of Guwahati, on November 4. The May 27 blowout and the subsequent wellhead fire on June 9 have affected about 8,000 residents around the well site besides the local ecology. “The well has been killed with brine solution (chemical mud) and the fire has been doused completely. A huge relief. There is no pressure in the well now and it will be under observation for 24 hours to check if there is any amount of gas migration and pressure build-up. Further operation to abandon the well is in progress,” senior Oil India official Tridiv Hazarika said on Sunday evening. Local residents were visibly relieved. Satyajit Moran, a local youth leader, said, “There was no sound, no fire and no tremors after 172 days. We are relieved and we thank the people involved in the snubbing operations. We will now request the authorities to compensate the affected and restore the ecology as soon as possible.” On September 13, experts from Canadian company Alert had successfully managed to douse the fire at the gas well by diverting the flow of natural gas to nearby flare pits after three unsuccessful attempts to cap the well. “It was a productive well, but will have to be abandoned now. It produced 80,000scmd (standard cubic metres per day),” Hazarika said. P. Chandrasekaran, director (exploration and development ), P.K. Goswami, director (operations) and D.K. Das, resident chief executive, visited the Baghjan well site and had detailed discussions with the experts from Alert and the Oil India team, Hazarika said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-36
