22-11-2020||North East||Tripura firing toll rises to 2||The death toll in Tripura’s Panisagar area firing incident has increased to two when a fire service personnel succumbed to his injuries, a police officer said. Biswajit Debbarma, the fireman who was injured by protesters blocking the Assam-Agartala National Highway at Panisagar in North Tripura district on Saturday, died early Sunday. He was admitted to GBP Hospital with polytrauma and head injuries, said Sub-Divisional Police Officer (SDPO) of New Capital Complex, Piya Madhuri Majumder. The crowd was protesting against the resettlement of Bru refugees in Tripura's North district on Saturday morning. Earlier, 43-year-old Srikanta Das, a protesting carpenter, was killed when police opened fire on the picketers on Saturday leaving at least 32 others injured. The blockade was called by the Joint Movement Committee (JMC) which is also spearheading the ongoing strike in adjoining Kanchanpur subdivision against the government’s efforts to permanently resettle about 5,000 Brus in the area. The committee includes groups such as the Nagarik Suraksha Mancha and Mizo Convention. Protesters feel the resettlement move would change the demography and peace in the area. Sources said initially the government had planned to resettle about 1,500 Bru refugees. The development is likely to further delay the process of rehabilitation of over 32,000 refugees who had fled to Tripura from Mizoram in 1997 following ethnic clashes. Of them, about 5,000 were to be reportedly resettled in Tripura’s North district. According to JMC convener Sushanta Barua, police had lathicharged and then opened fire on protesters "who were demonstrating peacefully". However,  ADG Rajiv Singh alleged that the police were forced to resort to firing in self defence as the crowd went berserk and tried to snatch weapons from security personnel. JMC chairman Zairemthiama Pachuau said the indefinite strike, which entered its seventh day on Sunday, is still on at Kanchanpur. "The situation is calm, but tense. We are waiting to discuss the situation with a government delegation, comprising a minister and some MLAs, which is likely to be held here at 4 pm,” he said. "State minister for Social Welfare Shantana Chakma informed us that the delegation is on way from Agartala, about 200 km from here,” Pachuau added. The state government has announced Rs 5 lakh as compensation to the family of the deceased and ordered a magisterial probe into Saturday’s firing incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-35
22-11-2020||North East||Tarun Gogoi's health shows marginal improvement, says doctor||The health condition of former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi marginally improved on Sunday morning, and he is currently semi-conscious, Abhijit Sarma, the superintendent of Gauhati Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), said. Sarma told reporters that doctors have repeated all clinical tests and his vital health parameters have shown improvement compared to that of Saturday. "He is semi-conscious now. We had said last night that 48 hours were very critical for him. Twenty four hours have passed and there is no deterioration in his health condition. That is the most important thing," he stated. Gogoi's pulse rate and blood pressure are under check, and his oxygen saturation level 95-97 percent. "The only worry is the urine output, which is around 100-120 ml in 24 hours," he said, adding that doctors will soon decide on the next step that was to be taken to improve his kidney functioning. The 84-year-old politician spontaneously opened his eyes and looked around in the morning, the GMCH superintendent said. "There was a slight movement, which we call moto movement. This is a good sign. Technically speaking, although he is critical, he is stable hemodynamically," he maintained. A big team of doctors from various departments are attending to Gogoi. "We are constantly in touch with doctors from AIIMS. They are satisfied with the treatment protocol and we will continue with that," he stated. Asked if the doctors would attempt dialysis to deal with his urine output, Sarma said that would be the last option. "As he is on inotropic support, we have kept dialysis as the last resort," he added. The veteran Congress politician's health condition deteriorated on Saturday following multi-organ failure and he became unconscious with difficulty in breathing. Assam Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said that Gogoi has been put on invasive ventilation. His son and Lok Sabha MP Gaurav Gogoi rushed to the hospital along with Assam Chief Secretary Jishnu Barua. A host of MPs, MLAs and other senior leaders of the Congress also reached GMCH late on Saturday to enquire about his health. On October 25, the three-time chief minister, who was undergoing treatment for COVID-19 and other post-recovery complications, was discharged from GMCH after two months. Gogoi had tested positive for COVID-19 on August 25. His health condition was being monitored by a nine-member committee of doctors, led by the head of pulmonary medicine Dr. Jogesh Sarma. The panel was constituted by the state government when he tested positive for COVID-19 in August. After his discharge from the hospital last month, the veteran Congress politician continued to remain under observation of the doctors' team at his residence here. In the days before he tested positive for COVID-19, Gogoi was at the forefront of the Congress initiative to form a 'Grand Alliance' comprising all the opposition parties for the 2021 assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-35
22-11-2020||North East||One dead and 32 injured in police firing in Tripura ||One person died and 32 people were injured when police fired to contain a crowd protesting against the resettlement of Bru refugees in Tripura's North district on Saturday morning. The development is likely to further delay the process of rehabilitation of over 32,000 refugees who had fled to Tripura from Mizoram in 1997 following ethnic clashes. Of them, about 5,000 were to be reportedly resettled in Tripura’s North district. A statement released by the police on Saturday night said it had to fire on the protesters participating in the National Highway 8 blockade at Chamtila in Panisagar subdivision. The highway connects Tripura with Assam. “At around 10.30am, the protesters numbering 3,000 became agitated and broke the barricades set up by the police and also damaged police and fire service vehicles and set them on fire. Police showed utmost restraint and in the beginning used lathicharge and tear gas to disperse the agitating crowd. But they became more aggressive and violent and finding no other way and to protect the life and property and for self-defence, police resorted to firing on the orders of authority,” the statement said. The blockade was called by the Joint Movement Committee (JMC) which is also spearheading the ongoing strike in adjoining Kanchanpur subdivision against the government’s efforts to permanently resettle about 5,000 Brus in the area. The committee includes groups such as the Nagarik Suraksha Mancha and Mizo Convention. Protesters feel the resettlement move would change the demography and peace in the area. Sources said initially the government had planned to resettle about 1,500 Bru refugees. JMC convener Sushanta Barua said they were protesting peacefully but the police and Tripura State Rifles jawans lathicharged them and then started firing. The crowd control measures left 32 people injured, of whom 18 are civilians, six police personnel and eight from the fire service. Section 144 of CrPC has been imposed to prevent unlawful assembly of people in the area. The injured were shifted to Panisagar subdivisional hospital and subsequently eight were referred to the district hospital. Panisagar is around 17km from state capital Agartala. The government has announced a magisterial inquiry and an ex gratia of Rs 5 lakh to the family of the deceased, an official said. Additional forces have been deployed in both Panisagar and Kanchanpur to maintain law and order, he added. The situation is under control now, police said. Over 32,000 Brus fled from neighbouring Mizoram’s Mamit, Kolasib and Lunglei districts in 1997 following ethnic clashes and have since been residing in temporary camps in Panisagar and Kanchanpur subdivisions in Tripura’s North district. As part of a quadripartite agreement signed in January between the two states, the Bru refugees and the central government, the Tripura government has shortlisted 12 sites in six out of eight districts to rehabilitate the Bru refugees. The Centre had also declared a Rs 600 crore package for the rehabilitation. Since 2009, over 5,000 Bru refugees have returned to Mizoram in nine phases. Tripura deputy chief minister Jishnu Devvarma had said on Thursday that the government was looking into the grievances of the protesters and that fomenting trouble would not lead to any solution. He said Brus were also citizens of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-35
