23-11-2020||North East||Assam declares three-day state mourning in honour of Gogoi’s death ||The Assam government announced a three-day state mourning in honour of former chief minister Tarun Gogoi who died while undergoing treatment for post-COVID-19 complications on Monday. The ruling BJP and opposition Congress also cancelled all party functions, including the ongoing campaign for the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) elections, for the next three days as a mark of respect for the three-time chief minister. "Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal announced that the state government would observe three-day state mourning in honour of the former Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi who breathed his last this evening," an official statement said. Sonowal also paid his last respect to the mortal remains of the veteran Congress leader at Gauhati Medical College and Hospital. Issuing a circular, state BJP's general secretary Topon Kumar Gogoi instructed all district and local units to cancel all types of functions till November 26 in remembrance of the former chief minister. State Congress president Ripun Bora told reporters that the party flag will fly at half-mast for the next three days and all scheduled programmes have been cancelled. Gogoi died at the age of 84 at Gauhati Medical College and Hospital. He was the chief minister of Assam from 2001 to 2016, a six-time parliamentarian and Union minister twice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-34
23-11-2020||North East||Former Assam CM Tarun Gogoi dies at age 84||Former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi died here on Monday while undergoing treatment for post-Covid-19 complications, state Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said. He was 84 and is survived by wife Dolly, daughter Chandrima and son Gaurav. Gogoi, a three-time chief minister, breathed his last at the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital at 5.34 pm, Sarma said. He was first admitted to the hospital on August 26 after testing positive for COVID-19 and was released for a brief period before being admitted again on November 2. The octogenarian Congress leader's condition, who was undergoing treatment at the Gauhati Medical College Hospital for post-Covid complications, deteriorated on November 21, following multi-organ failure and was put on invasive ventilation. Earlier today, Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said "The former CM's condition is extremely critical and worrisome. He is completely on life support and though doctors are trying, now God's blessings and peoples' prayers are required to improve his current condition." Sarma said no other organs of Gogoi were functioning apart from the brain which was receiving some signals, eyes which were showing some reflexes and his heart which was functioning because of a pace-maker. Gogoi was given dialysis on Sunday. His condition deteriorated further over the past few hours and it was stated to be "very very critical". Gogoi was the MLA from the Titabor assembly constituency since 2001. He was also a six-time parliamentarian and a Union minister twice. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday condoled the death of former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi, describing the Congress veteran as a popular leader. "Shri Tarun Gogoi Ji was a popular leader and a veteran administrator, who had years of political experience in Assam as well as the Centre. Anguished by his passing away. "My thoughts are with his family and supporters in this hour of sadness. Om Shanti," Modi said on Twitter. President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday condoled the demise of former Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi and said his passing away marks the end of an era. "Extremely sad to know of the demise of Shri Tarun Gogoi, former Chief Minister of Assam. The country has lost a veteran leader with rich political and administrative experience. His long tenure in office was a period of epochal change in Assam," Kovind tweeted. He will always be remembered for the development of Assam and especially towards his efforts to improve law and order and fighting insurgency in the state, he said in another tweet. "His passing away marks the end of an era. In this hour of grief, condolences to his family, friends and supporters, the president said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-34
23-11-2020||North East||Tarun Gogoi extremely critical, on life support||The health condition of former Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi deteriorated on Monday morning and he is "very very critical", doctors said. The octogenarian Congress leader, undergoing treatment at the Gauhati Medical College Hospital for post-COVID complications, is being monitored by a team of nine doctors, GMCH Superintendent Abhijit Sarma said. "The present status of Sir (Gogoi) is very very critical and the doctors are doing their best," he told reporters. "The former CM's condition is extremely critical and worrisome. He is completely on life support and though doctors are trying, now God's blessings and peoples' prayers are required to improve his current condition," Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who is at GMCH along with Gogoi's son Gaurav, said. Sarma said Gogoi's organs have failed with the brain receiving some signals, eyes are showing some reflexes and his heart is functioning as a pace-maker is fitted, but no other organs are functioning. Gogoi, who was on dialysis on Sunday for six hours, is again flushed with toxins and he is not in a position to undergo the process again, the minister said. Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal said he has directed the health department to provide every possible treatment to him, and "I pray to God for his speedy recovery". The doctors attending on Gogoi is in constant touch with a team from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), led by Randip Guleria. Gogoi was put on ventilation after suffering a multi-organ failure. The 84-year-old three-time chief minister was admitted to GMCH on November 2. He was put under invasive ventilation on Saturday night when his condition worsened. On October 25, Gogoi, who was undergoing treatment for COVID-19 and other post-recovery complications, was discharged from GMCH after two months. He had tested positive for COVID-19 on August 25 and admitted to the GMCH the next day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-34
23-11-2020||North East||Editors Guild of India speaks up for Patricia Mukhim, finally||The Editors Guild of India on Sunday said it was “deeply concerned” to see the The Shillong Times editor, Patricia Mukhim, being “dragged” through a cumbersome criminal charge procedure borne out of a complaint related to a social media post. The Guild underlined the need for the higher judiciary to take “cognisance” of crucial issues that impede freedom of speech and “issue” guidelines to ensure that “wanton use” of laws does not serve as a deterrent to a free press. The Guild statement came seven days after Mukhim tendered her resignation accusing the organisation of “playing to the gallery” to defend “celebrity editors/anchors” while “choosing” to ignore a plea from one of its members. Contacted, Mukhim thanked the Guild for issuing the statement. “Mukhim’s case is a reflection of the larger threats to freedom of speech in India, which operates under an unwieldy framework of laws that are often used indiscriminately by government and law enforcement agencies to muzzle dissent,” the statement, signed by president Seema Mustafa, general secretary Sanjay Kapoor and treasurer Anant Nath said. “Several provisions across multiple laws give a handle to government agencies & law enforcement authorities to lodge criminal cases against journalists wherein the criminal complaint procedure itself becomes an exacting punishment, and acts as a deterrent against the exercise of free speech,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-34
23-11-2020||North East||Manipur bypoll boost for N. Biren Singh||The Manipur bypoll results will help chief minister N. Biren Singh not only consolidate his position but will also ensure a smooth run for the BJP-led coalition government he has been heading since 2017 till the next Assembly polls in 2022. The ruling BJP won three — Wangjing-Tentha, Saitu and Wangoi — of the four seats where bypolls were held on November 7. The Lilong seat was won by an Independent candidate, a former BJP leader, but he too is set to join the party. The BJP had won the Singhat Assembly seat unopposed on October 23 and for all practical purposes, making it five out of five for the party. The victory improved the BJP’s strength to 23 in the 53-member Assembly. With its allies — the NPP (4), the NPF (4), the TMC (1), the LJP (1), Independents (2) and an unattached member (1) — the BJP’s strength goes up to 36, giving Biren Singh more than enough room to manoeuvre challenges posed by the pressure of leading a coalition government and an Opposition Congress ever ready to fish in troubled waters, party insiders said. Biren Singh and his government have been saddled with an intense power tussle within the BJP legislature party and the demands of the coalition partners since he assumed charge in 2017, but this is set to change going by the reactions to the bypoll victory. Almost all senior BJP leaders have congratulated Biren Singh and the election team on the victory, made more special because all the five seats were held by the Opposition Congress. “It is a very good victory. It will strengthen the party-led government. Not only will it check infighting but it will also ensure stability and ensure a smooth run till the next state polls in 2022,” state BJP president S. Tikendra Singh said. Bypolls to the five seats were necessitated following the resignation of the Congress MLAs who had switched to the BJP, barring one. All the four MLAs took oath on November 12. “A huge day for @BJP4Manipur! We won 4 out of 5 seats — @BJP4Manipurcontested only in 4 ACs (Assembly constituencies) — in #Manipur Assembly Bypoll. Once again the people of Manipur show their trust in principles & ideology of @BJP4India & leadership of Hon’ble PM, Shri @narendramodi ji,” Biren Singh had tweeted after the results. The chief minister celebrated the victory at his official bungalow with a small get-together on November 10, the day of the result. The five newly elected MLAs, senior party and coalition leaders, including those from the NPF and the NPP were present, Tikendra Singh said. The NPP had unsuccessfully contested in one seat. The celebration was in order because 2020 had been particularly testing for Biren Singh. The BJP-led government was in a spot before the June 19 Rajya Sabha polls when nine MLAs supporting his coalition government withdrew support, a close aide said. Biren Singh not only ensured the BJP won the Rajya Sabha polls but also the trust vote on August 10 — 28 to 16 — by a voice vote after eight Congress MLAs abstained from the proceedings. Tuesday’s bypoll results will now help Biren Singh consolidate his position both within the party and among coalition partners by increasing his bargaining power, party insiders said.   However, worries for the Opposition Congress grew as it drew a blank.The party needs to do some serious introspection if it wants to challenge the BJP in the next Assembly polls, Congress insiders said. The Congress now has 17 MLAs, down from the 28 seats it had won in the 2017 polls. Calls to the state Congress leaders were not answered. BJP national spokesperson Mmhonlumo Kikon said, “The BJP is now firmly entrenched in Manipur and will only grow from strength to strength in the days to come. The electorate of Manipur have thoroughly rejected the Congress and this trend will even continue in the next Assembly elections.” The BJP received a boost in the run-up to the Assembly bypolls after High Court of Manipur on November 5 paved the way for BJP candidate Mayanglangbam Rameshwar, who had finished in second place in the 2017 state polls, to be sworn in as an MLA by declaring the election of Congress candidate Y. Surchandra null and void for not furnishing complete details in his election affidavit. According to Kikon, the bypoll victory was a strong expression of the faith and trust that the people have reposed in the leadership of Modi and Biren Singh and a vindication of the hold and the reach of the message of development, peace and progress of Manipur under the BJP. In neighbouring Nagaland, where bypolls were held for two seats, the ruling Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party candidate and an Independent emerged victorious from the Southern Angami-I and Pungro-Kiphire constituencies respectively. The candidate of the BJP, part of the NDPP-led coalition government, lost to the Independent nominee in Pungro-Kiphire.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-35
23-11-2020||North East||BJP-BPF ties in Assam come under strain||The alliance between the ruling BJP and the Bodoland People’s Front in Assam is tottering on the brink of collapse. The induction of two very senior BPF leaders — Biswajit Daimary and Emmanuel Moshahary — into the BJP along with the state leadership’s declaration on Sunday that the ruling party will be contesting all 12 Assembly seats falling under the Bodoland Territorial Council in next year’s state polls suggest as much. BJP and BPF insiders also said the situation can change only if the BJP performs “badly” and BPF performs “miraculously well” in the December 7 and 10 Bodoland Territorial Council polls. The two parties had joined hands before the 2016 Assembly polls, which the alliance won comfortably. Opposition Congress office-bearers say there is nothing to be surprised about the manner in which the BJP is targeting the BPF because the ruling party has a tendency to swallow /disturb smaller parties, allies or not. “The Asom Gana Parishad, the other ally in the government, too would face a tough time in the future,” one of the office-bearers said. Congress was also an ally of the BPF for around 10 years till 2015, a period during which the BPF grew in strength and the national party was almost wiped out of the Bodoland Territorial Council. Daimary was the working president while sitting MLA Moshahary was general secretary of the BPF, which has won three successive Bodoland Territorial Council polls since 2015. Daimary quit his Rajya Sabha post on Saturday. Both were inducted into the party at the chief minister’s residence here in the morning and were then accorded a grand welcome at a rally held at Tamulpur in the afternoon. The rally was attended by North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA) convener Himanta Biswa Sarma, state unit president Ranjeet Kumar Dass and national general secretary Dilip Saikia. NEDA is a forum of non-Congress parties. Sonowal said the joining of the two experienced leaders was a good sign for the BJP ahead of the polls, a sign that “ we will form the council”. The BJP is contesting the polls on its own. Dass and Sarma have publicly said they will also be contesting next year’s Assembly polls in Bodoland Territorial Council on their own. There are 12 Assembly seats in the four districts — Kokrajhar, Chirang, Baksa and Udalguri — that fall under Bodoland Territorial Council. Both Daimary and Moshahary are from Baksa district. Neither Sarma nor Dass said whether going it alone in the Assembly polls signalled the end of the alliance. Instead they  left it to the BPF to interpret. However, a senior BJP office-bearer said they have an alliance with the BPF at the government level for five years and it will end with next year’s polls. “We will not ask them to leave because they are still our allies in the government. It is up to them,” he said. BPF has 12 MLAs in the Assembly of whom three are cabinet ministers in the BJP-led state government. Daimary, 49, said he had to leave the BPF because there were “differences” with the leadership over the Bodo Accord, which BPF chief Hagrama Mohilary has not endorsed publicly despite being one of the signatories. Also, there was “no” development road map. “More BPF members will be joining the BJP in the coming days,” Daimary said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-35
