30-11-2020||North East||Hostels of colleges and universities to reopen from December 1 in Assam||All temporary Covid Care Centres in Assam have been closed down following a considerable decline in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state, Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Monday. The minister further informed that the government has decided to reopen the hostels of colleges and universities for final year students and of Class 10 and 12 for residential students in schools from December 15. Elementary schools in the state, which has remained closed till now due to the prevailing Covid situation, will reopen from January 1 in a staggered manner. "Classes from nursery to six will begin from January one and a detailed Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) will be issued later. We will, however, have a staggered approach with different classes coming on separate days", Sarma said. During November there has been a steady decline in the number of cases and by November 28 all temporary Covid Care centres have been closed down, the minister said. "As on date, the Covid-19 situation in the state is under control though, in other parts of the country and the world, there is a second or a third wave. The state government will continue to remain alert and will take stringent measures if the situation demands", Sarma said. "The treatment of patients will continue in the hospitals where facilities have been ramped up but if the situation deteriorates, we will make a decision accordingly and are prepared with a contingency plan in place," he said. Testing of samples will, however, continue aggressively, particularly at the airports and railway stations as now most of the cases detected are of people coming from outside. "We are conducting on an average 20,000 to 30,000 sample testing and around 50 per cent of the positive cases are detected from passengers at the airport," he said. The state has registered a total of 2,12,617 positive cases so far, of which 2,08,283 have recovered and 3,350 are active cases while 981 have died due to the disease. During November, in the first week 325 cases were detected on an average daily, in the second week it declined to around 211 daily, in the third week to an average of 178 daily and finally in the last week of the month, the average has come down to 158 daily. Meanwhile, referring to the likely use of vaccines, the minister said, "During the recent meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, we have been told to prepare four categories of people to be vaccinated in the initial stage and they include frontline medical workers like doctors and nurses, those in field duty like security forces, people above the age of 50 and persons with co-morbidities". "We are preparing the list and we expect 60 to 70 lakh of people to be included under these categories but the vaccine was not expected before March or April," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-33
30-11-2020||North East||Call to renew fight against CAA in Assam||An anti-CAA forum of political parties and organisations in Assam on Sunday called for a united fight against the contentious Citizenship Amendment Act. The move appears aimed at galvanising anti-CAA forces to pile pressure on the BJP-led government to get the new law revoked before next year’s Assembly elections. The Coordination Committee Against Citizenship Amendment Act (CCACAC) will issue a public appeal for a united fight on December 12, the first anniversary of the enactment of the CAA that the organisation will observe as Sankalpa Diwas (Pledge Day). Most in Assam are opposed to the CAA because it provides for Indian citizenship to non-Muslims from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan entering India till December 2014. They see it as a threat to Assam’s identity and culture and have held sustained protests that subsided because of the pandemic. “We have decided to observe the first anti-CAA anniversary on December 12. We will not only be renewing our pledge to continue our fight against the unconstitutional law but will also appeal to all anti-CAA forces to put up a united fight against the law,” CCACAC chief coordinator Deben Tamuly told The Telegraph. A highlight of the movement will be the felicitation of the six persons who died in the crackdown against anti-CAA protesters last year. “We will invite the families of the victims and felicitate them so people don’t forget their sacrifice. We will be renewing our pledge to continue the fight that we started in 2016 to uphold the secular character of our Constitution and we will also seek a thorough probe into the deaths of the six persons during the anti-CAA movement,” Tamuly said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-33
30-11-2020||North East||Nagaland to verify claim on diamonds||A village in Nagaland’s Mon district has hit the headlines following social media posts claiming discovery of diamond-like stones in the area, prompting the state government to despatch a four-member team of geologists to visit Wanching village and submit a report on the claims at the earliest. The videos and pictures of villagers from Wanching, 31km from the district headquarters, digging the area for the “rare and naturally occurring” precious mineral started doing the rounds for the past few days. However, reports emanating from Wanching on Saturday suggest the diamond-like stones may be quartz or some other kind of crystal but confirmation will be available only next week. Wanching has about 700 households with a population of around 4500. It falls under the Wakching subdivision of Mon district. Director general (prisons and jails) of Nagaland police Rupin Sharma was among those who tweeted, “Reports apparently of #Diamond found in #Wanching village #Mon district #Nagaland.” The directorate of geology and mining, Nagaland, has entrusted geologists Abenthung Lotha, Longrikaba, Kenyelo Rengma and David Lhoupenyi to visit the village and verify the claims. Mon district is known for its coal deposits. Minerals available in Nagaland include coal, limestone, petroleum and natural gas, nickel, cobalt, chromium, magnetite, copper, zinc, and platinum. Mon is over 330km from capital Kohima. A senior Mon district official told The Telegraph on Friday that some stones have been reportedly discovered but only the geologists will be able to confirm what these are.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-33
30-11-2020||North East||IIT Guwahati joins hand with IIT (BHU) on PhD ||A memorandum of understanding has been signed between IIT Guwahati and IIT (BHU), Varanasi, on Friday to offer a joint doctoral programme from July. Directors of both the institutes, Prof. T.G. Sitharam, Director, IIT Guwahati, and Prof. Pramod Kumar Jain, Director, IIT (BHU), said this is the first time in the country that two IITs have come together to offer a joint degree programme, an official statement said. The idea of a joint PhD programme was originally proposed by Prof Sitharam in 53rd IIT council meeting held on September 27, the move triggered by a vision to build a “Network of Excellence” of all IITs rather than each one striving to become a “Tower of Excellence”. The IIT council accepted the proposal to start the joint degree programmes. Through this academic collaboration, both the institutes are expecting significant boost in high quality research and foundation for further academic collaborations. Under the National Education Policy (NEP2020), such educational reforms and academic collaborations between premier educational institutes will promote multidisciplinary academic programmes and research for encouraging and promoting a knowledge-based economy of the country. IIT (BHU) is considering starting a joint MTech programme on similar lines to provide multi-institutional and multidisciplinary MTech programmes. IIT Guwahati has also agreed to be part of this initiative, the statement said. IIT Guwahati, established in 1994, is working towards augmenting critical science research initiatives, among others,  in genomics, developmental biology, healthcare and bioinformatics, flexible electronics, advanced functional materials, sustainable polymers, rural technologies, disaster resilience and risk reduction, and water resources and management. “IIT Guwahati is poised to scale newer heights through all round growth and development,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-33
