03-06-2021||New Delhi||Take steps to protect witness in murder case in which wrestler Sushil Kumar is accused: HC||The Delhi High Court has directed the Delhi government to take steps under the Witness Protection Scheme 2018 for protecting a witness in a murder case allegedly involving Olympic medallist wrestler Sushil Kumar.Justice Suresh K Kait directed the Delhi government to file an application before the competent authority for protecting the witness in the murder case under the said scheme within one week from June 2.The high court further said that the competent authority shall take a decision within one week of filing of the application and till a decision is taken, Delhi Police would provide protection to the witness.With the direction, the court disposed of a plea for protection moved by the witness, represented by advocates Ajay Kumar Pipaniya and Pallavi Pipaniya, who has alleged that he too was beaten up by Sushil Kumar when the incident happened at the Chhatrasal Stadium here.Sushil Kumar and his associates allegedly assaulted Sagar Dhankar and two of his friends Sonu Mahal and Amit Kumar at the stadium on the intervening night of May 4 and 5 over a property dispute. The 23-year-old Dhankar succumbed to the injuries later.Sushil was arrested on May 23. The court had initially remanded him to six days of police custody, which was later extended by four more days on May 29 and on June 2 he was sent to judicial custody.The witness, who was one of the persons allegedly beaten up by Sushil, has claimed that he fears for his life as the Olympic medallist was well-connected with hardened criminals.Advocate Ajay Kumar Pipaniya told the court that his client's parents were being influenced and threatened continuously by goons not to give any statement or testimony against the wrestler. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/take-steps-to-protect-witness-in-murder-case-in-which-wrestler-sushil-kumar-is-accused-hc-262908
03-06-2021||New Delhi||Juhi Chawla's ‘fan' singing incident makes way in Ramdev's proceedings in Delhi HC||"Indeed it was a musical hearing," a judge of the Delhi High Court on Thursday remarked about the incident of songs of Juhi Chawla's movies sung by a man during the hearing of her petition against the 5G technology.    Justice C Hari Shankar, who had recused himself from hearing Bollywood actress lawsuit, said "thankfully" he did not have to hear her matter. The Wednesday's incident came for discussion today during the hearing of a case relating to yoga guru Ramdev's statements against allopathic medicines.At the fag end of hearing on yoga guru's matter, Justice Shankar made the remarks and said now he wishes to see how today's proceedings will be reported in the press.“I am just going to see how it is going to be reported. Thankfully I did not have to hear the Juhi Chawla matter yesterday. Indeed it was a musical hearing. It had first come up before me but I had recused from hearing it for some reason,” Justice Shankar said with a smile.Senior advocate Rajiv Nayar, representing Ramdev, joined the discussion saying he has not shared the court proceedings link with anyone, in an apparent reference to Chawla's act of sharing the web link of virtual hearing on his Twitter account.On Wednesday, while the hearing on Chawla's plea against the 5G wireless network was on, a man started singing some of the hit songs of the actress' movies and caused repeated interruptions in the virtual proceedings.On the directions of Justice J R Midha, who was hearing the case, the person was repeatedly removed from the hearing, but he kept on joining and started singing till the time the proceedings were locked.The man, who kept changing his names every time he logged it, started with Chawla's ‘Ghoonghat ki aad mein dilbar ka didaar adhura' song from her blockbuster movie 'Hum hai rahi pyar ke'.He then sang from her another hit film Naajayaz ‘Lal lal hoton pe gori kiska naam hai… Juhi Chawla' and then ‘Meri banno ki aayegi baraat ke dhol bajao ji' from the movie Aaina after which he was removed, and the proceedings were locked.At the outset, the man was also heard saying “where is Juhi Ma'am I can't see her” and when the judge asked the court master to mute the concerned person, he said “you want to mute me. Oh really!” — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/juhi-chawlas-fan-singing-incident-makes-way-in-ramdevs-proceedings-in-delhi-hc-262900
03-06-2021||New Delhi||DU likely to commence registration for admission to UG courses on July 15||Delhi University (DU) is likely to start its registration process for admissions to undergraduate courses on July 15, anticipating the fact that all school boards would have declared results by then, a senior varsity official said on Thursday.Following the cancellation of Class 12 board examinations by the CBSE and the CISCE in view of the coronavirus pandemic, officials said discussions will be held with the admission committee and the academic council of the university to finalise the process of admission to undergraduate courses.“The varsity is likely to commence the registration process by July 15. We anticipate that by that time most of the boards will not only decide what they are going to do but will also declare their results,” said Rajeev Gupta, Chairman, Admissions, DU.Every year, the varsity’s colleges declare cut-offs for courses and students meeting the criteria apply to the respective colleges. A decision from the Education Ministry is also awaited on the Central Universities Common Entrance Test (CUCET).“We will follow what the ministry says. We are awaiting their guidelines,” Gupta said.Last year, the admission process was done completely online due to the first wave of the pandemic. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/du-likely-to-commence-registration-for-admission-to-ug-courses-on-july-15-262895
03-06-2021||New Delhi||BJP questions AAP govt if Delhi Covid death tally is 'fudged'; seeks 'white paper'||The Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) on Thursday has demanded a "white paper" from Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government regarding Covid-19 issues related in Delhi. Apart from this, the  BJP has questioned whether the number of deaths has been "fudged" to keep down their official death tally. Questioning the reason behind the high death rate in the National Capital during the second wave of the pandemic, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra accused Kejriwal of "hiding the real figures".   The BJP spokesperson said that the municipal corporations in Delhi has issued 34,750 death certificates for April and May whereas the official Covid tally period was 13,201. He added that the number of death certificates issued, during the corresponding period, last year was 9,916, an increase of 250%.April and May saw the peak of the second wave of the pandemic. “Who are these people as Delhi government does not want to even name...Did you fudge death numbers,” said the BJP spokesperson, asking the Delhi government to issue a "white paper".  The BJP spokesperson wondered why Delhi recorded over 14.25 lakh Covid cases when a bigger state like Haryana recorded 7.55 lakh cases. Patra said that now, Kejriwal claims his government is preparing for the third wave, but people have no faith in him.  The BJP spokesperson also questioned if Covid testing was kept "deliberately low" when the pandemic was at its peak during April-May to “protect” the image of the AAP government. “ Why no new hospital was opened in the city during 2015-19,” he said, terming as “ignorant and insensitive” Delhi minister Gopal Rai’s reported comments about planting trees to avoid oxygen crisis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/bjp-questions-aap-govt-if-delhi-covid-death-tally-is-fudged-seeks-white-paper-262885
03-06-2021||New Delhi||Unlock Delhi markets without further delay: Domestic traders body CAIT writes to LG, CM||Domestic traders body CAIT on Thursday wrote a letter to Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, urging them to take cognisance of the declining positivity rate in the city and pass an "immediate order" to reopen markets.The 15 lakh city traders, according to the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), have taken a "severe beating" due to the over?-one-month-long lockdown period and are in "dire financial state"."The combined efforts of the government and citizens of Delhi have had a significant impact on the Covid situation in Delhi and as per yesterday's health bulletin the positivity rate in Delhi has slipped around 1 per cent with a positive cases of about 500 only, which is a big relief from almost 35 per cent a month back," read the letter by Praveen Khandelwal, National Secretary General, CAIT."In view of the above, we request you to take immediate steps to unlock Delhi, which is the need of the hour, to ensure that commercial activities should start without any further delay," it added.  Delhi, which has been under strict lockdown since April 19 to combat the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, had started the unlock process from Monday by allowing the construction sector and factories to resume operations.In the letter, the CAIT also suggested several unlock measures, including separate work timings for "wholesale and retail markets", creating "special hawkers and street vendors zone" to ensure social distancing, and "vaccination camps in collaboration with respective trade associations for employees and work force".  Not in favour of the old "odd-even" system of unlocking, which they said has been a "failure" in the past too, they have urged that markets should open every day based on wholesale-retail staggered timing format."The wholesale markets should have work timings from morning 10 am to evening 4 pm, whereas the retail markets should open from afternoon 12 pm to evening 7 pm," the CAIT suggested. "All transport & Logistics also be allowed to function as per these timings rather than following the general rules of ''No Entry''... The Delhi Metro Rail services should be aligned with market opening timings," it said.Further, it also noted that the decision to choose between wholesale and retail for classification of trade under any of the two formats should be left open to the markets. While the night curfew should continue to be imposed from "10 pm to 5 am", in case of any increase in Covid cases post unlocking, according to the CAIT, the government might declare the concerned area as "containment zone" with applicable restrictions."In this way, any possible infection can be controlled. Whereas on the other hand the economic and commercial activities can also take place," it explained.  For Delhi's hawkers and street vendors, which have been struggling for their livelihood due to the ongoing coronavirus-induced lockdown, the body recommended that they be moved into a special ''Hawking Zone'' or be stationed in government school premises, which are empty at the moment.This, besides "avoiding spread of Covid-19", will ensure social distancing and give the hawkers and street vendors "every opportunity" to earn their livelihood, the traders body explained.It also recommended a mass sanitisation drive across Delhi markets by the MCD as markets are shut for over 60 days.Emphasizing on the need and importance of vaccination, they also requested the authorities to set up vaccination camps in markets in collaboration with respective trade associations for the employees and workforce.Lastly, they urged the government to hold a discussion with Delhi traders and take them into confidence before implementing any decision. "It should be a two-way process and participative governance approach if the government wants the traders to cooperate and stand in solidarity with the government in this battle against coronavirus," it noted. Delhi on Wednesday recorded 576 fresh Covid-19 cases, lowest since March 17, at a positivity rate of 0.78 per cent and 103 more fatalities due to the disease. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/unlock-delhi-markets-without-further-delay-domestic-traders-body-cait-writes-to-lg-cm-262877
03-06-2021||New Delhi||487 Covid cases in Delhi, lowest in over 2.5 months; death count below 50 after April 11||Delhi recorded 487 fresh Covid cases, the lowest in over two-and-a-half months and 45 fatalities on Thursday, while the positivity rate slumped to 0.61 per cent, according to data shared by the health department here.This is the first time the daily death count has gone below the 50-mark since April 11 when the tally was 48. According to the latest health bulletin, these new fatalities pushed the death toll from Covid-19 in Delhi to 24,447.On March 16, Delhi had recorded 425 cases and on March 17, the daily tally was 536, according to official data.On Thursday, 487 fresh cases were recorded with a positivity rate of 0.61 per cent, according to the latest bulletin.The infection rate, which had reached 36 per cent in the last week of April, has come down to below 1 per cent now.Meanwhile, keeping an eye on the anticipated third wave of the pandemic, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday visited two healthcare project sites."To provide Delhi with world-class health infrastructure, a new 1,168 bedded hospital is being constructed by the Delhi government at Siraspur. Visited the site today to inspect the work. The work is advancing at a great pace. Efforts are being made to complete the work on time," he tweeted.In another tweet, he said, "New blocks are being added in Bhagwan Mahavir Hospital by the @ArvindKejriwal Government with advanced facilities. Inspected the remodelling work today.This will increase its existing bed capacity from 300 to 700 beds The transformed hospital will serve Delhiites for many decades".Delhi has been reeling under a brutal second wave of the pandemic that is sweeping the country, claiming a massive number of lives daily, with the recent oxygen supply shortage issue at various hospitals, adding to the woes.Since April 19, both daily cases and single-day death count had been spiralling up, with over 28,000 cases and 277 deaths recorded on April 20; rising to 306 fatalities on April 22. On May 3, the city registered a record 448 deaths, according to official data.However, the number of cases have shown a downward trend and the positivity rate too has been shrinking in the last several days. The number of deaths per day has also been showing a decline in the last couple of days.The national capital had recorded 648 cases and 86 fatalities on Monday, 623 cases and 62 deaths on Tuesday, 576 cases and 103 fatalities on Wednesday.On May 15, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said, "The virus is reducing in Delhi slowly and steadily, and I hope it diminishes completely and does not rise again. However, we are not going to become negligent in any way", while sounding a tone of caution.A total of 80,046 tests, including 55,638 RT-PCR tests and 24,408 rapid antigen tests, were conducted a day ago, according to the health bulletin on Thursday.The number of cumulative cases on Thursday stood at 14,27,926. Over 13.9 lakh patients have recovered from the virus.The number of active cases decreased to 8,748 on Thursday from 9,364 a day before, according to the bulletin.The number of people under home isolation dipped to 4,233 from 4,531 on Wednesday while the number of containment zones dropped to 16,287 from 17,770 a day before, the bulletin said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/487-covid-cases-in-delhi-lowest-in-over-2-5-months-death-count-below-50-after-april-11-262855
03-06-2021||New Delhi||2 Covid positive senior citizens get antibody cocktail therapy at private hospital in Delhi||Two Covid positive senior citizens with cardiac complications admitted at a private healthcare facility here have been administered monoclonal antibody therapy which is said to reduce the chance of hospitalisation by 70 per cent in patients with mild to moderate symptoms, the hospital said on Thursday.Sunirmal Ghatak (70) and Suresh Kumar Trehan (65) were on Tuesday administered a cocktail of Casirivimab and Imdevimab at BLK-Max Super Speciality Hospital as part of this single-dose infusion-based treatment.Ghatak, with a known cardiac problem, had undergone angioplasty with stenting in the past, the hospital said in a statement.Trehan reported to the hospital two days ago with severe breathlessness and was unable to lie down. He had no previous history of any ailment. His echocardiography showed a strained heart with an ejection fraction of only 25 per cent, it said in a statement.Both of them had oxygen saturation level above 95 per cent and came to the hospital within three days of developing Covid-19 symptoms.The hospital successfully administered monoclonal antibody cocktail therapy to two of these Covid positive extremely high-risk senior citizen patients on Tuesday, saving them from developing severe complications, it said.This was the first time that monoclonal antibody cocktail therapy was administered at the hospital."Monoclonal antibodies are identical copies of an antibody that targets one specific antigen. This treatment has previously been used to cure infections such as Ebola and HIV."According to studies, this 'Antibody Cocktail Treatment' for Covid-19 can prevent escalation of mild and moderate illness to severe which then requires hospitalisation in 70 per cent of the cases," said Dr Sandeep Nayar, Senior Director, BLK-Max Centre for Chest and Respiratory Diseases.The therapy is most suited for "high-risk Covid-19 patients" within the first 10 days of onset of symptoms and meet any of the listed criteria such as age being 65 years or above.The other criteria include obesity with a body mass index of more than 35, type one or type two diabetes mellitus, chronic kidney disease including those on dialysis, chronic liver disease, currently receiving immunosuppressive treatment, or if aged above 55 with either heart disease or hypertension or chronic lung disease. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/2-covid-positive-senior-citizens-get-antibody-cocktail-therapy-at-private-hospital-in-delhi-262842
03-06-2021||New Delhi||Delhi recorded 1,044 mucormycosis cases, 89 deaths till Wednesday: Health Minister Jain||Delhi recorded 1,044 cases of mucormycosis or black fungus and 89 deaths due to the infection till Wednesday, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said.He said 92 patients have recovered till now, while pointing out that there is a shortage of medicines to treat the infection.The Delhi High Court on Wednesday said if the city government could not ensure that people get both doses of Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin within the stipulated time, it should not have started so many vaccination centres with “much pomp and splendour”.“The vaccination programme was prepared according to the schedule given by the Centre. But they changed the schedule. If the Covaxin supply would have been coming, we would have administered the second doses to people. We are trying to procure the vaccines quickly,” Jain told reporters here.Delhi reported 576 fresh coronavirus cases at a positivity rate of 0.78 per cent on Wednesday.“We are seeing a decline in the number of cases. There was a time when the number of fresh cases had touched 28,000. When the cases were less, the number was around 150-200, but it is higher than those figures currently. People should wear masks while stepping out and follow the social-distancing norms,” the minister said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-recorded-1-044-mucormycosis-cases-89-deaths-till-wednesday-health-minister-jain-262824
03-06-2021||New Delhi||HC issues summons to Ramdev on DMA plea for making statement against allopathic medicine||The Delhi High Court Thursday issued summons to yoga guru Ramdev on a plea accusing him of making statements against allopathic medicines and claiming Patanjali's Coronil kit is a cure for Covid-19 but refused to restrain him at this stage saying the allopathic profession was not so fragile.The high court however orally asked Ramdev's counsel to tell him not to make any provocative statements.“Mr Rajiv Nayar is a very respectable senior (advocate). I am sure his client will listen to him,” Justice C Hari Shankar said. The high court issued summons to Ramdev on the suit filed by Delhi Medical Association (DMA) and asked him to file response in three weeks and listed the matter for hearing on July 13.“Considerable time has passed since passing of allegedly injurious statements. The counsel says defendant no. 1 (Ramdev) continues to make statement. No injunctive order can be given without giving an opportunity to the plaint, especially in view of the objections. Issue summons on the suit,” Justice Shankar said.The court also issued summons to social media platforms Twitter and Facebook and Astha channel, who are made parties to the petition. DMA, on behalf of its doctor members, submitted before the court that Ramdev's statement affects as Coronil medicine does not cure coronavirus and it is misleading. It has claimed a token damage of Rs 1 from him.On being asked by the court as to how did this statement affect the association, senior advocate Rajiv Dutta, representing DMA, said it affects because this medicine does not cure coronavirus and this was a suit for civil rights of doctors.The court said it cannot say as to whether Coronil is a cure or not and that it was something to be decided by medical experts.The judge said he was "least concerned" with the association's argument that Ramdev was a powerful person having large number of followers.“Ramdev is a person who doesn't have faith is allopathy. He believes everything can be cured by Yoga and Ayurveda. He may be right or wrong," he said.He added that the court can understand it is argued his statements are affecting the public but here “you say oh my God Ramdev has done something. You people should be spending time to find cure for the pandemic instead of wasting the court's time”.On the point of locus of DMA to file the suit, Dutta said it was affecting the public and also the members of the association as the statements made in open affects and that Ramdev was calling this science fake.To this, the judge said, “If I feel some science is fake. Tomorrow I will feel homeopathy is fake. Do you mean they will file a suit against me? I put in on twitter. You will say take down the Twitter account. It is a public opinion. I do not think your allopathic profession is so fragile”, and added that it has to be tested on the touchstone of free speech.The court said someone has a view that it is because of inefficacy of allopathic medicines that so many people have died and it was of the view that it comes under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution.Senior advocate Rajiv Nayar, representing Ramdev, raised preliminary objection on the maintainability of the plea and argued that prima facie the suit was not maintainable as they are asking for an injunction and raising the ground of public good.Dutta also said that Ayush Ministry had made a statement that Coronil was not a cure for Covid-19 and could not be advertised as such and had also asked Patanjali to give details after which Ramdev had clarified that it was an immunity booster.The court noted that Ramdev has clarified and said with this clarification the entire grievance of DMA should have gone.“If this was mandatory on Patanjali (to give details and not to advertise) and if he acts in violation, it is for the Ayush Ministry to look into, Why are you carrying the torch,”the court said.DMA's counsel further claimed that Patanjali had made Rs 25 crore from Coronil sales, after it was touted as a cure for Covid-19 and that he has a vast following in the country. The court said, "Is he to be blamed for people buying Coronil?" and suggested the association to file a public interest litigation instead of pursuing the suit. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/hc-issues-summons-to-ramdev-on-dma-plea-for-making-statement-against-allopathic-medicine-262816
03-06-2021||New Delhi||Delhi High Court calls Juhi Chawla’s suit against 5G ‘defective’, says filed for publicity||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday termed as “defective” the suit of actress-environmentalist Juhi Chawla against setting up of 5G wireless networks in the country and said it was filed for “media publicity”.The court also questioned Juhi for filing the suit without giving any representation to the government on her concerns related to the technology. Justice JR Midha said the plaintiffs, Chawla and two others, were required to first approach the government for their rights and if denied, they should come to the court.The court, which reserved order on the suit after hearing the arguments of various parties, also asked as to why as many as 33 parties have been added to the plaint and said it is not permitted under the law.“It is not the sweet will of the plaintiff to join as many parties and cause of action. Please see the memo of parties. Tell me how you have joined them. Every party cannot be arrayed in the suit,” the judge said.The court added, “It is a defective plaint. This suit has been filed only for media publicity and nothing more than that. It is very shocking. Did you approach the government with a representation? If yes, is there any denial?” the court asked to which the plaintiffs’ counsel replied in negative.The court said the plaintiff says, “I have personal knowledge of paragraphs 1 to 8 only.” “Plaintiff has no personal knowledge of the plaint. How can it be? Is the suit permissible when the plaintiff has no personal knowledge of the averment? Please conduct an inquiry,” the judge said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-high-court-calls-juhi-chawlas-suit-against-5g-defective-says-filed-for-publicity-262511
03-06-2021||Aditi Tandon||Third wave? Govt to ramp up health infra for children||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, June 1Amid fears that the potential third wave of Covid-19 might impact children more, India is in the process of adopting fresh guidelines on pediatric Covid disease with a group of experts telling the government to prepare for the worst and ramp up hospital infrastructure for children.VK Paul, Member, Health, NITI Aayog, today said though there was no evidence of serious Covid disease in children, the impact could increase if the virus changed its behaviour.“Our focus on pediatric Covid disease is gaining attention. We will strengthen our systems for children and audit what is required and what might be required in a worst case scenario,” said Paul.He said a national expert group on pediatric Covid had given a detailed report which would be adopted soon.The push in the direction follows realisation that 2-3 per cent of the children infected with Covid might need hospitalisation. Paul said the plan was to ramp up pediatric hospital facilities by 2.5 times.He also shared evidence of a new serious post-Covid disease among children which showed up two to six weeks after recovery and could turn into an emergency situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/third-wave-govt-to-ramp-up-health-infra-for-children-261833
