27-06-2021||New Delhi||Wedding industry heaves sigh of relief as Delhi unlocks||For the wedding industry in the national capital, it is the permission to reopen rather than the hope to make some profit that has shown a sliver of hope after three months of no business.The Delhi government on Saturday allowed weddings at banquet, marriage halls and hotels with 50 people in attendance, and reopening of gyms and yoga centres at 50 per cent capacity under the phased unlock process initiated with an improvement in the city’s Covid-19 situation.The relaxations will come into force from 5 am on Monday.Wedding planners and banquet hall owners welcomed the Delhi government’s decision. They, however, said they do not hold any hopes for making profit this season.“We are glad that we have been allowed to open at least. After paying the employees from our pockets and incurring losses, we will at least be able to make the ends meet,” said Sunil Juneja of Precious Moments Banquets.He said earlier booked weddings that had postponed will be given priority now, while new bookings have also started to come in.In the last one year since the outbreak of the pandemic in March 2020, the wedding business was severely hit as episodic lockdowns in March-September last year and since April this year prevented any lavish marriages from taking place.Wedding planner Jitesh Khanna of The Velvet Weddings noted that as Delhi maintained strict lockdown guidelines, disallowed weddings or any sort of congregation since April, most planned weddings were shifted out of the city.“So now that 50 people are allowed, we are happy with the decision. And we are hoping soon 100 people will be allowed. It is any day better than no business,” Yadav said.However, he added, it would be difficult to maintain the budget as a wedding for 50 requires just as much preparation as a wedding of 200.Shrawan Yadav of Shubh Muhurt Luxury Wedding Planners echoed Khanna’s thoughts and said that “they were not looking at making profits, as reopening the business was more important for now”.The one year of pandemic has not been favourable to the industry, said Mohsin Khan of Vivah Luxury Weddings, as he said several people postponed their weddings last November after revision of Covid guidelines.“We had no business last year. This year too, the complete wedding season was lost due to the lockdown. Either people postponed their weddings or cancelled their booking altogether,” Khan said.Over 50 per cent of the bookings got cancelled this year, he added.Khan, who has been in this line of profession for over 10 years now, said that he is not thinking about profits, but it is some relief that the business has reopened at least.“Now coronavirus is part of our life. We have to run our lives around it, according to it. At least, we have been allowed to reopen, if everything goes right, we will have larger weddings soon,” he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/wedding-industry-heaves-sigh-of-relief-as-delhi-unlocks-274868
27-06-2021||New Delhi||Delhi registers 89 fresh Covid-19 cases, 4 deaths; positivity rate 0.12%||The national capital reported 89 cases of Covid-19 and four deaths on Sunday as the positivity rate dipped to 0.12 per cent, according to data shared by the health department here.Delhi has so far recorded 14,33,934 coronavirus cases. Of this, over 14.07 lakh patients have recovered while the death toll stands at 24,965.On Saturday, the city reported 85 Covid-19 cases, the lowest daily count this year, with a positivity rate of 0.12 per cent and nine deaths. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-registers-89-fresh-covid-19-cases-4-deaths-positivity-rate-0-12-274857
27-06-2021||New Delhi||One more arrested in Chhatrasal Stadium murder case||The Delhi Police’s Crime Branch on Sunday arrested a 22-year-old man in connection with the Chhatrasal Stadium brawl in which a wrestler died and his two friends were injured, police said.The accused, Gaurav Laura, a native of Haryana, is also a wrestler. He was living here in Najafgarh’s Baprolla village, they said.Police said a crime branch team probing the case nabbed Laura from Delhi and he will be further produced before Rohini court for seeking police remand for further investigation.A senior police officer said, “He was found to be involved in the incident at Chhatrasal Stadium here where he engaged in a fight along with others leading to the death of the young wrestler.”  Police said 11 people, including two-time Olympic medallist winner Sushil Kumar, have so far been arrested in connection with the case.Kumar, along with his associates, allegedly assaulted Sagar Dhankar and two of his friends at the stadium on the intervening night of May 4 and 5 over an alleged property dispute. Dhankar, 23, succumbed to the injuries later.The police have claimed that Kumar is the “main culprit and mastermind” of the murder and said that there is electronic evidence in which he and his associates could be seen beating Dhankar.Kumar was nabbed on May 23, along with co-accused Ajay Kumar Sehrawat. Till now, he has undergone police and judicial custody of 10 and 23 days, respectively. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/one-more-arrested-in-chhatrasal-stadium-murder-case-274833
27-06-2021||New Delhi||Delhi Police initiates inquiry after its personnel seen clicking photos with Sushil Kumar||The Delhi Police has initiated an inquiry after its personnel were seen clicking photos with two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar who is an accused in the killing of a young wrestler at Chhatrasal Stadium.The incident happened on Friday at Mandoli Jail premises when Kumar was being shifted to Tihar prison in the presence of the Delhi Police's Special Cell team and the Third Battalion of Delhi Armed Police, officials said.The photos of Kumar and the police personnel, all without masks, were widely shared on social media. "A suo motu inquiry has been initiated into the matter and based on its outcome, further course of action will be taken," a senior police officer said.The Delhi Police's Special Cell and the Third Battalion are conducting their own internal inquiries as personnel from both departments involved in clicking selfies with the two-time Olympic medallist wrestler.A Delhi court had on Friday extended the judicial custody of Kumar till July 9 in connection with the killing of the young wrestler."Usually, in cases of undertrial prisoners who are deemed high-risk, a dedicated team of personnel from the third battalion videograph the procedure and it is also used for academic purposes. The staff is provided with a handicam," the police officer said.  On Friday also, personnel were deployed to videograph the procedure. But a few employees among them were seen clicking pictures and selfies with their mobile phones. This was not a professional attitude and an inquiry is underway to ascertain the fact of the matter, the officer added.He said police personnel are constantly briefed about being professional and about maintaining the dignity of the uniform.Kumar is facing charges of murder, culpable homicide, and kidnapping.According to the counsel of the accused, he has been shifted to Tihar jail number 2 from Mandoli jail, where he was earlier lodged.Kumar, along with his associates, allegedly assaulted Sagar Dhankar and two of his friends at the stadium on the intervening night of May 4 and 5 over an alleged property dispute. Dhankar succumbed to the injuries later. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-police-initiates-inquiry-after-its-personnel-seen-clicking-photos-with-sushil-kumar-274403
27-06-2021||New Delhi||Delhi oxygen row: AIIMS chief Guleria terms audit report interim, says oxygen needs change from day to day||The apex court audit on Delhi’s oxygen demand is an interim report and not the final word, AIIMS director Randeep Guleria said on Saturday as Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, under fire for purportedly exaggerating the city’s needs, insisted the acute shortage of oxygen during Covid’s second wave was real. He also appealed for an end to political bickering and for everyone to work together so no one suffers in the third wave.The virus will win if there is a fight among stakeholders, Kejriwal tweeted, a day after his Aam Aadmi Party and the BJP hit out at each other over the report that said Delhi’s oxygen needs were “exaggerated” four times over during the second Covid wave.The five-member Supreme Court appointed panel was headed by Guleria who told PTI, “It is an interim report. The oxygen needs are dynamic and change from day to day. The matter is sub-judice.” While the BJP charged the Delhi government with “criminal negligence” after the report came into the public domain on Friday, AAP leader and Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia alleged that the “bogus” report was “cooked up” at BJP’s office.“May we work now if your fight over oxygen is finished? Let us together make a system so no one faces shortage of oxygen in third wave,” Kejriwal said in his tweet in Hindi a day later.“There was an acute shortage of oxygen in the second wave. It should not be so in the third wave. Corona will win if we fight with each other. The nation will win if we fight together,” he added.Dubbing the BJP the “Bharatiya Jhagda Party”, his deputy Sisodia said its leaders know only how to have fights and have nothing to do with either oxygen or the third Covid wave.“When the third wave will start, they will be causing fights someplace else...,” he tweeted in Hindi.The report of the Supreme Court constituted sub-group to audit oxygen consumption in hospitals in the national capital during the second wave in April-May said the Delhi government “exaggerated” the consumption of oxygen and made a claim of 1,140 MT, four times higher than the formula for bed capacity requirement of 289 MT.The panel said the Delhi government had made the claims for allocation of 700 MT oxygen on April 30 of medical grade oxygen using a “wrong formula”.Two members, B S Bhalla, Delhi Government’s Principal Home Secretary, Home, and Max Healthcare’s Sandeep Budhiraja, questioned the conclusions.The report has an annexure of communication sent by Bhalla on May 31 in which he said a reading of the draft interim report makes it “painfully apparent” that the sub-group, instead of focussing on the task, delineated from the terms of order of the Supreme Court dated May 6.The manner in which the proceedings of the sub-group were conducted, he said, suggested that the purpose of proceedings was to satisfy a “preconceived and predetermined conclusion and narrative to recommend a lower quantity of LMO to Delhi”. It was also aimed at further portraying an impression that the assessment by the GNCTD (Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi) before the high court and the Supreme Court was “exaggerated or not genuine”, Bhalla added.He objected to the finding of the sub-group that medical oxygen consumption as per actual bed occupancy was 250 tonnes in late April, 470-490 MT in the first week of May and 900 MT as claimed on May 10.“This para should be deleted as it is neither correct nor based on verified data. With the number of new positive cases peaking in the first week of May, and hospital bed occupancy continuing to rise even after that, the Oxygen requirement based on occupancy was around 625 MT at the end of April and 700 MT in the first week of May,” he said.Regarding the finding that the Delhi government made “exaggerated” oxygen requirement claims, Bhalla said the GNCTD clarified that the calculation for 700 MT has been made in accordance with standard oxygen requirement specified by the government of India/ICMR, which is 24 litres per minutes (LPM) for ICU beds and 10 LPM for non-ICU beds.“Doubts about the percentage of non-ICU beds that need oxygen can only be resolved through an actual on-ground audit of hospitals, which the audit sub-group is yet to do,” he said.Budhiraja said in his comments that a decision was taken in the first meeting itself to get actual details of oxygen consumption from all the hospitals of NCT Delhi.“After repeated corrections (as hospital medical Superintendent used a different format), the total calculation of Oxygen consumption (based on actual consumption data of 214 hospitals) came to around 490 MT. This did not take into account, oxygen cylinder refilling and non-Covid requirement of hospitals,” Budhiraja said.He also brought to the notice of the sub-group that he did not attend the May 18 meeting. He said he gave prior information to the group on WhatsApp that minutes of the previous meeting (held on May 15) should be circulated prior to the fixing of the next meeting.“This was never done,” he had said and added that his comment be added in the interim report.Besides Guleria, Bhalla and Budhiraja, the panel comprises Subodh Yadav, joint secretary in the Jal Shakti Ministry, and Sanjay Kumar Singh, controller of explosives, Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organization (PESO). PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-oxygen-row-aiims-chief-guleria-terms-audit-report-interim-says-oxygen-needs-change-from-day-to-day-274394
27-06-2021||New Delhi||Farmer leaders speak virtually to Delhi LG, submit memorandum demanding repeal of farm laws||Farmer leaders on Saturday spoke virtually to Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal after they claimed they weren’t allowed to meet him and submitted to his representative a memorandum addressed to the president demanding repeal of the three farm laws.Also read: Punjab, Haryana farmers take out protest marches, police use water cannonsNews of BKU leader Rakesh Tikait's arrest fake: Delhi PoliceFarmers had given a call for a protest march from Civil Lines Metro Station to the Raj Bhavan, a senior police officer said, adding that the Delhi Police tightened security across borders of the National Capital in view of the anticipated march.The SKM alleged in a statement that protestors were not allowed to meet the LG, and were picked up and taken to the Wazirabad Police Training Centre. Later on, a brief virtual meeting was arranged with the LG and the memorandum was handed over to his representative, it said.“The memorandum included our demands for withdrawal of the three farms laws and demand for a new law to ensure guarantee for MSP,” BKU media incharge Dharmendra Malik told PTI.Earlier, hundreds of farmers from interiors of Uttar Pradesh reached Ghazipur to mark the completion of seven months of the protest. Many of them came on tractors. “Adequate police deployment was made at the site in view of the increased gathering of protestors,” a police official said.A protestor from Moradabad and affiliated to the BKU, said he has been associated with the movement for seven months and intended to continue the stir till the farmers demands were not met.“Tikait saahab has told us that we have to keep making efforts especially on the 26th of every month in order for the government to listen to our demands,” he said.Earlier in the day, reports about the arrest of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait were circulating on social media. The Delhi Police clarified that the reports were fake and said action would be taken against those spreading such news.“Fake news! News related to arrest of Rakesh Tikait is incorrect. Pl stay away from such fake news/tweets. Action will be taken for spreading such false news/tweets,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) tweeted.BKU media in-charge Malik also said that Tikait had not been arrested.“Tikait was not arrested by the police. He’s still at the Ghazipur protest site where demonstration is underway against the farm laws. There is no conflict situation at the protest site,” Malik said.The Delhi Metro decided to shut down three main stations on the Yellow Line for four hours on Saturday.“As advised by the Delhi Police, in view of security reasons, three metro stations of Yellow Line namely, Vishwavidyalaya, Civil Lines and Vidhan Sabha, will remain closed for public from 10 am to 2 pm tomorrow i.e, 26.06.2021 (Saturday),” the DMRC had tweeted on Friday night.Saturday marks the completion of seven months of protests by the farmers. They began their stir by camping at Singhu border between Delhi and Haryana, besides at Tikri and Ghazipur borders.The protesting farmers have demanded the withdrawal of the Centre’s farm laws and that a new law be made to guarantee minimum support price (MSP) for their crops.The farmers representatives marched towards the Raj Bhavan in different states to submit memoranda, addressed to the president, to governors on Saturday. They alleged that their members were detained in several parts of across the country while marching.According to a statement by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions protesting at Delhi border points, “Kheti Bachao, Loktantra Bachao Diwas” (save agriculture, save democracy) was marked all over India on Saturday on the completion of seven months of the farmers’ protests and 46 years of promulgation of the Emergency in India.It said thousands of farmers across India planned to march in rallies to Raj Bhavans in different states on Saturday. As an expression of solidarity, one such rally was also being planned in Massachusetts, USA, it said.Thousands of farmers from Saharanpur and Sisauli in western Uttar Pradesh reached Ghazipur Gate led by BKU chief Rakesh Tikait. Protests by farmers growing wheat, sugarcane, mango, apple, green gram, paddy, jowar and others continued in different parts of the country for remunerative guaranteed prices, the statement said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/farmer-leaders-speak-virtually-to-delhi-lg-submit-memorandum-demanding-repeal-of-farm-laws-274366
27-06-2021||New Delhi||Neighbours recount horror of how Dwarka couple was 'chased and shot on street'||Jyoti was having dinner on Thursday when the silence of the night was shattered by the sound of gunshots, as her 23-year old tenant was gunned down and his newly-wedded wife severely injured in a suspected case of honour killing."We heard multiple rounds of firing coming from Vinay Dahiya's house and got scared. We saw some people chasing Vinay who was running for his life," said Jyoti, the owner of the building in which the couple were living.Around 9.30 pm on Thursday, the police received a call which said a couple had received gunshots injuries.Vinay received four bullet injuries around his stomach and chest, while his wife Kiran (19) received a wound on her neck, police said.The victims were rushed to Venkateshewara hospital where Vinay was declared brought dead.    Kiran, who tried to escape through the terrace, is undergoing treatment at the hospital."We were having dinner when the incident took place. When I heard the first shot, I thought it was a small cylinder blast. But when the shots continued, I was sure that the bullets were being fired. We were in our house with our children so we closed the doors as we got scared."We did not see anyone go upstairs. Vinay came downstairs and ran towards the street to save his life. The men followed him and shot him on the street. Later, people called the police and took the victim to hospital," Jyoti said.Kiran was also taken to the hospital when people got to know that she too had sustained bullet injury, the owner said.Jyoti said on June 20, the couple took the flat on rent."Three days ago, they moved here on the second floor. They did not have their luggage with them while moving and said they will bring it from their previous house. Vinay used to work as a cab driver at the airport," she said.There was blood stains on stairs of the second floor and a packet of food was found at the door of the house.Raguvendra Khurana, who lives on rent in the flat opposite the victim's said when he heard the sound of bullets, he locked himself inside the house."The incident happened at 8.50 pm on Thursday. There were three people who came on the second floor of the building. When I heard bullets being fired, I got scared and locked myself inside the house. I work at night from home and sleep during the daytime. Last night I got so scared that I could not work. I cannot forget those sounds," Khurana said.He said the couple moved to the house around two to three days ago."I moved here one month ago and the couple shifted around three days ago. I did not interact with them," he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/neighbours-recount-horror-of-how-dwarka-couple-was-chased-and-shot-on-street-274351
