01-04-2020||News||Covid-19: Centre and states must work together | Opinion||As the crisis faced by India’s migrant workers has shown, the Union government’s centralised, command-and-control approach of managing the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19) will not work. Recent steps, from the poorly-planned lockdown to the decision to shut down borders and use brute force against those wanting to go home, reflect an approach focused on controlling people, rather than developing systems, to control the spread of the virus.Once it became evident that migrants were leaving inhospitable cities and going home, crossing multiple state borders, we needed rapid coordination to enable movement, manage communication, and design processes to ensure safe passage, including building a contact database for testing and tracing. Coordination is the role that the Centre should have played. Instead, it chose to use the Disaster Management Act, command border closures without warning, and police those who didn’t comply. The inhumanity of these actions have been devastating.India needs to move away from command-and-control to coordination and genuine Centre-state collaboration. States are at the frontlines. Many have also been quick to respond and innovate. But, as the handling of migrant movement shows, states will also face collective action problems, for which central intervention will be essential. Cooperative federalism is imperative in this coronavirus war. States must be taken into confidence before major decisions, and responsive mechanisms for cooperation must be put in place. Going forward, three specific areas of cooperation are critical: Finance, procurement and supply chains.First, finance. While states have been quick to devise substantial relief packages, they lack financial resources. The Centre’s response was to link finances to its own specific schemes for states to implement rather than buttressing state efforts. However, implementation capacity varies widely across states and schemes. And the relief needs of states will differ. Thus the Centre ought to use its fiscal powers to ease their fiscal constraints. The states have already asked for the Centre to ease fiscal deficit targets. But more must be done.In particular, the Centre’s relief package (the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojna) ought to be redesigned and enhanced as a block grant to states. The grant should have two windows: One for health care system preparedness, linked to the National Health Mission formula, which prioritises funds for poorer states with weak health capacity. The second should be for relief measures. This can be financed by bundling all central schemes for social protection into a untied emergency fund, which states can draw on to top-up their own relief programmes. The cost-sharing formula should be abandoned for the next three months, with the Centre providing 100% funding, freeing up state funds to be used for health-related activities. This must be adopted for the National Health Mission as well, where states are expected to contribute 40% to the budget.Second, financial management and procurement. One of the biggest inefficiencies in the administrative system is the inability to move funds, procure goods and make payments, at speed. The public finance management system relies on a labyrinth of paperwork and enforcement of audit queries that can be paralysing and leaves little discretion at the state and local level. Given the scale of infrastructure needed — personal protective equipment (PPE), ventilators, isolation wards — smoothening procurement and financial transfers is essential. This, as former Indian Administrative Service officer Santhosh Mathew argues, needs the Centre and states to work in tandem. The Centre can take charge of discretionary functions where leakages are high — standard-setting, price determination and supplier identification. But to procure fast, States must have full control over the actual transaction, including placing orders directly with vendors , quality checks at the point of receipt, and making direct payments.Finally, supply chains for essential commodities. While the focus thus far has been on smoothening movement for transportation of essential goods and services, it is important to recognise that the lockdown has affected all systems of production, circulation and distribution across the economy. For agriculture, April to June is a critical period both for rabi harvests and marketing, but also for next season’s kharif sowing. Labour, seeds, machinery, vehicles, storage, credit, markets — uncertain at the best of times — are now in different degrees of peril. As the lockdown progresses, local production and manufacturing units will need urgent economic assistance. This will require the Centre to make dedicated supply chain financing available. States will need to work with the Centre and with other states to identify mechanisms to extend and inject credit and ensure cross-border supply of labour and inputs before units and nodes shut down.Robust and responsive mechanisms for inter-state coordination are critical. Last week, for instance, Kerala sought urgent help from the Centre when Karnataka sealed off its border, cutting off essential supplies of food and medicine for the people of north Kerala. It is perhaps inevitable that the impulse to cut-off and isolate specific units (slums, districts and entire states) affected by an outbreak will override all other concerns. But leaving these zones to fend for themselves cannot be an option during their greatest distress. We urgently need an inter-state coordination mechanism. This can be done by reviving the now moribund inter-state council and using its secretariat to coordinate between states and the empowered action groups that have been set up by the Centre.Overcoming the extraordinary challenges ahead is going to need the government to put both faith in people and processes that support decentralisation and a greater commitment to collective action. This requires the Centre and the states to genuinely work together. It is often said that India’s future lies in getting federalism right. If there is one thing that the coronavirus pandemic has taught all of us, it is that the future is already here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-centre-and-states-must-work-together/story-UFuvvR18MU54lzsIF3FkYJ.html
01-04-2020||News||In times of Covid-19, take special care of children||Till a few weeks ago, senior citizens and others with pre-existing medical conditions were said to be more vulnerable to the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19). Later, reports showed that young adults too were victims. But all along, we were made to believe that children were more or less unlikely to get infected by the virus.However, there are now reports that children too are vulnerable, but mercifully to a lesser degree. We know have now information that children, including toddlers, have contracted the virus in India. Even though these are stray incidents, it does not, and cannot, mean that we can afford to lower our guard when it comes to protecting children. It is important to appreciate the magnitude of the problem and address it along with other challenges related to the pandemic. A report published by the ministry of women and child development in September 2018, with data collected as of March 2017, shows that there are 9,589 registered and unregistered child care institutions (CCI) that have 3,70,227 children in need of care and protection, and 7,422 children in conflict with the law. These include children of single parents, orphans, abandoned or surrendered children, sexually abused children and victims of child pornography, children who have been trafficked, homeless, mentally challenged and victims of child marriage.While only nine per cent of the CCIs are supported by the government, 91% are managed by non-profits. With the nationwide lockdown and the possibility of children getting infected by the virus, is enough being done to look after them, both by the governments and the non-governmental organisations? We must remember that these children have no voice; they are the silent victims of much trial and tribulation.Having visited a few CCIs in different parts of the country and having met dozens of activists who have provided assistance in multiple institutions, I found that the facilities in many of them are dismal. Rooms or dormitories are overcrowded; health and medical facilities are basic, if they exist at all. Like prisoners being released on parole or granted furlough, the over 7,000 children in conflict with law can and should be treated with compassion, and released to join their families keeping in mind that visits by parents are now impossible with a lockdown in place. If adult undertrial prisoners can be released, why not undertrial children? They are no less equal. Many children in need of care and protection, unfortunately, have no place to go. A CCI is their only home. We need to think of them with compassion and pay greater attention to their welfare.The world outside may not be much better for these children, lockdown or no lockdown. A November 2019 release of the Press Information Bureau tells us that the child protection services, which are centrally-sponsored schemes, support 1,752 homes, including CCIs and open shelters. These services are available to only about 72,500 children. There are a little over 1.35 million anganwadi centres across the country, but almost 25% have no toilet facilities; with even lesser having drinking water. So washing hands without water is not easy at all. There are complaints from anganwadi sevikas that they have not been given masks, gloves and sanitisers. The care of hundreds of thousands of children and their caregivers needs as much attention, if not more, than other sections of society.There are other collateral problems faced by children in these trying times. Their education has suffered. Not many in slums and rural areas can avail of online courses. There is also uncertainty about holding examinations. Unicef has flagged (among others) problems in immunisation of younger children. Executive director Henrietta Fore said: “The message is clear: We must not allow lifesaving health interventions to fall victim to our efforts to address Covid-19.” In other words, staying safe and away from the virus is only a part of the problem — there are larger issues of governance and management that also need to be addressed.There is no doubt that the establishment, institutions, NGOs and individuals are doing whatever is possible to tackle the health emergency. But, I feel it should not be treated only as a health issue in view of the wide ramifications that the coronavirus has on different aspects of life. To many, the issue is one of sheer survival, particularly for the poor and the migrant labour, and the lathi-wielding police must appreciate this. While factoring in the needs and requirement of the stranded millions, let’s also spare a thought for the children who need our care, protection and comfort.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/in-times-of-covid-19-take-special-care-of-children/story-pTUdk8eztdW9NfjyOm3y9J.html
01-04-2020||News||Covid-19: Why India doesn’t need to worry about investor-State dispute settlement claims||In order to halt the spread of the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19) and to boost the public health care system and preparedness, India has taken several regulatory steps. For instance, the government has banned the export of 26 active pharmaceutical ingredients and announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown. If the situation does not improve, the government might be constrained to take other regulatory measures such as ordering several manufacturers to let their production facility be used for producing ventilators or personal protective equipment (PPE) for health workers; issuing compulsory licenses for certain drugs made by foreign pharmaceutical companies; or even nationalising some of the industries for a limited duration.All these regulatory measures will disrupt supply chains, interfere in the contractual rights and may also restrict the property rights of foreign investors. When the dust settles, some apprehend, that foreign investors may bring claims against India for these regulatory measures, alleging the breach of different bilateral investment treaties (BITs). Investors would rely upon the Investor-State Dispute Settlement (ISDS) provisions in these BITs to bring these claims. Although India has unilaterally terminated several BITs, these treaties continue to bind the country due to the survival clause for the investment made before the termination.In case such ISDS claims are brought, India should be able to defend its regulatory measures for the following reasons.First, several Indian BITs allow the host State to deviate from the treaty obligations in situations of “extreme emergency”. Covid-19 has been declared a global pandemic and has already killed 25,000 people globally. Thus, the current situation falls in the category of “extreme emergency”. Furthermore, some Indian BITs specifically allow the host State to adopt measures for the protection of public health. India can use this provision to justify its Covid-19 regulatory measures. India will have to show that these measures were necessary to achieve the objective of public health. So, if the 21-day nationwide lockdown is challenged, to pass the necessity test, India will have to prove that the lockdown had a rational connection or a causal link with stopping the pandemic from spreading; and that there was no other less restrictive alternative measure reasonably available to achieve the objective.Since “social distancing” and “isolation” have been recognised globally as an effective and essential method to combat Covid-19, it will not be difficult for India to prove that the lockdown was necessary. In some situations, there may be an additional requirement to prove that the regulatory measure adopted was not excessive or disproportionate. Thus, India will have to show that the benefits of the 21-day lockdown or any other regulatory measures adopted to combat the pandemic outweigh the costs that these measures impose on foreign investment.Second, in case a claim of indirect expropriation is brought, India can make an arguable case that the measures adopted to combat the pandemic are a part of the State’s police powers. Many ISDS tribunals have held that states do not violate their BIT obligations when they act in the exercise of their police powers. For instance, in a case known as Philip Morris v Uruguay, the tribunal held that “[the] State’s reasonable bona fide exercise of police powers in such matters as the maintenance of public order, health or morality, excludes compensation even when it causes economic damage to an investor and that measures taken for that purpose should not be considered expropriatory.” Thus, India can argue that the 21-day lockdown or other regulatory measures are part of a bona fide exercise of India’s police powers to achieve an important health objective. In any case, indirect expropriation means substantial or total deprivation of investment, which none of these measures would cause.Third, the ISDS tribunals grant a margin of appreciation to host states while judging their regulatory measures on public health, environment, national security etc. As it was held by the Philip Morris tribunal, “the responsibility for public health measures rests with the government and investment tribunals should pay great deference to governmental judgments of national needs in matters such as the protection of public health”. Thus, expectedly, an ISDS tribunal shall be deferential to the Indian State in judging its Covid-19-related regulatory measures, especially given the severity and the scale of the disease.India need not worry about the ISDS claims in its fight against Covid-19. Still, it is important that the Indian executive – central and state governments - remain conscious of such a possibility and ensure that their actions are not arbitrary, discriminatory or disproportionate, and are adopted in good faith following due process.Prabhash Ranjan is a senior assistant professor at the South Asian University’s faculty of legal studies.The views expressed are personal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-why-india-should-not-worry-about-investor-state-dispute-settlement-claims/story-iV8VHHoQGxMrc7Hao3Jj7L.html
01-04-2020||News||What Covid-19 will change about us | Opinion||Every crisis changes us, as individuals and as a society. The coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19) will also do so. It is too early to make defining predictions, but the initial days of the national lockdown have given us some indications. Here are 10 thoughts about what can potentially change.One, this experience is changing how we pray and worship. Sunday morning would unfailingly have found me in church. Yet, for two Sundays now I have missed out, as advised by bishops across India. I am praying at home, “doing church” at home. This is the period of Lent, leading up to Easter Sunday. In a season of enormous religious significance for Christians, I am not part of a congregation. My loneliness is shared by countless others — Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs, Buddhists. Faith is common. Will worship become individual?Two, many of us are beginning to appreciate and tell apart serious journalists from the usual motormouths, those who sit in television studios — and these days, in cosy drawing rooms — and hold forth before a camera or with tweets that have no relevance to real life. There is greater respect for reporters on the ground. We need less-pompous punditry. We need more of those who are diligently relaying facts as they unfold, especially the troubling scenes from the Delhi border; those who walk with the migrant families and tell their stories with feeling.Three, how do we view health professionals and doctors? In normal times, we may be critical of long waiting lines and costs. Today, we value our health professionals as frontline warriors. Yes, there have been unfortunate incidents of violence against doctors — by the odd policeman or by ignorant neighbours. But overall, doctors and nurses are our favourite people today. We should not forget them and their needs when this is over.Four, how much do we spend on public health? Take ventilators. In a country of 1.3 billion people, there are only 40,000 ventilators, and just 8,500 of these are in government or public facilities. The rest are in private hospitals. This is not tenable. Public health specialists are getting their moment in the sun; I trust their warnings will lead to something more lasting. Journalists on the health beat tell me that they are now being taken more seriously.Five, Indian federalism is being strengthened. State governments and chief ministers are being put to the test and, across party lines, they are performing. State governments as far apart as West Bengal, Kerala, Maharashtra, Delhi and Punjab are rising to the lockdown challenge. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has written to her counterparts in 18 states seeking coordination.Six, how do we judge our public representatives? To lead by example is to be responsive and purposeful. Most critical has been driving home the message of social distancing. A chief minister walking around in a local bazaar, as she drew circles on the road with white chalk, to show how people should stand away from each other, was a powerful piece of communication.Seven, we are bonding as families. Four or five people cooped up in a flat, being forced to interact and engage multiple times a day — every family is coping with this. Children are doing online classes, parents are working from home. They all meet for lunch, which is far from normal, but welcome. Families are playing board games when they can. For those not having to worry about where their next meal is coming from, this period can be fun and fulfilling. I hope some of this survives the lockdown.Eight, we are learning of the hard life and enormous value of our guest workers. As per the Census 2011, 453 million Indians — 37% of the population — are internal migrants. Of these, about 10%, or 45 million, migrate for work and employment. Thirty million among this group are men, and nearly all of them are part of the unorganised sector. Twenty million migrants come from just two states: Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Ten million migrants go to just two cities: Delhi and Mumbai.Harrowing visuals of migrant workers suddenly out of a job and trying to get home — attempting to walk impossible distances of up to hundreds of kilometres — have shaken our collective conscience. These guest workers are a treasure; without them, our urban economy will collapse. This crisis must awaken us to their needs and vulnerabilities. Each host state owes them a lot.Nine, in the time of Covid-19 and the lockdown, perceptions about charity and doing good have changed. Charity is no longer about signing a cheque for a worthy, but abstract, cause. Charity is now much more do-it-yourself. Organise food for daily-wagers living in a nearby slum, buy more than you need from your neighbourhood grocery store only to ensure that the shop owner has some working capital respite. It’s simple really.Last, there’s a changing notion of privacy. Mobile phone signals are being used to track those in home quarantine. Three months ago, this would have begun a debate on privacy. Today, it is accepted as unavoidable. Phone numbers, addresses and passport details of 722 Delhi residents, recently returned from abroad, were made public on WhatsApp. The list included a one-year-old child. In the heat of the crisis, we may overlook all this. After it’s over, we need to calculate the cost-benefit ratio of privacy breaches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/what-covid-19-will-change-about-us-opinion/story-0yWDiLRnD9bLSOoCHd2F9J.html
