02-04-2020||News||One mantra for India: Test-isolate-treat-trace | Opinion||The coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19) may or may not be a viral flu. It is infectious, but only a third as lethal as SARS. In the recent past, the world has witnessed more deadly epidemics: SARS, MERS, Ebola, and H5N1. Yet, the coronavirus has been overwhelming due to the speed with which it has spread, infected people, and claimed lives.The virus breached India’s borders on January 30 through the 1.5 million Indians returning to India since then till the ban on international travel. We do not know how many among them were active and passive carriers of the infection due to our abysmal state of testing. Two months down the line, we have over 2,000 infected, and over 50 dead. These figures are not worrisome when compared to other countries, except that the curve is moving upwards and flattening horizontally: Today, more than double the districts are affected than a week ago.Due to poor testing, we have no idea among whom the virus is lurking, and in which direction it is spreading. Fighting a war blindfolded has its risks. One hope is the onset of the searing summer and if, as is being said, this epidemic follows the same trajectory as the 2009-10 swine flu, we may end up with a more reasonable count of the infected.The response has been unprecedented with heartbreaking consequences for the poor, homeless and marginalised. I have not found any compelling evidence in the public domain to give the nation less than four hours to lock down. Surely it is not based on a model prepared by some individuals based in the United States that estimates that 300 million people will get the flu, and since questioned by other experts?Regardless, India has to take strong preventive measures. There were two models: The China model of social distancing by banning all movement, except for essentials; and the South Korean model of mass testing.Both strategies seek to isolate the virus and disrupt transmission. Of the two, South Korea’s was more sensible, but not possible as we had messed up our testing policy and do not have enough testing kits. On the other hand, social distancing through lockdowns gave the government time to marshal its scarce resources to fight the next phase of the battle (treatment) and getting related requirements — doctors, nurses, personal protective equipment, intensive care unit beds, equipment, drugs, and trained personnel — in place. Given our iniquitous health system, putting in place such infrastructure in the event of a surge is vital, if we want to minimise fatalities.The suddenness of the lockdown without preparation, however, has created another battlefront. In the best administrative system, at least three days are required for a balanced response system to implement such an order: Framing guidelines for clarity, understanding and operationalising them to reach the last mile. But the sudden lockdown led to misunderstanding and panic, forcing migrant workers to flee cities.The chaos that followed has, however, diverted attention from what caused it, besides creating the added worry of the potential spread of the infection to the hinterland. It reminds me of the spread of HIV in Surat. The sudden dismantling of a 400-year-old brothel, by an enthusiastic police chief, forced sex workers to flee, making containment of the infection difficult.But now, India has a window of opportunity, provided it acts quickly and decisively. The lockdown itself has limited value. Even if all 1.3 billion stayed home for 21 days, the virus will be down, but not out. For optimal results, the lockdown has to be accompanied by scaling up testing tenfold from the current levels, and rigorously implementing the mantra — test-isolate-treat-trace. And for such a scale-up, testing has to be free and accessible.With several manufacturers of test-kits now authorised, prices will fall with volume. This will be much cheaper than what India is paying in terms of economic and social costs. Removing the deterrence of price and distance is critical in these times.The second measure is relaxing movement restrictions for goods required for the manufacture and delivery of all health-related items — medical devices, consumables, drugs and instruments — and ensuring the running of the out-patient departments in hospitals. The Chhattisgarh government is reportedly organising five additional vehicles per block to ensure the steady supply of drugs for tuberculosis and chronic patients, besides transporting patients to and from hospitals.We cannot allow the tap to run dry for the essential care of millions of sick people who need their medicines and surgeries, without creating another health crisis. Closing down outdoor patient units could also mean missing out potential carriers of the virus.It must be remembered that money cannot buy all the essentials needed to cope with a surge of cases, but quick decision-making can. The Centre has now constituted working groups to deal with different aspects of the pandemic. This is a positive step, provided they are empowered and held accountable for delays. Indian companies have also come forward, making available all their resources — knowledge, expertise, infrastructure. This is inspiring. Working together may give rise to innovation with the long-term triggering of more self-reliant and less dependent policies. As Prime Minister Narendra Modi said: It’s a battle we have to win.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/one-mantra-for-india-test-isolate-treat-trace-opinion/story-TgqwX6JlKvwkfrbypa28cI.html
02-04-2020||News||Covid-19 should lead to more investment in health | Opinion||The coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19) has exposed the new nature of health threats and emergencies, linked to food systems, human-wildlife and anthropogenic conflicts, and the dynamics of globalisation. To counter this emergency, an unrivalled response has been initiated by all governments, the scientific community and citizen groups.On March 25, despite fewer notified cases compared to other countries, India initiated a 21-day national lockdown, adopting social distancing and citizen isolation, state border closures and a call to action for low-cost innovations to support the government through this crisis.While the health care system attempts to ramp up for what seems like a long battle ahead, this is a wake-up call and a chance to invest in health care systems like never before. India’s investments in the health sector have historically been low, at no time over 1.3% of its GDP. Compare this to 5% in China, 8.1% in South Korea, 10.9% in Japan. Despite instituting one of the earliest architectures of rural primary care, the Indian public health system is struggling to comprehend the challenges that Covid-19 has brought with it.In 2005, the National Rural Health Mission (NRHM), now known as National Health Mission (NHM), attempted to strengthen the primary, secondary and tertiary health services. But this was not followed through with robust investments in health infrastructure, workforce, supply chains, and community models for delivering care. While the Prime Minister’s Ayushman Bharat Yojna (PMJAY) has led to risk-pooling and greater health access for poorer households, the issue of quality assurance needs more attention in the future. The response to Covid-19 provides an opportunity for meaningful health reform. India needs to make low-cost, client-centred medical and health innovations. A four-pronged approach may help.First, we need to invest in human resources for health, now and in the future. India must strive to meet the World Health Organization norms (2016) for health workforce density: 44 health workers per 10,000 people. Recent estimates indicate current total human resource density is at 29 per 10,000, with wide variations among states. While India increases this number, it needs to also look at enhancing quality through upskilling. Through emergency response training, competencies such as testing, referral, quarantining and using medical equipment can be developed. The fight against Covid-19 cannot be won without the active involvement of the private sector and other health care providers who can play an important role in identifying potential cases and ensuring early quarantines. We need to rethink the roles and responsibilities of frontline health workers such as Accredited Social Health Activists, Auxiliary Nurse Midwives and multi-purpose workers, taking into account the skills they have.Second, with citizens under lockdown and their mobility restricted, the role of community health centres and district hospitals will be key. State and district administration will need support from local community bodies, panchayats, urban local bodies, and citizen groups to ensure that cases are isolated early and supply chains for drugs and essential equipment are functioning optimally. A communication plan to spread the right messages will be important. District hospitals need appropriately trained staff and medical equipment to ensure that cases are managed effectively at the facility and mortality is minimised. Effective use of telemedicine can deal with complicated cases, especially in inaccessible areas. We should be careful to not concentrate services in some cities alone.Third, the government must make all efforts to encourage low-cost innovations in medical technology to meet the needs of essential equipment, both to respond to the pandemic now and to develop the capacity for the next flu season. Identifying and easing the regulatory frameworks for developing new medical products can help enable rapid responses. Regulating the prices of essential drugs, low-cost mass production of masks and protective gear, will ease the burden. In the medium-to-long-term, India needs to further strengthen its biomedical research capabilities, and invest in cutting-edge “made in India” health technologies and make it easier for health technology start-ups to function with tax cuts. Scientific innovations hold the key to solving social crises. Finally, a task force to understand the impact of Covid-19 on the health system and households is required. The pandemic presents an opportunity to expand the coverage of the PMJAY, including considering a universalised health insurance model. Social distancing may lead to new challenges of anxiety and mental health all round. The costs of this pandemic could also be borne by other health and nutrition programmes as services and attention are likely to get diverted. We require state-level task forces that represent not just administrators and doctors but that engage wider civil society to address some of these long-term effects.Covid-19 presents an opportunity to bolster India’s health system, sustain investment in technology and reorient budgeting priorities towards what is truly essential — our health. As our medical workforce fights this invisible enemy, India owes them a robust health system that can facilitate all their efforts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-should-lead-to-more-investment-in-health-opinion/story-Wja3xwRvonXKE3IDc2dUrJ.html
02-04-2020||News||Why secular liberals are wrong about Nizamuddin||As the full scale of the damage to public health caused by the Tablighi Jamaat meeting — and its aftermath — in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area emerges, there are some things we can be clear about.One of them is that attempts by Hindutva communalists to try and turn this into a Hindu-Muslim issue are despicable. It is shameful that TV channels allow terms like bio-jihad to be used or let guests suggest that those who visited the Markaz Nizamuddin were out to poison Hindus.In fact, the vast majority of those who were infected were Muslim. So, far from being a jihad against Hindus, this an act that, so far at least, has risked more Muslim lives.The second thing we can be certain of is that various authorities are not blameless. There appears to have been laxness in granting visas. The Delhi Police, who have a station located next to the Markaz, failed to clear the building. The police have released a video of an officer speaking the leaders of the Markaz and asking them to vacate the complex. So not only were the police aware of the situation but they did not act even after the Jamaat leaders ignored their warning.The police video also contains clear references to Delhi Administration officials which suggests that even the state government failed to act.This may not be the best time to fix the blame but there can be no doubt that there is lots of blame to go around.Equally, it is as clear that the Jamaat leaders behaved with extreme irresponsibility, using religion to encourage people to stay inside the building and to ignore health warnings. The videos and audiotapes that have now been discovered show Jamaat clerics saying things like “Yes there is a virus. But 70,000 angels are with me and if they can’t save me, who will? This is the time for more such gatherings.” A voice, believed to be that of Maulana Saad, is heard saying, “This is a plan to end amity between Muslims, to alienate them from each other.” These are not videos recorded in secret as part of some sting. The Jamaat actually put them up on its YouTube channel and advised people that social distancing was an elaborate conspiracy against Muslims.At a time when millions of Indians are making sacrifices to fight the coronavirus, this kind of behaviour is not just criminal, it amounts to attempted murder.All this seems clear cut enough. So, why is there a problem?Well, because of what seems like a knee-jerk reaction from sections of the secular establishment.I cannot believe that any sensible person — Hindu or Muslim, secular or communal — can approve of the primitive fundamentalism of the Jamaat, an orthodox group that would take Islam back several centuries to fulfil its objectives.And yet, such is the nature of our political dialogue that many secular liberals believe they must respond vigorously to everything that Hindu communalists say. So, if Hindutva extremists and trolls are using terms like jihad and using the incident to attack all Muslims, then the answer must be to find some way to defend the Jamaat.And so, we have had the sad and pathetic spectacle of various people who should know better trying every trick in the book to find excuses for the Jamaat.All of Wednesday, we heard the excuses. There was, first of all, the constant blaming of the authorities. “Why didn’t the police break up the gathering?” “The IB was keeping a watch on the Markaz: why did it allow the foreigners who had attended to travel around India?” And so on.There are valid questions but they, in no way, lessen the horror of what the Jammat did.A murderer is no less responsible for his actions because an inept police force failed to capture him in time.To point to the mistakes of others to suggest that the Jamaat is only one of many guilty parties is like saying that the Holocaust was only partly Adolf Hitler’s fault because the global community could have stopped him earlier but did not.When their explanations fail to hold, some secularists then switch to a tactic that is often associated with their ideological opponents on the right — whataboutery.Ok, they say, if this was wrong, then why was it okay for parliament to remain in session even when social distancing was the norm? What about Shivraj Singh Chauhan’s victory celebrations in Bhopal when legislators hugged each other despite the risk of coronavirus infection? Why was it okay for Yogi Adityanath to refuse to call off Ram Navmi celebrations till the very end? Or even, what about the migrant exodus after the lockdown where there was no physical distancing? There are two answers to the whataboutery.The first is that not only were all of these things wrong, they were widely criticized and condemned at the time — by many people, including those members of the secular establishment who are now using them to offer tactical cover to the Jamaat. The second answer is that it does not matter what else happened. You cannot explain away the 2020 Delhi riots by saying that the 1984 riots were worse. All riots are bad and should be condemned. So what if legislators hugged each other at Shivraj Chauhan’s victory celebrations? How does it make the behaviour of the Jamaat any less criminal?The problem with knee jerk secularism is that it can sometimes offer up excuses for the indefensible. We think we are defending the Muslim community from attacks by bigots.In fact, we are damaging Indian secularism.Each time secularists take a stand that runs totally counter to morality or even to common sense, we damage the liberal idea of India. Yes, communalists will play the Hindu-Muslim game. But we must never fall into the trap of doing the same thing.We must condemn disgraceful and criminal behaviour wherever we see it. Once we start defending people only because they belong to a particular religion, we are no better than the religious bigots on the other side.It makes no sense to say, as some are now claiming, that the incident had nothing to do with religion. This was a religious gathering. And the reasons for the behaviour of the congregation were explicitly religious — they were told that 70,000 angels would protect them.Secularism does not mean that you rush to the defence to every Muslim, no matter what he or she has done. It means that you fight against all religious bigots and their primitive mindset that ignores science and promotes religious mumbo-jumbo. The issue with the Jamaat gathering is not only that it endangered the lives of so many people. It is that it did so in the name of religion. In the process, it strengthened the communal Hindu propaganda that Muslims are fundamentalists who do not regard themselves as subject to Indian laws.Of course, this is complete nonsense. The average Muslim is as sensible and as patriotic as the average Hindu. Many influential Muslims have condemned the Jamaat.But when secularists feel obliged to find excuses for Muslim bigots, they obscure this reality. If India is to move forward, then all of us should unite to fight bigots, no matter whether they are Hindu or Muslim.Find excuses for one or the other and the battle is already lost.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/why-secular-liberals-are-wrong-about-nizamuddin/story-1FuTwxmmVRNnYJ0eChBbnI.html
