03-04-2020||News||Despite Covid-19, why did migrant workers go back? Opinion||We have all seen disturbing images of migrant workers trying to walk back to their villages after the sudden India-wide lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19). In response, some state governments arranged buses to ferry them from designated urban depots to their villages. But the subsequent overcrowding in these depots defeated the purpose of social distancing, a prime motive of the lockdown. This Covid-19-induced migrant crisis has prompted several questions.Who are these migrant communities? Why did the lockdown prompt them to flee from the cities, and why did the Centre and states not anticipate this? How can the State’s reactive response be improved, for now, and the future?It is tempting to view this crisis purely as a consequence of the challenges of Covid-19. The virus has flummoxed governments around the world, including those with far more resources than India. The coronavirus poses daunting questions of how to balance public health concerns with the economic fallout. Yet it would be a mistake to view the migrant crisis as an unintentional by-product of the pandemic.My seven-year-long research on internal migrants shows that the government’s missteps were built on deeper, systematic inadequacies in its treatment of these communities. Internal migrants in India are a vast and heterogeneous population. The subset of migrants we are now talking about are marked by three traits. One, they predominantly migrate from villages to cities; second, they are low-income populations who work in the informal sector; and third, they have not permanently relocated their families to the city. Instead, they circulate between villages and cities several times a year.There are three structural inadequacies in public understanding of circular rural-urban migrants.The first is an inability to recognise the size and importance of these communities. For example, the National Sample Survey found the all-India rate of short-term migration to be 1.7% in rural areas, and less than 1% in urban areas. Yet many scholars think these figures are an underestimate and do not match with other data sources. For example, circular migrants dominate employment sectors such as construction labour. At present, 35 million workers are registered under various construction welfare boards, a number which by itself is nearly 3% of the population. While some construction workers may not be migrants, many migrants are not registered with these boards, and this is only one employment sector.Our inability to correctly count short-term migrants is not surprising, given the informal conditions in which they live and work, and their shuttling between their villages and cities. These traits reduce the chances of accessing migrant respondents through standard residence-based surveys. This inability has real costs, rendering governments ill-prepared to anticipate the responses of migrant communities at crucial moments. Policymakers were unprepared for the speed and desperation with which these migrants attempted to return home following the lockdown order.A deeper understanding reveals that this desperation is neither irrational nor surprising.I conducted a survey with 3,018 circular migrant construction workers in Delhi and Lucknow. While this sample was limited to only male migrant construction workers, the survey’s findings are still instructive. They reveal that migrants have few reasons to stay in their destination cities, and many reasons to leave.The majority of those surveyed (63%) had no family members living with them. In the city, they lived in cramped and usually illegally rented rooms (52%); or slept on footpaths (25%). Less than 3% held ration cards registered in the city. Finally, they earn low wages, and remit most of their savings, leaving little to cushion them if work stops. This precariousness is furthered by the hostile treatment they receive from urban authorities, especially the police since they sleep in public streets, squares, and footpaths.Remarkably, 33% of my survey respondents of migrants in Lucknow had experienced violent police action within the past year in the city, while fewer than 5% had ever done so in their home villages. They also live and work near urban elites, who frequently pressure local governments to act against them.The survey also revealed that on average, these migrants made 2.55 trips each year to their home village, but also spent on average upwards of six months a year within the city. Further, over half had been engaging in circular migration for at least eight years.Without addressing these conditions, it will be hard to deal with the current crisis or prevent future ones. While highly transient, a proper response can only begin with the recognition of circular migrants as part of India’s urban population.Recognising migrants as part of our cities might compel authorities to at least consider how proposed policies might impact these communities. At present, such ex-ante awareness would have allowed the government to decide whether to target scarce resources towards enabling safe return or keep migrants in destination cities. Ex-post, we see government actors oscillating between these two strategies, thereby enacting policies at cross-purposes.A policy centred on getting migrants home should prioritise dedicated transport options to prevent overcrowding, especially along high-intensity migration corridors. It will also require a set of protocols within villages for isolating migrants in a manner that is neither unsafe nor stigmatising, particularly as many migrants come from disadvantaged castes or minority faiths. Keeping migrants in cities can include direct cash transfers, as some states are trying through construction welfare boards.Civil society organisations such as the Aajeevika Bureau have called for relaxing the restrictions that prevent migrants from accessing vital benefits such as food rations in their destination cities. Experts, including Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee, have called for repurposing available spaces, such as sports stadia and empty hotels, for migrants to stay in safely.We must understand that such short-term measures cannot address old structural problems. For example, construction welfare boards cannot channel benefits to many migrant workers since many are not registered with them. There must be a registration drive to expand this net. Reconfiguring the domicile-centric public distribution system can help migrants. But most important, states must soften their view of migrants as a law and order problem, an attitude that has been all too clear during this crisis.Worryingly, some of the directives from the ministry of home affairs order on the “restriction of movement of migrants” may only entrench repressive enforcement over compassionate accommodation. Unless migrants are afforded their rights, and dignity in the cities they build, these unresolved issues will bedevil us again in the future.Tariq Thachil is associate professor (Political Science), Vanderbilt UniversityThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/despite-covid-19-why-did-migrant-workers-go-back/story-NPhLzTd4joLSovjMDxCtaM.html
03-04-2020||News||The MSME sector is critical in times of Covid-19||A large fraction of India’s firms are small, informal and operate in the unorganised sector. Recent annual reports on Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) indicate that the sector contributes to around 30% of India’s GDP, and based on conservative estimates, employs around 50% of industrial workers. Over 97% of MSMEs can be classified as micro firms (with an investment in plant and machinery less than ₹25 lakh), and 94% are unregistered with the government. These MSMEs are uniformly spread across rural and urban areas and are equally represented in the manufacturing, trade and services sectors. Two thirds of MSMEs are operated by socially vulnerable groups (Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe/Other Backward Classes) and 20% by women. The current coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19) lockdown will substantially disrupt the operations of these MSMEs due to their dependence on the cash-economy that is severely hit by the lockdown, the physical non-availability of workers, and restrictions in the availability of raw materials and transport infrastructure. This will have substantial ramifications throughout the economy and therefore, a robust policy response is essential.How can Indian policy respond to this crisis? A useful place to start would be to examine the policy response of other countries in protecting their industries during the pandemic. From the International Monetary Fund’s policy tracker (that tracks key economic responses to the Covid-19 pandemic across 192 economies), these policy responses can be broadly categorised into: (a) loan guarantees and immediate liquidity provision; (b) loan extensions and penalty waivers on repayment delays and (c) interest rate reductions on future loans. In line with the global response, the Government of India slashed interest rates, increased limits on Non-Performing Assets (NPAs) to prevent triggering insolvency, and offered payments from the government’s share of Employee Provident Fund (EPF) to avoid layoffs. Several leading banks have announced special purpose loans at reduced rates for up to 10-20% of the firms’ working capital limit.While these policy measures are encouraging, they are biased towards the larger, and more formal/organised firms. However, the measures are inadequate for the smaller, informal/unorganised firms, which form an overwhelming majority of India’s industrial landscape. According to the Economic Census data, over 95% of firms (over 55 million firms) employed fewer than five workers, and 94% were not registered with the government. Thus, it is unlikely that these small firms contribute to EPF and may not benefit from the Government’s contribution to EPFO. Additionally, more than 81% MSMEs are self-financed with only around 7% borrowing from formal institutions and government sources (Economic Census, 2013). Credit market interventions (cheaper loans, increased limits on NPAs) therefore may not benefit this sector directly. Since most MSMEs primarily operate on cash, they require immediate liquidity to cope with adverse events. Moreover, many micro enterprises are small, household-run businesses. Given that other sectors of the economy and in particular, seasonal migration and agriculture, are severely hit by the lockdown, allowing these micro enterprises to operate smoothly could substantially help households cope with this economic shock. Hence, more direct measures of liquidity may be the need of the hour, similar to the initiative of the Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) that sets up a fund targeted directly at easing the liquidity constraints of MSMEs. Lastly, MSMEs are spatially concentrated, with Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal accounting for around 30% of MSMEs and ten states accounting for around 75% of MSMEs. A joint effort from both the state and central government therefore, is critical. Supply-side interventions, in particular strengthening supply chains for MSMEs, can also help them weather the storm. Ensuring that the MSME sector has access to raw materials and robust downstream supply chains would not only help mitigate production shortages in the health and the essential goods sector, but given its size, also potentially slowdown the adverse impact on the Indian economy as a whole. The Government of India has already appealed to MSMEs producing medical and other essential products to register and sell in the Government’s e-marketplace. This should be expanded to other sectors as well with co-ordination across different states to meet local supply and demand requirements.While Indian policymakers face the tough task of containing a public health pandemic as well as formulating swift policies to protect the most vulnerable from its adverse economic effect, a committed response to support the MSMEs is essential, imminent and key to easing the impact of the crisis for these entrepreneurs, their employees and the Indian economy as a whole.Ritam Chaurey is assistant professor, Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies. Gaurav Chiplunkar is assistant professor, Darden Business School, University of Virginia. Vidhya Soundararajan is assistant professor, Indian Institute of Management (Bangalore). The views expressed are personal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/msmes-is-critical-in-times-of-covid-19/story-6Juiu9zs4jKUdkHLobT6WJ.html
03-04-2020||News||How nasyam can protect you from respiratory tract infection||When I was a child, my parents taught me nasyam, the ayurvedic home remedy for severe cold and sinusitis. The technique is to suck in copious amounts of warm salt water and once it accumulates in your throat, spit it out. No amount of water should be swallowed. This procedure must be repeated a few times through one nostril, and then with the other. Also you can blow your nose once or twice to remove mucus and any residual saline in the nasal passages. Over the years, I have immensely benefitted from this remedy. The same holds true for many others in my family. I have been able to avoid antibiotics on many occasions as my sinusitis settled rapidly with nasyam. Anecdotal evidence is not objective evidence; but now there is objective scientific evidence of its usefulness. On October 11, 2016, the clinical virology department of the Christian Medical College celebrated its golden jubilee with an international symposium on medical virology. One of my old students, Sandeep Ramalingam, a senior faculty member of the Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, UK, gave a talk on nasyam and gargling, and presented scientific evidence on antiviral effects of chloride ions in the nasal mucosal cells. In yoga, a similar procedure, nasal douche, with salt water is practiced called jala neti. In the western world, jala neti has become popular for treatment of nasal allergies and infections. They use a neti pot or jar, made in copper or plastic, with a nozzle to fit the nostril. Since neti requires a neti pot, nasyam is what I prefer.The medical use of neti and nasyam has been researched by scientists in Australia, the Czech Republic and the United Kingdom. Unfortunately no such research has happened in its country of origin, India. These researches show that saline therapy in the nose protects against wood dust allergy and reduces the severity and duration of common cold.Ramalingam investigated nasyam and gargling with saline and clinched the pathway – chloride ions do the trick, sodium is irrelevant, but without sodium chloride, in other words sea salt, choride ions cannot be delivered on nasal mucosa easily and without irritation or toxicity. Inside mucosal epithelial cells chlorine in chloride is converted to hypochlorous acid which effectively kills viruses that are already in the cells. This was the take-home lesson from his talk in Vellore in 2016. We are in the middle of the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19), caused by the respiratory tract infection. The immediate question that arises from the above background is the potential of nasyam or neti as prophylactic or therapeutic for Covid-19. On March 29, 2020, the Journal of Global Health carried a paper by Ramalingam and colleagues, suggesting that hypertonic saline nasal irrigation and gargling should be considered as a treatment option for Covid-19.There is no study so far, but here is a simple and harmless procedure that may help protect your nasal mucosa from getting infected by any respiratory virus. I am sure that scientists in various biomedical research institutions will begin research to measure its prophylactic and therapeutic value in this epidemic in India.We promote repeated hand-washing with soap and water; in certain situations, repeated salt-water nasyam may help prevent infection with any virus or even treat infection as it has documented anti-viral property.Now that we are all at home, practice nasyam. If anyone gets symptoms of cold or sore throat, everyone in the household could practice nasyam and gargling, with warm salt water, made with boiled and cooled water, with salt to taste just perceptibly salty, and use for nasal washes and gargling about every 4 hours during waking time. T. Jacob John is fomer head, the Indian Council for Medical Research’s Centre for Advanced Research in Virology.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-nasyam-can-protect-you-from-respiratory-tract-infection/story-0iWtz6Dov7SRILmKMdZBlI.html
