04-04-2020||News||Reforming the World Health Organization | Opinion||The spread and scale of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have seen calls for strengthening international cooperation in the area of public health, both at the regional level and multilaterally. The Group of Twenty (G20)  video summit on March 26 decided on better data-sharing and enhanced cooperation. Prime Minister Narendra Modi led the call for cooperation on Covid-19 within the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation, and urged the G20 about the need for reforms at the World Health Organization (WHO). This is critical as WHO is the lead global and United Nations (UN) agency on public health. Its institutional arrangements must be able to strongly push global cooperation in public health and support developing countries in real-time. The last major global crisis was the 2008 financial meltdown. At that time, the most important economies came together in the G20. The response then required the largest players to take concerted action. Global public health emergencies involve people across the world. Voices from developing countries must be part of the decision-making process. As an intergovernmental body, WHO is not immune to global power-play as is being witnessed by reports of the director-general having shied away from naming the virus after the country where it originated — China — and delaying the declaration of a pandemic. Moreover, only a quarter of its budget comes from contributions from UN member-states, and the real money to power its work is from voluntary funding by countries and organisations. WHO, as a global convener, plays a key role in standard-setting in public health. This is a matter of much importance to the “haves” of the global economy, especially those with a vibrant pharmaceutical industry. The United States is the largest contributor, but the Chinese have also recognised WHO’s importance, and the previous director-general was their nominee. The main decision-making body at WHO is the annual World Health Assembly (WHA), attended by all member-states. Then, there is the Executive Board (EB) comprising technically qualified persons from 34 countries, elected based on geographic representation from across the globe. With demands for a better, real-time response from WHO, the EB should be made a standing body with the elected countries having Geneva-based permanent representatives on it. The EB should meet when required and direct action by WHO. The EB also needs to go beyond only geographic representation and ensure that major stakeholders such as the largest economies and those with the largest populations are always on it. At the UN, there is a precedent for this in the composition of the board of UN Women which, apart from representation from different regions, also has representation from the largest donors. And, then there are the issues revolving around drugs and medical science. This is a huge and lucrative industry where Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs) count above all, and there is little willingness, for collaborative research even in times of crisis. Neither WHO nor any multilateral organisation is involved in drugs research. They must be involved in rolling out new drugs in developed countries. Affordability will be a key, and the past record is not exemplary. WHO, along with others such as the World Trade Organization, must find ways to make affordable access to such key drugs in critical times possible. It is time to use the crisis to launch much-needed, long-due reforms and overhaul WHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/reforming-the-world-health-organization-opinion/story-aChEkZcpUj3jZ5eoUCzmhI.html
04-04-2020||News||Reflections on surveillance in the middle of a pandemic | Opinion||We live in an age marked by one overarching phenomenon — surveillance. Operationalised through electronics and analysed through algorithms, everyday surveillance of the minutiae of our lives has become the defining feature of our times. The data exhaust from our mundane, everyday lives is collected, collated and analysed; and returned to us in many forms such as recommendations on what else we’d like to buy on shopping apps, the manner in which our social media feeds are ordered, and as activists have found out, even government officials showing up at their doorsteps. Much ink has been spilled in describing the many ways in which such surveillance can be harmful, especially in the hands of private corporations and authoritarian regimes.But, as with everything, the phenomenon of surveillance itself is value neutral. It is neither inherently good or inherently bad. Its harm and benefits are made operational by the manner in which it is deployed. While there are excellent reasons to stop collecting and collating so much data about users; there are some spaces in which surveillance is a vital tool. One of those areas is public health. Surveillance as a tool to study and safeguard from epidemics is a method as old as modern medicine itself. Since the time of Hippocrates, observation and analysis of data has been the cornerstone of modern medicine. Throughout history, attempts at early detection and effective surveillance of diseases have helped not just curb the spread of communicable diseases, but also understand diseases themselves and develop treatment paradigms. Polio is a case in point. The complete eradication of polio in India was a resounding victory for effective surveillance and reporting.The World Health Organization (WHO), the public health arm of the United Nations (UN) lists integrated disease surveillance as part of its important functions. In such surveillance, countries are required to report any cases of notifiable infectious diseases to WHO. The data thus collected helps analyse the spread and severity of the disease, and to quickly and efficiently put in place protocols to handle the crisis and contain the spread in the case of an epidemic. Disease surveillance, in order to be effective, must be continuous and systematic. This automatically means the continuous collection of data from everywhere.In comparison to the kind and amount of data that data brokers have about our everyday habits, the amount of viable health data that is available for analysis even in countries such as the United States and Britain is abysmal. Even within the much-vaunted National Health Service (NHS) in the United Kingdom, datasets are sparse and often disconnected. This makes it harder for doctors to trace patients’ histories across regions or find common threads among diseases and treatment protocols within the system.In case of the coronavirus pandemic, finding those who carry the virus and preventing others from coming into contact with them is so far the only effective means of preventing the spread. But here, it is the process of finding that has set off surveillance and privacy alarm bells. Whether it’s European, Israeli and Chinese governments accessing mobile phone location data to ensure that people are obeying lockdown orders or the Karnataka government publishing online the names and contact details of people who have returned from abroad, breaches of individual privacy in these pandemic times are becoming commonplace.In cases where diseases carry stigma — such as HIV — knowledge of disease history and a breach in anonymity of cases can be particularly harmful. We have already seen this in India with coronavirus cases, where individuals and families face social ostracisation. Several Indians have even taken to ostracising doctors who are working at the frontlines of the fight against the coronavirus.It is in this context that privacy must be taken into consideration by government agencies while continuing to battle the pandemic. As several commentators have pointed out, measures taken during extreme situations have a sneaky way of becoming business-as-usual, even after the emergency is over. And as we know from several generations of caste discrimination, social ostracisation sticks very easily. One other clear upshot of privacy violations is that a fear of ostracism and mistrust of authorities could prevent people from coming forward to report their symptoms and travel history. With no protocols for data security and preventing personal details of individuals from becoming public; case surveillance in the Internet age can lead to dangerous consequences. The phone numbers and addresses of specific people, for instance, can easily be culled from a public database of people returning home from abroad. Linking this one database to many others can also reveal many other details of individuals, to anyone who comes looking.In such a situation, while it may seem like it’s a worthy trade to sacrifice individual privacy to contain the pandemic, it is decisions taken in the eye of the storm that will ripple outwards, creating situations and precedents for future emergencies. A pandemic in the age of digital surveillance and big data compounds public vulnerabilities; adding to the looming health and economic crises. This is, therefore, the best time to ask questions about the efficacy of the surveillance in each administrative block — from individual villages and residential complexes to nation-states and WHO itself. What is the information that it is important to know, who absolutely requires to know, how much of it requires dissemination, how can it be effectively collated and reported, and how may we protect the individuals who are already dealing with fear and uncertainty are the important questions to ask.Vidya Subramanian is a post-doctoral fellow, Centre for Policy Studies, IIT BombayThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/reflections-on-surveillance-in-the-middle-of-a-pandemic-opinion/story-pF5LqvFeOOjCUFVpKBxlgM.html
04-04-2020||News||Is isolation the new normal? | Opinion||Solitary isolation or confinement used to be a punishment given to prisoners. But now it has become something that we accept as part of our daily lives, thanks to the lockdown. These are conditions we are imposing on ourselves to survive an enemy that we cannot see, but which can attack us if anyone from the larger social group has been infected and gets close to us. We have to assume everyone is a possible host to the virus. And then we have to arm ourselves with masks and gloves — and if possible keep others at a distance of at least six feet. This further reinforces the hostility that urban dwellers already feel as their familiar world of close proximity and interactive behaviour comes crashing down. The individual no longer works with a group for social good, and sees himself or herself, alone, at war with the world.As supply chains are broken, as the world face a shortage of medicines, hospital beds, food, jobs — we are back to the survival of the fittest, foregoing the niceties of civilised behaviour. We have now come to stage three of the psychological impact of the lockdown — from shock, to acceptance, to mistrust. And there will be a need to convince some people once again that the government will take care of their concerns.We have already seen some of this aggression break out as individuals feel that they have to hit out at authority to survive. People are attacking doctors, beating up police officers — turning on anyone who they think might destroy their already shrinking universe. They are not “idiots” as some TV channels call them, but genuinely disturbed and increasingly insecure. There are also other issues of social isolation that governments will have to sort out. While many of us are fortunate enough to be able to lock ourselves in our homes and get by, there are many who are unable to do so — so one has to think carefully what social isolation means to them. For instance, the elderly, the children, the physically and mentally-ill, the disabled, the poor, the street dwellers, the rural economy, the daily-wagers. As we embrace this new normal, we often forget that there are large swathes of society who cannot disengage from the rest of us. This is a social order that was built on social dependency, not on the premise that all men and women are equal islands. What, in these circumstances, happens to the poorest of the poor — to paraphrase Mahatma Gandhi. However, another serious impact of the lockdown is how important Twitter, Facebook, Google, WhatsApp are becoming. We would be completely isolated if it were not for this virtual world. The danger is that (as we saw during the riots in Delhi) hysteria can be whipped up through images, and a constant barrage of information which comes through unfiltered. The virtual world is turning us into lonely machines reaching out into the unknown, without the comfort of a loving touch, or gentle words whispered into our ears, even when we are sick or dying. That is the extreme wound that Covid-19 has inflicted: The sorrow of dying alone without anyone by your side.But even those of us who will (hopefully) live on to see the end of the virus or at least its decline, will have changed forever, with the six feet of social distancing creating uncivil cracks in our behaviour and leaving gaps where there were families and homes. Large get-togethers may also be a thing of the past as we look at everything through the prism of safety and security. Keeping it digital may be a format we have to follow for a while. As families, we are together in our homes, finding bonds and joy with each other. I am spending more time with my parents, talking more to my children and husband, writing more and exploring my inner world much, much more, as the exterior world is reduced to heartbreaking images on my phone or iPad or TV screen. Our interiority might make us better people as we understand and appreciate those close to us. But what does it do to those who rely on physical connectivity for survival? There is more social disruption on the horizon as Covid-19 makes the difference clear between those who can live secure in their ivory towers and those who cannot. Kishwar Desai is chair, The Arts And Cultural Heritage TrustThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/is-isolation-the-new-normal-opinion/story-RD6n74BXuC5YO3ViancWPP.html
04-04-2020||News||Covid-19: Define social security for migrant workers | Opinion||Migrant workers leaving New Delhi after the lockdown’s announcement raise decades-old unaddressed questions. Who are these migrants? Why are they leaving their places of work and returning to their villages? And what rights do they have?Migrant workers constitute a large part of the informal sector of India’s economy. There are around 60 million interstate migrant population in India, with a significant proportion being seasonal or short-term ones. According to the Report of the Committee on Unorganized Sector Statistics, 2012, they constitute 93% of the overall workforce and contribute 50% towards the Gross National Product (GNP). Yet, such a large workforce lacks clear legal protections. There are laws aimed at the informal sector, covering working conditions and social security of its workers, but none of them directly deals with jobless migrants leaving cities.According to the Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) of 2017-18, 71.1% of the workers in the non-agricultural sector with a regular salary didn’t have a written job contract; 54.2% were not eligible for paid leave; and, 49.6% for any social security benefits. The report, Employment in Informal Sector and Condition of Informal Employment of 2015, shows that 82% of those employed in both the agriculture and non-agriculture sectors (except crop and animal husbandry) didn’t have a written job contract; 77.3% didn’t get paid leave; and, 69% were not eligible for any social security benefits. Given the lack of legal mandates, migrant workers have simply been left to fend for themselves during a crisis as serious as a pandemic. This requires urgent correction.For context, India’s Industrial Disputes Act,1947 was enacted for the investigation and settlement of industrial disputes. However, this Act applies only to the organised sector. It was not meant to provide social security and welfare to the casual worker, and doesn’t have provisions to deal with the current situation in Delhi and other Indian cities under lockdown.Much of this legislation was enacted soon after Independence and fails to meet the social security needs and other welfare aspects of the informal workforce today.Take the Minimum Wages Act of 1948. It has not been effectively implemented in most parts of the country as, according to the Economic Survey 2018-19, this law does not cover all wage workers. Among the more recent attempts at enacting protection legislation is The Unorganised Workers’ Social Security Act, 2008 is a more recent attempt at enacting protective legislation. But only about 5% to 6% are enrolled for social security benefits under it. This is because policy-framers insist on a scheme-based welfare regime rather than a statute-based social security regime.Then there’s the Inter State Migrant Workmen Act, 1979. It mandates registration of establishments employing inter-state migrant workers, but not the workers themselves. The Act imposes obligations on the contractor employing such migrants to ensure basic labour rights. But till December 2016, it had seen merely four prosecutions.In December 2016, the government informed the Lok Sabha that there is no data available on migrant workers in various states and that no insurance scheme has been proposed exclusively for them. Finally, in an attempt to revamp the ecosystem of labour and industrial law, the government of India then introduced four labour codes. Among those, the draft Labour Code on Social Security & Welfare, 2018 provided for the integration of schemes and benefits across the country and recognised the rights of workers to access these benefits throughout the country. However, it dropped the word “welfare”, and diluted or omitted certain provisions regarding workers’ welfare. Unfortunately, the latest Social Security Bill, 2019, is silent as well on whether special protections apply to migrant workers. Under the Bill, important areas such as employment injury benefits and provident fund for workers in the unorganised sector are left to the discretion of states. To address these lacunas, here are a few steps:One, migrant labour must be factored into any legislation or scheme on social security for unorganised workers. They must be treated at par with other workers in the destination state as well as should be allowed complete portability of welfare schemes, access to healthcare and allied benefits.Two, instead of classifying them in various classes and categories, there should be only one class of worker. For this, the definition of workers given in Section 2.140 of the draft Labour Code on Social Security & Welfare, 2018, should be adopted.Three, there should be a definitive move to a statute-based welfare provision from a scheme-based welfare, because the former empowers both, the latter empowers only the State.Four, in a changing business scenario, there is a need to decode the web of complex supply chains to identify principal employers and impose on them liabilities and obligations for social protection. Five, the business model of e-commerce, which is layered with complex architecture, should be studied and tweaked to ensure social security and welfare of the workers. Their business model avoids giving social security for workers by treating them as partners in progress but not in welfare.Six, provide social security where there is no well-defined employer-employee relationship. For example, in MSMEs. Nine, ensure a minimal definition of social security to all. Basic necessities such as health care, old-age security, unemployment insurance, the minimum wage should be provided by the State. Ten, social security should be visualised and conceptualised as a preventive measure — skilling, minimum safety in occupational conditions, insurance against the pandemic, epidemic, natural disasters and climate change.Finally, frame an implementable, accessible and reliable social security. In this regard, the self-help group model can be scaled up and provided with legal and statutory architecture.Suman Doval is a Delhi-based lawyer and mediator. He practices Commercial & Constitutional Litigation & ArbitrationThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/address-the-gaps-to-help-migrant-workers-during-this-crisis-opinion/story-1TTIFickk6Ix5L4nGYDZBN.html
04-04-2020||News||India is on the right path in its fight against Covid-19. But the road ahead is long||When the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reached this country at the end of January, Indians woke to the possibility of a deadly, insidious and highly transmissible virus coursing through a densely-populated landscape. Prime Minister Narendra Modi wrestled with a conundrum — to wait for it to become serious enough to attack or to pre-empt its advance and take action that required people to make sacrifices now. Modi decided to protect India by all means possible from the greatest health security threat of our times. By global standards, and in contrast to developed countries, he was ahead of the curve in fighting the war and took precautionary measures to limit its spread. The government took decisive measures to prevent India from moving to stage three: Community transmission — through border controls, visa suspensions, testing, quarantining of passengers, and a ban on international flights. The “Janata curfew” (people’s curfew) and the 21-day nationwide lockdown announced by Modi on March 24 was a clarion call to fight the pandemic together. This call must be heeded. And the World Health Organization (WHO) was right in stating that political positioning and point-scoring must be avoided to focus on readiness, response and recovery. All of India, all in government, all of society stood by the government in its efforts not just to contain the virus, test, stop community spread, and treat, but also to build morale and contribute to global efforts to find a vaccine and cure. This was praised by WHO, G20 and the regional and global communities. To demonstrate a karma yogi’s universal empathy and compassion for those facing hardship and distress, special economic relief packages and social welfare measures are being implemented. The PM-CARES Fund is welcome. Philanthropy is flourishing.The breathing space provided by the lockdown must be used to augment the infrastructure needed for quarantine and hospitalisation of Covid-19 patients if the worst-case scenario comes to pass. From testing capacities to protection gear for health workers, from ventilators and hospital facilities to medicines, India needs to manufacture, import, procure, build and supply on a massive scale. Partnership with all stakeholders — private sector, civil society, law enforcement and even the armed forces for their logistical capabilities — will be crucial. In the next few weeks, critical questions must be answered. Will the lockdown break the chain of contagion? Will Covid-19 die with the heat of the Indian summer and return in winter? How do we phase in normal economic activities after April 14 and restore road, rail and air connectivity within India and internationally? How do we best calibrate, pace and sequence resumption of normal work and social patterns to beat the virus and save the economy?Modi must be preparing for both the best-case scenario and the worst-case scenario until the vaccine and therapeutics are available (which they are likely to be in 12-18 months, according to WHO). Vaccine development is a long and painstaking process — from isolating the virus, clinical trials and testing, pilot production, full-scale manufacturing, purchase by governments and health systems, dealing with patent issues, distribution and use on a mass scale to inoculate and fortify the population. Hope springs eternal in our hearts that a miracle will deliver the vaccine sooner. Promising ones are already being developed and tested in the biotech/pharma realm with public-private partnership at national and international levels — German firm Curevac/German government, the US National Research Institutes supported by the global coalition founded by India and Norway, Israel’s Institute of Viral Research, Pasteur Institute of France and the Indian Council of Medical Research and Serum Institute of India. Influenza has posed the greatest threat to public health. WHO’s classification of pandemic phases is based on influenza and previous H1N1, SARS and swine flu outbreaks also originating from China and the Far East. India will hopefully shape and strengthen existing and potential norms, mechanisms and funds for a more effective and comprehensive global influenza pandemic prevention,detection and response architecture, building on but going beyond the WHO 2011 and 2017 Pandemic influenza Preparedness Framework. If victory over Covid-19 is to be sustainable, the world must come together now for the future.Lakshmi Puri is a former assistant secretary general, United Nations, former deputy executive director of UN Women and former acting deputy secretary general of UNCTAD. This is the second in a three-part series by the writer. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/india-is-on-the-right-path-in-its-fight-against-covid-19-but-the-road-ahead-is-long/story-M9cpmUZVtJYgFOrFoQBpyI.html
04-04-2020||News||How India and the world must respond to Covid-19 | Opinion||The WhatsApp universe would have us believe that Nostradamus predicted the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19) and that the authors Sylvia Browne and Lindsay Harrison, too, foresaw this in their book End of Days: Predictions and Prophecies about the End of the World.In a life-imitating-fiction moment, people are amazed at how prescient Steven Soderberg’s 2011 masterly science fiction film, Contagion, foreshadowed just such a pandemic with wide-ranging effects. That Dr Lipkins, the virologist consultant for the film tested positive for Covid-19 adds to an eerie feeling about the virus’ surreal reach and power across time and space. Foretold or not, the scale, scope and rapid spread of Covid-19 has taken the world by surprise and caused a tectonic shock to global public health, economy and society. The United Nations called it the most challenging crisis since World War II.Our deepest fears about individual and collective vulnerability and the mortality of the human race itself in the face of this highly-contagious pandemic have been stoked. This is especially because there is no immediate vaccine or proven cure yet. Theories about whether it was a spontaneous, accidental or deliberately perpetrated outbreak, and about the origin of the virus from animal-to-human being a blow back from nature are abound. We may perhaps never find out, but we must learn lessons. The need for a truly global, empowered and effective bio-surveillance and forewarning mechanism to prevent, detect and track viruses at inception within countries for the global public good has been underlined. The biggest dilemma in shaping and executing public policy to contain the pandemic is to banish an apocalyptic sense of doom and gloom. At the same time, a morale-raising message about the seriousness of the pandemic and the do-or-die socioeconomic choices people need to make to win the war against Covid-19 need to be conveyed. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has managed to do just that with the media playing a largely positive role. The coronavirus outbreak began in China and gripped its Hubei province of 60 million people and Wuhan, its glittering capital, in December 2019. It then spread as a global pandemic to 163 countries in all continents with nearly 858,000 infected and over 40,000 dead, and counting.It went on to affect the rest of Asia and particularly affected Europe and the United States. The latter is now the country with the highest number of cases and fatalities, outstripping China . It is being reported that after being secretive and in an initial state of denial about gravity of the outbreak, China moved to curb its spread within China with iron-curtain efficacy, military ruthlessness and logistical prowess. It has now declared that it has flattened the curve with only a few new cases and deaths. A video of the Governor of Wuhan claims it as a victory of the Chinese system of discipline and control over people‘s behaviour.While it is comforting that China, the original epicentre of the virus, has been able to flatten the curve, it owes the world some answers . How did China reach the present stage? What lessons were learnt? How did Chinese authorities manage to lock off huge parts of the country affecting 800 million people? And now, how are they opening up Wuhan once again domestically and internationally? Equally important: How are they using pharmaceutical and virological knowledge and capital to find and share data, a possible cure and vaccine with the rest of the world? Can democracies — developed countries like those in Europe and North America and a large, developing, densely-populated country of 1.3 billion like India with a federal polity, socioeconomic and cultural complexity and plurality — discipline their populations into complying with social distancing norms to flatten and bend the curve? As the Nizamuddin case shows, one dereliction can trigger a cluster contagion and be one too many. Countries like India have mounted unprecedented and comprehensive prevention, transmission control, mitigation and response efforts. It has forced the government to impose a total lockdown affecting 1.3 billion people. This is a truly staggering, but necessary, response.Transformational behaviour change is the key to success. The impact of Covid-19 is being acutely experienced at the community, province and national levels. Governments have the primary responsibility. It is a time when we erect walls, fences and ensure border controls, but it is also a truly global existential crisis requiring a concerted global response, action and solidarity. The World Health Organization and the United Nations along with all countries must work to make sure that end-of-the-world prophesies about the pandemic do not come to pass.Lakshmi Puri is a former assistant secretary general, United Nations, former deputy executive director of UN Women and former acting deputy secretary general of UNCTAD. This is the first of a series of three articles by the writer. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-india-and-the-world-must-respond-to-covid-19-opinion/story-Rjwi7q3xJC59kvpN4LZedO.html
