06-04-2020||News||Covid-19: Economic opportunities and challenges | Opinion||When pandemics spread, they bring on an economic contagion, beyond the morbidity and mortality of the disease itself. Economic activity has been curtailed to enforce social distancing — an indispensable bullet in the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) war. The World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) warned that the virus is pushing the world economy into a recession worse than that after the 2008 financial crisis. Moody’s downgraded India’s GDP growth rate forecast for 2020 from 5.5% to 2.5%. A United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) report titled The Covid-19 Shock to Developing Countries pleaded “governments to do whatever it takes” to stop economic contraction becoming a recession or worse, a prolonged depression, and to protect the poorest.United Nations secretary-general António Guterres called for a large-scale, coordinated, comprehensive and multilateral response based on solidarity and shared responsibility. His proposals for a “double-digit-percentage” of global GDP investment, massively increasing resources to developing countries by augmenting IMF capacity including through Special Drawing Rights’ issuance and of MFIs like the World Bank are critical.The G20, representing world’s most powerful economies, expressed its resolve to defeat Covid-19, but so far, concerted global action and cooperation, and enhanced liquidity and funding has not materialised. Significant national relief and stimulus packages announced by the United States, Europe, China and India are expected to help staunch the economic haemorrhage and finance the coronavirus war. Developing countries, including India, face several economic challenges. These include volatility and precipitous fall in financial markets and commodity prices, and financing gap due to shrinking fiscal revenues and Covid-19 expenditure. Liquidity crunch, disruptions in international trade, and transport, depletion of foreign exchange reserves, devaluation of their currencies, fall in export revenues due to export controls and contraction in global markets and economic engines also causes for concern.They also face the prospects of a global food, pharmaceuticals and medical supplies crisis as producing countries impose export control and stockpiling. India could face a remittances crisis due to coronavirus-related redundancies in major labour export markets. The economic impact on India needs to be assessed by what some Harvard economists call the “shape of the shock” and it’s “structural legacy”. These will depend on the nature and extent of the disease burden, resources deployed/diverted for treatment/care/ vaccine, the trajectory of the pandemic, the collateral damage to sectors, state of the pre-crisis economy, policy responses and special measures taken.Resilience and rebound will depend on the duration of the lockdown, the stage at which the lockdown was imposed— in India’s case it was early enough — and social distancing compliance by citizens. Reducing uncertainties around health security driven economic decision-making will help and slightly longer lockdowns seem better than stop-go options.India has to ensure that in this interregnum, a banking/credit crisis does not occur, liquidity at household and corporate level is maintained, there is minimal disruption in capital formation and investments. Labour displacement is to be minimised and migrant labour encouraged to stay in place or return after the lockdown including though repurposing for the corona war.Skill atrophy should be prevented, output and supply maintained through targeted support to strategic sectors, SMEs, SHGs. Providing social protection to poor and vulnerable farmers and workers is critical. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s economic relief and stimulus package seek to achieve these objectives and will continue to evolve. If the lockout lasts for months, there is risk of a prolonged freeze in the real economy and recessionary prospect. We have to keep essential sectors firewalled through protective measures/PPE gear and affordable, rapid status tests and protocol until we open all sectors.Walden Bello, the author of Deglobalization: Ideas for a New World Economy notes that Covid-19 dealt a second big blow to globalisation and connectivity. With China, its flag bearer,becoming the epicentre of the crisis and economic contagion, there is rethink on the global risks of over reliance on this “undisputed workshop of the world”, the largest trader and exporter. Countries everywhere are considering diversification strategies away from China and rooting for autarky in strategic areas.Global investor reassessment about putting all their eggs in the China basket, presents an unmissable opportunity to attract them to India. Although no one should underestimate China’s enduring comparative advantage and resilience we should leverage India’s large market, human resources and diversified production base to become a manufacturing, services, research and development, and technology hub. Pharmaceuticals, biotech, medical supplies and equipment and related infrastructure for health sector capacity, supply and value chain is a vital multisectoral cluster to create with all stakeholders — private and public. Consumer durables, construction materials, electronics, engineering goods, IT, speciality textiles and garments, AI and robotics are other promising areas. Article XX of GATT / WTO permits countries “to take any actions it considers necessary to protect it’s national security interests”. We can use trade restrictions, TRIPs, TRIMs exemptions to support domestic value and supply chains to protect our health, food and economic security. A “new India” industrial and trade policy is needed to incentivise our entrepreneurs to be makers, not just traders. They must build a Make in India hub to meet domestic and global Covid-19 related demand and subsequent rebound and revenge consumption. The adversity bought on by the virus can become a transformative economic opportunity to “Build Back Better”. Lakshmi Puri is a former assistant secretary general, United Nations, former deputy executive director of UN Women and former acting deputy secretary general of UNCTAD. This is the last in a three-part series by the writer.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-economic-opportunities-and-challenges-opinion/story-OCqr08BR5pLPjJIMxH7ZjK.html
06-04-2020||News||Covid-19: Draw lessons for the future, writes M Venkaiah Naidu||An invisible threat has exposed the frailty of human beings, by cutting across boundaries and claiming lives over the past four months. Ever since a 55-year-old in Hubei province in China first contracted the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on November 17, 2019, as reported by the South Morning China Post, the world has been struggling to come to terms with it. It is still uncertain when the virus can be vanquished. Are we drawing the right lessons from the ongoing battle?Such invisible threats are not new. About 5,000 years ago, an epidemic wiped out a prehistoric village in China, leaving no place even for burials. This archaeological site, Hamin Mangha, is among the best-preserved prehistoric in northeast China, serving as a monument to such recurring threats to humanity. The Plague of Athens in 430 BC, the Plague of Justinian during 541-542 AD that marked the decline of the Byzantine empire, the Black Death, also known as the Bubonic plague of 1346-53, the Cocoliztli epidemic of 1545-1548 that claimed over 15 million lives in Mexico and Central America, the American plague of the 16th century that wiped out about 90% of the indigenous people in the Western hemisphere, the Spanish flu during 1918-1920 that took over 10 million lives, the Asian flu of 1957-58, resulting in one million deaths and the more recent epidemics of AIDS, H1N1, swine flu, Ebola, SARS, Zika, among others, are examples of the regularity of these threats. Every such threat has been overcome; this time will be no different. But the moot question is: Are we better prepared to deal with it the next time around?Urbanisation and the growing interconnectedness of the global order, through trade, human migration and increasing population densities, are facilitating the quick spread of deadly invisible organisms, leading to pandemics such as Covid-19. This requires the formulation of standard global protocols to be administered quickly by all the nations. It calls for honest and effective information-sharing among nations so that no time is lost in putting countermeasures in place. This is particularly significant in the context of issues being raised about the delay by some nations in restricting the movement of their people.Restrictions on the movement of people and economic activities, no doubt, have implications for those living on the margins. But it is the poor who will be the worst-hit if such restrictions are not strictly observed. Remedies vary from one context to the other, based on the gravity of the situation. Issues such as GDP can be dealt with once we overcome the challenge to people’s health.As we complete two weeks of the nationwide lockdown in force since March 25, let us look at our efforts to fight the virus. The lockdown has been an unprecedented decision in view of the scale and magnitude of its implications on the ground. The leadership rose to the occasion, given the gravity of the situation and limited options. Our federal spirit has seen Prime Minister Narendra Modi and all chief ministers on the same page in this hour of crisis. The political unanimity is heartening. This is a positive takeaway from the crisis. With 1.3 billion people, India’s success in fighting the virus is critical to the success of the global fight. We have acquitted ourselves creditably so far. The scale of the spread of the virus and the rate of mortality have been kept low until now, preventing community spread of the virus. But the Tablighi Jamaat episode shows that there is no room for complacency. This episode should only be seen as an eye-opener to others and not beyond.With social security networks in place, the rapid response of the central and state governments along with other initiatives has reduced the suffering of those living on the margins. People have understood the gravity of the situation and cooperated with the government, thanks to successful communication efforts. This unity of purpose and action needs to be sustained until the battle is won.The pandemic has tested the capacities of the world’s mighty nations, which are still struggling to come to terms with the challenge. This raises the issues of deficiencies in institutions, infrastructure, individuals and international cooperation. These must be rectified before the next challenge. The future emergence and behaviour of such invisible organisms cannot always be anticipated, but we can put in place systems to minimise the damage. This means that the right lessons must be drawn from the current challenge for effective local and global action.Doctors, paramedics, sanitation workers, the police, the media and governments are doing their best in this hour of crisis. Most important, people are cooperating in this collective effort. Let us stay focused. I am certain that Covid-19 will be overcome. But we need to be better prepared for the next challenge by drawing the right lessons from the current one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-draw-lessons-for-the-future-writes-m-venkaiah-naidu/story-uFXQRADE8qQEwDtKo1ukEP.html
06-04-2020||News||Not in God’s hands: Why Tabligh Jamaat’s actions are indefensible | Opinion||‘Jahiliat’ is the only suitable word to explain the indefensible actions of Tabligh Jamaat leaders and their followers, who became one of the main vehicles of the spread of Covid-19 cases across India. Ignorance is a much milder term for this South Asian organisation that has spread its tentacles in several countries across the globe. It is not only in India, but also in Pakistan that the organisation drew flak from its authorities after about 2.5 lakh Tablighis gathered at their headquarter at Raiwind near Lahore on March 11. The ijtema was finally called off the next day, packing off everyone back, but not without the expected fallout in terms of spread of the disease.Bangladesh is also facing similar issues from this organisation, but fortunately for it the ijtema there was held in January this year. Tabligh holds the second largest gathering of Muslims after Hajj at Tongi in Bangladesh every year. But at the centre of Islam, Saudi Arabia, it remains banned, as the rulers there would find it inconvenient to deal and control its Ulemas, who are based in South Asia. Saudi Muftis allege it to be connected with Sufism and ask faithful to remain loyal to their form of puritan Islam by adhering to Ahle Hadis school, which they can easily handle by issuing fatwas as desired by ruling family.The Tabligh movement, an offshoot of Deobandi school of Islam, was formed in 1927 in Mewat, Haryana, that called for Islamic answers to the challenges to the personal and collective life of Muslims under British imperialism. It rejected both the theories of either emulating western ideas or assimilating Islamic and western concepts, which several Muslim scholars, including Sir Syed Ahmad Khan, were propagating. The Tabligh founders then believed that their religion was under threat of western ideas and values on the one hand and Hindu revivalist movements like Arya Samaj on the other.Unlike Hizb-ut-Tehrir and Muslim Brotherhood, Tabligh remains an apolitical and non-sectarian organisation thereby escaping suppression by wary autocratic rulers in Muslim world. Tabligh largely remains a proselytising organisation inviting (Dawah) people to Islam and also preaching the “true and puritan” form of the religion among the faithful. Its followers proceed for proselytisation and fan out in various mosques and Muslim localities. In India, it did not attract the attention of security agencies, as it did not play into the hands of Pakistan’s security apparatus for sponsoring ‘jehad’ against India or supporting its narrative on the situation of Muslims in India. Also Read: Markaz leadership resisted, then NSA Ajit Doval dropped by at 2 amBut that should not be the reason to allow such organisations to continue preaching obscurantist thoughts among people irrespective of the religion to which they belong. In the time of Covid-19 pandemic, a population lacking scientific temper can create an unprecedented crisis for the authorities and put under strain the health infrastructure of any country. More so, that of a developing country like India. The facts remain that Gods of all religions are shutting their doors to the faithful. The Vatican has issued a decree calling upon priests across the world to observe Easter (April 12) observation without gatherings. It says “in the countries which have been struck by the disease and where restrictions around the assembly and movement of people have been imposed, Bishops and priests may celebrate the rites of holy week without the presence of people and in a suitable place…” Hajj, the largest gathering of Muslims at Saudi Arabia could be in peril, as the authorities there have asked faithful to delay plans to visit Mecca in late July. It is a rare occurrence with the last one being more than 200 years back. Mecca and Medina, the two cities pilgrims visit, have been closed down a month back with Saudis closing their borders for foreigners and restricting movements within the Kingdom. The story is no different for Hindu shrines. Among the shrines that attract large crowds that have been shut are Vaishno Devi Shrine in Jammu, Tirupati Temple, Lord Jagannath temple in Puri, Kamakhya temple in Guwahati and Shirdi Sai Baba temple in Maharashtra. So, there is no point looking towards heaven for some miracle to happen. If it happens, it will be in laboratories across the world where scientists are burning midnight oil to save the lives of people, irrespective of the religions to which they belong. Like Tabligh, anyone preaching that everything is in God’s hands would be doing a disservice to their own community and humanity at large at this critical juncture. These thoughts can play havoc within their communities and those living in surrounding areas. A supportive population understanding the pitfalls of violating restrictions would be an asset to any government to deal with this unprecedented pandemic. A regular briefing by those in the frontline of fighting the disease is a better way of keeping people abreast of latest developments and keeping them well informed for better compliance. This will restrict the space for preachers of all religions to mislead the people.(Avinash Mohananey handled Jammu and Kashmir and Operations desks in the Intelligence Bureau. He has also served in Pakistan and retired as DGP Sikkim)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/not-in-god-s-hands-why-tabligh-jamaat-s-actions-are-indefensible-opinion/story-ijfEAxpUZjjtThTGHxVPxN.html
06-04-2020||News||Covid-19: To get an accurate estimate of the spread, India must ensure random community testing||In the fight against the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19), policymakers are fighting blind, because we do not know the extent of the infections in the population or the mortality rate due to it. It is possible to track the number of deaths, the cases that required hospitalisation and those who have tested positive for the virus at hospitals, but those numbers present a limited picture of the pandemic. Our response to this crisis depends critically on figuring out how fast the disease is spreading outside of hospitals, in the community, and how likely the virus is to kill individuals who have been infected. The only way to obtain this information is through random testing in the population.Existing methods of measuring the disease’s prevalence are likely to give inaccurate results. India, like most countries, has a shortage of testing kits. As a result, it prioritises the testing of the individuals who have severe symptoms and show up at the hospital. It misses those who have symptoms, but not severe enough to go to the hospital, and those who are asymptomatic — lack of cough, fever or trouble in breathing — but, nonetheless, are carriers who can infect others. There are good reasons to think that many individuals are asymptomatic, which means that true caseload is under-measured. For example, the city of Vò (Italy) tested all its inhabitants, and found as many as 50% of individuals were asymptomatic. On the Diamond Princess cruise ship, 18% of the infected population showed no symptoms, while in Iceland, 50% of those who tested positive were asymptomatic. A recently released report from Maharashtra suggests that 85% of cases in the state were asymptomatic, similar to the recent findings from China, published in The British Medical Journal. They suggest that we will never be able to measure the true prevalence of Covid-19 by testing only high-risk populations.We lack the essential information to fight this disease because of such data limitations. Harvard economist James Stock has identified the lack of accurate infection rates as the central information gap behind efforts to combat the coronavirus. Consider the true mortality rate due to Covid-19. This is calculated by taking the number of deaths from the virus and dividing by the total number of infections it has caused. For any level of deaths from Covid-19, the higher the infection rate, the lower is the death rate. The mortality rate is, in turn, essential to calibrate our response. If the mortality rate from the virus is very high, it calls for doubling down on suppression methods to avoid mass deaths. A lower mortality rate does not mean the situation is any less troubling—but it tells us that the disease is more prevalent in the population than currently thought, and it demands mitigation rather than suppression approach in response.While we have estimates on the number of deaths, we are flying blind in estimating the denominator of the fatality rate. If, in fact, many people are walking around with Covid-19 and perhaps do not even know of their infection status — as some doctors suggest — we need to adopt a very different approach to address this crisis. At the time of writing, India has 4,067 coronavirus cases and 109 deaths, implying a 2.7% mortality rate, without considering future mortality of the currently sick. If the fraction of asymptomatic cases was 20%, this would imply a true fatality rate of 2.1%. However, if it were more like 80%, the true fatality rate would be considerably lower at 0.5%. Where India is on this mortality spectrum will greatly influence how we think about and combat this disease – and that’s why estimating this number accurately is an urgent priority.Measuring infections accurately will also allow for targeted efforts to combat the spread of the disease. Otherwise, we will not know how many hospital beds, ventilators and doctors we will need in different areas in the coming weeks. We cannot determine whether the lockdown has been effective, how long it should continue, or if certain places can safely be released from the lockdown without sparking an outbreak.To its credit, the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), at the very start of the pandemic, tested 826 patients who were admitted in hospitals with severe acute respiratory illness but no travel history. This was a valuable effort, showing that, at the early stages of the pandemic, the coronavirus had not yet spread through the community in India. The situation has since changed. There is now a wealth of evidence across countries, including in India itself, that Covid-19 can be found not just in those with severe symptoms, but also among individuals who display little or no symptoms.While ICMR has just expanded its testing criteria beyond symptomatic cases to include asymptomatic individuals with prior contacts with confirmed cases and antibody testing in hotspots, these efforts still fall short of true random testing across the entire country.The only way to determine the true mortality and infection rates is random testing in the community — identify individuals randomly from the population, rather than from in and around hospitals and hotspots, and test them in the field so we can determine the precise prevalence. Closing this information gap will be critical to making well-informed decisions on how best to combat this disease. Countries like Austria and Germany have begun random testing of the population. India must do so immediately, either nationally, or, if the capacity is a constraint, at least sub-nationally.Arpit Gupta is an assistant professor of finance at NYU Stern School of Business. Anup Malani is a professor at the University of Chicago Law School and Pritzker School of Medicine, and Reuben Abraham is CEO of IDFC Institute, MumbaiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-to-get-an-accurate-estimate-of-the-spread-india-must-ensure-random-community-testing/story-qJ8yKgDujtOnQygiBJuXYI.html
06-04-2020||News||There’s light at the end of the tunnel||When I first heard Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s address to the nation on Friday, carefully, I must confess to feeling a little disappointed. There was no condemnation of the fact that our brave “Covid-19 warriors” — doctors and other health care workers — were being assaulted; and there was no comforting statement about the efforts to overcome the lack of the personal protective equipment (PPE) supplies for the frontline workers. But, then, I heard the speech a second time, and then a third time. And I realised this was the most positive, encouraging and unifying speech by any leader to a nation. It had been nine days into lockdown when he spoke (it is 12 days now). Citizens have been battling uncertainty, fear, despair, and even depression. There is social fragmentation, the suffering of the poor, and even a growing religious blame game. In that backdrop, the PM’s address was purposeful — focused on uniting the nation, while maintaining social distancing and self- isolation. It was, importantly, about deploying combined “utsaah” (enthusiasm) as the biggest force in moving from the darkness of the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19) into the light of victory. The PM’s address would have made the most accomplished psychologist proud and envious. As someone who has been deeply involved in the Indian health care system, do I see a “light “ at the end of the tunnel? Yes, and here is why. One, we have been the most proactive nation in the world against Covid-19. Numerous measures by the government — isolating the country; testing of travellers; quarantining, tracing and isolation of suspected cases; public education on hand-washing and social distancing; forced self-quarantine, and, finally, a national lockdown — were instituted even when there were very few cases in the country. This is a fact that has been appreciated and admired by World Health Organization. It has been responsible, to a great extent, for limiting the spread of the virus patients to a manageable number so far, even as Europe and the United States are dealing with hundreds of thousands of patients, overwhelming even their advanced health care systems. The responsibility now lies with the public, we cannot let the strategy down.Two, while sceptics may argue that the number of Covid-19 cases is low because we are not testing enough, and, therefore, we do not have an accurate figure, the comforting fact is that we, as doctors, know that the emergency areas of our hospitals are not getting flooded with patients with upper respiratory tract infection, pneumonia and deaths. Frontline doctors are the first to sense, witness and face an epidemic, irrespective of testing. Maybe, the worst is still to come over the next two weeks — but maybe not? No one can be any wiser than the other. It is also remotely possible that public exposure in India to regular and repeated infections, and other viruses, may have developed a protective cross immunity to, at least, prevent serious Covid-19 infections. The encouraging fact is that 80% patients affected in Covid-19 just have minor flu-like illness and get better anyway.Three, more than a 100 companies around the world working aggressively on finding effective drugs for treatment as well as vaccines for prevention of the Covid-19 infection. New vaccines for prevention could take 12-18 months, but effective treatment for Covid-19 could be a reality in next four weeks. A promising anti-viral drug, Remdesivir, has been put into phase III trials. Chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine, a drug well known to India for the last 60 years for the treatment of malaria, is showing promise for the treatment and prevention of Covid-19 infections. The Indian Council of Medical Research as well as other scientific bodies globally are engaged in prospective trials on this. In the next two to four weeks, we will have the results to define the role of this inexpensive and readily-available treatment for our population. Serum containing antibodies against the coronavirus from patients who have recovered from Covid-19 infection is in trial to treat serious coronavirus infections. Breakthroughs are around the corner. Four, there are two preliminary reports, which emerged last week, providing indirect evidence that the BCG vaccine — given for the prevention of tuberculosis — may provide protection against Covid-19. Based on these observations, prospective trials have started in the US and Europe to define the role of the BCG vaccine for prevention of Covid-19 infection. Thankfully, India, unlike other western nations, has had a mandatory BCG vaccination policy at birth, for all its population. We hope that this may also in some way protect us from serious Covid-19 infections and death.The PM called on the 1.3 billion people in this country to focus and meditate together, as witnessed in the coming together of the nation on Sunday night. It is easy to mock this. But after 30 years of being in the frontline of the medical profession, and pioneering treatments of heart disease, every day, I pray to God to help me save my patients. I prayed to God to save my mother’s life when after six weeks of treating her on a ventilator, the best doctors and best of technology failed. Thirteen years ago, I organised a scientific symposium on “Do prayers heal and Cure?” And every day, I witness a person demolished by an unfortunate “act of fate” — an accident or an illness that suddenly incapacitated them. Humility helps. And it helps to combine science with spirituality, to provide us with positivity, with hope, with determination if we are to overcome the ravages of the Covid -19 disease. While there is hope, there is no role for complacency. We need to take all precautions, follow all advisories and be vigilant. We need to appreciate and respect all the efforts being put in by the frontline Covid-19 warriors who are putting their lives at risk to protect us. Though physically separated, we need to be united in spirit and mind. There is light at the end of the tunnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/there-s-light-at-the-end-of-the-tunnel/story-iQyiUvi4KnrCBJWK8zX4KM.html
