08-04-2020||News||A global pandemic and globalisation||It is now evident that the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19) is a systemic global event, one that will have significant consequences for people’s well-being and lifestyles, national economies, and political leaderships on every continent. It is natural for people to be considering the secondary implications of the pandemic. Some of the repercussions will be unexpected, and may not be felt immediately.One natural question is what Covid-19 will mean for globalisation. Globalisation is the accelerated flow of goods, people, capital, information, and energy across borders, often enabled by technological developments. Over the past three decades, globalising trends were assumed to be the new normal. Trade without tariffs, international travel with easy or no visas, capital flows with few impediments, cross-border pipelines and energy grids, and seamless global communication in real-time appeared to be the natural endpoints towards which the world was moving, if at different rates for different places.But the globalisation of goods and capital had already begun to plateau or stagnate since the 2008 global financial crisis (GFC). Trade as a percentage of global GDP rose from 39% in 1991 to 61% in 2008 but has remained flat over the past decade. The figure stands at 59% in 2018. Similarly, net foreign direct investment inflows, which were never under 1% of global GDP before 1989, occasionally crossed 4% over the past 30 years. But by 2018, it had dropped precipitously to 1.4%, its lowest level since 1996. Similarly, personal remittance flows, previously on the rise, flattened to around 0.75% of global GDP.There are several causes for the great stagnation in the globalisation of goods and capital. It became increasingly apparent that not all countries, societies, and people were benefitting equally from globalisation, and that soon began to be reflected in national and international politics. The United States’ (US) sub-prime mortgage crisis of 2007-08, and its spillover to the eurozone, exacerbated national sentiment in Europe, which had previously been a model of international integration. The assumption that China’s rise would result in similar development opportunities for others proved unfounded. As one business leader cynically put it to me, “China, after climbing up the ladder, is kicking it out from under everyone else.” In hindsight, the economically nationalist impulses of countries as different as the US (“America First”) and India (“Make in India”) were a natural consequence.A similar flattening has been underway in the globalisation of energy. Net international energy trade, which stood at 1.5 billion tonnes of oil equivalent in 1990, swelled to 2.5 billion by 2008 but then grew only moderately to 2.8 billion by 2018. But the drivers have been different: Increases in energy efficiency, the rise of renewables, and new sources as a result of fracking.Other aspects of globalisation have not seen as much of a plateau after 2008. In fact, the globalisation of people accelerated, although in a manner that was partial and subordinate to national interests. The stock of global migrants grew steadily from 190 million in 2005 to 243 million a decade later. The number of international tourist arrivals rose from 900 million in 2009 to 1.4 billion in 2018. Similarly, on the face of it, the globalisation of information did not slow down. The percentage of Internet users around the world more than doubled from 22% in 2008 to 50% in 2017, although the national, cultural, and corporate Balkanisation of information firmly set in.How could Covid-19 impact these trends? There will almost certainly be calls for the re-nationalisation of manufacturing, particularly for what are considered critical or essential goods. The recent bickering over personal protective equipment (PPE) and pharmaceuticals have brought this to the fore. This will further complicate trade agreements, both those in force and those under negotiation.The globalisation of people, including short-term tourist or business traffic, may face new kinds of restrictions. National governments will have to weigh the risks of contagious diseases against the benefits of ease of travel or may have to consider stronger safeguards. In turn, the globalisation of finance will be indirectly affected: Less migration and business travel coupled with incentives to invest at home will hinder transnational capital flows.The globalisation of information may confront a paradox. On the one hand, information will be more available, important, and shareable than ever. On the other hand, we may well see greater monitoring of individual information. The SARS epidemic of 2003 was a watershed for the use of mass surveillance and big data by governments in the interest of public health. Similar sentiments in a post-Covid-19 world may contribute further to the nationalisation of data.On balance, the coronavirus pandemic may further slow down (or possibly even reverse) certain globalising trends that had already decelerated. The risk of supply chain disruptions will feature to a greater degree in trade calculations. Decisions about lowering barriers to international travel will face greater scrutiny. Information may continue to become more plentiful, but will be more jealously guarded. The ongoing phase of globalisation has recovered from systemic shocks before, such as 9/11, SARS, and the GFC. But the omnipresence of Covid-19 presents a challenge of a different magnitude.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/a-global-pandemic-and-globalisation/story-67lC3lnxv6ZsxUFVqk9EPI.html
08-04-2020||News||In times of a lockdown, why the courts matter| Analysis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement on March 24 to put India under a nationwide lockdown was followed by a notification that contained a list of essential services that would be allowed to operate. One notable exception from this list was legal services.Nonetheless, the events of the first two weeks under lockdown have made it clear that the courts are an indispensable public service, a vital check and balance on State excesses, especially in a country where executive action is characterised by opacity and a lack of access.Regardless of the omission, the Supreme Court (SC) and various high courts (with the enthusiastic assistance and cooperation of their respective bars) have improvised and adapted admirably. Video conferences and e-filings have demonstrated that there is an easier (and more efficient) way to do things. Despite being hamstrung by omission from the March 24 list, the courts are attempting to ensure that matters of “extreme urgency” are heard and addressed. They have demonstrated that the value of the courts, especially in times of crisis, cannot be a matter of debate. There are three illustrations from the period under lockdown that support this proposition. First, the watchmen argument. That, without the fear of review or supervision, certain members of the police force may fall prey to dictatorial tendencies. Images of policemen zealously using lathis or visiting medieval humiliations on violators who have stepped out for legitimate purposes of buying medicines or groceries, have been disturbing. Some states, like Punjab, sought to take immediate corrective action when these incidents were brought to the notice of the state’s leadership, but others offered no apology or explanation. Violence has no place in a civilised society and the boundaries of State power or the interpretation of how elastic the ambit of section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is, cannot be left to the varying consciences of the political leadership in different states.Second, the courts are the last refuge for the voiceless. In the first week of the lockdown, the SC on its motion passed a far-sighted order, directing the release of undertrials in custody for non-heinous offences. Another example is that of the Delhi High Court directing (two days after the announcement) the free treatment of an 18-month-old child with a rare illness. Ensuring justice when constitutional and statutory rights are especially vulnerable is a principal function of the judiciary.Third, the review of arbitrariness in State action. In a country as large as India, policy conception often collides with implementation. There is a real temptation on the part of certain officials to choose convenience over constitutional safeguards. This concern is also what preoccupies a large part of the fields of constitutional and administrative law. The lockdown was a measure supported by all political parties, but as issues of migrant and unorganised sector workers grew in size, different states responded with measures that ranged from humane — waiving transport costs and rents and providing food — to the draconian — spraying migrant workers and excessive use of force. The SC passed detailed directions last week (before declining to intervene further in another later petition) to address these concerns, but imagine if it hadn’t. The power to make policy does not exempt the government from ensuring that it satisfies the rigours of Article 14 of the Constitution; that State action must demonstrate the application of mind that it must be free from malice, and above all, must not be arbitrary.There is an oft-cited caution attributed to Benjamin Franklin, “Those who sacrifice individual liberty to secure a temporary safety, deserve neither.” In a country of over a billion individuals battling an unprecedented epidemic, this might be a tad harsh, but it contains a relevant warning that will have a bearing on the nation that emerges from this crisis. It is not just the State that will be judged by its handling of the crisis, but also the courts whose legacy will be defined by how, even in a crisis, they ensured that the Constitution reigned supreme.On a separate, but related note, it must also be observed that the rapid Covid-19 response measures introduced by the SC and followed by other high courts have demonstrated that technology renders several of the old formalities obsolete. The SC has also come up with detailed guidelines for this to continue when normal hearings resume. Filing remotely through an online portal addresses excessive paper usage, while helping reduce overcrowding. It is also faster. The proceedings using video conferencing demonstrate the efficiency with which an argument can be concluded. True, this lacks the majesty, the pageantry and the thrill that comes with the prestige of arguing in historic courtrooms.But it is a swifter route to justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/in-times-of-a-lockdown-why-the-courts-matter-analysis/story-SN6EN8t3Lg09WOUrAk7n0K.html
08-04-2020||News||The coronavirus is found in bats. How did it reach us?||The coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic has engulfed the world within a span of a few weeks, sending billions into lockdown. Amid the confusion and scare, “patient zero” has been traced back to a wildlife market in Wuhan, China. Preliminary studies indicate that the coronavirus from bats infected humans, through a wild animal, Malayan pangolins. The genomic resemblance between the Pangolin coronavirus and Sars-CoV-2 (Covid-19 virus) is what has brought about this assumption.Bats, pangolins and humans are not cohabitants, which acts as a “species barrier”, preventing the virus naturally found in bats from jumping to other species. But environmental crimes like wildlife poaching and consumption result in the breaking of the species barrier. The presence of Malayan pangolins (natural inhabitants of Southeast Asia’s forests) in the Chinese meat market strongly points towards illicit wildlife trade and trafficking. Malayan pangolins are hunted for their skin, scales, meat and for ingredients in oriental medicine. All species of pangolins are included in Cites Appendix I, which means their international trade is prohibited.As per the World Customs Organization’s Illicit Trade Report, in 2018, customs administrations from 47 countries reported 2,727 seizures of flora and fauna – which amounts to 59,150 pieces and 3,60,495 kg of various flora and fauna. Being rich in biodiversity, the Indian subcontinent, Africa and South America are most vulnerable for wildlife crimes and trafficking. In most of the cases, the destination remains China. Wildlife animals and products such as rhino horns, ivory, live pangolins and their scales, turtles and tortoises, snakes and their skin, mongoose, sea horses, sea cucumber, crocodile skin and porcupines are trafficked in substantial quantities.Several Wuhan-type wet and dry markets are operational in China, Thailand and Vietnam that have a demand for exotic wildlife articles. In China alone, domestic wildlife farming is assessed as a billion-dollar industry. The rich and the privileged are the prime consumers of wildlife products, primarily because of the superstitions surrounding traditional Chinese medicine and false pride associated with the ownership of certain wildlife articles. Rhino horn, pangolin scales and tiger bones are used in traditional medicines, aphrodisiac recipes and in body-building tonics. Scientific studies completely condemn and disprove these beliefs. On the contrary, the Chinese wildlife market has seen an alarming rise in demand for rhino horn extract, due to a false belief that it can help treat Covid-19. Wildlife farming and consumption of wild meat in China have historical reasons such as famine and poverty. Gradually, it evolved into a tradition.Wet markets sell live meat, fish and marine products. Chinese, Vietnamese, Thai and Burmese wet markets are notorious for selling game meat and other numerous wildlife items. They keep live animals in cages, stacked one above the other. If the topmost cage has bats and those below it have turtles, civets, ducks, porcupine and pangolins, it can lead to the mixing of their excreta and fluids. It makes the entire stock a natural mixing bowl, helping the virus cross the species barrier. Such congested and stressful circumstance reduces immunity and results in the multiplication of the virus, and infection and transmission of the disease.When humans slaughter or dress the affected animals, they contract the virus. Inside the human body, the virus undergoes mutation, which can result in the pandemic of the current magnitude. The emergence of Covid-19 and the role of the Wuhan market is still under investigation. However, the 2003 outbreak of the Sars (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) pandemic was ultimately traced back to masked palm civets (Paguma larvata) and raccoon dogs (Nyctereutes procyonoides), traded in China’s Shenzhen wet market.In 2010, Indian customs had prevented an attempt to import over 10,000 red-eared turtles from China. Later, it was found that, according to International Union for Conservation of Nature’s classification, the seized turtles were considered as one of the most invasive species on the earth. Its potential to outnumber the native turtle population and the microbial cargo it would have brought along give an idea about the severity of the crime.A crazy pet culture poses yet another threat to the environment and global health. Many consider reptiles, turtles, wild lizards and other exotic species as new age pets. Close contact with such pets offers an opportunity for a virus like Covid-19 to cross species barriers and infect humans. Unless strictly prohibited, the illicit trade of wildlife and the new age pet culture have the potential to turn into another pandemic bomb.Anees Cherkunnath is an IRS officer posted with Indian Customs. He holds a doctorate in veterinary science. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-coronavirus-is-found-in-bats-how-did-it-reach-us/story-i0Mgl7kVeDMUop93U1n56K.html
