09-04-2020||News||Covid-19: India has done well till now, but lifting the lockdown is not advisable||The Chinese government alerted the World Health Organization (WHO) of several cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on December 31, 2019, and reported the first death on January 11. India discovered its first case a month later (January 30) and had its first death two months later (March 11). It is clear that Covid-19 has largely been driven by human-to-human transmission, forcing public health officials to announce social distancing as an effective way to drive down the virus’s reproductive numbers (known as R0, and pronounced as R naught), meaning the average number of new infections generated by each infected person.For the epidemic to begin to end, the reproduction rate has to drop below one. Based on a mathematical model, a multi-author paper published in the March 16 issue of Science cautioned that undocumented infections are responsible for nearly 80% of the total documented cases in China, and that this single factor could facilitate rapid dissemination of the coronavirus. Those with undocumented infections often experience mild to no symptoms and can go unrecognised by the health system, thereby increasing the risk of the virus’ spread.During the first half of January, before China imposed a complete lockdown in the affected province, the R0 of the virus had risen to 2.38, indicating a high capacity for sustained transmission. China was quick to announce a complete lockdown on January 23. Subsequently, the R0 plummeted below one, suggesting containment of the epidemic with only a marginal increase, if any, in new infections, and new deaths for weeks on end. This is the basis of a lockdown. What is not clear, however, is the length of the period for these measures to remain in force to keep the infection R0 below one for a reasonable period, and to prevent a possible rebound after the control measures are relaxed. Do regional and population-specific factors play a role in this?India imposed a similar lockdown on March 22, exactly two months after Wuhan, first as a people’s curfew on an experimental basis, followed quickly by a nationwide lockdown from March 25. Two questions are being asked now: First, did India succeed in containing the disease as effectively as China? Second, India has a prevalence of tuberculosis, and persistent BCG vaccination has helped boost robust innate (pre-existing) as well as adaptive immunity in the Indian population. So will this broad-based immunity help India weather Covid-19?An analysis of data, till April 8, reveals interesting trends. With over 120,000 tests done, the rate of positive cases in India with densely-populated regions is 4.5-5.0%, as compared to much higher figures in hotspot European nations and the United States. India is yet to start testing clusters with high rates of Covid-19. However, based on the expanded testing standards, the low positivity rate is encouraging. What is even more remarkable is the almost near lack of severe and critical cases and limited mortality.But then India is not China or Europe where most infections and deaths are concentrated in ageing populations. The ministry of health and family welfare has put forward a set of interesting figures. Consistent with global patterns, 73% of Covid-19 patients in India are male and around 40% are in the 20-40 years age group. But only about 17% of the patients are senior citizens (60-80 years), though there is a higher proportion of deaths among them. These are the documented figures and perhaps community surveillance through rapid antibody tests will throw further light on as-yet-undocumented figures and defy the trends observed so far.How does a host immune system recognise the virus as an enemy and proceed to eliminate it? Once the lymphocytes recognise the virus as foreign, the foot soldiers in this fight (cytokines) are mobilised. They set off a cascade of signals to killer T-cells to marshal an effective response. Usually, the stronger this immune response, the quicker the chances of thwarting an infection. This is why younger people remain less vulnerable to the coronavirus. Once the enemy is defeated, the immune system returns to normal and generates “Memory T-cells” that are ready to attack more quickly, should the same infection re-enter the body.In most cases, that is what happens. However, in some Covid-19 cases (here the exact figures could vary among populations), age notwithstanding, the immune system continues to remain in an agitated state, even if the virus no longer remains a threat. It continues to release cytokines, almost like a storm, which instead of doing any good to the body, attacks multiple organs, leading to death. The immune system in the elderly is in a state of immune senescence, and thus they must remain indoors and not interact with the young since many of the latter could be asymptomatic carriers. This is also the case with those (age no bar) who have diabetes, lung or kidney disease or are immune-compromised.India has done exceedingly well so far. The challenge is now to sustain the benefits of the lockdown and the added immunity that the population enjoys due to the microbial load. The next few weeks are crucial; lifting the lockdown, even temporarily, is not advisable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-india-has-done-well-till-now-but-lifting-the-lockdown-is-not-advisable/story-uTkGnkKVmEbuC45y1SqjIN.html
09-04-2020||News||India needs a common minimum relief plan. Here is a road map||The coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19), and the challenges that it has presented, have made it clear that any comprehensive and effective response must be based on the three pillars of prevention, testing and economic fortification. While the first two can be contained through uniform international practices, the third requires a solution that addresses India’s unique and diverse economic terrain. It is for this reason that the Congress has been pushing the Centre to come out with a roadmap that reassures the most vulnerable that their concerns are paramount.In this piece, we provide the government with a ready catalogue for those at risk. These are the key stakeholders in the development, publication and execution of, what we call, a “Common Minimum Relief Programme”. Those at the bottom must be at the top in the order of priority. This includes daily-wage earners, labourers and migrant workers. The last few weeks have attested to the fact that they are the most affected in terms of economic and social insecurity. We have witnessed the scale of economic upheaval and displacement, with millions of migrants trudging across states to get home. There is no longer any alternative but to prepare a targeted social security programme for these individuals and their families.These concerns were brought out by eight major national trade unions in a letter to the central government last week. Their suggestions provide an insight into the real cost paid by these workers who face evictions, food shortages and lack of access to basic facilities. The government must use these recommendations as a template to identify key areas to tackle. This must be done on a war-footing, given that the overwhelming majority of our population is currently employed and engaged in the unorganised sector.This brings us to India’s “annadatas” (food providers). Sixty per cent of India is engaged and occupied, in some form or the other, with the agricultural sector. For farmers, this year has had a greater-than-normal set of challenges. First, they were impeded by unseasonal rains and inclement weather. Now, given the absence of agricultural labour and transportation facilities, how can they harvest the standing crop? Make no mistake, a shortage of wheat and other rabi crops will have adverse consequences for every citizen. Clarity, information and guarantees must be provided by the Centre on procurement and prices.The next in this sequence, and right in the eye of the storm, is the middle class. The longer economic activity remains dormant, the greater the erosion of the middle class. Employers in the private sector have begun slashing salaries, and will continue to do so. Large numbers of mid-level and blue-collar jobs have been lost. Every single index suggests that this trend will intensify in the near future.The government’s response has been to offer delayed payment of EMIs, disingenuously enough, without interest subvention. This, in turn, leads to a greater cost in the long-run. At the same time, it has lowered the rate of interest on all small savings schemes. This has directly hit senior citizens, pensioners, farmers and women especially hard. This is a catch-22 situation in which the cost of the obligations go up in the long-term, while the value of the savings goes down sharply. How is this in the interest of the middle class, which is already seeing its savings ravaged by the high cost of petrol, diesel and gas? These are the same people who gave up their subsidies when Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked, without a second thought or hesitation. It is now time for the government to reciprocate and secure their interest.Not so long ago, medium and small-scale enterprises (MSMEs) were recognised by the government as the “backbone of the economy”. This is a fact, given that MSMEs contribute close to 30% (~61 lakh crore) to the GDP. The same government is yet to provide a plan that bails out these 42.5 million entities that employ several times as many citizens. Unless there is a plan for protection, followed by a strategy for revival and growth, this sector will be irreparably diminished. This will devastate the spirit of entrepreneurs, who, in the words of the prime minister, are the growth ambassadors of the economy. Governments and the people that elect them are judged by their response to crises and catastrophes. Indians have demonstrated unshakeable resolve, patience, optimism and fortitude in dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic. For the Modi government, the litmus test starts now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/india-needs-a-common-minimum-relief-plan-here-is-a-road-map/story-qK8ZHbPTIOSt4kVypz5yyL.html
09-04-2020||News||The mystery behind India’s stance on HCQ||On April 7, the official spokesperson of the external affairs ministry (MEA) “discouraged”speculation or politicisation, inter alia, of the government’s decision to allow the exports of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) and paracetamol through licenses. Specifically, he said, “With regard to paracetamol and Hydroxychloroquine, they will be kept in a licensed category and their demand position will be continuously monitored. However, their stock position could allow our companies to meet the export commitments that they had contracted.”The spokesperson also clarified that “temporary restrictions on the exports of a number of pharmaceutical products” were placed to ensure that there were “adequate stocks” of these products “for the requirement of our own people.” Following these restrictions, a “comprehensive assessment was made of all possible requirements under different scenarios.” The spokesperson emphasised that the decision of the export of drugs was made “after having confirmed the availability of medicines for all possible contingencies…”.This statement is reassuring, but it would have been more so if it was backed with statistics of current and projected HCQ requirement, availability, proposed export, production capacity, and if active ingredients for it are needed from China. This is particularly because of apprehensions that India made the decision under pressure from the United States (US). Currently, HCQ is allowed to be used in India as a prophylactic for frontline health workers in the fight against Covid-19 and household contacts of laboratory confirmed cases.Ill-informed criticism of government’s decisions should always be avoided, particularly so in these difficult times. However, an examination of the HCQ’s decision’s timing can neither be speculative nor its politicisation. Government documents are revealing in respect of HCQ decisions.On March 25, the Director-General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) prohibited the export of HCQ through a formal notification. However, despite the prohibition, under the notification, Indian pharmaceutical companies were permitted to fulfil their existing export HCQ contracts. Exports could also be made on “humanitarian grounds, on case to case basis, on the recommendation of the Ministry of External Affairs”.On April 4, the DGFT issued another notification on HCQ exports in which it withdrew the exceptions made to the prohibition on export of HCQ in its March 25 notification. Clarifying the effect of this step, the April 4 notification stated, “The export of Hydroxychloroquine and formulations made from Hydroxychloroquine, therefore, shall remain prohibited, without any exception”. On April 4, US President Donald Trump called Prime Minister Narendra Modi. On the same day, at a press briefing, after the call, Trump said “I called Prime Minister Modi of India this morning. They make large amounts of hydroxychloroquine…And I said they — had a hold…And I said I’d appreciate it if they would release the amounts that we had ordered. And they are giving it serious consideration”. The External Affairs Ministry statement of the Modi-Trump telephone conversation did not mention Trump’s request. It did, though, note, “Stressing the special relationship between the two countries, the Prime Minister reiterated India’s solidarity with the USA in overcoming this global crisis together. The two leaders agreed to deploy the full strength of the India-US partnership to resolutely and effectively combat Covid-19”.At a press briefing on April 6, Jonathan Karl, the White House correspondent of ABC News asked Trump “Are you worried about retaliation to your ban of medical goods like Indian Prime Minister Modi’s decision to not export hydroxychloroquine to the United States and other country (sic)?” The question was asked in the context of Trump’s decision of April 3 to disallow US companies from exporting personal protective equipment required by health care workers attending to Covid-19 afflicted patients. Canada was particularly enraged with the decision.In a rambling response, Trump made several points some of which require interpretation — that he did not like India’s decision to ban HCQ exports to the US; that he had not heard that Modi had personally taken the decision for the US; that he knew Modi had stopped it for other countries; that he had a good talk with Modi (comment: but he got wrong the day of the talk by mentioning Sunday, though the conversation happened on Saturday); that he would be surprised if Modi did not accept his request, for India has for many years taken advantage of the US on trade. At the conclusion of his remarks, he said there may be retaliation. This is obviously an indication that other countries may retaliate to his medical goods export ban.On April 6, the Indian government decided to set aside its April 4 HCQ decision, and to revert to some aspects of the March 25 notification. The real issue is the basis on which government changed its mind. Did the concerned authorities not look at the HCQ situation fully before taking the April 4 decision? If they did, then why did the government take a different view on April 6? The external affairs ministry needs to clarify to prevent speculation that India came under Trump’s pressure when he has banned export of essential medical goods himself.Vivek Katju is a retired diplomat. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-mystery-behind-india-s-stance-on-hcq/story-whXGy5swzy8uXO5z9eS8DP.html
