10-04-2020||News||In the Covid-19 fight, how the Indian armed forces can assist the State| Analysis||The Indian armed forces have been called upon to combat terrorists, violent ideologies and natural disasters. In rare instances, they have been ordered to enforce law and order in riot situations. However, they have not dealt with pandemics. The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) currently poses a threat which, affecting the entire spectrum of society and State, can be classified in terms of its first-and-second-order impact. The first order or direct impact is on the patient affected by the virus in terms of illness, possible death and the risk of infecting others. Medical services and related infrastructure are also directly impacted. The second-order impact is manifold and on infrastructure and services such as communications, law and order, and finances. These can be managed and controlled through various departments of the government. The questions that then arise are the following: Should the armed forces be deployed to deal with pandemics? If yes, what are the ways of utilising them?To answer this, one must understand the concept of securitisation. This means that security, as understood from a realist point of view, is a social construct rather than a condition. In other words, the affected political system may define what a security threat is, and it may not be what is commonly considered a threat. The armed forces can deal with pandemics as a lead agency in countries when they are defined as security threats, and if the forces are equipped accordingly. However, if defined from the perspective of aid to civil authorities, the forces are likely to deal with the second-order impact. Additionally, the forces have a sterling reputation in the public eye and this can be “weaponised” and used to stabilise the situation, if it worsens. The armed forces have developed several advanced capabilities in communications, logistics, inventory management, surgery and rapid insertion and deployment of modular teams. While dealing with pandemics, the armed forces can be used to supplement and, at times, complement the efforts of the civil administration.The Indian Navy and the Indian Air Force (IAF) have significant capabilities such as secure and robust communications, near blue-water presence and dominance and strategic airlift, which puts them in the driver’s seat when it comes to out-of-area contingencies. After the outbreak of Covid-19, the two major contingencies that arose were the evacuation of Indian nationals from affected countries and providing trained medical manpower to friendly countries. The mass evacuation of Indians and nationals from at least 23 countries was earlier conducted successfully during Operation Raahat in 2015 from Yemen. In the case of Iran, India flew some of its scientists from the Indian Council of Medical Research in an IAF aircraft to set up a lab to test 1,200 stranded Indians for Covid-19. On March 13, doctors and paramedics from the armed forces were flown to the Maldives to provide medical assistance. Both these actions were made possible due to the bilateral and multilateral exercises with friendly countries on humanitarian assistance and disaster relief operations, port calls, participation in air shows, seminars and discussions in various multinational forums. With the severity and spread of Covid-19 increasing, the armed forces may likely see an accelerated deployment cycle in the Indian Ocean region.The sharp increase in the number of infected cases in almost all affected countries is an indicator that India will face this situation soon. There will be a clamour for wards and open spaces for patients, in case hospitals are overwhelmed. As the forces have shown, by creating quarantine zones and wellness centres out of pre-existing accommodations, they have the capability and manpower to do so at a larger scale, and in a much shorter time frame. The engineering equipment in the Army’s inventory can be used by local formations to support and augment civilian capacities in respective areas. The human resources of the armed forces can also be used to rapidly convert open spaces such as stadiums and parks into closed ones with basic facilities. If there is a breakdown of law and order, there may have to be flag marches or other interventions by the forces. This is in case the police and Central Armed Police Forces are overwhelmed. The panic likely to be generated due to the news about casualty figures may lead to violence, which may be intrinsically created or inflated by external factors. The armed forces need to weaponise their perceived impartiality in cases of intra-community violence, if any. Violence in a jail in Bogota, Colombia, over Covid-19 rumours, which resulted in 23 deaths and 83 people being injured in March, is a stark reminder of what can happen if false information is allowed to spread uncontrolled. In such a situation, the forces can be pressed into action. With rugged distribution networks, the armed forces are adept at the distribution of basic amenities during natural calamities, as has been evident in the aftermath of many natural disasters in India and abroad. These capabilities can be utilised by the government and local administration to provide basic food and medicines to remote places as well as to specific sections of society most affected by the lockdown. The forces can also be used to carry out awareness campaigns within the civilian population, thanks to their credibility. The unique capabilities of the armed forces in terms of their trained manpower, communications and extensive distribution networks will complement the government’s efforts. They must be prepared for a role that will be challenging and risky. However, all these capacities can be brought to bear on the condition that the forces themselves are safe and infection-free.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/in-the-covid-19-fight-how-the-indian-armed-forces-can-assist-the-state-analysis/story-WkN3bTTWb1sTeXMAS9oKkI.html
10-04-2020||News||How DBT helps the poor during emergencies||On March 26, 2020, the government announced free gas refills for three months for Ujjwala beneficiaries who were facing economic challenges due to the coronavirus lockdown. The policy came into effect from April 1. From April 3, the government started transferring the subsidy money for the first cylinder into the bank accounts of 8.3 crore Ujjwala customers, at the rate of about one crore transfers per day. Things were very different a few years ago. On January 26, 2001, a major earthquake, with its epicentre in Kutch, shook Gujarat, killing thousands, injuring and rendering homeless lakhs, and destroying crores worth of property. Besides organising rescue operations, one of the first steps that the state administration took was to distribute cash relief. This was, as local officers told me when I joined the Gujarat State Disaster Management Authority (GSDMA) in Kutch, one of the most difficult tasks for them. Most people were not in a position to bring identity cards and address proofs. A large amount of cash had to be organised, with police deployment to manage the crowd. The public servants involved in the cash distribution were worried: “How will I prove that I paid the cash dole to the eligible beneficiary, should an enquiry be made at a later date?” they wondered.At one time, we struggled to distribute cash during emergencies in a single city. Now, we have, thanks to Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT), the capability to transfer money to almost the entire country in a matter of days. This has been possible because of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of JAM (Jan-Dhan, Aadhaar and Mobile), which enables a swift response in emergency conditions. Today, more than 121 crore people have Aadhaar card and over 33 crore have Jan Dhan, the basic savings accounts in banks. Under PAHAL (Pratyaksh Hastantarit Labh), the world’s largest DBT scheme, about 25 crore LPG customers receive subsidy in their bank accounts. In 2019-2020, DBT crossed Rs 2.5 lakh crore mark, in a total of 410 crore transactions. In short, the reach of an all-electronic, Aadhar-enabled, DBT is unmatched. Then we have the benefit under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana for Ujjwala customers who receive about Rs 750, the average retail selling price of a cylinder. They also receive an SMS from their bank, updating them about the credit. Some may buy refills immediately, while others may use the money for food or other necessities. In times of uncertainty, people are the best judges of what they need. As the majority of the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana customers use both LPG and other biomass-based fuels, they are in the best position to make adjustments at the household level.Those who buy a refill will be issued an advance for the next refill in May and so on. Those who don’t buy a refill right away can come back later. Some may not need to take out cash right away, but the knowledge that there is some money in the account will give them a sense of security. This will be quick, without any leakage and allow the ministry of petroleum and natural gas and the oil marketing companies to focus on ensuring supplies, last-mile deliveries and concurrent feedback from the field. Of course, the challenge of people being able to withdraw money without hassle while maintaining social distancing still remains. One hopes that the government and banks will provide due attention to this aspect as well. Overall, DBT will provide some immediate support to poor families, allow the administration to focus on those who are for some reason left out, and address numerous other challenges that continue to unfold every day in the fight against Covid-19. Nidhi Prabha Tewari is a senior social sector specialist (consultant) with PMUY and has previously worked in a few disaster recovery programmes in IndiaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-dbt-helps-the-poor-during-emergencies/story-2PaLtVyXvWIyUyn2WcV0dK.html
10-04-2020||News||Covid-19: How the crisis can help businesses successfully reorient human interactions||The primary casualty of the coronavirus pandemic is confidence. A thorough cessation of any degree of certainty in the medium- and long-term socioeconomic activity is causing deep resets across the business landscape. At the heart of this crisis is “social distancing”, with everything else being secondary. As a consequence, human interactions are undergoing a change, and, with it, interpersonal activities are getting reformed. Whether it is politics, governance, legal deliveries, education and learning, or business activities based on networking and relationship building, all are changing irrevocably. It is in this context that modern industries and business activities and manufacturing need innovative solutions and radical outlooks to not only ride out the virus storm but remain strong in the recovery as well as the growth phase. Since the Covid-19 outbreak has imposed a new normal on us, it is important that businesses too consequently find their own new normal. Here, the direct selling industry, being so inextricably human networking-based, has to reinvent itself around this new imperative. There are three broad mindset change directions that may help organisations to maintain business continuity during and after these trying times.First, the technology must be fully and creatively leveraged. While digital and virtually addressable solutions and tools are in abundance, the mindset to let them overwhelm human interaction is missing. The mindset change here relates to pervasive adoption and scaling up the reach. For instance, virtual seminars, e-trainings, and on-line dealer meets which can involve even 200-300 attendees could become the future order. In order to overcome the limitations of social distancing, tools such as those available for doing routine meetings must be fully used. This can also lead to the introduction of more sophisticated technologies that enable near-life interactions. In fact, an added advantage of such adoptions at work would be reduced commuting needs in an already overcrowded world. It would be a great move toward whittling carbon footprints and cleaning up our cities’ foul air. The reduction in air pollution in metro cities during lockdown already echoes this potential gain.Second, a nuanced adoption of what is termed as “proximity quotient” can make all the difference in our interactivity mores. Expect people to ask to stay at a safe “working distance” in industries ranging from manufacturing to services to information technology.Last, a defining change for industries must be the adoption of better meeting efficiency standards. It would be useful to get into the discussion, talk straight, and go out with a quick, useful conclusion. Efficiency will rise, as will bottomlines.We have learnt to deal with a volatility, uncertainty, complexity and ambiguity (VUCA) world. This is what has put Indian leadership at the top of global companies such as Google, Pepsi and Microsoft. Indian business leaders possess the resilience and adaptability to deal with a world full of unknown variables. As change stalwarts, Indian entrepreneurs are savvier than most in dealing with uncertainty and challenges. The sheer diversity of the Indian market is a powerful teacher. Thus, in the direct selling business, where every member is verily an independent owner and a businessperson rolled into one, we can see this rapid adaptability to new realities.Extraordinary circumstances require extraordinary measures. It is often a crisis that brings out the best in us. The coronavirus crisis has reminded humanity that no amount of planning, forecasts and analysis are foolproof. Gautam Bali is managing director, Vestige Marketing Ltd, a leading direct selling company dealing in health and wellness productsThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-how-the-crisis-can-help-businesses-successfully-reorient-human-interactions/story-aCcpPzlxbk6kBeZvKuQ0dM.html
