14-04-2020||News||Covid-19: What India must do next| Analysis||The decisive action taken by the Indian leadership in flattening the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) curve is laudable. In choosing between the proverbial kuan (well) and khai (chasm), one takes steps to avoid the most catastrophic scenario. With the Prime Minister announcing the extension of the lockdown, the valuable time that has been bought must now be used to prepare. But for what? A defensive war or an offensive one? The first will be fought by socio-political measures such as lockdowns and care of the vulnerable; the latter will be fought by science and technology. When physician Harvey Fineberg recently talked about 10 weeks to crush the curve in America, he outlined six key steps. With slight modifications, these are the following: One, establish a clear command system. Two, test widely. Three, protect health workers with proper gear and equip hospitals for a surge in demand. Four, determine and track who is infected, likely to be infected, exposed, unexposed, or recovered. Five, inspire and mobilise the public. And last, but not the least, learn from research to continually improve. These principles apply equally to India, but the relative difficulties of each step are very different.For India, the command system is clear and active, the public is engaged, but testing is low, the determination of the five classes (of step four) is not yet clear, and supply chains of protective gear and hospital equipment are thin and fraying.The sixth step, research, has to not only meet these defensive challenges, but also launch an all-out offensive against the enemy. We must innovate at every step, use our fabled “jugaad” as a stop-gap defensive measure, while our premier research institutions work to provide new weapons in this fight.While the challenges are severe, the unified response of the government, industry and academia in this time of crisis has been heartening. For example, to test widely, we need diagnostic kits. As global supplies of kits and their components start becoming scarce, Indian industry and start-ups, supported by academia, are developing indigenous alternatives. Medical researchers, epidemiologists, molecular biologists, and technocrats are jointly formulating strategies for minimum testing for maximum insight.Apps like Aarogya Setu leverage India’s digital and telecom infrastructure and tech talent to supplement community testing and provide virtual intelligence. Previous investment in high-quality basic research is also paying off. The recent development of futuristic alternatives such as a Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats (CRISPR)-based paper strip test, which may eliminate the need for expensive and scarce real-time Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) machines, came from years of background work.While issues remain in expeditiously bringing new tech to market — for example, sufficient quantities of the input materials for the CRISPR test are difficult to find — a strong academia-industry combine is working hard to overcome the obstacles. Meanwhile, numerous research labs across the nation are using their infrastructure to enhance the national Reverse Transcription (RT)-PCR testing capacity. Young companies funded by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) and the Department of Biotechnology industry programmes are coming out with affordable and simple indigenous diagnostic systems that can be used by local centres without advanced infrastructure. Together, these form a viable plan to widen the testing net and effectively determine local and personal risks.Similarly, procurement challenges in personal protective equipment (PPE), hospital beds, oxygen, ventilators, and newer anti-viral drugs, must be met by focused science. Towards this, Indian research organisations are using cross-sectoral strengths to create the necessary pipeline of products. When biohazard suit production was constrained by the unavailability of seam sealing tape, a sealant glue from submarine applications was substituted by Defence Research and Development Organisation, ensuring that these suits can be produced in large numbers, forming a robust line of defence for frontline health workers. An indigenous oxygen concentrator from the CSIR Venture Centre may make the difference between life and death for hypoxic patients, if central oxygen supply runs short.Lifesaving drugs, with promise in Covid-19 treatment, are being synthesised by CSIR labs in collaboration with pharma majors. Inspiration from traditional medical systems is guiding the ministry of Ayush’s efforts. The idea is to not blindly copy anyone, but to take the best of what is available and by using universally-recognised scientific principles, modify it to local contexts and needs. We have bought ourselves time to prepare and have the scientific capacity to deliver. This war will be won by smart data-driven defence, coupled with strategic offence.While the medical side defends with what they have, the research side must support them with what they need. Importantly, we must not take our eyes off the real solution — effective treatment and vaccines; developed in India for the world. We have the leadership to inspire and mobilise the public. Can science guide decisions to shape the public health response and to restart the economy? If we do this well, not only will we save grief to hundreds of thousands of Indians, but also contribute to global good and emerge a stronger nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-what-india-must-do-next-analysis/story-o7Juz3amKSikUJNDSIOPMM.html
14-04-2020||News||The pandemic will change public life as we know it| Analysis||No one should seek to read much into the economic predictions at the moment with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in full flow. However, Covid-19 is likely to profoundly impact the way governments, companies and citizens behave, changing public life as we know it.Former United States President Ronald Reagan famously said that the nine most scary words in the English language are: “I’m from the government and I’m here to help”. This approach influenced political thought for a quarter-century. But Covid-19 has put governments at the forefront of the response. There is now a greater questioning of why the role of the government has been needlessly reduced in many countries. India too has edged towards an erroneous consensus that we need to keep government small. This is likely to change.Former national security adviser and foreign secretary, Shiv Shankar Menon, wrote in Foreign Policy that governments will take on a renewed confidence in their power to shape the destinies of their nations. In responding to the crisis, governments have perhaps found powers they either did not know they had or were unwilling to use. This new-found power will influence how other matters of state are dealt with later. The climate crisis fraternity may now see greater receptiveness to demands for more stringent environmental emission standards. Demands for strengthened health care, better social security nets and the like have been denied for long, due to various fiscal reasons. The boundaries of the envelope of what government can do has clearly been expanded way beyond what people would have expect only a few weeks ago.For long, there has been an uncritical acceptance of lower wages in some jobs such as nursing and teaching. Caught in the middle of a pandemic, we now see that these groups take on an unusual level of importance. To this list of critical roles are included not just doctors and nurses but also teachers, delivery staff, store clerks and bank tellers. While granting that, in most cases, wages will be determined by market forces, other forms of benefits such as additional income support could be promised to such groups to partially offset the personal risks taken by these groups when they are expected to keep essential services afloat.Historically, governments have claimed an absence of fiscal space to fund such welfare activities. In India, there should now be a strong case to increase spending on health care and insurance. Budget 2021 will hopefully place greater importance on these. As we debate how adverse individual health outcomes impact society at large, there will also be a recognition that large-scale unemployment, partly caused by a potential economic slowdown, too damages the economy. Governments will need to implement Keynesian steps to create more jobs and would be well advised to breach their current fiscal target. Now they should have the confidence to push back on the deficit hawks. Fiscal deficits in the United States rose to 10% of GDP under Roosevelt’s “New Deal” in the mid-1930s. That was a major factor in enabling the US economy to recover. Indian must move to a 5% fiscal deficit for some years — as long as the money is used in a directed manner.Greater governmental powers do come with their own risks. Kishore Mahbubani, dean at the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy in Singapore, has pointed out that at a cultural level, so far, East Asian economies have demonstrated better capability in handling the pandemic. Taiwan, Hong Kong, South Korea and Singapore, all stand as poster children of good administration. This crisis will be a shot across the bow of those in the West who claim that their models of government have little to learn from others. Citizens, in many countries, seeing governments with stronger hand work well could perhaps push democratic nations towards greater authoritarianism.Another medium-term impact of Covid-19 should be a greater openness to using technology. Telemedicine, which has been untapped, will see a surge. It has always seemed unambitious that this market is estimated by India to be just about $32 million, roughly one day’s revenues of one of the many IT majors. In the sphere of education, several lobbies have taken the position that no version of online education will be acceptable for the award of formal degrees. Now, they have scrambled to find ways to make online learning and assessment possible.In a similar vein, for long, working mothers, those with ageing parents, and the disabled have requested organisations to display greater flexibility in offering work-from-home (WFH) options. However, even enlightened companies have generally offered WFH facilities for a maximum of two or three days a month. The pandemic has shown that it is indeed possible to manage some parts of our business on a remote basis. This is a dramatic change in lifestyle for those who need it. One would expect the share of women in the workforce, which has been dropping in India in recent years, to see some revival.The 2008 financial crisis led to a distrust of experts, especially those prone to making economic prognostications. This distrust of a small part of the educated elite spilt over into scepticism of other classes of experts who indeed had something useful to say.A consequence of this trust deficit was the inclination to vote persons without meaningful expertise in public office. Governance is for serious persons who have dedicated their time to politics and administration. It is no surprise that the best administrative responses have come from thoughtful leaders in Singapore, South Korea, or Germany. One hopes that we will see a diminished enthusiasm to vote for TV stars, actors and sportsmen. Several of these changes may well usher in a period of more egalitarian growth, driving investments the government should always have made and enabling a wider base of consumption.The trente glorieuses (three decades of high growth) in France and the Golden Age in the US were driven by deep-rooted and sensible governmental interventions. India has to do the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-pandemic-will-change-public-life-as-we-know-it-analysis/story-WoGvZWxxsfY8lCrx0kqWFL.html
14-04-2020||News||Covid-19 and the contours of a new world order| Analysis||The world is grappling with the coronavirus pandemic. People are dying in large numbers. Health care and the economy are under severe stress. Countries are turning inwards, closing borders, to protect their people. As historian Yuval Noah Harari wrote, more and more countries are becoming nationalist and protectionist, even, in some cases, even authoritarian.But the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has taught us a different lesson, a lesson of interdependence. The pandemic is global. The battle to combat it too must be global. We depend on each other for our health care equipment, services, transportation facilities, and, finally the vaccines, as and when they are invented. India has imported masks and testing kits from some countries, while exporting critical drugs such as hydroxychloroquine to many countries, including the United States (US). Global supply chains have become critical not only for health care products, but food and other supplies too.In fact, one big realisation for countries from the pandemic has been that nationalism of the closed kind won’t work. Donald Trump’s “America first” nationalism didn’t work. He had to turn to China, India, and South Korea for supplies. A recurring theme of many a political scientist about American exceptionalism stands shattered today. Isolationists in all countries, including India, must realise that post-Covid-19 world will be more integrationist than isolationist.For some time now, it has become a fad with political scientists to talk about multi-polarity. But the 21st-century world is no longer being led by countries alone. We have corporations that have bigger GDPs than many countries in the world. We have players outside the State that wield enormous influence on people across national boundaries. More important, in the era of social media, a number of power groups have emerged in the world that defy national boundaries. While nationalism as a political ideology is making a return, the world is also slipping into what author, Parag Khanna has described as hetero-polarity. It may be premature to predict the post-Covid-19 world order, but it can conclusively be said that we are moving into a hetero-polar world, with multiple State and non-State power players actively crisscrossing each other’s paths.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has to lead India into that world after the pandemic. Modi described the situation as “World War-like”. That has catalysed the building of a narrative around World War II. Comparisons are being drawn between Modi and Franklin D Roosevelt, who led America into WWII. Incidentally, both Roosevelt and Adolf Hitler came to power in America and Germany respectively in the same year (1932). While Hitler turned into a despot, subjecting European neighbours to domination and aggression, Roosevelt focused on rebuilding America. His “New Deal” led to massive infrastructure building such as highways, bridges and railways in America, and helped the country come out of the Great Depression of the 1930s. Expectations are that Modi will also do something similar.Japan’s bombing of Pearl Harbor in December 1941 forced Roosevelt into the war. By the end of the war in 1945, the US emerged as the leading world power replacing Great Britain. But Roosevelt’s contribution to the War was not just about the defeat of the Axis powers. Roosevelt was instrumental in building two global institutions. Through the Bretton Woods Conference in 1944, he laid the foundation for the World Bank and International Monetary Fund. The US dollar emerged as the global currency. In April 1945, the United Nations Organization (UNO) was born with the US and its allies in the driver’s seat.At a time when this post-Covid-19 world order appears to be in disarray, it will be tempting to expect Modi to don the Rooseveltian mantle and take the lead in building new global institutions. Institutions of the WWII vintage such as the World Health Organization and United Nations Security Council have become overtly partisan and lost their credibility today. “The United Nations is far less credible today than it has been through its history”, S Jaishankar, India’s external affairs minister said recently. With the US facing its worst nightmare, and the credibility of the Chinese leadership at an all-time low, the presumption that Modi should step into the role that Roosevelt played 75 years ago sounds logical.Perhaps, Modi should go back, not 75 years, but by a century, and look at the role Woodrow Wilson had played at the end of World War I. “Wilson saw America’s mission in World War I not as material aggrandisement but as leading all nations into a new international community organised to achieve right ends,” wrote political scientist, Joseph Nye. Wilson’s famous 14-point charter for world peace, outlined in his address to the American Congress in January 1918, underscores the moral leadership of America.Wilsonianism of the 20th century was represented by liberal internationalism, democracy, non-intervention, collective security and humanitarian cooperation. In the last six years, Modi has shown his commitment to all these political ideals. In fact, during his Covid-19 consultations with the G20 and South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation partners, he presented his model centred on humanism as “human-centric development cooperation”. Modi-ism of the post-Covid 21st-century world can be borne out of the democratic and humanist credentials that he has displayed in the fight against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-and-the-contours-of-a-new-world-order-analysis/story-DUqursm0t8sunJl1gaBJmO.html
14-04-2020||News||Some options for the RBI as it preps to kickstart post-Covid economy | Opinion||Good news rarely makes the news. The Reserve Bank of India under Governor Shaktikanta Das displayed great calmness in pulling YES Bank away from bankruptcy, buffering the systemic damage from IL&FS and proactively encouraging change of guard at ICICI. Instead of a deserved “break”, RBI is now marshalling India’s financial “army” against Covid. The RBI has to navigate between moratoria on loans to help businesses impacted by Covid-19, and ensuring that unscrupulous promoters do not take undue advantage. The RBI’s guidance on changes needed to Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, debt restructuring processes and recognition of impairment will be critical to softening the economic disruption from Covid-19.With a deflationary threat hanging over India, RBI has to design an effective means of funding a stimulus whose size will dwarf anything seen before.The RBI will also have to ensure that capital levels at banks remain acceptable, that the giant PSB mega merger succeeds, and progress made in recognising NPAs is not frittered away. Direct liquidity may need to be provided to NBFCs and AMC-MFs. Liquidity that has dried up for corporate bonds needs to be resurrected.Not only will RBI have to balance often contradictory priorities and on a gigantic scale, they will simultaneously need to plan for the unwind– to commence normalisation of the economy. Some changes, and additional investments will help keep RBI’s regulation top notch.Revamp NBFC supervisionGovernor Shanktikanta Das highlighted concerns related to the non-bank financial companies (NBFC) while announcing enhanced supervision of the largest 50. At nearly Rs 20 lakh crore in assets, private NBFCs are an important part of credit delivery. The reliance on short-term funding is quite high, and there are concerns about “co-lending” with banks. There is also a significant size concentration with the largest private NBFCs.Given IL&FS, DHFL issues and the worries about other prominent NBFCs, the sector needs constant, consistent, tighter monitoring. It is suggested that all NBFCs with assets more than Rs 5,000 crore be “deemed banks”. Their supervision, monitoring etc. should reside with RBI’s banking supervision team, and they would need to comply with prudent norms around capital adequacy, cash reserves like normal scheduled commercial banks. Such NBFCs should also, subject to their meeting other RBI criteria, be given a 12-month fast-track into becoming a bank. Simultaneously, there is a need to reduce the categories of NBFCs. The fundamental risks for “lending” NBFCs are the same – credit and operational risk, liquidity, capital adequacy and governance. Once we move “large” NBFCs into banking, the rest can be treated as one – albeit differentiated between deposit and non-deposit taking. This will reduce the load on RBI and improve supervision.Modernising and simplifying supervisionThe RBI’s supervision and risk monitoring remains fairly reliant on data submitted by financial institutions. There has been a focus on static rather than dynamic data. Combined with scheduled inspections, this may allow sector players to camouflage shortcomings in their operations. A welcome change has been discussions with stakeholders started by the RBI – forcing greater attention on corporate governance. There is a need to simplify the reams of static, often unusable, data that is submitted to the RBI – where data metrics become more important than the underlying risk.Going beyond numbers, simplified supervision could reduce the data points but add emphasis on contingency planning, stress tests and “directional” indicators on balance-sheets. To help with this, the RBI needs access to the most updated data-mining technology. It needs to be able to pull data, at short notice, from the core-banking systems at financial institutions. Technology can then be used to red-flag issues e.g. shifting exposures for evergreening, undisclosed group relationships between borrowers, window-dressing etc. Some work has started, but this needs to be accelerated. RBI needs ongoing engagement with larger financial institutions so that problems are identified early. It needs to be further empowered to proactively examine warning signals (such as the ones IL&FS had emitted for years) through surprise, specific focus inspections. Revisit ‘Payment’ BanksWhile the announcement of Payment Banks grabbed a lot of attention, their real utility and contribution to the financial system – in terms of inclusion or improving transactional efficiencies is questionable. Progress in payments technology has made them almost redundant. Perhaps we can allow them to close down or easily merge with existing banks. This can ease the supervisory burden on RBI.Empower regional officesIndia’s financial sector is too complex to be supervised primarily out of Mumbai. Regional offices need greater leeway and role in supervising local financial institutions, as well as regional operations of national financial institutions. Like the Fed, regional offices should have formal inputs into monetary and regulatory policy issues, adding regional flavour and priorities.As the RBI leads the financial response to COVID, there is a need to give it the right tools to cope with the greater complexity and scale of modern banking regulation.(Saket Misra is an international investment banker)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/some-options-for-the-rbi-as-it-preps-to-kickstart-post-covid-economy-opinion/story-5hlTZY48jKngtVUg8JZDgJ.html
14-04-2020||News||The quest for justice in Bangladesh||On April 12, Abdul Majed, one of the assassins involved in the killings of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and his family was hanged in Dhaka. A former army captain, Majed was reportedly hiding in Kolkata. In 1998, a trial court had sentenced him and 11 others to death, and in 2009, the Bangladesh Supreme Court upheld the sentence. When his last recourse, the clemency plea to the president, failed, he was finally executed just after midnight.In 2010, five others convicted of taking part in the assassination conspiracy were sent to the gallows. One among the twelve convicted, Major Aziz Pasha died in 2002 in Zimbabwe while in hiding. The rest five are still absconding. Bangladesh will not be able to achieve closure on Bangabandhu’s assassination until the five conspirators still alive are brought to justice.When Majed was arrested last month, Bangladesh’s home minister hailed the development as the “biggest gift” for his country, which has had to postpone a year-long birth centenary celebration of Bangabandhu, on account of the coronavirus. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was scheduled to attend the celebrations.Bangabandhu’s assassination changed the course of the country’s history. In 1977, soon after the assassination, the country came under the military dictatorship of General Ziaur Rahman, the then army chief, after he ousted President Khondoker Mostaq Ahmad. Zia was a reluctant “freedom fighter” and deserted the Pakistan army when he realised that Pakistan’s defeat was inevitable.He, however, showed his true colours after the assassination of Bangabandhu. As soon as he grabbed power, he pardoned Bangabandhu’s assassins and rewarded them with diplomatic postings. He permitted leaders of organisations — such as the Jamaat-e-Islami (JeI) and the Razakars — that collaborated with the Pakistani army in the genocide to return. Sheikh Mujibur Rahman had banned these organisations, and declared them war criminals after Bangladesh’s war of liberation.Zia passed an indemnity law in 1975, granting amnesty to those who were part of the assassination conspiracy (The indemnity law was revoked when Sheikh Hasina came to power in 1996). He also allowed many to form political parties and contest elections in the 1980s. He patronised pro-Pakistan politicians and organisations. With other politicians, he cobbled together the Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP), whose leadership was passed on to his widow, Khaleda Zia, after army personnel, in a coup attempt, assassinated him in 1981. Khaleda Zia, in coalition with Pakistani collaborator, JeI, served as the country’s prime minister for two terms. During her rule, Bangladesh-India ties had hit rock bottom.Only two family members survived the assassination of Bangabandhu and his family: Sheikh Hasina, the incumbent prime minister, and her younger sister Sheikh Rehana, who were in Germany on August 15, 1975, the day the killings took place.As prime minister, Sheikh Hasina has shown remarkable determination and tenacity in pursuing the killers. In 2008, she included the issue of the war crimes tribunal in her manifesto. She persisted despite domestic and international criticism, and the tribunal eventually completed the job entrusted to it. Several assassins and JeI leaders were convicted and hanged.Sheikh Hasina has always believed that Zia was a party to the assassination conspiracy and played a key role in it. This fact is at the core of the bitterness and rivalry between her and Khaleda Zia.Intelligence sources point to the role of Zia and his army colleagues in the assassination conspiracy, which was encouraged and financed by Pakistani generals and the Inter-Services Intelligence, smarting from their defeat and humiliation in the 1971 war. Zia, trained under the Pakistani army, had imbibed its ethos and instincts. Military coups were part of its DNA. This led Zia to anchor the country’s nationalism in Islamic and anti-Indian terms, as opposed to the secular values of the War of Liberation, espoused by Bangabandhu and his colleagues in the Awami League. General Hussein Muhammad Ershad, Zia’s successor as the army chief, who later served as the president of the country, amended the Constitution to make Islam the State religion of Bangladesh.Majed’s arrest led to speculation over the reasons and circumstances under which he returned to Bangladesh. He may have been located and identified by India’s intelligence agencies and handed over to Bangladesh. Earlier, the agencies had launched a failed manhunt to find Risaldar Muslehuddin, another assassin, who was also reportedly hiding in India.The hunt for the killers will continue. Intelligence cooperation between the two countries has improved during Sheikh Hasina’s regime. She will not give up on bringing the assassins to justice. India must give her unstinted support in this endeavour.Pinak Ranjan Chakravarty is a former High Commissioner to Bangladesh and a former Secretary in the Ministry of External Affairs; he is currently, a Visiting Fellow at the Observer Research Foundation, Delhi. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-quest-for-justice-in-bangladesh/story-UURZdCmX1UoYTvivR6VbKN.html
14-04-2020||News||Why we need Ambedkar more than ever||Babasaheb Bhim Rao Ambedkar — whose birth anniversary falls on April 14 — was a major aberration to the Indian nationalist iconography. His fearless challenge to Mahatma Gandhi’s moralist appeal was based on the assessment that social elites lack ethical convictions to emancipate the Dalits. Ambedkar wanted to elevate the Dalits from their subjugated and depressing social condition to an equal claimant over social rights and political power. This democratic assertion is often belittled as a narrow political act, reducing Ambedkar to a mere Dalit leader. But he was much more than that. In post-Independent India, Ambedkar’s political philosophy has churned around three major themes. First, he hoped that the modern Constitution, with its rational and welfare-oriented directives, will be more effective in bringing substantive social changes. Second, he assumed that Dalits will emerge as a potent political force and will participate in the new democracy. Third, he visualised that Buddhism will help India reinvent its glorious ethical past and advance liberal principles (mainly liberty, equality and fraternity).In the post-liberalisation period, multiple communities have adopted Ambedkar as a key thinker on subaltern rights, social justice and ecological issues. Dalit and other social movements place him on a high mantle as a heroic individual, as an apostle of great virtues, as one of the leading nationalist icons. However, Ambedkar’s ambition to establish socially marginalised groups as a crucial participant in political power has remained unfulfilled. The Dalit political movement has been peripheral and insignificant, while Hindutva organisations have appropriated Ambedkar as their core cultural symbol, and have successfully attracted newer Dalit communities into their fold.The last political outfit that Ambedkar established, the Republican Party of India, crumbled soon after its inception. Another radical alternative, the Dalit Panthers, died a slow death. In Uttar Pradesh, under the leadership of Kanshi Ram and, later, Mayawati, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) offered a political alternative. But over the last decade, it has become a peripheral force. In the rest of India, the Ambedkarite political movement is still at a nascent stage. Since Narendra Modi came to power, the representation of Ambedkar as a Hindu reformist nationalist icon has taken precedence over his radical anti-caste identity. Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) wishes to showcase that they are equally sensitive to Ambedkar’s political ideas and committed to the values of constitutional justice. On April 14, 2017, Modi visited Deekshabhumi at Nagpur, and announced various welfare measures for the Dalits, which is a loud political statement. Across the country, his government has built monuments, statues, memorials and organised cultural programmes and symbolic events to prove its sincerity towards Ambedkar and his followers. The BJP also tried to test its pro-Dalit social engineering in Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) has a dedicated samarasta (harmony) programme to connect the most disadvantaged social groups into the Hindutva project. The sub-caste factionalism within the Dalits helps the BJP to mobilise the worst-off Dalits. Popular Dalit personalities such as Ramnath Kovind who was elected as president as the nominee of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), and NDA allies Ramdas Athawale or Ramvilas Paswan have helped the BJP expand its electoral support-base. The new Dalit leadership often speaks the political language of the RSS, without being apologetic of its communal character. For the first time, the BJP has also gained considerable support among the Dalit middle classes as well as within the neo-Buddhists. The new Dalit entrants in the Right-wing politics regard it as a pragmatic and rational option, especially when the “secular” political parties have failed to bring any substantive material benefits to the community.The rise of the BJP, the decline of the independent Dalit political movement, and the relegation of parties with the social justice ideology to the sidelines, make us believe that a large number of Dalits have moved away from Ambedkar’s radical vision. But this is too early to say. Despite the success of the Right-wing in appropriating Ambedkar, his political and social vision remain a challenge to the Hindutva cause. For India’s future, Ambedkar envisioned an ideological force of democratic socialism. He valued modernity as a force of humanity’s progress towards true freedom, by which he meant liberation from conservative religious bondages and establishment of fraternal social life. Ambedkar’s political philosophy is a dynamic resource yet to be activated in its true spirit. Like Karl Marx, any reading of his key texts not only ignites our critical capacities but also introduces us to the grave struggles that people are engaged in against social and economic oppression. Ambedkar’s critical insights liberate us from the dungeon of the caste psyche, cultural prejudices and upper-caste hegemony. Ambedkar in its true spirit would be a bête noir to the Right-wing school of thought. He was extremely harsh against the Brahminical Hindu religious order, and was unapologetically critical towards nationalist leaders (including Gandhi and Nehru). He forcefully rejected Hindutva as the ideological force to imagine the new nation. In his book, Pakistan or the Partition of India, he proclaimed that the “Hindu Raj” will be the greatest calamity for the country, and, therefore, it must be prevented at any cost. Some Dalits today have moved towards Right-wing politics, with the hope that it will bring them some material benefit. However, such hopes are rarely fulfilled. Though economic growth, in general, has improved, the real-life conditions of the Dalits, Adivasis and other marginalised communities prove their persistent marginalisation and exclusion. Further, upper-caste cultural hegemony, the social elite’s dominance in public institutions, the growing relegation of Dalits into the informal labour market, and the absence of political deliberation on social justice has become the new norm. Ambedkar’s political philosophy is under-utilised. When the deprivation and destitution of a large mass are growing, while the economic and the political power of a minority social elites is on a rapid surge, it is imperative to bring the discourse of social justice and socialism back. Ambedkar will continue to be the key intellectual figure that provides the critical resource to challenge the dominance of the Right-wing. Harish Wankhede is an assistant professor with the Center for Political Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru UniversityThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/why-we-need-ambedkar-more-than-ever/story-INMbv6lv5tvuIsqdlVmSZL.html
