15-04-2020||News||A post-Covid agenda for India: Repairing Hindu-Muslim ties||Nobody is sure when the Covid-19 pandemic will end or even when it will stop killing Indians. But of one thing there can be no doubt. Even before Covid became the central feature of our lives, the economy was already in the doldrums. With a global recession expected and predictions about our growth rate scaled down to 1.5% or even lesser, this will get worse.In the post-Covid India, we will all be scared, damaged, poorer and even less sure of what the future holds for us than we were in the already gloomy pre-Covid era.But there is one other factor that we may not be paying enough attention to. In the post-pandemic world, we will have to work hard to repair relations between Hindus and Muslims. Rarely, in recent decades, have the two communities been so distrustful of each other.It started with the anger over the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the National Register of Citizens. Without going into the rights and wrongs of that issue, there is no doubt that many Indian Muslims interpreted the government’s moves as a way of treating them as second class citizens.I believed, perhaps naively, when the Covid crisis started that we could sort out our differences and fight the virus unitedly.Then the Tablighis set the agenda. I have written about the criminal behaviour of the Jamaat before so I won’t belabour the point.The Tablighi Jamaat means nothing to most Indian Muslims. It is a primitive, fundamentalist movement that would take Islam to the Middle Ages. Liberal Muslims all over the world do not waste any time defending it. Just as liberal Hindus are appalled by the things that Golwalkar of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh wrote, liberal Muslims disown their community’s fundamentalists and loonies. Even the RSS itself is now deleting the most embarrassing bits from new editions of Golwalkar’s books. Hindus do not believe that they have to find excuses for Golwalkar or for the misdeeds of other Hindus. When the Babri Masjid was demolished, the strongest condemnation came from liberal Hindus. Nobody in the mainstream said, “Yeah, but what about all the temples that Muslims had also destroyed?” There was no place for whataboutery or weak excuses.Perhaps it is because majorities behave differently from minorities, but after the Tablighi incident, some liberals (Hindu and Muslim) issued only qualified criticism of the Jamaat when outright condemnation was called for. And all too often they resorted to whataboutery.Once that whataboutery started, liberals were playing the RSS game. The Jamaat should have been seen as a lunatic fringe group of Muslims who endangered India’s fight against Covid. Instead, thanks to liberal naivete and communalist poison from both sides, the incident has now become a Hindu-Muslim thing. We sometimes forget that a desire to spawn strife is not just restricted to our own communalists. Several foreign countries have an interest, if not in fomenting Hindu-Muslim conflict, then certainly in keeping India weakened and divided.Thousands of fake messages have gone out to Muslims on social media ”documenting” entirely non-existent cases of persecution and warning of dire consequences from the authorities if they dare admit to having contracted the infection. That’s one possible reason why some of those who attended the Jamaat gathering are now absconding. And that’s why we have not been able to track down everyone who was inside that petri-dish of corona infection.The trouble with communal tension is that, like the coronavirus, it grows exponentially.A primitive Muslim sect uses the name of God to keep devotees from following the rules of the lockdown. When they are caught and a backlash ensues, Muslims are told that they will be tortured by the police. They hide. They infect more people. Public opinion grows against them. Persecution does begin. And so the cycle goes.It has now got to the stage in Delhi where even secular Hindus ask whether it is safe to order biryani (“do you think the cooks may be infected?”) and check the religion of delivery boys (“only because of corona, na!”). It is heartbreaking to see the kind of abuse and discrimination that innocent Muslims are being subjected to. Videos aired on TV channels and social media show Muslim vendors being asked to leave markets, Muslims being denied entry to shops and much more. For how long will Muslims take these humiliations before beginning to wonder if their own country is rejecting them?It is very difficult — if not impossible — to break the circle of mistrust and hatred when it gets to this level.And I fear that the gulf between communities will grow. Some of it will come from extremists on both sides. Some of it is coming from digital armies across our border. And some of it, sadly, is being fanned to win votes.When the virus is brought under control and we confront the recession, we will be encouraged to forget that even before Covid arrived, our economy was already in trouble.Instead, we will be told that India was doing fine. Even the fight against Covid was going well till Muslims decided to sabotage the government’s efforts and refused to practise physical distancing or to be tested. Yes, it will be said, there is a recession but that’s only because of Covid. And we could have handled Covid if it wasn’t for the Muslims. The economy and the battle against corona were all destroyed by Muslims.Such words as ‘jihad’ will be flung around on TV channels and it will be suggested that Muslims did this deliberately because many of them are ‘anti-national.’ We must fight and defeat Covid. But once that’s done, we must work to restore communal harmony. And that will be an even more difficult struggle.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/a-post-covid-agenda-for-india-repairing-hindu-muslim-ties/story-o9EVEJUJ1twTcaXpGLuFOO.html
15-04-2020||News||India needs a strong fiscal stimulus||India has seen among the most stringent prevention responses to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) so far. With a complete lockdown for three weeks already, and a further 19 days added on Tuesday, it has hit the maximum in an index of stringency designed by the United Kingdom’s Overseas Development Institute. But its economic response has been among the weakest, with an outlay of less than 1% of GDP compared to 10% in the case of the United States (US), 16% in Malaysia and a staggering 20% in Japan. It is important to dismiss the argument that India is poor and hence cannot be expected to do what richer countries have done. When a response is classified as weak, the evaluation is not in terms of absolute sums of money, but of the outlay in relation to a country’s capacity measured by its GDP. As economic policy in India following the onset of Covid-19 must address both the relief made necessary by the lockdown and restoration of the level of activity after it is lifted, we may consider these two aspects together, terming the overall response needed as “stimulus”. What should the extent of this fiscal stimulus be? The level of the US stimulus may be taken as a benchmark. Concerns have already been expressed that a stimulus in India should be approached with caution as it has implications for the fiscal deficit. At 10% of GDP for 2019-20, the stimulus would amount to approximately Rs 20 lakh crore. This may come across as a huge figure.However, it is actually quite close to the direct loss of GDP due to a month’s lockdown, estimated as a 12th of annual GDP. If we are to take the multiplier to be 1.25, the final figure for loss due to the lockdown will exceed ~20 lakh crore. So, with a fiscal stimulus amounting to 10% of GDP, we would be no more than compensating for the economic shock that accompanied the lockdown.Now, what of the implications for the fiscal deficit? A stimulus of ~20 lakh crore by the Union government would lead to an estimated deficit of approximately 14% of GDP in 2020-21. The figure is arrived at assuming that nominal GDP will grow at 6% (2% real output growth plus 4% inflation), and that so would public revenues. Public expenditure has been calculated by adding the proposed stimulus to the budgetary estimate for 2020-21. These can only be ballpark figures. What are we to make of the estimated figure of 14% of GDP for the fiscal deficit implied by a stimulus package of 10% of GDP? Well, as we are working with the figure for the US stimulus as a benchmark, it may be mentioned that one published estimate of the deficit implication of the US stimulus of two trillion dollars is that it will lead to a fiscal deficit of 14%. So, what is being proposed here is not unheard of. Though Prime Minister Narendra Modi has stated “Jaan bhi aur jahan bhi”, implying that the economy cannot be ignored even as we are engaged in saving lives, the government is yet to announce a stimulus beyond a meagre relief package of Rs 1.7 lakh crore. Some economists look askance at the proposal for a fiscal stimulus on grounds of macro-economic stability. However, for now, India has substantial stocks of foodgrain and reasonably high foreign exchange reserves. In its last assessment, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) figures show reserves exceeding outstanding short-term debt and cumulative portfolio capital inflows. Finally, crowding out of private investment can be avoided by the RBI absorbing the government bonds that will have to be issued. Before viewing this mechanism with horror, it would be worth recalling that growth accelerations have taken place in India at times when the budgetary deficit was monetised through central bank accommodation.However, it is important to go beyond the numbers and imagine the role of fiscal policy in creating the economy that we value. If there is anything that this pandemic has done for us, it is to expose the parlous state of the health infrastructure in India. In any reconstruction of this infrastructure, first would be hospitals, primary health centres and laboratories, but we are also constantly reminded of the poor state of public health services, extending from sanitation to waste management. We have few public toilets, inadequate sewerage or assured water supply for the majority. The coronavirus pandemic has made us realise how important public goods are for a dignified and secure life. A focused public spending is central to the reconstruction that must now begin if we are to have a meaningful future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/india-needs-a-strong-fiscal-stimulus/story-QYu2VqYMMtVESfuQkQswfP.html
15-04-2020||News||Covid-19: The five lessons of the Bhilwara model||On Tuesday, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi extended the lockdown by another 19 days, till May 3. But there was a nuanced policy measure that the PM introduced in his speech. He spoke about hotspots — which represent clusters where a high number of cases have been identified and which can become sites of community transmission. These hotspots, he emphasised, had to be contained; the administration had to ensure that areas which were vulnerable were strictly monitored; and the overall objective had to remain to prevent the emergence of new hotspots. States, districts and sub-regions which are able to do so will see a relaxation of restrictions after April 20. Through this approach, the PM is attempting to balance the dual, often, conflicting objectives the country has to meet. On the one hand, it must soften the blow of the pandemic in a country of 1.3 billion people whose lives and livelihoods were forced to a grinding halt. On the other, it must spend time, money and resources on the containment of the disease, and eventually, its eradication. To do the latter, the PM’s reference to hotspots is crucial. It comes in the wake of several states in the country declaring certain areas as containment zones. In these zones, the lockdown is more strictly enforced; even essential supplies are delivered to houses; there is aggressive screening; testing is ramped up; isolation is enforced; the patients are treated; and the effort is to first flatten the curve and then ensure that the zone becomes free of disease. This model assumed national prominence because of the measures adopted in the textile town of Bhilwara in Rajasthan, which came to be known as “ruthless containment”, a phrase coined by the state’s additional secretary (health), Rohit Kumar Singh. The measures merit detailed examination because the model is now serving a broader template. Once it was discovered that the disease had arrived, and spread in the town, the Rajasthan state government, led by chief minister Ashok Gehlot and Singh, along with a determined and capable local district administration, aided ably by health care professionals and police personnel, worked tirelessly on two fronts: Precaution and treatment. The Bhilwara model proved to be a difficult, but necessary, method. It was difficult because the model caused large-scale public inconvenience — it is not easy for any regime, especially democratic regimes, to disrupt the lives of citizens. But this was done. The first lesson from Bhilwara, therefore, is that state governments must remain alert, have a constant feedback mechanism from the ground, respond promptly, and be ready to take decisions, purely on grounds of the spread of the disease and expert input. When the first case was reported on March 19, the administration did not hesitate to implement an inside-out curfew. Remember this was before the national lockdown was imposed. Restrictions were put in place, albeit leniently, and essential services were allowed during this time. However, fearing a greater spread, the administration gradually extended the geographical reach of the curfew by creating buffer zones, which ultimately covered the whole district. It then began tightening essential supplies. This was a Herculean, multi-pronged approach that required agencies to go door-to-door to deliver essentials. This, then, is the second lesson — adapt according to circumstances, implement even tougher measures when necessary, but do it sensitively and with a humane face to ensure that citizen needs are met. This was then supplemented with the aggressive screening of all residents, and continuous testing of symptomatic individuals. This is particularly praiseworthy since the nearest testing centre is in Jaipur, about 250 kilometres away from Bhilwara. Over time, government agencies established dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and arranged for vehicles to ferry people from the rural areas to get tested. Thousands of hotel rooms, and beds in other institutions and hostels, were set up as quarantine centres to keep symptomatic patients in isolation. This, then, is the third lesson. Hard measures are not an end in themselves. They are the means to ensure better health outcomes. And therefore, the period of strict lockdown has to be used to ramp up health infrastructure, test, isolate and treat. To keep local officials motivated, teams of elected village representatives right up to the subdivisional magistrates, were given special and specific responsibilities. This is the fourth lesson. India has robust institutions on the ground; it has leaders with roots in the community who have legitimacy with the people; it is important to make the entire process participatory by using these institutions and leaders. That will ensure popular buy-in. There is, however, a troubling trade-off involved in the Bhilwara model, as in other containment zones. Pandemics trigger health emergencies which demand coercive measures and the curtailment of some civil liberties that often don’t feature in democracies. These include restrictions on the freedom of movement — through curfew, quarantine, sealing borders and so on — and the rationing of supplies. But perhaps, in times of unprecedented crises, this is the only way forward. And that, then, is the final lesson. There will be short-term restrictions on rights — but it is for a larger public good, and conditional on the rights being restored when public health improves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-the-five-lessons-of-the-bhilwara-model/story-ExB8hp0sf07cssUwG0IdSL.html
15-04-2020||News||What the history of pandemics tells us about coronavirus||One of the good things about studying history is that no matter how bad things get, you can almost always find something from the past that was worse. This is also true about the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which has now engulfed the world. Perhaps the most comparable pandemic is the Spanish Flu, which lasted from January 1918 to December 1920. It infected some 500 million people and killed 50 million. To put this into perspective, the entire population of India, as per Census 1921, was about 250 million.The Spanish Flu took place almost exactly a century ago but it had several similarities with Covid-19. But this was not the only pandemic to have similarities with Covid-19.The three cholera pandemics of 1817-1824, 1826-1837 and 1846-1860 claimed more lives than any other disease outbreak in the 19th century. Originally starting in India and Central and Southeast Asia, cholera spread to China, from where it reached Europe through trade routes and Russian soldiers. It spread to Poland through Russian troops, who were brought in from various parts of the Tsar’s empire to suppress uprisings. It then spread from Poland to East Prussia, forcing the Prussian authorities to close their borders to Russian transport. By 1831, the situation was so severe that the British government issued quarantine orders for any Russian ships sailing to British ports. But it was too late. The pandemic had already spread to Britain, France and most of Europe and Asia. Hundreds of thousands died. More than a million died in the Russian Empire during the third pandemic alone, and at least a 100,000 in most affected nations with each successive wave. Thus, we can safely say that the death toll went into millions. The cholera pandemics of the 19th century had the most similarities with the coronavirus pandemic today. They both started in Asia, and spread to other parts of the world, deeply affecting specific nations (Russia for cholera, Italy and the United States for the coronavirus so far). They both also spread to other parts of the world through these specific nations and the affected populations were, unlike the global population that got Spanish influenza, not weakened by any major war — at least not on the industrial scale of World War I. The cholera pandemics, just like Covid-19, also called for ship quarantine measures and spread primarily through the people who had gone abroad and brought it back to their nations. These pandemics required social distancing to prevent the spread of the infection. Like Covid-19, the cholera pandemics brought with them large economic losses — not only could ships not enter many ports, bringing maritime trade to a standstill, overland trade was also greatly affected. The Silk Route and other Central Asian trade routes, which counted for the majority of overland trade, could not be used due to both the threat of getting the disease and the anti-cholera steps taken by the Russian Empire, which controlled most of Central Asia at that time. Large financial losses were incurred, especially by the British and the Russians, the two most affected parties in terms of trade. Both relied on their far-flung empires for resources and wealth.India can learn from the cholera pandemic, as it started here, and within months, hundreds of thousands were either infected or dead. At least 100,000 Indians and 10,000 British troops died in the first pandemic (1817-1824). This was partly because of not practising proper social distancing, which requires active participation from the people. Both an active government push, and deep citizen engagement and support, is clearly needed for social distancing and other public health measures. In Russia, the incompetence of Tsar Nicholas I’s regime in handling the pandemic across the massive rural expanses and the population of his vast empire led to more than a million deaths. While he ordered anti-cholera measures eventually, the damage had already been done. The delay in responding, and the vulnerability of large countries, with a substantial rural and floating population, must be factored into any response.To end on a positive note, no matter how bad they were, how many millions they killed, or how much they disrupted the economy, all of these pandemics were beaten, with the human race coming out stronger than ever. There was once a time when smallpox terrorised the world, but now it is all but eradicated. The Black Death was beaten. The Spanish Flu was beaten. The cholera epidemic was beaten. We have recovered and come out stronger than ever from all these diseases. I am sure that we will be able to defeat the coronavirus too.Shiv Malik is a student of Class 9, Vasant Valley School, New DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/what-the-history-of-pandemics-tells-us-about-coronavirus/story-Fb3XDfXe0lyk0JukqtdG1L.html
