16-04-2020||News||Health care professionals are heroes. Honour them| Analysis||Across the world, the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is on. And this fight, against an invisible, fast-moving enemy, has shaken up health systems. From world leaders to the common citizens, from dignitaries to the affected patients, there is a string of commonality in our response to this pandemic — that the well-being of all people depends on the timely advice and care of physicians. Health care professionals (HCPs) are indispensable in this battle. The pandemic has proved to be a great leveller. It has set HCPs apart in their selfless service to others. But despite this, 15,000 health workers in Spain are now ill or self-isolating, making up 14% of its confirmed cases, according to their health ministry. In Italy, the figure is just below 10%. At least 5,400 nurses, doctors, and other health care workers in the United States have been reported to have contracted the virus, and dozens have died, according to BuzzFeed, a news website. The numbers are likely to be much higher. Doctors have been sharing images of colleagues using disposable raincoats, garbage bags, and other improvised materials to protect themselves, as hospitals are ill-equipped to deal with a pandemic of this magnitude. The lack of personal protective equipment for HCPs is a huge chink in the armour. HCPs, working in close proximity to one another, as close as one-to-two feet from infected patients, expose themselves to great danger several times a day. The more competent and skilled they are, the greater the risks they have to take. They are at the frontlines every day, risking their lives to protect the lives of others.So, how has society rewarded HCPs during this time? In several places, they face an awful reality — they have been assaulted, locked out of their homes and their families shunned. People forget that the role of HCPs cannot be substituted. And despite taking every precaution to safeguard their patients at huge personal risk, people are turning their backs on them. They deserve praise and gratitude, not ostracisation. They deserve to be put on a pedestal by society.In conventional wars, those who lay down their lives or are gravely injured in battle are remembered and revered by their nation. They are decorated, called martyrs, and are considered national heroes. War memorials are erected in their honour, and gallantry awards are handed to them. These tributes don’t just recognise their brave service to the nation, but boost the morale of the forces, and heal the wounds of the families they have left behind. They are also given compensation in the form of land, small businesses and jobs for their next of kin. Doctors, nurses and paramedics are soldiers in a different uniform. Every day, they go into enemy territory to take care of those showing symptoms of the virus or those who have already been infected. They come in contact with them physically, to take throat swabs, administer medication intravenously, and insert catheters. They have to come in contact with the bodily fluids of infected patients, putting themselves at risk. They have to bear the trauma of seeing patients die, despite their best efforts, and suffer exhaustion from long hours of work.As the number of infected rises substantially every day, HCPs across the world have put aside their fears and worries, and boldly risen to the challenge. They have taken the virus head-on. They require much more than sops such as extending their health cover or a few words of praise. Some states have doubled the remuneration of the HCPs for a few months. Others have announced sizeable compensation for the loss of life. But HCPs deserve more — especially more recognition as the front-runners of this battle, standing between life and death, working towards the betterment of the infected. There are several ways to show them that we, as a society, care and acknowledge their efforts. Each state should list the HCPs who are working in the Covid-19 intensive care units and isolation wards. Recognise their acts of selfless service and devotion, and acknowledge their service publicly in the media by offering Devatulya Abhinandan (Godlike greetings). It would be a lasting tribute to HCPs that even after the pandemic ceases to threaten us, their contributions are etched in gold on the gates of a temple garden. Such Devatulya temple gardens should be set up in every state. They should be our new temples, our new prayer spots. Of course, Devatulya Puraskars, awards, given with discretion and without bias, should match the recognition and respect accorded to the Paramveer Chakra or Surya Chakra. Today, they fight a difficult, unprecedented crisis. We should reward them for their work while they continue to do it. While we practise social distancing, sit at home and do what we can in our capacities, they wake up every day to treat the infected. They are our only hope at this time, and we must never forget that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/health-care-professionals-are-heroes-honour-them-analysis/story-MF39o6EHHaVJ3WrYIBcVkM.html
16-04-2020||News||Covid-19: Modi’s global stature will help India| Analysis||India is at the beginning of the coronavirus pandemic, others are in the middle of it, and no one, not even China, has reached the end. The only certainty is the uncertainty of the impact of the virus. But there will be a time, after the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is finally over, that will be marked by upheavals and chaos, and the world over, it will be a time of new beginnings.  For instance, due to the lockdown, which Prime Minister Narendra Modi has rightly extended till May 3, many people, whose work permits it, have been working from home. This can become the norm for at least a segment of the professional workforce, since it saves on office spaces and transportation.  This period will shape other aspects of society as well. It has been tough on those at the bottom of the pyramid — from household help to migrant workers. They may now get organised, ask for higher wages, and better treatment. The most severely affected have been the migrant workers, who will need to be protected. This is the responsibility of state governments. A new environment created from this pandemic will demand the introduction of several schemes to address such concerns across the country. But the crisis will also alter international politics. The global spread of the disease will test the leadership of world leaders. Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi appears ready and willing to take on a global leadership role in dealing with this unprecedented crisis. In this difficult time, one has to recognise that he is a national asset, with a massive global currency. Even his critics grudgingly admit that he enjoys credibility on the world stage.  PM Modi has already had conversations, individually, with all top global leaders. He took the initiative in having the first G-20 summit on the issue, virtually. Closer home, even before many countries had recognised the severity of the crisis, he proposed a meeting of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation nations to draw up a strategy to fight Covid-19 and committed financial resources to it. Modi’s credibility comes from his domestic strength, his statesman-like approach on this global issues, his wise counsel and calls for collaboration, and his actions, where he has gone out of his way to help countries in distress, without compromising India’s needs. In the last six years, Modi stepped up India’s global engagement in unprecedented ways. While his critics focused on counting his air miles, he made new friends and strengthened old relationships. He aimed to turn foes into friends. He pulled off what in geopolitical circles is considered a rare feat, of developing a close bond with United States President Donald Trump, while winning the respect of Chinese President Xi Jinping. All of this is now paying dividends. When the dust settles over the coronavirus crisis, and countries pick up the pieces of their battered economies, they will look at inspiring leadership. Modi will not be found wanting.However, India’s biggest challenge will be how to get the domestic economy back on track. And this international goodwill can be leveraged for that objective. Global players may come to realise that India’s bureaucratic bottlenecks are a lesser evil than the trust deficit that they have with China. They might think of shifting their production units from China to India, if India makes it attractive enough for them. India must focus on attracting foreign investment, through a set of innovative policy measures, once the rebuilding process starts. Domestically, there is likely to be a follow-up economic stimulus after the ~1.7 lakh crore package was rolled out to give immediate relief to the poor. The infrastructure and manufacturing sectors, coupled with the services industry, need the immediate attention of the government. Non-banking financial assets, and small and medium enterprises, need a helping hand too.India has a domestic market which, to a large extent, kept the country going during the 2008 recession. We must make efforts to generate demand and enhance production, alongside our efforts in giving a strong push to exports.The Covid-19 outbreak presents one of the biggest challenges for Modi. He has emphasised the importance of lives (jaan) and the world (jahan). His global stature will help preserving both.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-modi-s-global-stature-will-help-india-analysis/story-ELUtwVswyBLFlqHf7HQ0sK.html
