17-04-2020||News||Covid-19: Protecting both lives and livelihoods||Should we save lives or livelihoods? This question has put policymakers, citizens and scholars in a quandary. Other questions include: How long should public health be prioritised over economic prosperity? By temporarily shutting down the economy, is the cure becoming worse than the disease? Until when can we sacrifice the nation’s economic potential and reduce GDP growth? At first blush, these questions appear to be valid and logical. However, a recent survey, conducted by the University of Chicago’s Booth School of Business where more than 40 economists from across the best universities in the United States (US) were asked similar questions, found that the overwhelming response was that any reductions in the current lockdown restrictions in the country will result in much deeper, long-term economic damage.Similarly, a statement issued by the Economic Strategy Group of The Aspen Institute on March 25 stated: “Saving lives and saving the economy are not in conflict right now; we will hasten the return to robust economic activity by taking steps to stem the spread of the virus and save lives.” In other words, economic experts seem to be stressing that premature lifting of lockdowns will result in a resurgence of the pandemic with greater virulence. The fact is that the questions referred to at the beginning of this piece present a false binary of having to choose between the economy and public health. The two are not, and cannot be viewed as, mutually exclusive, but must be seen as interdependent. Curbing the virus is a sine qua non for the economy to rebound. It is fallacious to presume that the obliteration of growth and jobs is a corollary to social distancing, and not the pandemic itself.Curiously, according to a 2014 study published in the Preventive Medicine journal, an increase in the unemployment rate during the Great Recession had a beneficial health effect across European countries, except for suicide mortality. Therefore, it is incorrect for anyone to argue that a recession will “kill” more people, in the ordinary course, than the virus.In times such as this, public trust in the government’s strategy is more critical than the strategy itself. If by lifting the lockdown, the virus rebounds with equal or higher velocity, will the public still trust the authorities who misguided them? The importance of public trust cannot be overstated in the present construct since the success of any government strategy requires public acceptance. It is only the public that can ensure the efficacy of maintaining strict social distancing, good hygiene levels and testing compliance.Most economists continue to urge that the only way to minimise long-term damage to the economy is to first control the virus, as being not only an end in itself, but a prerequisite for saving livelihoods and the economy.A start-stop approach, which refers to imposing a lockdown, getting complacent and lifting it, only to see a surge in infections and reimposing restrictions — will yield a haphazard result, thereby compromising the mental, social and economic benefits to a methodical, sustained and phased economic recovery. The most glaring example of this is Singapore, which has been compelled to reintroduce a harsher 30-day lockdown after it prematurely eased the initial restrictions and permitted international travel, leading to a spike in cases. On April 3, the World Health Organization and the International Monetary Fund laid out the task ahead for all governments that are dealing with the coronavirus crisis. They point out that an economic stimulus can only be “in addition to” — and not a substitute — to health care spending. Governments across the world have the unenviable task of striking a harmonious balance between spending on health care (enhancing support to existing hospitals and new makeshift treatment stations, ramping up testing infrastructure and procuring kits, paying salaries and providing medical equipment to frontline health care workers) and providing an economic stimulus to those most in need, enhancing unemployment benefits and minimising corporate insolvency. It is only by walking this tightrope that we can achieve the most optimal outcome of minimum health care burden and maximum economic recovery. It could prove instructive for economists and policymakers to reassess the functioning of modern-day capitalism to a more broad-based form of capitalism that works for a majority of the population as pointed out by hedge fund investor Ray Dalio. He points out that capitalism “is producing a self-reinforcing feedback loop that widens the income/wealth/opportunity gap” and continues to concentrate wealth within the hands of a few and, thereby, increasing the gap between the wealthiest 1% of the population and other 99%. It is a cause for concern when in the near future, millions of people will have to undergo a dip in living standards while investors in big corporations, especially those which have capitalised on the current lockdown due to the specific nature of their businesses, reap the benefits of all-time high share prices. According to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index, while the combined net worth of the world’s 500 richest people has dropped $553 billion this year, it has surged 20% from its low on March 23. This is largely due to the benefits that government bailouts will bring to behemoths, particularly in the United States. It is time for society to use this pandemic as an opportunity towards increasing the value of human life in a more qualitative way to create a society that truly understands what Mahatma Gandhi, said: “It is health that is real wealth and not pieces of gold and silver.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-protecting-both-lives-and-livelihoods/story-N9oc13PAvAy51Jc8jAFgmK.html
17-04-2020||News||Kerala offers the rest of India a model to fight the pandemic||Calamities, it seems, bring out the best in Kerala. Be it the floods of 2018 and 2019 or the current coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19), the Keralites’ collective resilience and solidarity across religious and political divides set the state apart. It was in Kerala where the first Covid-19 case in India was detected on January 30, and exactly two months later, the state had 235 cases, the maximum number reported in the country. Fast forward to April 16, the state recorded 394 confirmed cases, 245 recoveries and two deaths.The credit for this incredible achievement primarily goes to effective grassroots-level government institutions and a proactive, level-headed political leadership. People in the remotest corner of the state have access to medical attention and ration shops, and, if required, the state government intervenes to ensure that the basics reach the needy. Migrant labourers constitute nearly 10% of the state’s population. Due to an unambiguous communication, a majority of them left for their homes after the state announced a partial lockdown, well ahead of the national lockdown.However, health is just one of the many battles. It is time to confront the elephant in the room: Securing the life and livelihood of the people. If the former was a battle, the latter is nothing short of a war, something that the state governments cannot fight on their own, without the Centre leading from the front. New Delhi could leverage the lessons learnt from Kerala’s battle for health.Covid-19 is perhaps the single most impactful economic crisis of our lifetime. It has shrunk our needs to the basic necessities of life – food, medicines, electricity, water, and communication technology. As the coronavirus grinds the world to a halt, the crisis can kill millions due to hunger, and can even bring serious civil unrest.We need to think of crisis management and stabilisation of the economy and its recovery, which might even spill over to the second half of 2021. We must be prepared for the long haul.India will need an economic stimulus package equivalent to 10-15% of its GDP. This is unlikely to cause inflation in the short-term, considering the subdued demand. Of course, it will aggravate the fiscal deficit and government debt, but that should not be of prime concern now. Several other countries have taken this route – the United States, the United Kingdom, Japan, Germany, Korea, Italy, France and the United Arab Emirates. Japan, for example, announced an economic stimulus package of $1 trillion, which is 20% of its GDP, whereas the package announced by India so far is below 1% of its GDP.How the stimulus package is distributed to achieve the desired results is another major question. It is a difficult proposition in a country like India, with the majority employed in the unorganised sector. Over a three-month period, a considerable part of the relief package should be transferred directly into the accounts of the most vulnerable people, especially the daily wage earners. In the organised sector, employers should be paid an employment subsidy to help them keep the people employed. For example, the UK government provides up to £2,500 per month per employee as a payroll subsidy to the employer. Such an unprecedented crisis requires proactive central governments and central banks, because only they can ensure liquidity and cash flow. This is the time to seize the moment. Tough times do not last long, but tough people and determined communities do. If Kerala can do so well against the virus, India can surely do so, too.VK Mathews is founder and executive chairman, IBS SoftwareThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/kerala-offers-the-rest-of-india-a-model-to-fight-the-pandemic/story-bGZc91aEE4ePJVquomTDHK.html
