20-04-2020||News||Will force majeure apply to Covid, writes Abhishek Singhvi||Apart from fear, panic and uncertainty, the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has generated a set of legal issues which will assume increasing salience in the weeks and months ahead.Can I, as a tenant, seek waiver of rent for inability to use my rented office/manufacturing facility during the lockdown? Am I obliged to pay full wages even if I am closed and not generating income? Can my building contract invoke force majeure (FM), freeing the party from legal obligation, and/or change in law, and claim not only extension of time but also compensation for an impossibility? Does the Covid-19 lockdown constitute change in law at all? These and innumerable similar questions are agonised over daily. This article cannot give in-depth answers but suggests some principles, in legal, non-consensual situations between warring parties.First, FM (usually used interchangeably with frustration) is, in law, quite different from what it is popularly perceived to be. Prevalent confusion in the Covid-19 context arises largely due to a lack of understanding of its true essence in law. Its 400-year-old English and 75-year-old Indian jurisprudence yields the following principles:a) The contract between parties is supreme; if it specifically anticipates a pandemic with consequences stipulated, it will govern above all else — 99.99% cases are of gaps and ambiguity, because parties are not prophets and lawyers are not astrologers.b) While English law is of persuasive value, Indian courts must be guided by the comprehensive codes in sections 32 and 56 of our Contract Act.c) Of the three underlying juristic principles — that the consequence of a frustrating event be implied by courts as something so obvious that parties excluded it because of its obviousness; be imposed by courts as the most just and fair result; or be adopted as that which law’s hypothetical reasonable man would do during FM — the last is the most preferable. The first is farcical because the very basis of FM is that which parties could not anticipate; the second involves rewriting of contract by a judge supposedly doing justice, smacking of the proverbial Chancellor’s foot.d) Critically and crucially, case law has used strong words and cast the threshold to successfully apply FM very high. It requires the entire foundation of the bargain to be shown to be upset. The basis of the adventure must be destroyed. Mere alteration, even significant change, or highly enhanced onerousness, or humongous increase in expenditure, or availability even of delayed performance alternatives, have all negatived FM. A radically new contract and a break in identity with the original have been judicially adumbrated. Price, cost and monetary changes have been specifically given the least judicial importance.Second, celebrated cases (despite distinguishing features) and cerebral judges have rejected FM in stronger contexts than Covid-19. Thus, requisition of land on which development was to contractually happen was not excused in 1954, despite requisition of the land in World War II. A ghee supplier during the same war was not allowed enhanced prices, despite huge scarcity and enhanced expense of procurement. The rejection of a licence to a jute supplier sourcing Pakistani jute post the 1965 war was held not FM-entitled, while, in 2017, a corporate was denied FM and benefits of change of law in electricity generation, despite proving a humongous increase in the cost of Indonesian coal which, by law of that country, increased exponentially and admittedly rendered the contract commercially impossible.Third, a little known Chinese judgment (applying English law in Hong Kong) in the identical context of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) 2003, denied relief to a tenant who sought to exit his tenancy at the inception, but within the lock-in period because of a month’s disruption of occupation due to the SARS lockdown. Judges have emphasised the non-permanence and temporariness of such disruptions, and the full probability of resumption, albeit within an uncertain time frame, to deny FM. Indeed, the Hong Kong judge noted that he knew of no English decision over 500 years excusing tenancy obligations based on frustration.Fourth, applying the above, it would be well nigh impossible to argue that two-or three-month disruptions qua Covid-19 leases radically altered the bargain. While all governmental communications obliging wage payments are advisories with no legal effect, the ministry of home affairs document of March 29, 2020, is under section 10(2)(i) of the Disaster Management Act and constitutes law. Absent a successful challenge to the notification and to the validity of the section on the ground that that section does not address the issue of wages at all, the obligation regarding wages binds. Litigation experience tells me that in the current ambience of destitution and deprivation, no court is likely to arrive at that result.Fifth, the lockdown rules clearly possess all the attributes of law and are binding. They would, thus, qualify as change of law under appropriate clauses in construction contracts leading to proportionate extension of time for completion. Whether they would make the owner liable for additional compensation to the contractor, arising from change in law, remains an untested and vexed question. Arguably, the lockdown, though undoubtedly a change in law, is activity- neutral and not specific qua construction, apart from excusing the owner as much as the contractor. The jury may well be out on this last one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/will-force-majeure-apply-to-covid-writes-abhishek-singhvi/story-c73bYO3LDRtEJtFiCt8SvN.html
20-04-2020||News||The politics of power in times of a pandemic | Opinion||The disruptions caused by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) highlight the importance of electricity for modern societies. A reliable electricity supply underpins the essential services that sustain the social order and build individual preparedness during this lockdown. Ironically, however, even as electricity can make us more resilient, electricity is also vulnerable to the pandemic. How is India’s electricity sector placed at this moment?The problem is not on the supply-side of providing enough power. Due to the electricity demand slump in recent months, most domestic coal-fired power plants have more than enough coal to last them for 25 days. Moreover, the coal supply chain and electricity generation have been declared essential services, exempted from the lockdown. Renewable energy (RE) plants are not dependent on fuel.The challenge comes from the demand shock: Efforts to flatten the Covid-19 curve have caused the electricity load to plummet. Power demand has dropped around 25% nationally, with individual states reporting drops of 15-30%. On the first day of the nationwide lockdown, the spot price for electricity dropped to ~0.60/KWh, touching a three-year low. In the days ahead, supply was far greater than demand, to the point that the price dropped by more than half.The impact of this demand shock is two-fold. First, the demand drop is a direct consequence of reduced economic activities — the lockdown of commercial establishments, public institutions, transport, construction and manufacturing — and implies reduced commercial and industrial (C&I) load on distribution companies (discoms). While losing a significant part of the cross-subsidising load, discoms are spending more per unit (KWh) of electricity supplied (in part because they have to pay fixed charges to generators even if they don’t use the power). Consequently, discoms, reeling under persistent financial losses, will lose even more.Second, the pandemic response has impaired discoms’ billing and collection operations. Discoms have extended deadlines for payment in several states, and the chances of recovering the dues later are uncertain because those who have lost their livelihood may seek an electricity bill waiver. Enforcing recovery, however, comes with the risk of pushing the poor off the grid.As a relief to discoms, the Centre has directed a three-month moratorium on their dues to generators (barring the RE generators) and transmission companies. This may be a temporary relief, but revenue loss implies a surge in discoms’ overdues to generators that have accumulated to over Rs 80,522 crore. Simultaneously, the additional financial losses of discoms are unlikely to be passed on to the consumers, and will lead to a surge in their regulatory assets (a promise by the regulator that discoms can recoup the money in the future from consumers). Combined, the regulatory assets of discoms were around Rs 77,000 crore at the end of financial year, 2019.Both these effects raise the alarm for a looming financial crisis in the sector. For those observing the sector, this is a déjà vu moment. The sector is ready for yet another bailout. A bailout can be a formidable task for governments, given the fiscal stress due to the lockdown and planned stimulus. Even pre-pandemic, discoms’ debts had grown to the level of the last bailout under the Ujwal Discom Assurance Yojana. A failure to act in a timely and adequate way may impede the reliable electricity supply required to reboot the economy.In planning a response, the pandemic impacts offer some insights for the future of electricity. First, it provides a test case of impending load migration to RE. As RE costs have fallen, the chances have increased that high-paying consumers will move off the grid. The lockdown provides an indication of the consequences, ie, what happens when industry no longer provides a cross-subsidy to households and agriculture? Will the experience create pressure for alternative ways to manage subsidy demands? There are some efforts to deliver the low-cost benefits of RE directly to the poor through capital subsidies for solar panels, solar pumps and solar agricultural feeders, thus reducing the growing subsidy burden on discoms. Will the pandemic experiences drive a shift from electricity tariff subsidy to electricity infrastructure subsidy for RE to help the poor?Second, the crisis creates an impetus to find technology fixes to disruptions in system operation. Though unintended, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for lights out on April 5, was an exemplary test of grid balancing under sudden demand variation. Will the grid’s ability to manage a 27% (31 gigawatts) demand swing assuage the concerns for the integration of variable RE? In another example, smart meters, being pushed to check discoms’ loss, may be used to build the resilience of discoms in billing and collection.Finally, the choice between a networked and centralised electricity system and a network of decentralised systems is pertinent. Decentralised systems, advocated for faster energy transition, are also thought to be operationally resilient. Will the pandemic experience prompt a reconsideration of the electric power structure?The electricity system has been shaken by the pandemic. But a viable electricity system that can assure reliable supply is also crucial to the revival. It is time now to think about how to ensure that electricity is pandemic-proof.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-politics-of-power-in-times-of-a-pandemic-opinion/story-uG28pgZi7qptywFsLLPaYP.html
20-04-2020||News||To control Covid-19, address water, sanitation, hygiene and waste issues||The Coronavirus outbreak has laid bare the fault lines in human habits and habitations. Though it has affected millions across the world, it is the densely populated areas of large cities that have borne the brunt most. The outbreak highlights our shortcomings in addressing urban densification, growth, and adverse public health outcomes, which are further intensified by inadequate drinking water, sanitation and hygiene practices.A March 19 World Health Organization guideline outlines the risks the water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) practitioners and providers, as well as policymakers and health care workers, face during the coronavirus crisis. The guideline summarises the findings of some of the ongoing researches on Covid-19 which have so far confirmed two main routes of transmission of the virus – contact and respiratory. Health professionals have so far emphasised on avoiding direct contact with infected people and wearing masks in their proximity. These prescriptions have been brought to the public’s notice through sustained advertising and instructions communicated through media. Though the medium of transmission are confirmed for two modes, WHO cautions people about the likelihood of the virus’ survival in drinking water and sewage for a limited number of days.The virus, with a fragile outer membrane that upon breaking renders it inactive, is not known to transmit through drinking water and sewage, but studies corroborate that they may survive in water for two days. Reports also confirm that 2-10% of people infected with Covid-19 suffer from diarrhoea and have viral RNA fragments in their faeces. That uncertainty should make us cautious. The WHO guidelines, which the UN body calls “interim”, lay down preventive WASH and waste management practices to ensure the safety of sanitation and health care workers. But how far such measures are implemented in practice remains debatable.There are three major corollaries for India in the WHO guidelines.First, provided the research on Covid-19 don’t corroborate water and fecal-oral as transmission mediums for the pathogen, India is still highly vulnerable. Given the ubiquity of dense neighbourhoods in the urban and peri-urban areas of India, contact and respiratory transmission are unavoidable. This was witnessed in the post-lockdown exodus of migrant labourers from large cities such as Delhi, Mumbai, and Ahmedabad .Second, if you consider even the slightest possibility of water and/or faecal-oral transmission, India would turn into a Covid-19 hotbed. The majority of the households in most of our cities doesn’t have piped water supply or sewer connections. Even in the cities where their coverage is better, water pipelines are old, which are a common cause of water-borne diseases such as typhoid, diarrhoea and jaundice.The sewage treatment plants are few, most of them are partially functional – treating sewage much lower than their installed capacities – and many of them dysfunctional. Most of urban India and almost all of rural India are largely reliant on groundwater sources for drinking and on-site sanitation systems such as septic tanks and pits, often flouting the basic design standards. Safe drinking water and treatment of waste remain a distant dream. This makes a wide range of people vulnerable to Covid-19, if the virus survives for long enough in water and the faecal matter.Sanitation workers are the most vulnerable, as states across the country have invoked the Essential Services Acts, which necessitates the continuation of the solid and liquid waste collection during the lockdown. New research shows that hospital waste has multiplied during the lockdown, necessitating proper disposal of potentially infected waste. But the unavailability of protective gear such as gloves and masks or soaps and sanitisers intensifies their vulnerability. In addition to that, they are not trained to operate under epidemic outbreaks.Third, irrespective of the virus’ medium of transmission, India’s health care workers find themselves in a precarious position. While providing care and treatment to the serious cases, the health-care workers operate in close proximity with each other and patients. Naturally, shortages of protective gear such as masks and gloves and sanitisers have invoked both anger and exasperation among the health workers across the country. To make matters worse, they, like sanitation workers, are often stigmatised as a carrier of the virus. The coronavirus outbreak should serve as a wake-up call for authorities and policymakers to scale up the WASH and waste management infrastructure and services across the country.Aditya Bhol is a senior research associate with the Scaling City Institutions for India initiative under the Urbanisation vertical at the Centre for Policy Research, New DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/to-control-covid-19-address-water-sanitation-hygiene-and-waste-issues/story-fkBbFDAujvvifcYfjxEOzJ.html
20-04-2020||News||Covid-19: What India has done right and what next||As the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) spreads across the world, we are reminded of the frailty of the human condition and of a world that has been halted in time like a deer caught in the headlights. We hear about historic pandemics and biblical plagues, but seldom has there been such a challenge to modern civilisation, one that has pressed the pause button on lives and livelihoods. With over 2.3 million cases and over 150,000 deaths, this pandemic has put more than 100 countries and a third of the world’s population in lockdown. Economists warn that the damage to the economy is likely to be similar — or worse — to the Great Depression.How India, with one of the largest working-age populations in the world, battles Covid-19 will determine how the future unfolds for the world. While the West’s policy sages are painting a grim picture of a post-pandemic world, India is charting out a path to recovery and redemption. The Government of India’s (GoI) policy responses to Covid-19 have been stellar, and have evolved from precaution to prevention and now, to precision.First, India was expeditious in taking precautions to curtail the spread of the coronavirus — from issuing travel advisories, introducing temperature screening of foreign travellers at airports, and establishing quarantine centres to being one of the first countries to ban international and domestic travel. These measures significantly contributed to reducing the case count. In fact, 46 days since the first reported case, Italy’s daily case volume was over 1,000 times larger than India’s. Similarly, despite similar caseloads in India and the United States (US), 40 days since the first reported case, the daily volume in the US was 25 times that of India’s two weeks hence. The growth rate of daily and cumulative cases in India has been consistently linear and lower.Second, India undertook one of the boldest measures ever seen by implementing a lockdown of over 1.3 billion people to break the transmission chain of the virus. This move was implemented sooner than it was in China, the United Kingdom and Spain, and it has estimated to have reduced the number of people infected by about 150 times. India’s three-week lockdown is showing results in terms of a flattened pandemic curve. Consequently, the growth rate of cases has declined by over 40%. At a national level, while the doubling of cases has slowed from three days before the lockdown to 6.2 days now, as many as 19 states and Union territories (UTs) have demonstrated progress with better-than-average doubling rates. India’s federal setup is a model of cooperative partnership, bolstered by constant interaction and consultation between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the chief ministers.Third, with the extension of the lockdown till May 3, the GoI’s focus is on precision policy, mapping out hotspots and moving towards restarting the economy. While the first phase of the lockdown focused on saving lives, the core objective of the extended lockdown is finding a balance between lives and livelihoods, particularly in rural India.With the graded lifting of curbs from April 20, the guidelines provide autonomy to states and districts in charting out their plans. In fact, this decision indicates the GoI’s willingness to ease the economic crisis for the hardest hit — the poor and the migrant workers. The GoI has disbursed almost $4 billion to over 320 million people via the direct benefit transfer mechanism.With states recalibrating the resumption of core economic activities, the latest guidelines follow a traffic light approach. There will be colour-coded zones — red, orange and green. The red zones (hotspots) will continue to have a lockdown; orange zones (with some cases) and green zones (with no cases) will witness a relaxation in restrictions on economic activities. So far, 170 out of 718 districts have been identified as hotspots. On average, about seven out of 10 cases in each state have been reported from three districts. Further, one in two districts in India has no reported cases and will be allowed to restart economic activities.These guidelines allow for an entire ecosystem of primary and agro-based industries to gear towards production. This is significant considering the total area under the summer crops (including rice, pulses, coarse cereals and oil seeds) has jumped significantly, registering an 11.64 lakh hectare increase over the last year. The country is even moving towards a bumper harvest in the coming months.The coordination between a proactive political leadership, an agile bureaucracy and the supportive public has led to a semblance of life returning back to normal. We have pan-ministry guidelines being issued in rapid succession to ensure supply chain bottlenecks are dismantled, and beneficiaries in non-hotspot areas, particularly farmers and small and medium entrepreneurs, kick start economic activity.Since the beginning of the lockdown, about ₹16,000 crore have been released under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) Scheme benefitting 8.31 crore farmer families. Similarly, under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PM-GKY) about 4,000 MT of pulses has been dispatched for delivery to the States and Union Territories. The eNAM platform is being leveraged to debottleneck agri-logistics by creating an interface for large transport aggregators and an All India Agri Transport Call Centre launched for coordination between States for inter-state movement of perishables like vegetables and fruits, inputs like seeds, pesticides and fertilisers etc.The Indian Railways has been running 134 Parcel Special Trains on over 65 routes for perishable commodities, and 247 flights have been operationalised by the ministry of civil aviation under the “Lifeline UDAN” scheme to transport essential medical cargo to remote parts of the country.Besides unlocking the agri sector, which is the primary source of livelihood for about 60% of the country, the guidelines also allow for the unlocking of other sectors such as construction - which has one of the largest number of informal daily wagers, e-commerce, self-employed services of plumbers, electricians etc. and manufacturing and industry in special economic zones. In fact, these measures will significantly contribute towards restoring livelihoods for a majority of the country.Despite the easing of restrictions, there is a need to remain vigilant, as the battle against coronavirus will have to continue to be fought by each citizen, through self-discipline, wearing of masks, and social distancing. Technology is a critical tool in this battle. Contact tracing is being extensively done through Arogya Setu - a unique app built by the best of India with quality, privacy, security, and scalability. It has reached an astounding 60 million users within 15 days of its launch and added immense value in our fight against an unknown enemy.India has already proven its success in terms of saving lives. With only 0.4 Covid-related deaths per million population, India is far ahead of “advanced” countries like Spain, the UK, the US and even Germany which have recorded 441, 228, 118 and 54 deaths per million, respectively. On aggregate, just four countries --- France, Italy, Spain and UK account for half the Covid-related deaths worldwide. While the US accounts for 25% of the total deaths, India accounts for only 0.3% of the total. Even in terms of testing, India is reporting 4.7% positive cases as a proportion of total tests while this number is at least five times more in countries like France, Spain and the US.In fact, the International Monetary Fund and the World Health Organization have lauded the government’s proactive response, and India has also received the highest score in Oxford University’s Coronavirus Government Response Tracker. Going forth, India’s measures to augment a post-pandemic economy will also attract the international eye, serving as a template for the world to follow.The Prime Minister in his recent address struck a chord with the 18th century Urdu idiom jaan hai toh jahaan hai! (Only if you are alive, will the world survive). While the phrase uniquely captures the struggles of our current time, India’s consistent strategies and evolving policy priorities will ensure the gears of India’s economic engine take flight, taki jaan rahe aur hamara jahaan bhi (so that our people survive and so does the world we have built.)Amitabh Kant is CEO, NITI Aayog. Sarah Iype is a Young Professional at NITI Aayog. The views expressed are personal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-what-india-has-done-right-and-what-next/story-ap2nzZtOQ1hxYN09BMwjEM.html
20-04-2020||News||Life, liberty and law in times of a lockdown | Opinion||The established discourse on rights says that the enjoyment of your rights ends where it affects the ability of another person to enjoy theirs. The idea is to ensure the enjoyment of rights by all, in equal measure. Today, however, we are facing an unprecedented situation: By your presence alone, you can threaten the well-being of another human being. The Constitution guarantees the right to life and liberty under Article 21. But never before have these fundamental rights been treated as antithetical to each other. But they are today. To preserve life, in its real, actual and most basic sense, we are ready to give up liberty. The more liberty we surrender, the higher the likelihood that we preserve the right to life. As much of the world enters various phases of lockdowns, scholars are trying to find a legal basis of the lockdowns and other legal measures undertaken by governments to fight the coronavirus. In every country, including India, there is confusion between “government advice” and measures that have the force of law. Some countries such as the United Kingdom (UK) and Singapore have hastily passed legislation to facilitate the collective surrender of the right to move freely and to enforce it through law enforcement authorities. However, despite the enactment in the UK, there have been many instances of confusion between legally enforceable restrictions, and “advice”, even among law enforcement officials. In India, two laws have been used to tackle the virus: The Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, a two-page relic from our British colonial past that arms the State to put in place temporary measures, which the public needs to follow, to prevent the outbreak of diseases. Anyone disobeying the Epidemic Diseases Act can be penalised under the all-purpose, all-weather Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, which prescribes a punishment of imprisonment for up to six months, or a fine up to ~1,000, or both. The second is the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The pandemic is a “disaster” under the wide definition of the Act. However, in its design, the Act is structured to address natural calamities. To secure compliance of directives issued under this Act, broad unspecific provisions are relied upon. For instance, the guidelines issued on April 15 by the home ministry under the Act include a slew of directives such as wearing masks at workplaces. Apart from the prohibition on spitting, the violation of which entails a fine, specific punishments for other violations are not indicated. Any other violation would fall under Section 51 of the Act, which prescribes a maximum punishment of imprisonment for a year or a fine. This increases to two years, if the violation results in loss of lives or imminent danger. The notification issued by the home ministry also cites the trusty old Section 188.No existing law is designed to address the coronavirus pandemic. So repurposing outdated legislation, or using legislation not designed for this purpose, may have enabled swift measures, but at the same time, it has a one-size-fits-all approach. It would be ideal to have a law that tailors punishments proportionately to the behaviour it seeks to secure.Then there are the faultlines that emerge when law enforcement and public health collide. When three residents of an affluent neighborhood in Delhi tested positive for Covid-19, the police circulated a WhatsApp message, stating that their preliminary inquiry raised a “doubt” about a guard working with the family, who was suspected of attending a religious gathering. The message stated that the guard was now “on the run”. The police registered an FIR against him. A week later, it turned out that the guard tested negative for Covid-19. We see the word “suspect” used for people afflicted with symptoms of the disease. This is an epidemic, not a bank robbery. Yet, as we rely on law enforcement authorities to grapple with a difficult public health situation, we expect them to shift gears. We need to change the vocabulary to encourage honest reporting of symptoms and exposure. How do we do this when India presents more complex issues about social distancing than perhaps any other country in the world? People do not observe physical space or boundaries, nor do they often have the luxury of them. We are hardwired to not be solitary creatures. Will we be capable of the behavioural change required to keep us all safe after complete lockdown measures are lifted, or will the change in behaviour continue to be demanded and imposed on us by the law?We now seem to be part of a global consensus supporting the necessity to trade off one right to preserve another. In India, it is the poor that have disproportionately borne the burden of this. A trade implies receiving something in return for what you forfeit. Did the poor participate in a trade at all? The right to life has been interpreted by the Supreme Court to include the right to live with dignity. Yet, we failed to provide a life of dignity during lockdown to our most economically vulnerable people. This is a cross that the nation will carry forever.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/life-liberty-and-law-in-the-times-of-a-lockdown/story-8uqeCaOFaw2FJkHfPz6A7O.html
