21-04-2020||News||India is poised for deep structural health reforms||Despite a history of a weak health system, India was near an inflection point on health care reforms even before the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). We had both the income levels and building blocks that have been a precursor to game-changing reforms in several countries. India’s weak health care is a legacy of limited attention to it after Independence, and the multiple priorities of a young nation. Health care has not been a vote-catching subject and the government spending is only 1.2% of GDP. Health insurance is fragmented and less than one-third of the population has coverage. Besides, access to health care is poor, fragmented, skewed to urban areas, and often of low quality.This legacy burden could change rapidly with structural health systems reform, and those could be imminent. Once reforms start, the results could be dramatic over a 10-15 year period. As seen in over 20 other countries that have undertaken structural health reform, out-of-pocket medical expenditure will reduce to less than half of the pre-reform levels. And access to health care facilities will improve, resulting in more than a doubling of outpatient visits per capita.Why do we believe that structural reforms are imminent? India’s per capita income and health expenditure are similar to those of other low-and-middle income countries when they initiated structural health care reforms. More important, for sustainable change, we are seeing the emergence of a set of building blocks that were critical to initiate, accelerate and sustain large-scale reforms across 21 countries which we analysed. There are four building blocks.First, the presence of “change triggers”, which are macroeconomic or political changes that provide an opportunity for large-scale reforms. These include economic shocks (as seen in Ghana, United Kingdom, and Rwanda); the emergence of a charismatic leader (Thailand and China); or a transition between political regimes (Colombia, Philippines and others). For India, the Covid-19 crisis is a once-in-a-century change trigger, and will make health care an important topic for voters.The second is the emergence of technocratic capability. Strong pro-reform technocracy enabled change in Thailand, Indonesia, China, Mexico and Chile. Technocracy was developed either by skilled research institutes and academicians and/or led by state-specific experiments. In India, going into this coronavirus crisis, we have had increasingly strong technocratic capabilities, with experience from several experiments that include schemes in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Kerala’s robust handling of both the Nipah and Covid-19 outbreaks demonstrate how stronger technocratic capabilities can drive outcomes. Technocratic capabilities have also been built up through private-sector innovation with digital insurance models and low-cost hospitals. Coming out of this crisis, we will have stronger institutional capacity across the board.Third, large-scale reforms begin with a set of “lock-ins”. These are early initiatives that cannot be reversed without severe consequences much like universal insurance schemes such as the Jaminan Kesehatan Nasional in Indonesia or National Health Insurance in Taiwan. Over time, these become too big to fail and too popular to be dismantled. In India, visible reforms like Ayushman Bharat are effective “lock-ins” that are hard to roll back and provide a platform to build on. Last, strong stewardship is critical for reform. In most countries, the government has played a pivotal role. In India too, the roles of Niti Aayog, the National Health Authority and state health agencies are evolving, which will likely add pressure on the system for efficiency and better outcomes.The Covid-19 crisis and presence of these building blocks will provide a big impetus to public health. While India’s journey of reforms, like others, will be non-linear and uneven, there are a few areas that could emerge as priorities.Insurance coverage will expand through schemes such as Ayushman Bharat, Employment State Insurance Scheme, state schemes, and private insurance. These funds will also need to be spent efficiently as demand ratchets up, driving the need for better purchasing and scheme designs. Providers will also feel the pressure to improve efficiency, particularly those paid through demand-side financing. Purchasers will be accountable for how pooled money is spent, thereby, driving increased use of claims data to alter provider behaviour.Primary care will also be a larger priority. Increased incidence of non-communicable diseases — 55% in 2016 versus 31% in 1990 — will surface affordable ways for citizens to use outpatient care more regularly. These include the expansion of health and wellness centres, formalisation and aggregation of smaller private players and expansion of private primary health care chains through pooled purchasing agreements. Governance and regulation will need to keep pace. Regulators will no longer be invisible as more of the population sees and feels the results of their actions. Instances of corruption and fraudulent claims will add pressures on regulatory bodies. This will be especially true in private insurance and public and private health care. Finally, digital innovation will enable a lot of this reform, supported by Aadhaar and other data. Not all these early measures will succeed, not all reforms will “lock-in”, but the ones that succeed and gain momentum will set the country up for the next era of health care.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/india-is-poised-for-deep-structural-health-reforms/story-Jxr42qwyp0jftEFHB4E8TK.html
21-04-2020||News||The US presidential election match-up is welcome news for India||Earlier this month, Bernie Sanders, Joe Biden’s opponent to be the Democratic nominee for President of the United States (US), announced that he was suspending his campaign. This means that Biden will be the Democratic candidate for President. Biden has since got support from former president Barack Obama and Senator Elizabeth Warren, herself a former presidential candidate. All this is good news for Biden. This is also good news for India. That is the case because if Biden was to win the presidency, the future for India-US relations would be on solid ground. If Sanders had stayed in the race, managed to win the nomination, and gone on to win the presidency, those relations would have been on shaky ground. Sanders does not have a strong history of support for India or substantial foreign policy experience as a senator. More important, during his campaigning, he was critical of some key policy measures of the Narendra Modi administration. By contrast, former vice-president (V-P) Biden is a long-time friend of India with a stellar track record in the foreign policy arena. And, to date, he has not made any major negative public pronouncements about India’s government. Biden is best known for the manner in which he served for eight years as the “aide-de-camp” for President Barack Obama, acting as his lead person and a key consultant on numerous issues, both domestic and foreign. He distinguished himself as someone who could facilitate communications, construct compromises, and build consensus among those with varying interests.As part of his portfolio, Biden worked diligently to promote and advance Obama’s vision of a “defining partnership” between India and the US. He and his wife Jill visited India in 2013 when the V-P, according to the White House, “…set out an ambitious vision for the US-India relationship, looking not just at the months ahead or the years, but the decades ahead”. Biden had India on his radar screen and best interests in mind before joining Barack Obama in 2009. When he was a senator and chairman of the powerful Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Biden was an advocate for the successful passage of the Indo-US civil nuclear deal.Sanders voted against that bill in 2008. More recently, in 2020, Sanders has spoken out against India’s Kashmir policy, its enactment of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the country’s treatment of its Muslim minority. Congressman Ro Khanna, an Indian-American, was co-chair of Sanders’ presidential campaign. He has also been critical of India’s human rights policies and has joined the Congressional Pakistan Caucus. This is more evidence that Sanders in the White House would have been problematic for India’s relations with the US.This brings the presidential match-up for the election to be held on November 3 between Biden and Donald Trump — who is running for re-election basically unopposed in the Republican Party. That match-up is welcome news for India. In Biden and Trump, whoever occupies the Oval Office on January 20, 2021, India will be dealing with two known leaders. Trump, even with his mercurial and unpredictable behaviour, currently appears to be the preferred candidate of New Delhi, symbolised by the “Howdy Modi” spectacle in Houston in September and “Namaste Trump” show in Ahmedabad in February.But there should be caution regarding the future of bilateral relations with the US with Trump as president going forward. While Trump can be counted on to stand silent on “internal matters” in India such as Kashmir, he cannot be relied upon to speak authentically or to keep his word on important issues such as getting a trade deal done. Biden, on the other hand, might say things about India’s handling of issues central to a vital and vibrant democracy such as immigration, equal opportunity, pluralism, and the free press, but he will do so in a diplomatic manner. One variable that will come into play for India will be the status of the coronavirus pandemic when the election is held. It is far too early to speculate on the nature of that condition now. What can be said at this point in time is that Trump has minimised the role of the federal government in confronting the pandemic in the US, stating that it is up to the state and local governments to take the lead. Biden as president would put much greater emphasis on the federal leadership.Another difference that will impact India is that the Trump administration’s approach to managing the pandemic is and will be isolationist, as evidenced by the closing down of America’s borders to other countries early on and not taking outside assistance in areas such as testing when the pandemic first struck the US. Biden, as president, will be an internationalist looking to bring countries together to confront the consequences of the coronavirus and to leverage resources to benefit all nations.Indians will not get to vote for the next president of the US. But Indian-Americans will. They should keep those distinct differences in style and behaviour in mind when they cast their ballots. I know that I will and that is why I am glad that Biden will be the Democratic candidate for president. That is good for both my motherland, India and my homeland, the US.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-us-presidential-election-match-up-is-welcome-news-for-india/story-5j2N7T0FsUiYwZhMvsCYfI.html
21-04-2020||News||Understanding the oil price churn||The front-month May West Texas Intermediate (WTI) — the United States (US) oil price benchmark — futures contract crashed into negative territory for the first time on April 20. Though this was a temporary phenomenon, and one that is specific to the way WTI contracts work in the context of the US oil industry, it is a clear indication that the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-induced demand rout has triggered a glut with consequences that are ricocheting across oil markets, including affecting Brent — the leading international standard for crude prices. This is despite US President Donald Trump’s mediating efforts to stabilise the global oil industry through an Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (Opec)++ pact — even though he is a self-confessed Opec “hater”. On April 12, the Opec+ cartel — a group of 23 oil-producing nations — after much dramatic posturing cobbled together a historic agreement to slash oil production by 9.7 million barrels per day (mb/d) through May and June, after which the cuts taper off till 2022. Notwithstanding its enviable credentials, the agreement will fall short of propping up prices enough to ward off shut-ins. It will only function to arrest Brent touching single digits and provide some relief before the storage tanks spillover.This becomes evident on unpacking the numbers. The 10 members of the Opec and another 10 of the extended Opec+ group will reduce oil production by 6.085 mb/d and 3.615 mb/d respectively to balance supply against plunging demand. US-sanctioned Iran and Venezuela and war-torn Libya are exempt from the cuts. Saudi Arabia and Russia, the second- and third-largest oil producers globally, have agreed to each cut 2.5 mb/d of their production from a baseline of 11 mb/d. Meanwhile, some other numbers are being thrown around. Saudi energy minister Abdulaziz bin Salman said that the Opec++ (Opec+ and other oil producers) group will take 19.5 mb/d supply off the pipelines, voluntarily or otherwise, from May. Russian energy minister Alexander Novak pegs the effective cuts at 15-20 mb/d while Trump, through his diplomatic tool of choice, Twitter, has written that cuts will total 20mb/d. This, ostensibly, is by factoring in “expected” curtailed production of 3.7 mb/d of G20 countries, such as the US, Brazil and Canada; supply cuts through national purchases for strategic petroleum reserves; and possible cuts by Norway.There are many moving parts here. It is difficult to predict how much American production will fall given the divergence within the industry to accept quota cuts. The Railroad Commission of Texas — the Texas regulatory agency — had the last statewide cut in 1973. Although, Mexico has agreed to a 100,000 barrel cut, the US has said it will help Mexico by picking up “some of the slack” — the specifics of this are still unclear. Irrespective, even if one considers the 20 mb/d supply-reduction scenario as realistic, the demand destruction is staggering enough to overwhelm the proposed cuts. According to the International Energy Agency, the fall in global demand for crude will be 29 mb/d for April and 26 mb/d for May. Some other oil traders are estimating it to be 35mb/d. A 3% decline in growth in 2020, as predicted by the International Monetary Fund, erases almost a year of oil demand growth. Assuming there is compliance by the members, the Opec++ reductions, therefore, will only partially offset supply overhang till the next quarter. But compliance to quota cuts for Opec+ members has been faulty on prior occasions--some, such as Saudi Arabia, make deeper cuts while others cheat on their pledges. The question remains: Who will monitor compliance? The G20 energy ministers’ meet on April 10 signed an agreement to set up a voluntary focus group which will monitor oil markets. But the locus standi of a G20 platform to monitor an Opec country is questionable. The only real physical barrier to shutting the oil spigots is when storage spaces run out. Moreover, a deal does not signal that Riyadh and Moscow have buried the hatchet after their recent market-share scuffle. The kingdom has slashed its official selling price, ostensibly eyeing the Mediterranean and Asian markets, and swelling global crude inventories till the new deal kicks in. Reportedly, it is also selling about 600,000 barrels of crude per day to the US this month — the highest volume in a year. Moscow and others will react to push their own volumes. Meanwhile, Washington has not yet dismissed the possibility of oil import tariffs to protect its domestic oil industry. The dynamics between the three “alpha males” of the oil industry — the US, Russia and Saudi Arabia — played out in this vulnerable landscape will further determine how low Brent settles. The markets have figured this out, notwithstanding the padded reduction figures. Predictably, Brent whimpered up a few dollars after the Opec+ pact before falling below $30 again. Market reports suggest that Brent needs to skip over $40 and remain pinned there to prevent oil producers’ revenues from shrinking further. With pipelines and storages clogging up and the virus continuing to gobble oil demand at unprecedented levels, pressure is building on de facto leaders of the Opec+ group, Saudi Arabia and Russia, to seam a broader alliance or deepen cuts. However, countering the impacts of this pandemic on oil markets will be a daunting task for a wobbly cartel of oil producers with divergent interests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/understanding-the-oil-price-churn/story-EnxXxSDUNS5EUk1p5KzySK.html
