22-04-2020||News||Use the oil crash to boost India’s strategic reserves| Analysis||Over the last four months, the coronavirus pandemic has caused several epochal events and historical firsts. One such belief-defying event was the plunge of crude oil prices to negative territory — minus $37.63 per barrel — on Monday, April 20, in what can be seen as the surest sign so far that the global economy is headed towards a deep recession, if it is not already in one. When the futures contract for West Texas Intermediate, one of the world’s most popular benchmarks for crude oil prices, was due to expire on Tuesday, oil traders in the United States (US) began panic-selling the day before to avoid actual physical delivery of oil — a product that suddenly no one seemed to want.The images that we have seen of wide empty streets around the world without traffic signify the drastic drop in demand for the commodity. With the movement of people severely curbed, and economic activity coming to a halt, as lockdowns are instituted in cities and countries worldwide, the demand for oil has nearly vanished. All oil storage facilities in the US are almost filled to capacity and oil traders had to pay to offload their stock.This does not mean oil will be free from now on. Prices recovered and were trading at just about $3 a barrel the following day, and will rise modestly in the next few days. The price of the Indian basket of crude oil is trading at about $20 a barrel, less than half of what it was in February this year ($54).What does this mean for India?While a fall in oil prices could mean disaster for oil-producing countries, it is usually a bonanza for India — the consumer, the government, and the economy all win. Oil prices can contribute a lot directly and indirectly to the general price levels in India, and so, apart from being able to fill up their vehicles at lower prices, the Indian consumer benefits from general lowered prices. The government wins as lower prices lead to higher demand and, therefore, higher tax collections. More important though, the amount it has to spend on fuel subsidy decreases, leaving it larger fiscal space for other government programmes. Finally, since India imports nearly 80% of its oil requirements, lower global oil prices imply a fall in the country’s overall import bill and stability for the rupee.The coronavirus pandemic, however, has thrown these calculations off-kilter. With forced lockdowns, broken supply chains and a halt in industrial activity, there is no demand for the product. Inflation mechanics will be determined more by the delicate dance between unnaturally low demand (which will push prices lower) and broken supply chains (which will push prices higher).Nevertheless, the lockdown will eventually be lifted, and the economy will inch its way towards normalcy, at which point, the Union and state governments will have to make a difficult decision. By keeping excise duties and other taxes at the current level, it could earn more and use the earnings to fund the necessary fiscal measures to help the economy rebound. Or it could lower them to help consumers, so that they have additional disposable income that they can spend on goods and services, which is equally important to revive the economy. Specific circumstances of the removal of lockdown restrictions and the state of the government finances will probably dictate that decision.One area in which India can definitely use the lower oil prices to its advantage is to stock up on the commodity for future use. Like many other countries, India maintains strategic petroleum reserves (SPR), which is an inventory of oil for emergency purposes. To mitigate supply-side risks and cover for vulnerability to external oil shocks, India holds an emergency oil stockpile in underground salt caverns, which can provide around 4.5 days of import cover. There is additional capacity for five days of oil import cover, which must be filled up at this time when oil prices are at historic lows. Indian petroleum refineries hold an additional 65 days of import cover.To its credit, the government has promptly taken steps to ensure full capacity utilisation at this time by directing State refineries to place their excess crude supplies in these caverns for which they will be reimbursed. However, this was the lowest hanging fruit, and it is time to reach for the higher ones. India has been delaying the start of phase two of its SPR plans, which was to add another 12 days of oil storage capacity. This was to be done in partnership with either ADNOC (Abu Dhabi) or Saudi Arabia’s Aramco. It is probably the right time now to get this off the drawing board.Alternatively, we can also look at options outside India. We could persuade the Sri Lanka government to kick-start the utilisation of oil storage facilities at Trincomalee. This could be done in a mutually beneficial manner. We could also shop around for storage space in Oman (Ras Markaz) or the United Arab Emirates (Fujairah). Right now, we are in a bizarre situation where the storage space is more expensive than the commodity itself, but things will revert, and any investments now will help India in the long run when oil prices rise again.Finally, the private sector should look at this as an opportunity to lock into long-term contracts with oil suppliers based at current prices. The government can help the struggling Indian airline industry, for instance, by providing it lines of credit to enter into or renegotiate oil contracts.These are far from ideal circumstances, but we must think strategically about the long-term and try to seize the small opportunities that are presented..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/use-the-oil-crash-to-boost-india-s-strategic-reserves-analysis/story-aECKMfH8mpcEKVCGe2ozJK.html
22-04-2020||News||A blueprint for a testing strategy| Analysis||India has now been locked down for a month and, finally, there is a large supply of testing kits, though their quality is, apparently, a real concern. Lockdowns are the best time to test, since movement and new contacts are minimal. While it may be necessary to tailor testing strategies to the states’ local context, are there common principles that should govern when, where, how and whom to test?Since mid-March, testing has increased 30 times, to around 30,000 tests daily. But, even if a million additional tests were conducted, it would amount to only one test per 1,000, keeping India a low-test country. So, even without quality issues, efficient test strategies are needed to learn quickly and to achieve the two key goals of testing — first, finding infected persons, even if they are very few and asymptotic, and to treat them and prevent transmission; and second, generating data to implement a smart containment strategy, reducing the need for wholesale lockdowns.Should states begin by testing in hotspots? If people test positive and are asymptomatic, they will be isolated and hospitalised, if symptoms develop. Ideally, testing should change action, but, in a hotspot, they are quarantined anyway.But, hotspot testing can be informative. If positivity is less than expected, or clustered, it provides information about transmission; if higher, it signals a surge in demand for hospitalisation. This information is best obtained by antibody tests, if accurate, but learning is possible only with proper randomisation, i.e., testing as per a pre-decided statistical plan. Within the hotspot, more testing further from the core, where less infection is expected, can indicate the extent of spread. Importantly, it can also help decide when an area is no longer a hotspot.But, focusing on current hotspots alone cannot find infected persons in areas where the virus has yet to be reported. Can testing prevent future hotspots by locating asymptomatic infections?The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)’s current recommended testing strategy only allows testing of asymptomatic persons if they are direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case. But, ICMR also says that about 69% of confirmed coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients are asymptomatic. Considering that the surveillance of Severe Acute Respiratory Infections (SARI) patients indicated a positivity of over 2%, we may miss many infected persons. If even 0.1% is Covid-positive and asymptomatic, 20,000 infected persons could be infecting others in Delhi alone, as the lockdown is eased.Just going beyond ICMR’s recommendations, and testing a sample of the population, is likely to find few infected persons. One of us has computed that if 0.1% of 10 million are infected and 1,000 tests are randomly administered, the chance of not finding even one positive case is more than 40%! An efficient testing design should thus maximise the chances of finding an infection, especially those more vulnerable to the disease.This can be done in three ways.First, test asymptomatic individuals who can become “super-spreaders”, i.e those susceptible to infection, but who interact frequently with others, even during lockdowns, such as health workers and the police, but also civic workers in essential services and street vendors. Many in these groups were found to be infected after they became symptomatic. These groups can be tested at work, using Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) methods, with samples pooled for those who work together. If needed, their contacts can be traced to where they live. Some states already plan to do this. Such potential super-spreaders can also form a sentinel network that is checked weekly for symptoms.Second, do risk stratification of areas, ie demarcate areas with initially high expected risk of transmission and/or high vulnerability such as dense cramped settlements, with larger numbers of elderly people and, this is very important, choose persons, within areas, in an explicit statistically-structured randomised manner and test them using RT-PCR methods. The chances of finding infected persons can improve by first using local information — people reporting symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI), and then, drawing randomly from the area’s voter list.Along with data on occupation, age, gender, and any morbidities and/or recent illnesses, basic information on the intensity of contact with others should be collected from all those tested, including in hotspots. Despite increased testing, the share testing positive has stayed steady around 4.5% — every 100 people tested led to five new Covid-19 patients. Is this because high-risk contacts are selected or because prevalence is worryingly high? If it’s, hopefully, the former, it means that contact tracing processes are not standardised in practice, since test positivity varies considerably among states.Third, states should anonymise and release this data, along with associated test results. The randomisation would enable real-time, high-quality analysis of possible determinants of transmission, even in places not directly tested. Information — this is important — from the initial stages must be used to iteratively improve sampling designs after each round of tests. This can be analysed internally, but crowd-sourcing will exponentially increase the speed and quality of analysis, thus allowing a better understanding of the disease and improving policy response.This suggested ICMR-plus strategy tests more asymptomatic persons and uses structured randomisation, to enable active learning by governments. It minimises the risk of transmission from super-spreaders, maximises the chance of detecting hidden infections, and shapes strategy in real-time for future testing, to optimise scarce medical and testing resources. Importantly, it can also calibrate containment strategies. States should consider using these principles as they embark on their testing journeys, which may, sadly, last longer than expected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/a-blueprint-for-a-testing-strategy-analysis/story-OEx409xxBbAXbzLDV1diGI.html
22-04-2020||News||How the pandemic can hit Xi Jinping’s ‘China dream’| Analysis||The grave mishandling of the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19) by the Chinese government and tragic loss of lives have angered citizens. This was evident from the riots that took place at the border checkpost between Hubei and Jiangxi provinces on March 28. The pandemic has also severely affected the nation’s economy, virtually stopping its growth for the last three months and rendering millions jobless. The services sector is losing an estimated $144 billion each week. Unemployment has risen to over 6%. Financial services have assessed a 30% contraction of China’s economy. Economic recovery has been slow, prompting Chinese businessmen such as Jack Ma, founder of the Alibaba Group, and Liu Chuanzhi, the founder of Lenovo, to sign a nine-point letter addressed to President Xi Jinping reviving demands for comprehensive reforms.Economic losses have hurt almost all sectors. Bloomberg reported a contraction of 9.9% in incomes of central and local governments in the first two months of 2020, calling it the “deepest fall since February 2009”. The report added: “Tax revenue declined more than 11%, with drops in value-added taxes, corporate income taxes and car purchase taxes”. The surge in outlays on health care and social security, however, “kept the decline to 2.9% from a year ago”. Twenty-two provinces, regions and municipalities had already cut their 2020 growth targets, with 11 regions officially admitting to missing their 2019 GDP targets. A joint survey by Peking University’s Guanghua School of Management and China’s largest hiring platform, Zhaopin, revealed that job openings in the country for the first two months of 2020 dropped more than 30%. The hardest hit are the media, entertainment, sports and services sectors, followed by information technology, telecom, and Internet sectors, which saw recruitments fall to up to 40%. Smaller firms suffered more.China’s leaders have been straining to revive the economy also because they, particularly President Xi, consider it domestically and geopolitically important to achieve the “China Dream” by 2021 and keep the country on track to become “a major world power with pioneering global influence” by 2049. The latter implies acquiring a capability to rival the United States (US) and influence and create world organisations. Failure to achieve these goals would impact adversely on their legitimacy. However, despite their efforts, economic recovery is slow.Commencing February 3, Xi has exhorted local officials to “prevent the economy from slipping out of a reasonable range”, emphasised the importance of China’s role in global trade and the need “to stabilise China’s share in the international market”. He also stressed the need to promote international cooperation and maximise the country’s role as a “responsible great power”. Meanwhile, Chinese Premier Li Keqiang tried to stabilise foreign investment and attract investments of over $1 billion in the manufacturing and high-tech sectors.Other steps to revive the economic activity include providing medium-term funding to banks and cutting the interest rate. More than 300 Chinese companies are seeking bank loans, totalling at least $8.2 billion. To encourage the service industry’s recovery, at least 10 governments are giving coupons directly to the people. The ministry of industry and information technology, however, said that, by March 24, only 71.7% of small and medium enterprises had resumed operations.China is keeping strategic interests in mind. The companies have raised the production of medical equipment and supplies to take advantage of global demand. Benefitting from the drop in oil prices, China purchased almost 1.5 million tonnes of commercial crude raising its strategic storage of oil to 29.45 million tonnes.But China’s growth will depend on the global economy and other countries. The US-China rivalry is poised to escalate. As the US, Europe and other countries grapple with the pandemic, trade will be limited and low on their list of priorities. Countries will introspect and re-examine current trade policies, as must India, with priority on eliminating dependence on a single-source of supply, especially in vital sectors. With the possibility of biological warfare now a reality, a serious complication for China will be its image, suspicions of its role and whether it shared pertinent data about the pandemic with the world in time. China blocking a discussion on the pandemic at the United Nations Security Council only heightened suspicions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-the-pandemic-can-hit-xi-jinping-s-china-dream-analysis/story-KvdgnSyhQOlnnA2DdByPLJ.html
22-04-2020||News||Post Covid-19, India needs increased focus on air quality||The nationwide lockdown due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is certain to bring enormous social and economic costs to the country. The lockdown has, however, afforded us a look into how our skies and trees could look if Indian cities had cleaner air. It highlights the fact that even though the government must prioritise the economy in the coming months, the other public health crisis – air pollution – can’t be overlooked. This brings into focus the Centre’s Rs 4,400-crore grant to municipal corporations (MCs) of bigger cities for 2020-21 to tackle air pollution.Covid-19 has re-emphasised the need to proactively invest in public health systems. This includes mitigating risk factors that increase the incidence of illnesses. Air pollution is the second largest risk factor – behind malnutrition – contributing to India’s disease burden. Commonly known impacts of air pollution include cardio-respiratory diseases, lung cancer in adults, and acute lower respiratory infections in children. Besides, emerging research suggests that it impacts early childhood development, including birth weight and growth. Early evidence also suggests that air pollution increases the risk of Covid-19 infection. In what now seems a lifetime ago, last winter witnessed one of the most severe smog episodes around Delhi in recent memory, accompanied by unprecedented attention on air quality, with the issues being raised in Parliament, discussed in the media, and included in the Delhi assembly election manifesto. The Union finance minister accepted the interim recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission (FC) that provides additional fiscal support in 2020-21, incentivising MCs to tackle air pollution in cities with one million or more population.To put the quantum of outlay in perspective, in 2019-20, the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) budget under the ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC) was merely Rs 300 crore, distributed among 102 polluted cities, with grants ranging between Rs 10 crore and Rs 10 lakhs. The outlay also dwarfs MoEFCC’s total budget of Rs 3,100 crore for 2020-21, signalling a shift in the air quality management approach, with additional resources and increased devolution towards MCs.While the MoEFCC is still developing the performance framework to determine exactly how the grant will be distributed across cities, the 15th FC report outlines the broad contours. It has recommended that the grants be allocated to cities based on their population. Thus, the total possible grant size for Mumbai would be Rs 488 crore, and for a smaller city, such as Tiruchirappalli, it would be Rs 21 crore. This grant is to be released in two instalments: Half of it upfront for “air quality improvement measures including capacity building of local bodies”, and the rest is subject to the city’s performance against its targets.This is the first time that an FC has given grants specifically to tackle air pollution. Air pollution has multiple sources in Indian cities, and many of these – such as waste burning, and road and construction dust – fall directly under the ambit of MCs. Tackling air pollution involves not only regulating emissions from vehicles and industries but also improving urban governance and public services. Institutionally, too, the approach marks a recognition of urbanisation’s changing needs by earmarking a larger share of grants to urban local bodies (ULBs): From 30% in the previous year to 37.5% in 2020-21, and making a distinction between million-plus urban agglomerates and smaller towns. Finally, by setting aside funds upfront for capacity-building, the FC acknowledges that if MCs are expected to deal with air quality-related issues, their human and fiscal resources must be strengthened. A review of 23 cities by Janagraaha in 2017 had found that most cities lack urban planners, and more than half of the cities did not generate enough revenue to meet even their salary costs. To be sure, while these grants are necessary, they are not enough to improve air quality. Much depends on the final design of the performance framework. City-level measures by the MCs need to be complemented with actions on sources of air pollution outside their jurisdiction – be it within or outside the city, in the larger regional “airshed”. To do this, the grants framework should be integrated with NCAP action plans and institutions, with aggressive but achievable timelines for implementing prioritised measures, and a comprehensive cross-agency strategy for resource allocation. Further, it needs a sustained effort to improve the air quality, necessitating, at a minimum, the continuation of the grants for the next five years.The emergence of different city models of Covid-19 response – from Bhilwara to Agra – shows why having a decentralised form of governance, capable of responding to city-specific needs, matters. While the budget priority in the immediate term is rightly given to health and social protection, we must not lose momentum on the strides made in tackling air pollution. Proactively channelling resources to mitigate a critical risk factor today is a crucial investment for tomorrow’s public health.Avani Kapur is director of the Accountability Initiative, and fellow at the Centre for Policy Research (CPR). Santosh Harish is a fellow at CPRThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/post-covid-19-india-needs-increased-focus-on-air-quality/story-LIQzJQFfOt8kZ6EfrLmfQN.html
