23-04-2020||News||When your private space is actually a public space||Last week, I called up Nagaraj. Until the lockdown came about, Nagaraj used to come regularly at 6 am and clean our car. Besides wanting to know how to transfer his month’s wages to him, I was keen to know how he was. Nagaraj told me that conditions were tough; getting food and other essentials was difficult, and there was no work. But that was still bearable, he said. His real misery was that he had to spend 24 hours a day, everyday, cooped up with the five other members of his family in one room. I could almost hear him cry, talking about it. That’s when it struck me that while the lockdown is hard for everyone, the ones who are miserable, in a different way, are the urban poor. What’s new, you may ask? But just think about how precious it is for every individual to have a little private space, even if for a limited time.For the urban upper-and middle-class, it’s not too bad. Most people today stay in a flat. Families are not too large either — a couple and one or two kids (though some are larger, with parents/in-laws/ relatives living together as well). But there is still some place in the flat to hide oneself for some time; the tiny balcony, the small entrance-way or even the storeroom. So, in some sense, they can sneak in a private moment. And then there is the building complex to stroll around in. There is some corner, some terrace, some stairwell, some scooter or car park, to find a quiet space. In rural India, it’s even easier. Just step out to the field or orchard at the back, behind a large tree or on a quiet path. But it’s the urban lower-middle-class and poor who face the maximum brunt of this aspect of the lockdown. For people such as Nagaraj, being stuck with five other people — sure, family members — in a single room the whole day and night is suffocating. Even when you step outside the slum, where do you go? There are people all around who know you, and who you feel are looking at you. After some time, everyone is irritating you, and you are irritating everyone. Almost as bad are the conditions for young working men or women who stay in dormitories or paying guest accommodation, five or six in a room. Earlier, they would go for work for most of the day, hang out at a mall or shopping area, and come and spend just a little time in their rooms. Now they are stuck 24*7. And while it was fun initially to spend time with the roommates who you may not have really known, after a bit, you just want to get out.Fortunately for these people, mobile smartphones give partial relief — the ability to drift off into a different virtual space. (mobile phones were originally named “mobile” because before they came on the scene, you were mobile and phone lines were fixed. Now you are “fixed”, under lockdown, and the phone makes you virtually mobile). But how long do you stare at a small screen, play games or watch movies while wondering if others are staring at you (while you’re not looking)?For most of urban India, and that’s hundreds of millions of people, the only private place is a public place. It’s the busy street you walk down, anonymously; the crowded bus or train you sit or stand in, anonymously; the market place you meander through, anonymously; or the road you navigate your motorbike on, anonymously. And that’s pretty much it. What makes it private is not that there are no people, but that there is no one who knows you. Just that small vital space for that precious time where you can be to yourself, by yourself, for yourself — while everyone around you just does whatever they want and are part of the blurred background.As the lockdown continues and could extend again, either continuously or intermittently, society needs to find ways to help people find privacy. Lockdown systems have to take this into account to reduce the misery, and not just the economic plight, of people most affected. Technology can help, such as by automatically permitting to move around on a rotational basis, while being safe so that social distancing is maintained. That way, people can find a quiet space for a short time, at least. In the long-term, we need to think even more about our public places in urban areas, and how we can make them more hygienic, more comfortable, and more inspiring, recognising that for most urban Indians, it’s not really a public place, it’s your most private place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/when-your-private-space-is-actually-a-public-space/story-vY9wmLiiPZ5rjj33lPh1mO.html
23-04-2020||News||Protect India’s brave health workers||Two medical doctors, Zakiya Syed and Trupti Katdare, who were pelted with stones by a mob in a dense settlement in Indore, returned to the spot a day later along with their team of health workers to screen people for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “I am injured, but not scared at all. This won’t deter me from doing my duty,” said the intrepid coronavirus warrior, Dr Syed.Responding with alacrity to the strike call by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) against such attacks on health workers, the Union government, on Wednesday, approved an ordinance to amend, and strengthen, the Indian Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, making offence against doctors and nurses cognisable, non-bailable and carrying imprisonment terms from six months to seven years. Earlier, distressed with a series of such attacks in hospitals and testing zones, the IMA called for a two-day strike by the doctors on April 22 and 23. It was only after the assurance of the Union home minister that the strike was called off. Corona warriors, at the vanguard of our battle against the pandemic, have a stupendous job at hand. In hospitals, they are treating the patients, while outside, they are screening possible Covid-19 cases — putting their lives on the line. A number of them have already contracted the coronavirus. As per available reports, 1,700 health workers in China were infected with the coronavirus. Across the world, many doctors and nurses have died combating the disease. Prime Minister Narendra Modi rightly reserved the highest praise for India’s doctors, nurses and other health care workers by calling them frontline soldiers. And yet, distressing reports of doctors and health workers being attacked on duty kept pouring in. Even the international media took note and mentioned that such attacks have been witnessed from Australia to the Philippines, but none with the severity as seen in India. Will a tough law act as a deterrent? Yes, if an enabling environment is created, through supplementary measures for its implementation. Two issues — the paucity of policemen, and more important, the speed of response — are critical. Hence some further measures are imperative.First, hospitals need to be secured firmly. Instead of deploying scarce policemen in hospitals, the government should appoint special police officers (SPOs) for each hospital. The provision for appointing SPOs is given in Section 17 of the Police Act, which can be invoked at a time of emergency to make up for the shortage of police personnel. Each hospital, however, has several private security guards, who can be appointed as SPOs. Once declared SPOs, they have the powers of the police and can work in the same fashion. In case of attacks on doctors and nurses, they can immediately take action. One liaison officer from the local police station can be designated for each hospital for coordination. This will raise the morale and confidence of the doctors, and bring order to the proceedings in the hospitals. The SPOs will have to be given personal protective equipment (PPE) and arm bands for acting without fear in times of need. An honorarium can be fixed for them for the time they perform duties as SPOs.In rural areas, the village kotwals should be made SPOs. Odisha’s chief minister has already taken a historic decision of giving powers of a collector to sarpanches to enforce the quarantine measures. Empowering panchayats and local bodies will help fight the epidemic better and other states should follow Odisha’s model.Second, doctors have demanded security at home and while commuting to work and back. A few overzealous resident welfare association (RWA) office-bearers have displayed hostility towards the resident doctors treating Covid-19 patients, while some have been attacked outside hospitals. Arrangements must be made for such health workers who require temporary accommodation and transport. Some hotels have already volunteered to host them at their venues. More guest houses and public venues need to be requisitioned to accommodate all those who desire these facilities. In addition, a team of police, municipal and revenue officials should caution and rein in these RWA officials against any moves to oust the doctors from society premises and, if necessary, take stern action. Such doctors should also be given helplines to contact in case of need.Third, the demand of the doctors for high-risk allowance during this unprecedented period should be accepted. The Delhi government has announced Rs 1 crore compensation for the family of a fallen corona warrior, which includes not only doctors but policemen and others who are battling the pandemic. Such a move should be emulated by other states too. Fourth, a clear message needs to go from the state governments against those attacking the lifesavers. To tackle the problem of attacks in clusters, where health teams go for check-ups, the National Security Act can also be used. The Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh governments have used it in case of attacks on doctors and policemen in Indore and Moradabad respectively. Figures of arrests under the above Acts are compiled at the state and central level daily. These statistics need to be projected in the vernacular media daily to show the government’s intent and deter trouble-makers. Fifth, states have to brace for a future scenario when the lockdown is eased in a phased manner and hotspots have to be contained and monitored. Extensive screening will have to be resorted to. Clusters to be covered should be approached by teams of municipal, police and revenue officials to dispel any rumour about the methodology of testing or the state of quarantine centres. Each police station has a list of opinion leaders of the areas and they should be used for such exercises.  And finally, the authorities will need to closely monitor social media, since it is often the site of hate speeches and rumours. Some of their accounts will require forcible closure and action against some to give the right message to the social media users.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/protect-india-s-brave-health-workers/story-neotzn2lprIIntB7Eu6uNP.html
