26-04-2020||News||What must India do now to address the coronavirus crisis | Opinion||While the Covid-19-induced lockdown has yielded mixed and spatially diverse results so far in terms of disease containment, the socio-economic impact has been uniformly devastating across states in India. This warrants a careful appraisal of the lockdown strategy and a reorientation of the role being played by the Centre and state governments in the subsequent phases of lockdown. India still appears to be some distance away from the peak of new cases, but different states have been affected at various speeds and intensity. This warrants a calibrated, decentralised and state-specific lockdown exit strategy, in contrast to the top-down manner introduced about a month ago. The day-to-day implementation of lockdown measures depends largely upon state governments. The necessary containment measures like testing, contact-tracing, isolation and treatment are also being administered by states. Although performances of state governments vary significantly, they remain in the best position to determine the nature and extent of restrictions required to contain the pandemic in their respective domains. The resumption of inter-state travel and transportation should be decided by the Centre, but unless disease containment attains a uniform outcome threshold across states, normalisation of such activities may remain unfeasible.While ceding decision-making space regarding the lockdown exit to states, the Centre should continue to support, coordinate, advise and monitor state governments’ containment efforts. However, issues still remain with the adequacy of quality testing kits and Personal Protective Equipments (PPEs). States with weak public health systems need additional financial and institutional support. In fact, greater transparency and accuracy in reporting the state-wise data by the Centre and promotion of best practices by states can help bring convergence in disease containment efforts.The Centre must step up its efforts manifold in addressing the livelihood crisis, which is likely to persist much longer than the pandemic. While India’s lockdown has been most stringent, the Centre’s macroeconomic and welfare policy response has been the weakest among the major economies. According to the International Monetary Fund’s estimate, India’s actual spending measures announced so far by the Centre and states combined is Rs 1.42 trillion, which is about 0.7% of GDP, much less than the Rs 1.7 trillion announced by the Union finance minister on March 26.How much of this has been spent on actual transfers under the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana needs to be clarified. Reports suggest major shortfalls and exclusions in cash transfers and food entitlements in different states. The monthly cash transfers of Rs 1,000-2,000 to old-age and other pensioners, female PM Jan Dhan Yojana account holders, and farmers, or a mere Rs 20 per day wage hike for Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act workers are simply inadequate. Ninety per cent of the 490-million strong workforce in India is in the informal or unorganised sector, and around 81% of them earn less than Rs 15,000 a month. These incomes have simply evaporated due to the lockdown. The additional five kg of free food grains for each National Food Security Act (NFSA) beneficiary is also insufficient to meet basic nutritional requirements, given the severe constraints on food availability. Moreover, the promised one kg of free pulses per family has not even been delivered to most states. It makes little sense to restrict food allocations to beneficiaries of NFSA, which covers only 67% of the 2011 population, ie around 830 million out of the current population of over 1.35 billion. The distressed working population needs two things on an emergency basis: Adequate food and cash income. The Centre must universalise food entitlements, with at least 10 kg food grains, two kg pulses and one litre cooking oil per head delivered to the beneficiaries’ homes. Cash payment of at least Rs 7,500 per household must be made along with home-delivered food rations.Rather than transferring digital cash droplets to bank accounts, the State machinery should be geared towards door-to-door delivery of food and cash entitlements with minimum exclusion criteria. If the bottom 80% of Indian households are covered, the entire relief programme should cost not more than Rs 5 trillion (around 2.5% of GDP). The damage caused by the Covid-19 pandemic to the global and the Indian economy cannot be estimated properly at this stage, because there is a fundamental uncertainty regarding the longevity of the pandemic globally. It would be rational to prepare for a fresh interim budget as the revenue and deficit projections of the February 2020 budget have already become infructuous. State finances are under severe strain, and unless the Centre rethinks its fiscal conservatism, the economic crisis will engulf every sector, causing widespread insolvencies. Austerity measures and pay cuts will only depress aggregate demand and deepen the crisis. The unprecedented and multi-dimensional nature of the economic crisis, which can be compared with the Great Depression of the 1930s, calls for a radical departure from economic orthodoxies, as was the case with the Keynes-Kalecki revolution in economics. We require a similar overhaul of the government’s fiscal and monetary strategy, going beyond the measures taken by the previous government in the wake of the 2009 recession. The Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act should be junked forthwith, alongside the “inflation-targeting” framework of the Reserve Bank of India. A significant expansion of the fiscal deficit, financed by low-interest government borrowing and printing more money, is the only viable solution in the short-run. If the economic contraction can be avoided through deficit-financed public expenditures and indirect tax cuts in this financial year, direct tax rates on incomes, profits and wealth can be enhanced in subsequent years to restore fiscal balance. Rather than opting for convenient routes, the Centre must act responsibly in making hard but substantive choices.Dipa Sinha teaches economics at Ambedkar University, Delhi; Prasenjit Bose is an economist and activist; and, Rohit teaches economics at CESP, JNUThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/what-must-india-do-now-to-address-the-coronavirus-crisis/story-GueMxig2vrXCYyqJj6B2FN.html
26-04-2020||News||Learning to live with coronavirus, writes Praveen Chakravarty||To exit the lockdown or not, that is the question” — William Shakespeare’s paraphrased poem best captures the nation’s dilemma. Unlike Prince Hamlet, this is not a question of one’s own life but a billion other lives. It is critical to make this decision on sound facts and evidence, not fear or hope.When Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a 21-day total national lockdown on March 24 to combat the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) epidemic, half a million people in the world were infected, 20,000 people had died, and the virus was rampaging through nations. Epidemiologists warned of alarming deaths and hospitalisations. Without a vaccine and in the grip of panic, world leaders, in herd behaviour, adopted the Wuhan model of locking down citizens to combat the epidemic. India followed suit with Modi assuring the nation that social distancing was the only way to counter the virus and a lockdown would break the chain of infection. March 24 was just a month ago, but it is eons in Covid-19 time, as the world learns more about the disease every day. There is now greater information, data and evidence to assess the lockdown strategy and chart the next one.India now has over 25,000 cases, up from 500 at the time of the lockdown announcement, with an average of 1,500 new cases reported daily. But this is a misleading metric. The total number of cases is simply a function of the number of people tested. The more the number of tests, the higher the number of cases. For example, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal account for one-third of India’s population but only one-tenth of all Covid tests and cases. Does anyone believe that Bihar, with 120 million people, has almost the same number of Covid cases as Kurnool district in Andhra Pradesh with half a million people? It is highly likely that a more intensive stratified testing strategy would have revealed multiple times the cases than reported. It is now clear that the lockdown has neither broken the chain of infection nor is it a cure for Covid-19, as claimed.The other goal of the lockdown was to flatten the curve, in tandem with available hospital capacity. India has one hospital bed for every 2,000 people; Bihar has one for every 10,000. In the United States or the United Kingdom, there is one for every 300 people. Even if India had miraculously doubled the number of hospital beds in a month and slowed down the spread of the virus by half vis-à-vis other nations in lockdown, it would still not be enough. Flattening the curve in India’s context is simply not a viable goal.Did the lockdown achieve social distancing? The idea of distance is a luxury in a poor country. Nearly all poor households in India have six members or more. Hundreds of millions of migrant workers are often crammed into one room with six or more people in big cities. As reports show, locking people in their homes has proved counterproductive. So, the lockdown has not stopped the virus, flattened the curve or physically distanced the majority, the three objectives laid out by the PM. It is also well-established that the lockdown has imposed severe humanitarian costs. In the absence of full information, the lockdown at that time was the right strategy but it is now clear that it is not an efficient one for India.After 20 million tests, 2.5 million cases and a little under 200,000 deaths across the world, the following facts about Covid-19 can now be established.One, 99% of people below 60 years of age with no pre-existing disease are safe and need not fear the disease. Two, the Indian Council of Medical Research’s finding is that more than 70% of Covid-19 infected Indians are asymptomatic. Which means they will be unaware of their infection, unwittingly transmit it to others and unknowingly recover from it.Three, even for vulnerable people, the fatality rate of Covid-19 is not as high as it was initially estimated and is perhaps the same as severe influenza, as per recent studies. And four, contrary to belief, there is no evidence of either the weather or genes providing natural immunity for Indians. In short, a majority of Indians may get infected and recover from Covid-19, obliviously. There is no vaccine for the disease expected for at least 18 months. Until such time, a lockdown is neither a cure nor viable. India’s favourable demographics and a significantly lower fatality rate than estimated means learning to live cautiously with the virus is the only pragmatic strategy. This does not mean that India is free from the Covid-19 danger or that it should throw caution to the wind. Weighing the trade-offs with improved knowledge of the epidemic, returning to a “new normal” with adequate protection for the vulnerable, precautions of distancing and hygiene is the most optimum strategy.But there is extreme fear and panic, which is justifiable and understandable, given the sudden onset of a seemingly deadly new virus. People are petrified of contracting the infection and, unfortunately, there is also a social stigma associated with the disease. New evidence shows that such fear and panic are unwarranted and a gradual return to a new and safe normal is the best option. It takes tall political leadership to calm nations and lead people out of their deep fears. Just as President Franklin Roosevelt did in 1933 when he exhorted Americans to shed their fear of the Great Depression, with the words “There is nothing to fear but fear itself.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/learning-to-live-with-coronavirus-writes-praveen-chakravarty/story-agykD5a0T0n1QX03fWgkIL.html
26-04-2020||News||Businesses must reframe their purpose, priorities | Opinion||As the coronavirus pandemic rages across the world, even the most rigorous contingency planning and disaster management systems have gone awry. While we are far from overcoming the pandemic at this stage, the examples of China, Taiwan, South Korea and Singapore hold valuable lessons for businesses. An analysis of some of the companies at the forefront of taking effective actions offers some clues on the steps that could stand the test of time.First, early and decisive action is imperative. Learning from previous experiences, forecasting the impact on the organisations/ partners/ employees, and taking proactive steps will be critical in handling the crisis. Here is an example. Starbucks China closed 80% of its stores within days of news of virus breaking, prioritising the safety of its partners — and employees — above business. It also paid full wages and instituted a partner-assistance programme to help with insurance of its partners, employees, including the contract workers employed by individual stores, and even their family members. This helped shore up the confidence of all stakeholders and has allowed Starbucks to reopen these stores rapidly since the impact of Covid-19 has receded.Second, this crisis is an excellent opportunity for companies to refine their purpose, and frame the business as part of a larger human ecosystem with broader responsibility to the community. It is a moment to institute internal rules that help the company take more humane decisions. This is not just ethically right, but economically prudent. Companies must ensure that they don’t cash in and fall into the trap of short-term price gouging for immediate gains — such actions could harm their reputation and brand. Going above and beyond the profit motive will not only reinforce pride among employees and partners, but will also help enhance the stature of the company. For instance, Dyson, a global leader in air-flow technology, which is used for its household products, utilised its know-how to design an entirely new ventilator, named CoVent, and committed to supplying 10,000 units, all within ten days of the pandemic. Third, corporate leaders should assess their organisational flexibility and decision delegation to address market upheavals like this. Rallying the whole organisation together towards a few specific actions, and then getting the creativity of all team members, will stand a company in good stead. The Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown learnings can help in contingency planning for future shocks, to ensure that the company is better prepared as opposed to finding itself flat-footed. These actions may be aligned towards business continuance, but importantly they must give the freedom to teams to respond quickly, make making decision-making more democratic and in line with the company’s purpose. For instance, early in the pandemic cycle, Diageo India forecast the spike in the demand for protective products. Its India team repurposed their 15 factories to produce 300,000 litres of hand-sanitisers and donated 150,000 masks to five public health departments for use by health care workers. Additionally, it created a Rs 30 million insurance fund to support bartenders in this time of need. This is especially critical in countries like India where social security is minimal, at best.Fourth, businesses should apply a “through-the-cycle” strategy during this critical period. While the initial days of this pandemic crisis will be devoted towards ensuring the safety of teams and partners, the next stage presents the organisation an opportunity to think through-the-cycle and define initiatives that will allow it to come out stronger post the pandemic. Developing perspectives and projections on life post-Covid-19 can give companies a headstart when business emerges through the current trough. Refining the value proposition and business model, defining the online and e-commerce strategy, driving a more efficacious organisational structure and identifying new opportunities of growth can be the areas of focus.And, finally, it is a time for the investor community to rethink its company valuation models. It will become increasingly important to ascertain the resilience of the company rather than just its profitability. In a volatile, uncertain, complex and ambiguous world, the ability of an organisation to withstand shocks — in supply chain management, business continuity or regulatory mechanisms — should be treated as a critical aspect that the market will evaluate while ascribing the right value to the company. The human, social and economic toll of Covid-19 is still rising and it will be a long time before its true impact will be understood. Nevertheless, the above actions by companies will hold them in good stead and drive greater resilience in its future operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/businesses-must-reframe-their-purpose-priorities-opinion/story-hFBHTlJQ8pXXctyyfthSML.html
26-04-2020||News||Covid-19 has sharpened great power politics | Opinion||Even as the world grapples with the pandemic unleashed from Wuhan, China is back to the business of great power politics — building military infrastructure, conducting naval exercises and sinking the fishing boats of other nations. While the rest of the world has come to its knees, in no small part due to China’s behaviour, Beijing is busy reaping the dividends of this global disorder. If, at one level, it is using this coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to project itself as a global leader by supplying medical kits and expertise to nations in dire need, thereby trying to distinguish itself from an inward-focused Donald Trump administration, at another level, it is waging an information war in Europe, seeking to create internal rifts within the European Union. It is extraordinary to witness the full play of great power politics at a time which, according to most liberal institutionalists, should have been a case study of greater global coordination. Global pandemics were widely viewed as non-traditional security threats which would lead to greater cooperation among major powers, and not as arenas of contestation among major powers for relative gains. And international institutions were supposed to help the international community navigate these security challenges.But the state of the world today should disabuse us of all these fallacies. If anything, the fault lines between the United States (US) and China have been accentuated because of the crisis. Historically, China and the US have tried to work together to manage various global crises in the past. But not this time. Trump’s “America First” approach has meant antagonising even close allies by diverting medical supplies, outbidding the original buyers, or forcing American companies to stop exporting hospital-grade N95 masks. The lack of leadership shown by Washington has made China a necessity for many nations even in the West which had to import faulty Chinese medical kits for lack of any alternative. While a large part of the world remains furious with China for its initial concealment of adequate information, they are forced to take Chinese help. This has allowed China to expand its influence under the garb of helping the world during this pandemic, a crisis which would have been much less severe had the country behaved responsibly initially. Europe is now pushing back strongly with French President Emmanuel Macron questioning China’s handling of the outbreak, saying things “happened that we don’t know about” and British foreign secretary Dominic Raab suggesting that “hard questions” would have to be asked about how the outbreak started “and how it couldn’t have been stopped earlier.” Yet, the ability of these nations to take on China directly remains severely limited.As a result, the world will continue to transition to a phase where the jostling between China and the US will get exacerbated and the biggest loser will be global governance. The United Nations Security Council (UNSC) held its first session on the pandemic, some four months after the deadly contagion emerged as the biggest security challenge since World War II. After assuming the presidency of the UNSC last month, China’s Ambassador to the UN, Zhang Jun, made it clear that Beijing does not plan to discuss the pandemic situation in the Council during its presidency as there was no need to panic, even adding that the world is not far from the defeat of Covid-19 “with the coming of spring.” Washington and Beijing remain divided on the scope of the joint resolution with the US insisting that the UNSC resolution should be explicit about the origin of the virus in Wuhan, China, much to Beijing’s annoyance. But more serious has been how the World Health Organization (WHO) has dealt with this once-in-a-lifetime crisis. Far from being the nodal agency to coordinate a global response to this pandemic, it seems to have made itself subservient to Chinese interests, losing credibility in the eyes of its other stakeholders. WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus was forced to declare an international public health emergency only at the end of January after calling it off just a week earlier under Chinese pressure. Tedros repeatedly defended China’s handling of the crisis with the WHO even tweeting in mid-January that “preliminary investigations conducted by the Chinese authorities have found no clear evidence of human-to-human transmission”. Tedros suggested at the end of January that “WHO doesn’t recommend limiting trade and movement”. This has generated an intense backlash in Washington which is WHO’s largest single funder with President Trump not only accusing the UN agency of being “very China-centric” but also following it up by halting US funding “while a review is conducted to assess the World Health Organization’s role in severely mismanaging and covering up the spread of the coronavirus.” Though Trump’s move to cut funding has led to political bickering in the US, senior members of the US Congress have also called for a Congressional investigation into the WHO’s handling of the crisis, ostensibly in cahoots with the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). Great power politics has continued unabated even when many expected greater global solidarity. The international order was getting fragmented and major power rivalry was beginning to shape the global contours before the present crisis. That process has been galvanised by the Covid-19 crisis. Where on the one hand, the CCP stands exposed for its shenanigans during the pandemic, the vulnerabilities of the US and the West in general too are out in the open.Nations like India should be prepared to navigate the externalities of this challenging environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-has-sharpened-great-power-politics-opinion/story-8XHoKpVGqO6MJbwz9jmxoL.html
