28-04-2020||News||Lessons from Bihar on the migrant worker crisis, writes Sanjay Jha||At the interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, Bihar’s chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar raised the issue of migrant workers and protocols related to their movement. The extended lockdown has firmly brought the spotlight on these workers, with Bihar among the most severely affected states, as millions from the states remain stranded.Amid hunger, monetary crisis and uncertainty, migrant workers have been treated as outsiders, which is why many set off on foot to their homes. Reports of the exodus of migrant workers from Delhi and other cities were proof of their alienation. With widespread panic, migrants became easy targets on social media and were labelled coronavirus carriers. Frantic efforts by Bihar — home to India’s second-largest migrant labour population — to address the exodus including localised containment measures at the state borders, were not nearly enough to counter this stigma. In many places, the enforcement of lockdown through the use of police force, as well as several infection control measures such as stamping those identified for isolation and /or quarantine, made things worse for them. It was only when the Supreme Court intervened to dispel this prejudice that the media and governance responses changed to some degree.As states begin devising measures to bring workers back to assembly lines, they could take a leaf out of Bihar’s book on how to reach out to migrant workers and treat them in a humane manner. This model is already being replicated by Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand to reach out to workers stuck in other states.Bihar was the first state to respond to the needs of its migrant workers stranded in other states. CM Nitish Kumar first ensured that people who reached out to the state government in the early days of the lockdown were called back, so that the government could sort out their problems. Their deprivation related to their lack of money and assured food. In one of his first directives immediately after allocating Rs 150 crore from the CM Relief Fund to fight the pandemic (this has now been increased to Rs 250 crore), the CM instructed senior officials on April 2 to remit Rs 1,000 directly to the bank accounts of Bihari workers stranded outside.By April 6, the department of disaster management (DMD) not just developed and tested a dedicated software app for this, but successfully accomplished the transfer of funds to individual bank accounts, while launching helplines for people to continue reaching out to the state government.The enormity of the task might seem daunting, but it is nothing new for the state machinery that has extended monetary relief to the vulnerable in the past. This was, however, the first time that migrants living outside Bihar were identified, verified, and reached. The state government, by April 27, had transferred Rs 1,000 through direct bank transfers (DBT) to over 1.6 million accounts of non-resident Biharis. Delhi, Haryana, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh stand out prominently in this DBT scheme list.The state government set up helpline numbers for people stranded outside, erected relief centres at state borders for homebound migrant workers, set up community quarantine centres in villages and panchayats, and ensured that local employment through government schemes absorbed as many returning migrants as possible. Even before the partial easing of the lockdown from April 20, the state government directed all departments to use the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme to provide employment for the local labourers.Outside the state, the DMD and the Bihar Foundation have been running 52 relief centres in 12 cities in different states to provide cooked food and food packets. Over 20,000 people are being provided with meals every day at the 12 centres in Delhi alone. Similarly, the 24*7, 60-line state helpline responded to over a 100,000 calls, facilitating affirmative action for 2.5 million individuals, mostly pertaining to monetary and food issues.Beyond financial assistance through DBT and support through community centres and phone helplines, the state’s initiatives have succeeded in looping hundreds of thousands of migrant workers into an extended community. This is a challenging time for both, the state government as well as for migrant workers. But taking care of them, through protective mechanisms, while remaining careful that the disease does not spread, is both the ethical and pragmatic thing to do. After all, it is these workers who will have to steer the economy back to its feet when India opens up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/lessons-from-bihar-on-the-migrant-worker-crisis-writes-sanjay-jha/story-pyAXNAl5tzGYmTSsMlm1iI.html
28-04-2020||News||Covid-19 has devastated the entire world of sport | Opinion||With the world in lockdown, sports stars have taken to social media with fervour, sharing experiences, anecdotes and expertise, among other things. At one level, it keeps them engaged with their fans. But at another, as more time passes in isolation, it also seems to be revealing growing anxiety.Recently, the Big Four of men’s tennis — Roger Federer, Rafael Nadal, Novak Djokovic and Andy Murray — chatted with each other on Instagram. This went viral on social media. Fans logged in from all over the world to listen to the interaction between the champions. Banter and bonhomie laced the conversation as the legendary players spoke of life, their concerns and, of course, tennis. Yet, throughout the session, there was a certain amount of pensiveness, some wistfulness, even some restiveness.The uncertainties we face today seem to have brought out apprehensions among athletes cutting across age, genders, and sports disciplines. Psychologically, the problems they face today go far deeper than missing a few games; it could scar many of them for life.Multiple medal-winning Olympic gymnast Simone Biles told The Wall Street Journal recently, “Physically I have no doubt that my coaches will get me back in shape. But mentally going another year, I think that’s what’s going to take a toll.’’ Biles had planned to retire after the Tokyo Olympics. With the games pushed to next year, with a possibility that it may not be held at all, she told the newspaper she will now play it by ear. The fact that even athletes at the top of their game are feeling distressed is one aspect of the devastation the virus has wrought on the world of sport.After the World Health Organization declared the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as a pandemic around mid-March, major tournaments have been either cancelled or suspended indefinitely. Remember, this was supposed to be a golden year for sports with the Tokyo Olympics and the T20 Cricket World Championship added to the regular roster of mega-events. Now, 2020 can only be described as annus horribilis for sports.The only bright spots are chess and e-sports, which have gained traction during the lockdown. All others have gone for a toss.There has been no estimate so far of the extent of financial turmoil facing the sports world but a back-of-the-envelope calculation suggests enormous havoc. If the Indian Premier League is not played this year, for instance, the Board of Cricket Control in India (BCCI) could suffer losses between ~3,500-4,000 crore. The BCCI can still survive this setback, but most other cricket boards are on the verge of ruin because of cancelled events.Deferring the Tokyo Olympics till 2021 will likely cost the International Olympic Committee and Japan around $6 billion dollars. Suspending the American Basketball and Football Leagues will dent their balance sheets by a couple of billion dollars at least. The list is long, and the overall losses staggering. Apart from promoters and players, thousands employed within the ecosystem of a sport/tournament — broadcasters, vendors, suppliers, and those in the hospitality and travel sectors — have been thrown completely off-kilter.The only gainer, oddly enough, during this calamitous phase is the All England Tennis Club that conducts the Wimbledon Grand Slam. Through chance or prescience, the tournament was insured against a pandemic and the club could receive over 100 million pounds in compensation.Suggestions that events be staged in a “quarantined” environment, without spectators and only for a TV audience, have been tried successfully in a few instances recently. But, it is unlikely to generate sustained interest and acceptance over a long period of time both for fans and the athletes themselves.It could be argued that the TV audience for most sport, in any case, is far larger today than ever before; so why agonise over the presence, or rather the absence, of people in stadiums. But that runs against the ethos of competitive sport, as we have known it to be played. Sportspersons are performing artistes and crave a live audience to inspire them to perform at their best. Keeping fans away from the arena of action would make sport bland rather than the lively throbbing experience it should be. Also, this will require a massive shift in mindset which could take decades at the very least.In any case, sport played for TV or online audiences may not be a panacea for a raging virus. All sports demand large numbers of coaching staff, administrative personnel and other support systems. Moreover, without extensive, time-consuming and expensive testing, how do you allow players to even play with or against each other?The problem is not limited to the elite level. The bigger challenge going forward will be at the lower levels, particularly at the grassroots, where parents/guardians will be chary of allowing their wards to participate in group activities. That could ring the death knell for many forms of sport.Ironically, sport holds out the best promise for recovery post-Covid-19. It unarguably helps in building immunity, is a great psychological prop in times of stress and, along with sharpening the competitive instinct, also promotes cooperation and mutual accommodation, which the human race badly needs now. Realistically, life can return to normal only after an effective vaccine is found. Expert opinion suggests this may be 12-18 months away. But human ingenuity, particularly when it comes to survival, has worked wonders as the history of our species shows. The world of sports — like all else — waits with fingers crossed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-has-devastated-the-entire-world-of-sport-opinion/story-9TfIoJaMOaAfuom9vbZELO.html
28-04-2020||News||It is time to resume political activity | Opinion||Five weeks ago, the nationwide lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi placed the Indian economy in cold storage. It also seems to have put politics on ice. As the government prepares to gradually dial down the economic freeze on May 3, politics, too, must emerge from its hibernation. Politics — at its core — is about forging a settlement out of diverse public policy positions. Indeed, the very nature of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) invites divergent approaches to halting the spread of the virus and blunting its impacts.And yet, the current moment presents a set of paradoxes in the political realm.First, although the pandemic presents a unique political moment with enduring consequences for parties and leaders, it also is a fraught time for political mobilisation. National crises are usually conceived as opportunities for citizens to rally around the flag, perhaps even more so in India than in many other democracies. Therefore, it is not easy for the Opposition to critique the government’s handling of the crisis.Second, the government is taking monumental, high-cost decisions with the objective of shielding citizens from the pandemic. But, citizens, the Opposition, and civil society struggle to hold it accountable. On March 24, India instituted one of the most stringent lockdowns in any country in the world. Was this a wise, far-sighted decision or a hasty overreaction? The counter-factuals are too complex to answer this question with precision. Thus, it is hard to pin the blame on the incumbent because the crisis feels unprecedented.Third, the crisis reveals huge faultlines in India’s political economy — poor capital-labour relations, weak protections of migrants and informal workers, neglect of public health systems, and grave disparities between the haves and the have-nots. And yet, given the scale of the mobilisation and its expected duration, chances are that citizens will be gasping for air when the dust finally settles. At that point, there may be little appetite for translating the lessons of the crisis into actionable reform. The emotional and psychological bandwidth of 1.3 billion Indians will be stretched to its outermost limits.Fourth, while the states are doing the bulk of the heavy lifting — albeit with significant variations — their efforts are likely to be overshadowed by the central government’s unparalleled visibility. Of the scores of measures taken to curb the pandemic, it is state health workers, police officers, and administrators that are on the frontlines. In normal times, state-level differentiation might be possible. But the Centre’s invocation of the Disaster Management Act (DMA) has shrunk available political space because it is the Centre that is issuing guidelines on the lockdown, testing, procurement and treatment infrastructure. States are cast as mere implementers of central edicts. Even a success story like Kerala found its attempts to widen the scope of permitted economic activities thwarted by New Delhi.Going forward, politics should not continue to operate in a state of suspended animation. After all, other democracies have managed — however imperfectly — to balance the demands of democracy with the imperatives of crisis response. In the United States, there is a daily display of political wrangling between Washington and state capitals and in the ongoing presidential campaign. Closer to home, South Korea just held a presidential election — recording the highest turnout in three decades.Politics must resume its course in India as well. While open political contestation faces practical hurdles, some aspects of this crisis actually deserve to be politicised. Perversely, the effort to depoliticise the crisis is itself a form of politicisation.First, this should not become a purely rally-round-the-flag crisis. The objectives are too ambiguous and trade-offs too complicated to justify such a framing. Although the Bharatiya Janata Party’s dominance makes effective critiques of the Centre’s decisions difficult, questions must be raised about alternative strategies and policy approaches.Second, even though accountability for outcomes is difficult, the government must be held responsible for its crisis modelling, mitigation efforts, and measurable outputs such as treatment infrastructure. Citizens deserve detailed, data-driven, model-based explanations for key strategic choices, and regular updates on personal protective equipment procurement, hospital bed availability, intensive care unit capacity and supply of ventilators.Third, since the crisis has revealed huge social and economic fractures — from the issue of seasonal migrants to the urban poor — the challenge for politics is to keep these issues on the front-burner rather than waiting for the crisis to subside.Fourth, states must demand more space to chart their own paths. There is enormous subnational diversity in economic realities, health systems, and administrative capacity. Legally, the states have a case. The Constitution places public health in the State List, while controlling the inter-state transmission of epidemics is in the Concurrent List. While the Centre has invoked the DMA, it is debatable whether the Centre can supersede the states in an epidemic, especially because the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, empowers the states to regulate activities to reduce virus transmission (and the Centre to regulate ports of entry). However, this space needs to be reclaimed — it will not be easily ceded.Crises are often moments when political fortunes are made or unmade. Pressing the pause button on politics for too long would be both unwise and unhealthy for the long-term prognosis of Indian democracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/it-is-time-to-resume-political-activity-opinion/story-BFlj0kQXIbecD69WlU0VOM.html
