29-04-2020||News||Amend the FRBM Act, and spend more now||In Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s latest instalment of “Mann ki Baat” on April 25, he exhorted the citizens to treat the present moment as a yudh (war) against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). However, the government’s approach to the economy, under lockdown for over five weeks, has been anything but warlike. An economy is an emergent phenomenon, its path altering when it is buffeted by shocks. This calls for a creative response by the authorities concerned when one occurs. Globally, we are facing a situation that is not just abnormal but, failing a providential reversal, is set to damage our prospects as societies. Public authorities in almost all democracies have recognised this threat and unleashed unprecedented economic force. By contrast, in India, the economic policy appears paralysed, without no significant economic package announced yet.The lockdown being implemented is tantamount to an economic shock. As there is no production, there are no avenues of income generation for a vast majority of Indians. This would be cause enough for concern even if the loss is confined to a single period. But an economy exists in time. Today’s national income drives tomorrow’s expenditure, which determines income the day after. So the lockdown is likely to have consequences that extend well into the future. It is unlikely that incomes will bounce back to some predetermined level once it is lifted. In fact, there is the possibility that we will continue to slide. Economic policy in a democracy is expected to address this possibility. Recent world history has shown that there are varieties of responses even among democracies when it comes to assuming responsibility for the economy. Consider the responses of the United States (US) and by governments in the Eurozone, respectively, to the global financial crisis in the last decade. An aggressive fiscal stimulus in the former meant that the US recovered briskly, while reluctant activism by the conservative European Central Bank and equally conservative governments has meant that a whole continent has fared poorly by comparison. This contrast suggests that Europe’s misery was of its own making; in the words of the Dutch macro-economist Willem Buiter, “recessions are a choice”. It implies that it is within the reach of economic policy to determine the state of the economy by preventing a collapse of aggregate demand. Could it be that our own future in India after the lockdown is lifted will be closer to the experience of Europe rather than the US after the global financial crisis?Of course, as long as a lockdown persists, the problem is not just one of aggregate demand, for it is the supply side that is impacted first. But as wages not paid today lowers tomorrow’s expenditure, a supply restriction could soon end up as a demand recession. Of the two arms of macroeconomic policy, namely monetary and fiscal, it is the latter that has greater potential once demand slows. This feature, which is established in theory, is particularly relevant under the circumstances India finds itself in. The economy has been slowing for three years since 2017-18, following the demonetisation in late 2016. There is an explanation for this. In a slowing economy, private investors tend to be sceptical of the growth of profits, and are likely to contract investment. Now growth slows further, impacting investment in the next period, and so on. Only the government can counteract slowing private investment. The Great Depression is reckoned to have lasted for a decade from 1929, ended only by World War II. War had meant greater public expenditure, which restored economic activity. Nowhere was this more in evidence than in the US, which was launched into a period of extraordinary prosperity for three decades. It is important for us in India to learn from this period in world history and to tailor our economic policies accordingly.A hurdle in the path of the renewal of economic activity post-lockdown is the Fiscal Responsibility and Budgetary Management Act (FRBM) of 2003. It ties expansionary economic policy to a fiscal deficit limit of 3% of the gross domestic product. This when the Centre’s fiscal deficit was already at 3.8% in 2019-20. The government can, of course, amend it to allow for an emergency, like the one we face at present. Not amending the Act is one of the sources of the paralysis in economic policy today. It ensures that the government cannot expand its spending to battle the consequences of the spread of the coronavirus. Greater expenditure is required in four buckets, first for relief, next for the medical response, then for an aggregate demand stimulus and, finally, for ramping up the public health infrastructure. It is difficult to fathom the non-interventionist macro-economic policy stance of the government, one bordering on irresponsibility though wrapped in the rhetoric of fiscal rectitude. Never before has it been as true that, as John Maynard Keynes said: “Practical men who believe themselves to be quite exempt from any intellectual influence, are usually the slaves of some defunct economist.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/amend-the-frbm-act-and-spend-more-now/story-b1TcKvMMwekY0s51PKrpmL.html
29-04-2020||News||Announce the stimulus, now||It has been 37 days of the national lockdown. Besides the first announcement — on March 27 — of a ₹1.7 lakh crore package to provide what were rather minimal relief measures to the poor, the Centre has not yet come up with a package for the economy. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in one of his first speeches to the nation on the coronavirus pandemic, spoke of the creation of a high-level economic task force to suggest measures, but little has been heard of it since. There are indications that the government is working on a stimulus. Besides the fact that this is already delayed, reports suggest that this is broadly focused on the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). There can be no doubt that MSMEs have been severely affected due to the lockdown. They have little financial cushion; they employ the majority of India’s workforce; and they need urgent help. But it will be a mistake if the government just focuses on them, and ignores the demands of larger industry bodies that have sought a more comprehensive package. Given India’s socialist past, there is a tendency to look at bigger businesses with suspicion. But as the decades after economic reforms have shown, these businesses are critical. They provide mass employment, both in manufacturing and services; they are at the forefront of innovation; they can embark on larger projects which are critical for infrastructure needs; and their contribution to the revenue basket is key to fiscal health. The lockdown has affected every sector, small and big. Given the complex supply interlinkages that exist among all segments of the economy, helping one part — while neglecting another — will not be enough. The expected collapse in demand will also affect all industries. That is why it is crucial that when the government announces its package, it must take into account all industrial activity. Announce the stimulus now, with an eye on all the moving parts of the economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/announce-the-stimulus-now/story-fIaYjPiIc8wwdGPT7Ol8LM.html
29-04-2020||News||Protect Indian media from predatory tech platforms||Silicon Valley has always preferred to portray itself not as a profit-making enterprise, but as a populist crusader for free speech. From invoking Martin Luther King, as Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg did in a speech to defend his company’s strategy to allow false political advertising in the United States (US), to framing catchy slogans such as “Do No Evil” (Google) , the technology firms have played an aggressive advocacy game to keep public opinion in its favour.More recently, the original defenders of free speech — traditional news publishers in western democracies — have locked horns with Silicon Valley companies such as Google and Facebook over advertising revenue and the fake news propagated on these technology-enabled platforms. These news publishers charge the technology companies with two sins that threaten not just the news industry across the world, but also democracy in India.The first sin is that of playing an outsized role in peddling fake news. Rather than investing resources (proportional to their trillion-dollar valuations) to keep fake news off their platforms, most Silicon Valley companies pass the buck to users in the name of “free speech”. Any attempt to get these companies to crack down on fake news invites allegations of censorship. This tsunami of fake news is undermining the traditional media in India, which unlike the Silicon Valley platforms, continues to bear the risk of prosecution for publishing speech that falls foul of Indian laws. This means, that unlike, the technology companies, the news business has to employ editors, reporters and fact-checkers to ensure that their news is authentic.The second sin that these technology companies are often charged with is their tendency to profit off the work of others without paying them. No news aggregator, including Google and Facebook, generates any content of its own. The only way they can bring people to their platforms is by leeching off the content of others. While producing a video of a cat playing with a ball of yarn or making a viral meme is not expensive, it does cost a pretty penny for news publishers to pay journalists to collect, verify and publish news.Once published, these news stories are shared on platforms like Facebook and Twitter, thereby, drawing more users to them. Google operates in a slightly different way. By aggregating links to the websites of almost all news outlets in the world on its popular Google News platform, it offers users a one-stop-shop to find news stories. In the process, both Google and Facebook collect heaps of personal data of users that then allows both of these companies to offer targeted advertising solutions for their clients at a scale that the traditional news media cannot even dream of. In the process, news publishers around the world are losing significant advertising revenue to these giants.As the fourth pillar of democracy, the news media is one of the few industries whose financial health can affect the quality of a democracy. Across the world, there are two reform measures being discussed to alter the skewed equation between these tech companies and news publishers. The first reform measure is aimed at removing the “safe harbour” provisions in the law that provide Silicon Valley platforms with legal immunity for content posted by others. This is one of the reasons that Facebook, WhatsApp or YouTube cannot be sued for defamation or hate speech in most countries, despite profiteering from the traffic that such speech often draws towards their platforms. Removing this immunity will create incentives for them to invest more in content moderation. As of now, the progress on this front is slow.The second reform measure, which has already come into effect in Europe, and is under discussion in Australia and the US, is granting news publishers a legal right to charge a royalty from Silicon Valley platforms every time the latter displays a link to a news report with a short snippet. Accompanying this amendment is another measure that allows news publishers to create legal cartels in order to negotiate collectively with the platforms, without being subject to scrutiny by competition regulators. There is no guarantee that this law will work as intended because it is predicated on the news publishers and Silicon Valley firms arriving at a deal on the royalties. It is theoretically possible for companies like Google to shut out European news publishers from Google News. The company did this with Spanish news publishers a few years ago when Spain enacted a similar law. Such a refusal to deal with European news publishers may invite anti-trust scrutiny from competition regulators, but that is a long and messy road.So where does this leave Indian news publishers? There is surprisingly little public discussion on this important issue in India. Many of the legacy print news publishers are experimenting with paywalls and transitioning to a subscription-based model, but none of them are close to mastering the new business model. Even in the West only a few such as The New York Times have cracked the digital model. It is not easy to convince Indians to purchase subscriptions for online content that they are used to accessing for free.With Google, Facebook and other Silicon Valley companies eating into the traditional advertising pie in India, it is likely that the Indian news industry is going to lose revenue over the next few years as digital penetration increases at the cost of print revenues. At some point, news publishers will face a moment of reckoning. The weaker the financial health of the news industry, the less likely it is to spend on reporting. It is possible that some level of policy intervention will be required to strengthen the revenues of the Indian media. But any such intervention must be guided by empirical evidence based on Indian realities.It would be a mistake for India to copy the policies of the European Union or Australia, without accounting for the realities of its own news industry. The ball is now in the court of the Indian news publishers. They will have to make a case to convince public opinion of their need for protection from the conduct of the SV platforms.Prashant Reddy T is an intellectual property lawyer and co-author of Create, Copy, Disrupt: India’s Intellectual Property Dilemmas.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/protect-indian-media-from-predatory-tech-platforms/story-JwMNXLMceenG26siUli1JN.html
29-04-2020||News||Covid-19: An opportunity to overhaul green policies||The two overriding emotions that India is witnessing these days, thanks to the coronavirus-induced crisis, are fear and happiness. The first stems from the panic that the virus has caused and the harsh impact it has had on the poor and the economy. At the same time, there is a degree of relief at the impact on the environment; air and water bodies are cleaner now, and snow-clad mountains are visible from cities situated in the foothills.But are these a cause for celebration? Many commentators point out that these developments are only a short-lived reality. When the lockdown is over, it will be business as usual, and we won’t slow down to remember this magical interlude. The last two months, however, have made us intensely aware about the linkages that exist between the destruction of the ecosystem and the systematic plunder of the natural environment to the coronavirus crisis. These observations are not new, but now they are gaining traction because we are collectively facing a crisis. It is known that zoonotic diseases emerge due to anthropogenic activities, linked to unsustainable economic practices of plundering diverse ecosystems through deforestation, mining, and illegal trade in wildlife. The coronavirus disease (Covid-19), like Avian influenza, Ebola, Nipah, and Zika, has origins in excessive human influence on natural environments. The recent exhortation by the acting executive secretary of the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity, Elizabeth Maruma Mrema, to ban wildlife markets is testimony to this. A return to business as usual will be suicidal. A balance must now be achieved in how humans and other living beings, as well as natural ecosystems, survive, if not thrive, in each other’s company. The concept of “One Health” for humans, animals, and ecosystems can work as a guide to nations. Originating from the discussions on biodiversity and the health of ecosystems, “One Health” is defined by the World Health Organization as “an approach to designing and implementing programmes, policies, legislation, and research in which multiple sectors communicate and work together to achieve better public health outcomes”. The areas of work in which a ‘One Health’ approach is particularly relevant, the WHO says, is “food safety, the control of zoonoses (diseases that can spread between animals and humans…) and combating antibiotic resistance.” We believe that “One Health” should become a key pillar of India’s environmental policy. A recent European Commission report highlights the links between the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and the climate crisis. The report noted: “Experts suggest that degraded habitats coupled with a warming climate may encourage higher risks of disease transmission, as pathogens spread more easily to livestock and humans. Therefore, it is important — now more than ever before — to address the multiple and often interacting threats to ecosystems and wildlife to buffer against the risk of future pandemics, as well as preserve and enhance their role as carbon sinks and in climate adaptation.” Realigning the focus of environmental policy with the “One Health” concept will be transformational. It will prioritise the resilience of ecosystems as well as the relationships of humans and other living beings to their ecosystems, rather than focus on solutions like pollution control. Such transformative change also requires new kinds of partnerships and alliances between actors within the government, civil society, and the private sector. To draw up a plan of action, the involvement of environmentalists, conservationists, and medical doctors will be a must. The ministries of environment, forests, climate change, and health and family welfare would have to work to develop and implement this transformative agenda. There are some elements of this plan in the Government of India’s programmes, but these have to be more emphatically articulated and implemented. The Covid-19 pandemic has brought with it untold misery. But it’s given us an unexpected gift — the potential to press the reset button of the planet. We might celebrate the moment by taking photographs of peacocks on our terraces, but we shouldn’t lose the opportunity of a large-scale overhaul of our environmental policies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-an-opportunity-to-overhaul-green-policies/story-jFiwmCyNfKhyrkuTihK0OP.html
