01-07-2021||A day after the Centre announced that it would spend Rs 93||Migrants’ misery||It’s inexcusable that the benefits of welfare schemes continue to elude migrant workers even more than a year after the Covid-induced nationwide lockdown devastated their lives and livelihoods. Just when they were trying to pick up the pieces, the second wave dashed the hopes of many of them of regaining employment. A study by Pew Research Centre has shown that about 7.5 crore people have slipped into poverty since the outbreak of the pandemic — and this is just a conservative estimate. According to a survey conducted by the National Statistics Office in 2017-18, migrant workers account for more than one-fourth of India’s population. Since they work in the unorganised sector, the NDUW is vital for their accurate headcount that can further help in finalising the quantum of relief packages. The inordinate delay in establishing the database has left these workers to fend for themselves.The ONORC, which offers countrywide portability of the ration card for poor migrant workers and their families, has also not been fully implemented by some states. In the absence of food security, the intended beneficiaries are finding it tough to cope with repeated disruptions caused by lockdowns. No wonder many of them prefer to return to their home states as they have no access to free ration in the state where they work. The Centre and the states have allowed things to drift for too long. They need to get their act together, with or without court intervention.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/migrants-misery-276389
01-07-2021||The confrontation between West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar appears to be unrelenting||CM, Governor on collision course||The CM has repeatedly asked for the Governor’s recall, even as an NHRC committee has submitted its report to the Calcutta High Court regarding post-poll violence in the state. While the Governor had taken up the matter of post-poll violence after prodding by the Centre over the law and order situation in the state which raised the hackles of the CM who holds the Home portfolio, how the Centre reacts to Mamata’s persistent demand will be under watch. As the Chief Minister, while Mamata may have a point in registering her protest against the Governor’s actions, there is a precedent: Gopalkrishna Gandhi, the then Governor who was at odds with the Left Front government, had visited Nandigram after the violence in 2007. MK Narayanan, who had generally cordial relations with the CM, had to resign as the Governor to facilitate a probe into the AgustaWestland helicopter deal.Stand-offs between chief ministers and Governors are not something new, but as the West Bengal CM has herself maintained, such fights should be apolitical and democratic in nature. Dhankhar has in the past visited the CM on festivals as a goodwill gesture and both should strive to maintain the dignity of their constitutional offices without allowing political differences to mar a working relationship.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/cm-governor-on-collision-course-276390
