02-07-2021||IN the election year||Power pangs||It’s a no-brainer that the grid load capacity should have been enhanced well before the onset of summer; the failure to do the needful is taking its toll on various sections of consumers. Among the worst sufferers is the industrial sector, which is desperately trying to make a recovery after the crippling second wave of the Covid pandemic. The two weekly offs are hampering the industry’s efforts to resume normal operations.Subsidised electricity is costing Punjab over Rs 10,000 crore annually, even as flawed power purchase agreements are also bleeding the state’s coffers. Successive governments have been reluctant to rationalise subsidies due to fear of a backlash, particularly from the farming community. Strict action to deter power theft and injudicious use of electricity has also been lacking. These issues can’t be resolved overnight, but what’s missing is the political will to address them. The least that can be done now is to ensure regular power supply across the state, besides lowering the tariff even when no elections are around the corner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/power-pangs-277005
02-07-2021||Celebrating the centenary of the founding of the Communist Party of China (CPC)||100 years of CPC||When CPC talks about socialism with Chinese characteristics, it means capitalism and private profit; when it says people’s rule, it means party rule without open competition for participation in government. Despite this inherent duplicity, the CPC has been successful in turning a war-ravaged, famine-prone, medieval society into the second largest economy in the world, changing the global power balance, taking on the US on an equal footing as a competitor. The economic miracle was not restricted to cities and its riches to the party bureaucracy. Instead, it created a welfare state with the world’s biggest public pension scheme and, of course, a large, modern, technology-driven military.The rise of China is the greatest post-war geopolitical development and it was achieved by stealth, playing one superpower against the other, making its people believe in the power of the party to transform the nation. Chinese communism is but unabashed nation worship. This unbridled pride in Chinese nationalism is getting transformed into expansionism as had happened in Europe in the last century. As the biggest neighbour, India has its role cut out to challenge Chinese hegemony till the CPC sees reason. Interestingly, the Economist magazine predicts, ‘At some point, even this Chinese dynasty will end.’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/100-years-of-cpc-276989
