03-07-2021||Chinese President Xi Jinping’s keynote address at the ceremony to mark the centenary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) was peppered with stern warnings to foreign powers. Adopting a holier-than-thou attitude||Chinese belligerence||Xi Jinping has unequivocally spelt out the Chinese agenda: the ‘reunification’ of Taiwan with the mainland; making China a great, modern socialist country; and accelerating the modernisation of China’s armed forces. These interlinked goals indicate that China is prepared to plough its own furrow, regardless of adverse international opinion, in the post-Covid world. Of course, there are few takers for China’s ‘I’m not the aggressor’ rant, least of all India, which has repeatedly experienced Chinese duplicity and aggressive posturing.Instead of treating the centenary as an opportunity for introspection and stock-taking, the CPC has persisted with self-congratulatory showmanship aimed at overwhelming the rest of the world. The all-powerful Xi Jinping, who holds the top three posts in China — President, General Secretary of the CPC and Chairman of the Central Military Commission — is bent on ruling the country with an iron hand and pursuing a hardline foreign policy. Such tactics could usher in a dangerous era of rampant Chinese expansionism on the military and economic fronts. The comity of nations needs to be more firm and watchful than ever to ward off any threat to the global order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/chinese-belligerence-277400
03-07-2021||The dangers and after-effects of climate change are manifesting themselves with increasing frequency||Alarmingly warm||People in cities like Seattle, Portland, Vancouver and Surrey that normally enjoy pleasantly mild summer temperatures (ranging from 11 to 22°C) — with most homes not even requiring a fan — are scrambling for ACs as the mercury has soared to breach the sizzling 46-degree mark. The 49.6°C recorded in Lytton, British Columbia, was five degrees hotter than Canada’s earlier highest temperature of 84 years ago. The region has registered a sudden spike in deaths and it is being related to the roasting conditions and hyperthermia. The blazing heat has imperiled crops and some roads and other structures are cracking and crumbling as they are not resilient enough to withstand such excessive heat.The global warming-induced extreme weather events are a matter of concern and call for urgent remedial measures as they upend life and infrastructure with little warning. India is no stranger to the devastation wreaked by climate change. It has been suffering floods more frequently in the recent times due to the melting glaciers and receding coastlines. Unusually hot and longer summers are becoming the norm. The efforts to halt the warming of our planet — it has become dangerously warmer by more than 1°C since 1900 — are, unfortunately, not enough to lower the rate of carbon emissions. Concrete steps are needed to leave a liveable planet endowed with enough essential resources for the generations to come.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/alarmingly-warm-277401
