05-07-2021||Halfway into the three-year time span granted to implement the biggest military reform in independent India||Theaterisation pangs||The Indian military has 17 single-service commands across the country — the Army and Air Force have seven each, and the Navy has three commands. The Andaman and Nicobar command, based in Port Blair, is the sole tri-service command. The theaterisation model being considered involves setting up of at least six new integrated commands, after the merger of the existing commands. However, sharp differences have emerged — the Army and Navy are in favour of the theaterisation model but the Air Force has concerns over the division of its air assets and the nomenclature and leadership of the commands. There are concerns also about the reduction of the powers of the Chiefs of Staff.Even as the deliberations continue, it is evident that concerns over one’s turf are hampering progress. The Air Force’s anxieties would not have been soothed by Gen Rawat terming it a ‘supporting arm’, which seems ill-advised because air power is the primary tool to achieve tactical gains in warfare. The existence of inter-services competition can’t be denied; due to this reason, the massive project of theaterisation should not have been left only to the three services — a more holistic approach, with involvement of Parliament and relevant ministries, was needed. What we are witnessing is a public clash of ideas, which must be avoided at all costs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/theaterisation-pangs-278208
05-07-2021||IN a damage-control exercise to contain discontent against the then Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat with just a year to go for the Assembly elections||Tirath yatra ends||If Tirath Rawat distinguished himself in any way during his 114-day term, it was in generating controversies by the dozen, be it criticising policy decisions of his predecessor, his pronouncements and his remarks — like contending that women wearing ripped jeans send out a wrong message. When several states were exploring containment measures after a surge in Covid-19 cases indicated the beginning of the second wave, he insisted that the Kumbh Mela in Hardwar should be ‘open for all’. The repercussions have been devastating. The fake Covid testing scam during the pilgrimage has harmed the government’s image.Three CMs in the final year of the term is a huge embarrassment for any party. For the BJP, which prides itself on discipline and timely management, all the more, though it would like to portray its decision as a quick-fix solution to retain power in Uttarakhand, where elections are due early next year. What the state government has done or not done are secondary issues for now. Stemming infighting and presenting a united face have become a far bigger challenge for the ruling party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/tirath-yatra-ends-278209
