06-07-2021||The Covid-19 Vaccines Global Access (COVAX)||Vaccine roadblock||Even as travel and trade restrictions are being eased or lifted in many parts of the world, the reluctance of several European Union (EU) nations to accept Covishield-vaccinated travellers for unrestricted movement across the region has struck a discordant note. This obstacle has prompted COVAX to urge all regional, national and local government authorities to recognise as fully vaccinated all people who have received Covid-19 vaccines that have been deemed safe and effective by the WHO and/or the 11 Stringent Regulatory Authorities (SRAs), ‘when making decisions on who is able to travel or attend events’.The WHO emergency use listing includes Covishield, the main vaccine used in India ever since the inoculation programme began in mid-January, but it is not among the vaccines authorised by EU. The decision of the WHO and the SRAs on vaccine approvals should have worldwide acceptance, overriding the preferences of individual nations/blocs. The EU’s pick-and-choose approach will not only worsen vaccine inequity but also undermine the UN body’s authority. Consequently, such a parochial attitude will hamper efforts to reboot the global economy. The WHO chief has rightly said that until we end the pandemic everywhere, we will not end it anywhere. The EU, which includes some of the world’s most affluent nations, should do course correction in the best interests of humankind.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/vaccine-roadblock-278809
06-07-2021||Water crisis forcing villagers in Nuh district of Haryana to contemplate migration is a matter of concern. The residents||Water scarcity||Water crisis has also surfaced in Sangrur district of Punjab that borders Haryana. Like Nuh, Sangrur is listed among the dark zones where there is an acute deficit of groundwater. With water from tubewells turning out to be contaminated and unfit for consumption, villagers are hard-pressed to find clean drinking water, taking recourse to the Bhakra canal. The Covid pandemic has also deepened worries over untreated canal water being used for drinking purposes. Depletion of groundwater has already resulted in a revision of the date for sowing of paddy, a water-intensive crop, in Punjab and while efforts are made to supply uninterrupted power to the rural areas to help in farming activities, non-functioning tubewells add to the problem. A late monsoon in the north is also delaying the recharge of groundwater.The problem should be looked at from a developmental perspective. Areas like Nuh need proper planning to tackle water scarcity which impedes growth with the district lagging behind others. Supply of clean drinking water is a clear parameter on the development index while irrigation for fields is important to sustain agriculture, the mainstay of the economy. Not measuring up on both fronts may prove detrimental.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/water-scarcity-278800
