07-07-2021||Learning from 2020||CBSE exam pattern||This roadmap — even as some creases are still being ironed out — should save the current batches of CBSE students from the harrowing time that this dilemma presented to their counterparts during the 2020-21 session. The other school boards must lay out how they would compute results. Last year was marked by a punishing guessing game, with the exam schedules swinging from the now-on mode to the now-off one in response to the unfolding surges. The boards drew flak from parents, students and schools as they revised at the last minute their decisions over the conduct of classes and exams.The CBSE’s introduction of a two-term system of marking candidates for half-yearly exams along with regular internal tests is welcome as it is designed to give weightage to the year-round performance of students. In fact, it’s a much-needed reformatory step. The authorities would do well to transition into this new scheme of appraisal even beyond the pandemic. The present examination process is directed more towards rote-based learning and undue stress on accomplishment in one set of tests. An overhaul has been long due. Brainstorming of a strategy that ensures a level playing field and checks against schools giving unfair scores to their wards is needed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/cbse-exam-pattern-279151
07-07-2021||Stanislaus Lourduswamy or Father Stan Swamy||The death of Fr. Swamy||Fr. Swamy’s lawyer has sought a judicial probe into the incarceration of an ailing man leading to his death; and the least that the Bombay High Court can do now is to order one. After all, it failed in assessing the need for interim bail to Fr. Swamy when it agreed to shift the priest to a hospital of his choice. The conduct of the NIA and jail authorities, which denied him a sipper to drink, should be scrutinised to stop the misuse of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act to deny bail to the accused. In Fr. Swamy’s case, the NIA court invoked chapters IV and VI of the Act to detain him. These provisions pertaining to terrorist activities and organisations should not have been used in the case of a man who never picked up a weapon.The greatest misfortune of our criminal justice system is its propensity to allow the misuse of the judicial process to punish the accused rather than awaiting verdicts dependent on evidentiary merit — be they enemies of the State or the moneyed. Fr. Swamy’s death should trigger a national debate on the denial of bail to under-trials. Let his suffering not go in vain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/the-death-of-fr-swamy-279163
