08-07-2021||The second wave of Covid-19 is nearing its end in India||Perils of crowding||It’s shocking how quickly we have forgotten the havoc wreaked by the second wave just a couple of months ago. The country had lulled itself into self-congratulatory complacency in January, when the first wave had petered out and the nationwide vaccination drive was rolled out with fanfare. Things took a turn for the worse in April as election rallies in West Bengal and other states drew large crowds and religious events such as Kumbh Mela witnessed the participation of lakhs of pilgrims. With the vaccination rate continuing to be sluggish, a repeat of such irresponsible conduct can hasten the onset of the next wave.The temporary closure of some ‘extremely crowded’ markets in Delhi is a right step by the authorities, even as shopkeepers and traders have sought the setting up of a Joint Action Committee comprising representatives of the police, the Municipal Corporation and the market association to tackle crowding in markets. Close coordination between various stakeholders is a must to regulate the footfall in such places. With five states — UP, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Goa and Manipur — going to the polls early next year, electioneering is set to pick up pace in the coming months. Sticking to the basics — wearing masks and maintaining social distancing — must become a way of life, failing which we might have to face another catastrophe sooner or later.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/perils-of-crowding-279759
08-07-2021||The passing of Dilip Kumar||Goodbye, Dilip Kumar||Through the 1940s to 1960s, in a newly-independent country brimming with hope but grappling with new challenges, Dilip Kumar played an impressive range of characters — a dapper young man in Andaz, a farmer in Mela and Naya Daur, an unbounded adventurer in Azaad and Kohinoor, the prince in Mughal-e-Azam, a dacoit in Gunga Jumna. But the role that epitomised his ‘Tragedy King’ persona was as Devdas in Bimal Roy’s film of the same name in 1955. Deep-diving into tragic characters caused him to be depressed, and the light-hearted, swashbuckling roles he played in the mid-1950s were part of efforts to cheer his spirits.By the 1970s, with Dilip Kumar in his 50s, his charm as the leading man began to fade and he made an impressive transition into character roles — the most memorable role of this phase was as a police officer in Shakti (1982), in which he is clearly the giant among Amitabh Bachchan, Smita Patil and Kulbhushan Kharbanda. His brooding style, however, began to seem dated by the time he did his final films. He long outlived his two foremost rivals and friends, Raj Kapoor and Dev Anand — but at 98, it is time for the finest actor of his time to take the final bow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/goodbye-dilip-kumar-279729
