09-07-2021||The death of Virbhadra Singh||Himachal stalwart passes away||Singh, despite advancing years, remained the party supremo until the end, though he had faced challenges on many occasions — in 1993, for instance, when the party high command backed Sukh Ram to become chief minister, Singh did not meekly give way. He had the support of a majority of the legislators and his will prevailed over that of the central leadership. In his tribute to Singh, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh referred to him as a ‘mentor to many of us’ — it perhaps was a reference to Singh’s strong will and refusal to accept the Congress high command’s diktats lying down.The departure of the tallest leader of Himachal Pradesh leaves a vacuum in the state politics — even more so in the Congress, which would struggle to find a leader to fill his shoes. Singh enjoyed unparalleled popularity across the state, but the flip side of his absolute dominance is that there is no second-rung leadership in the state Congress. Before next year’s Assembly election, despite his age, Singh could have played a consensus-maker for the Congress. His death is a blow to the party and it’s likely to ignite a power struggle in the state Congress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/himachal-stalwart-passes-away-280314
09-07-2021||With the ouster of 12 ministers||Course correction||The Centre’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic has drawn criticism not only from the Opposition but also from the judiciary. With the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare largely failing to deliver, especially during the devastating second wave, minister Harsh Vardhan’s exit was a foregone conclusion. Javadekar (environment and Information & Broadcasting) and Prasad (law & justice and Information Technology) were among the others who fell short of meeting the standards set by the government. Though health reasons have been cited for Pokhriyal’s exclusion from the Cabinet, there is no denying that he was a disappointment as the Education Minister, particularly considering the chaos and uncertainty over the CBSE exams that kept teachers, students and parents on tenterhooks for months. However, divesting Kiren Rijiju of the sports portfolio — weeks before the all-important Olympics — doesn’t seem to be a well-thought-out decision.Narendra Singh Tomar has been retained as the Agriculture Minister amid the prolonged deadlock between the Centre and the protesting farmers over the three farm laws. This move suggests that the government is in no mood to back down and is ready to dig in for the long haul. The young and relatively untested party leaders who have replaced the veterans have been entrusted with the challenging task of improving the government’s image. They will find themselves under intense pressure to perform during the three years leading to the 2024 Lok Sabha elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/course-correction-280311
