10-07-2021||AFRENCH court’s order allowing Cairn Energy to seize 20 Indian Government assets in central Paris||Cairn Energy row||A similar award was given by the Permanent Court of Arbitration, The Hague, last year when it ruled that India’s retrospective demand of Rs 22,100 crore as capital gains and withholding tax imposed on Vodafone for a 2007 deal was in breach of the guarantee of fair and equitable treatment. After Vodafone won a case in the SC in 2012, Parliament amended the law to raise the tax demand again against the telecom company, forcing it to go for international arbitration.Parliament does have powers to enact laws to impose retrospective taxes. But when such powers are used to nullify a judicial finding, it vitiates the business environment and discourages potential investors. Such relentless pursuit of tax liability of companies, even after court/arbitration rulings in their favour, runs counter to the government’s commitment to root out ‘tax terrorism’ and adversely impacts the investment climate. Given that India’s growth has been hit during the Covid pandemic and the country needs foreign direct investment to augment its development and generate employment, it would be better to end uncertainty about India’s tax regime to boost investors’ confidence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/cairn-energy-row-280768
10-07-2021||The newly recast Union Cabinet has hit the ground running with a slew of confidence-building measures. During its first meeting||Best foot forward||Even as the farmers have announced to intensify their agitation against the farm laws during the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament, the Centre has again reached out to the protesters and attempted to allay their fears. The move to bolster the APMC mandis through financial support makes it evident that the existing procurement system and the MSP regime are here to stay. The government had launched the AIF last year with the aim of facilitating investment in viable projects for post-harvest management infrastructure and community farming assets. These steps are intended to strengthen agriculture, the only sector that had held its own during the Covid-induced nationwide lockdown last year. It is also heartening that the ongoing 2021-22 rabi marketing season has witnessed a record procurement of wheat — over 433 lakh tonnes so far.In view of these developments, the time is ripe for the Centre and the protesting farmers to resume talks and end the stalemate. It’s worrying that no round of negotiations has been held after the January 26 violence. The stakeholders should not miss this opportunity to save agriculture from being crippled by one-upmanship.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/best-foot-forward-280761
