12-07-2021||THERE was a time when Mao Zedong’s grandson oversaw one of China’s most clandestine operations — gun-running on a massive scale in the 1980s for the Mujahideen||Mayhem by the Taliban||With the American military withdrawal nearly complete, experts suggest a rise in China’s clout, partly due to Beijing’s strategic relationship with Pakistan. US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin has belatedly woken up to the ongoing violence that kills 200-600 people in Afghanistan every day. Beneath his sympathy for the Afghans lies the US worry that it might have left the field open for a China-Pakistan symphony in Kabul. Moscow, too, has been making noises about the security situation and arguing for a negotiated political settlement to end this conflict.Beijing may draw solace from the latest Taliban statement that it will not allow attacks on Chinese interests. But in Afghanistan, there is many a slip ’twixt cup and lip, as several ill-fated Chinese projects and the killing of Chinese workers in Afghanistan show. China may have burnt its fingers by bonding with armed groups, but America’s hands-off policy so far could tempt Beijing to try its hand once again. A Pakistan-China stranglehold with the help of the Taliban is certain to plunge the country into a deeper vortex of violence, for Afghanistan is a multi-ethnic and not just Pashtun land. To truly end the danger in Afghanistan, it has to be a roundabout and not a one-way road as China and Pakistan are striving for.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/mayhem-by-the-taliban-281759
12-07-2021||Much like the MeToo movement that exposed many a serial sex offender following an outpouring of complaints by women calling out their ex-bosses||Predatory coach||It once more casts a harsh spotlight on how certain factors enable this intensely competitive field to become a breeding ground of sexual assault. Unfortunately, most such cases of harassment go unreported due to fear and the shame attached. It emboldens the officials to misuse their power of making or breaking careers if anyone dares to resist their advances. The recent horror tales divulged by victims — both boys and girls — though few and far between, bare the systemic malaise. If April saw the Sports Authority of India suspend a 50-year-old coach who had been arrested for molesting a girl in Delhi, in June, a tennis trainer went behind bars for allegedly raping a 17-year-old player on the pretext of selecting her for a tournament in Jaipur. At the international level, FIBA (International Basketball Federation) has been embroiled in an inquiry into complaints of sexual abuse by around 100 women players implicating 12 coaches and officials. In mid-June, the FIBA head, though himself not an accused, had to step down from his position for ignoring the crime in Mali from 1999 to 2007.Such zero tolerance for harassment and assault of victims is needed. In contrast, in the Nagarajan case, even when the academy was informed about his transgressions, it allegedly forced the complainant to quit the institution. The academy must be tried for ignoring the heinous assaults that have life-long repercussions for young athletes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/predatory-coach-281758
