14-07-2021||Religious gatherings and election rallies were the major superspreaders of Covid-19 infections earlier this year. The Kumbh Mela||Kanwar Yatra||The new Uttarakhand Chief Minister, Pushkar Singh Dhami, has claimed that saving lives is the state government’s topmost priority, even as he had been treading cautiously in view of the yatra’s religious significance and economic considerations. Dhami had stated that a final decision on the pilgrimage would be taken in consultation with neighbouring states. However, various stakeholders didn’t appear to be on the same page, with Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath directing officials to ensure strict compliance of the Covid protocol during the yatra in coordination with their counterparts in other states. This was an unmanageable task as hordes of pilgrims would have been on the road day and night.The fact that the Uttarakhand High Court, expressing dissatisfaction with the state government’s arrangements for pilgrims and tourists amid the pandemic, recently stayed the cabinet’s decision on partially allowing the Char Dham Yatra shows how underprepared the authorities are. The CMs of the states concerned need not have wasted time before unanimously taking a call on the Kanwar Yatra in the best interests of their residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/kanwar-yatra-282811
14-07-2021||England’s football fans have||Football’s bigots||Bullies and racists become emboldened by anonymity, and social media platforms are used by such bigots to spew hatred. Access to limitless liquor at the ground fuels the fans’ passion, and liquor is guaranteed to bring out the inner demon. After the final, there were violent attacks on the supporters of Italy. On their way home, the fans destroyed public property and littered the streets. On reaching home, many of them are likely to have attacked their spouses or partners — a study published earlier this month analysed 5,23,546 domestic-abuse incidents in the Greater Manchester area between 2012 and 2019 and found a link between results at football and domestic violence.Authorities in England have been making efforts to stamp out racism from football, but despite frequent signs of hope, a bad defeat and the resultant bigotry take everything back to square one. Racism against sportspersons, in an era when they, through the Black Lives Matter campaign, are trying to sensitise the society against this evil, is extremely disheartening. Identifying and penalising the racists would help, but real change can be brought about only through education and creation of an equitable social order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/footballs-bigots-282806
14-07-2021||The assurance by the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh led by Yogi Adityanath that population control measures will not be aimed at any class or section is welcome||Population control in UP||With Uttar Pradesh headed for the Assembly polls next year, the BJP government in the state is merely trying to fulfil the promises that it had made in its 2017 election manifesto. The manifesto had promised to accelerate development and the draft Bill released to mark World Population Day is a step in that direction. Objections to the policy have been invited and the provision to incentivise couples who do not have more than two children, while good in intent, is bound to give rise to fears of discrimination among others.Reassuringly, CM Yogi has stressed on creating awareness and not coercion to bring in population stabilisation. The use of force could well be reminiscent of the forced sterilisation campaigns carried out during the Emergency. A country like China has relaxed its two-child policy, allowing couples to have three children to address the country’s long-term demographic imbalance, ageing society and reduced working age population. UP’s concerns on these counts may be justified but the policy should not be directed at any particular section of society. Social cohesion is also a prerequisite for all-round progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/population-control-in-up-282118
