15-07-2021||The frightening visuals of vehicles being washed away in a flash flood triggered by a cloudburst in Dharamsala’s Bhagsunag area||Stop fiddling with hills||Himachal Pradesh and even neighbouring Uttarakhand are paying the price for loose regulatory mechanisms, and looking the other way because of their inability to facilitate other means of income generation. The pandemic has only added to the desperation, and local wisdom and ways passed down through the generations stand little chance in confronting the lure of quick money. Eco-warriors by the dozen have taken up cudgels, but it is only the government that has the wherewithal to sound the alarm. The consequences of wanton levelling of hills and raising structures in every conceivable nook and corner will be dire, and not recognising this can only be construed as irresponsible.The concept of responsible tourism, both by the hosts and the guests, cannot be seen as inimical to the industry. Every person living or coming to the hills is a stakeholder in holding on to the pristine, but fragile environs. Just imposing a green tax is a meaningless exercise if no effort is made to educate the visitor and incentivise the investor to conserve and preserve. Appoint marshals who guide and reprimand, involve citizens of every hill station in laying down norms that must be followed, demand respect for the land. From the locals and the visitors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/stop-fiddling-with-hills-283225
15-07-2021||Nepal has been in turmoil ever since President Bidya Devi Bhandari dissolved the House of Representatives in December last year on the recommendation of the then Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli. Though the Supreme Court had restored the House in February this year||Power tussle in Nepal||Despite the change of guard, political stability may remain elusive in Nepal in view of the intense power tussle that has been going on even amid the Covid pandemic. As per constitutional provisions, Deuba has to prove his majority in the 275-member House of Representatives within 30 days of his appointment as the PM. Though he has been at the helm four times previously, Deuba’s governance record is patchy. He faces the onerous task of containing the Covid crisis, primarily by ramping up vaccine coverage. Though Nepal is not among the worst-hit countries, having recorded around 6.5 lakh coronavirus cases and over 9,400 deaths so far, its number of cases and deaths per million population is alarmingly similar to that of India.Defence Minister Rajnath Singh was the first foreign leader who called up Deuba and congratulated him on his appointment as the Prime Minister. India should find it easier to deal with Deuba compared to Oli, who has made no secret of his pro-China leanings. Oli has also not shied away from riling India with ‘unjustified cartographic assertions’ in a bid to whip up nationalistic frenzy. Though New Delhi doesn’t want to meddle in Kathmandu’s internal affairs, it should spare no effort in helping the neighbour fight the pandemic and recover on the economic front. How the veteran Deuba handles an overbearing China and prepares his country for the General Elections — provided he stays the course — will be keenly watched.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/power-tussle-in-nepal-283233
