16-07-2021||IN a controversial move||Sickening decision||Has the government already forgotten how the pandemic exposed the ugly side of the private medical sector which unethically resorted to rampant fleecing? If anything, the private hospitals’ open loot and daylight robbery that became the horrifying order of the painful days as hospital beds and treatment gear ran short of the need should have reaffirmed the state’s resolve to expand the footprint of affordable treatment by setting up its own labs in its hospitals. Some private hospital operators have proved to be nothing but shameless gold diggers and opportunists. Aghast, the authorities had been forced to cap the costs of tests and treatment and even prosecute the offenders. The private sector has clearly failed the test of time. The public private partnership (PPP) model adopted by the Haryana Government in some of its hospitals in 2017 has little to show by way of benefiting the poor.Punjab would do well to review its decision and work towards setting up its own laboratories. A booster dose for the government sector to revamp the district and rural facilities is needed. The state must loosen the purse strings and fill the gaps in its public health system. The chronic problems ailing the government hospitals have been pushing the sick to the private segment, despite it being five times more expensive. That public health is grossly neglected in the state is evident from the NSSO study that 70 per cent of the villagers in Punjab go for private healthcare, as compared to the national average of 58 per cent. The ill-boded decision on labs does little to remedy this malaise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/sickening-decision-283884
16-07-2021||INDIA’S Covid-19 vaccination drive has completed six months||Arrest vax slide||Several states have red-flagged shortage of vaccines, with the Delhi government closing hundreds of vaccination centres due to unavailability of stocks. Inoculation sessions were suspended in the majority of Rajasthan’s districts earlier this week in view of paucity of shots. There is no denying that the states cannot step up the vaccination rate if they have to scramble for supplies on a daily basis. The onus is on the Centre to arrange the doses as per the respective needs of the states.It’s a pity that Centre-state wrangling is rearing its ugly head at a time when the country needs to be well prepared for the third wave. With the WHO warning against ‘mixing and matching’ of vaccines in the absence of foolproof scientific evidence, the Union government faces the uphill task of arranging adequate stocks of Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik-V. The vaccine makers need to drastically ramp up production if India is to come anywhere near achieving the target of vaccinating its entire adult population by the year-end. On their part, the states should make judicious use of the stocks. Only Kerala and West Bengal have recorded ‘negative wastage’ — both are not only ensuring zero wastage but also managing to save and administer an extra dose from each vial. In short, every stakeholder has to chip in to give India a fighting chance against Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/arrest-vax-slide-283883
