17-07-2021||The ease with which a gang of four highway robbers has been allegedly committing rapes and murders in the Mewat area of Haryana and Rajasthan reflects horrifyingly on not just the depravity of the accused; it also points poorly at the law-enforcement agencies. They fail to instill the fear of the law into potential criminals. Deterrence comes from the dread of being caught and sure and quick retribution||Highway rapist-killers||The lack of apparent action or any hot chase after the first crime emboldened the thieves to also become serial sex offenders, as per their confession. Though they would strike at a new place every time to escape detection, if the pattern of the heinous crimes had alerted the various authorities of Mewat comprising the neighbouring districts of Nuh in Haryana and Rajasthan into conducting a coordinated move, perhaps, the loss of some innocent lives would have been averted. It would not be wrong to partly attribute the atrocious gender crime figures of the National Crime Records Bureau to the authorities’ sloppiness. In 2019, Rajasthan followed by Haryana had the highest gangrape rate (number of crime incidents per lakh women).It is a pity that in this age of girls overcoming odds to make huge strides, their male peers have not matched up to them by learning to respect them and their agency. That this heinous story of rapist-killers comes alongside the remarkable stories of five daughters of a Rajasthan farmer having cracked the state civil services and of the incredible single mother leaping from a sanitation worker to a civil servant calls for deep introspection. Boys need to be taught better.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/highway-rapist-killers-284267
17-07-2021||The constitutionality or otherwise of Section 124A (sedition) of the Indian Penal Code has repeatedly come for judicial scrutiny in recent years||Sedition law must go||Most sedition cases fall flat in courts as the police and other law-enforcement agencies overzealously put people behind bars on the basis of flimsy or fabricated evidence and don’t even bother to conduct a proper investigation. The executing agencies’ intention is largely to teach a lesson to the dissenters — be it scholars, activists or farmers — and deter others from raising their voice. Even if the accused person is eventually acquitted, the ordeal of having spent considerable time in prison as an undertrial leaves him scarred for life.The apex court’s scathing remarks have come on the heels of SC judge Justice DY Chandrachud’s statement that criminal laws, including the anti-terror law, should not be misused for quelling dissent and courts must act as the first line of defence against deprivation of liberty. The judiciary has been stepping in time and again to protect the fundamental rights of citizens. The onus is now on the government to do its duty and rectify the perilous situation. In August 2019, the Centre had enacted the Repealing and Amending Act, under which around 60 archaic or redundant Acts were scrapped. The time has come to throw out the sedition law as well. The longer it stays on the statute book, the greater will be the damage it can cause to Indian democracy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/sedition-law-must-go-284268
