19-07-2021||The Chief Justice of India’s remark that the jail authorities seem to be relying on ancient modes of communication through pigeons sets the ball rolling for correcting the anomaly of the delay in releasing people granted bail. ‘It is too much that prisoners have to wait even after the Supreme Court has granted bail as jails are insisting on the order to come by post||SC’s digital push||The SC had taken suo motu cognisance after an Agra prison took four days to release 13 men who had been granted bail by the top court on July 8. They had already served 14 to 22 years in prison when it was found that they were juveniles at the time the crime was committed. The Solicitor General did flag the concerns of the jail authorities in insisting on authenticated copies in the light of fake or fabricated orders being presented, but agreed that verification from the official website of the apex court should take care of any doubt over the authenticity of the order.The push to augment judicial infrastructure, including the proposal to set up the National Judicial Infrastructure Corporation, is a welcome step. Only last month, the CJI had written to the Information Technology Minister seeking steps to resolve the poor digital connectivity in rural, tribal and hilly areas, saying that this was adversely impacting the pace of justice delivery. A whole generation of lawyers, it was pointed out, was being pushed out of the system due to technological inequality, especially in the time of the pandemic, and steps were also sought to help advocates who had lost their livelihood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/scs-digital-push-285196
19-07-2021||On Friday||Kidnapping envoy’s daughter||That two can play at that game was brought home to Islamabad on July 14. A bus in northern Pakistan was blown up, killing the largest number of Chinese nationals in a terrorist attack in recent years. Beijing promptly closed down the impacted CPEC project, while its ‘wolf warriors’ asked Pakistan if China could bring in its Special Forces in case Rawalpindi’s capabilities were inadequate. This was also the day when the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) met in Dushanbe and with the Chinese in the sulks, Shah Mehmood Qureshi was incapable of averting a joint statement strongly criticising ‘terrorist attacks’ in Afghanistan and especially mentioning the ‘northern areas’, the security underbelly of Russia and China.The Pakistan Army may feel its tactics are on a roll in Afghanistan. But both China and the US are unhappy, while several nations are openly hostile. China has already shut its oil well and copper mine in Afghanistan. On the other side, with a freer hand after the withdrawal, Joe Biden has not even bothered to call up Imran Khan, dangling the bait of a Quad for Pakistan to redeem its self-respect. Pakistan has none to bankroll its security investments, while the ISI is seen as the villain behind the Taliban’s medieval-era power-grab strategy. If Imran Khan’s mantra is actually geo-economics, he should heed the advice of the SCO and the ‘Quad of Central Asia’ to focus on negotiations and geo-connectivity. Ashraf Ghani was simply stating a widely acknowledged fact about Pakistan’s mentoring of the Taliban.A brutish response hardly does it any good.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/kidnapping-envoys-daughter-285198
