20-07-2021||The expose of the use of the Pegasus spyware||Spyware for snooping||With smartphones increasingly being used to conduct a range of functions, the revelation has raised question marks about the importance of digital privacy, safety and security. Despite its restricted use, the ease with which the spyware can be installed in the phone is a matter of concern. In 2019, WhatsApp had informed its users about the spyware, and had even filed a case against the Israeli firm, alleging abuse of its platform.Incidents of snooping have been alleged even earlier, like in the case of the alleged bugging of the office of then Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee and when the Congress-backed Chandra Shekhar government had collapsed at the Centre. That the report should have come on the eve of the beginning of the Monsoon session of Parliament may well enliven the proceedings and it is for the Opposition to demand transparency, accountability and safeguards to ensure that the privacy of citizens is protected. Demands have already been raised for PM Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah to clarify the issue because of an ‘atmosphere of fear among people’. In the digital age, the enormity of the task of protecting privacy and safety of citizens has also dawned in no uncertain terms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/spyware-for-snooping-285614
20-07-2021||About six months before the Punjab Assembly elections||Congress gambit||The Congress has high stakes in Punjab, one of the three states (the others being Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh) that have party CMs. Notwithstanding the infighting, the ruling party seems better placed for the 2022 elections than the Opposition. The Shiromani Akali Dal-Bahujan Samaj Party alliance, the Aam Aadmi Party and the BJP are struggling to gain a foothold. The Akalis are still finding it hard to shed the baggage of their 10-year rule (2007-17), particularly the sacrilege cases that rocked the state in 2015 and continue to await closure.If Amarinder and Sidhu work in tandem, the Congress can emerge stronger; if they work at cross purposes, it will create an opening for the Opposition to exploit. It will be a big challenge for Sidhu to garner the support of the old guard, particularly Amarinder’s long-time loyalists. Sidhu is a known crowd-puller, while the two-time CM has experience on his side. The Congress needs both on board to boost its poll prospects. Their synergy, or lack of it, will hold the key to the party’s fortunes in Punjab. The top brass might have to intervene time and again to iron out the differences that could crop up between the two in the run-up to the elections. The onus is on the Congress to play its cards right — or lose the plot by scoring own goals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/congress-gambit-285615
