21-07-2021||The Union government’s excise collections from petrol and diesel are soaring – and so are the prices of these two petroleum products||Oil turmoil||The government keeps insisting that the prices of petrol and diesel are market-determined, but the fact remains that Central and state taxes account for about 60 per cent of the retail prices. Both the Centre and the states are reluctant to part with even a fraction of their excise gains. Price fluctuations in the global oil markets are inevitable, but political will has a key role to play in bringing respite to the people. It was no coincidence that the rates of petrol and diesel remained largely unchanged in March and April this year, when four states and a UT went to the polls. The price freeze, effected soon after the election schedule was announced in February-end, lasted till the declaration of the results on May 2. Subsequently, the situation was quickly and predictably back to square one.Caught on a sticky wicket, the Centre has approached crude oil-producing countries as well as the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), seeking affordable crude prices for consuming nations like India, which imports 85 per cent of its oil needs. Even as New Delhi’s Gulf diplomacy faces a litmus test, the government needs to shed its aversion to reducing excise duty. After all, economic recovery is inseparable from people’s welfare.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/oil-turmoil-286020
21-07-2021||Hospitals survive on human distress... It has become a big industry at the cost of human suffering.’ This observation by Supreme Court Justice DY Chandrachud||Strengthen public healthcare||The example of Kerala shows that Justice Chandrachud’s prescription is based on sound analysis: Kerala’s Covid-19 fatality rate is 0.48% as against Maharashtra’s 2.04% despite their overall economic situation being similar, as their per capita Gross State Domestic Product shows. However, Kerala has fared better during the pandemic because of its better public healthcare system. The state allocates over 1.5 times funds per capita on public health than Maharashtra.While private hospitals provide critical support to India’s crumbling healthcare system, it is clear that public healthcare infrastructure needs to be strengthened. Yet, Niti Aayog’s recent invitation to private parties — through its document titled ‘Investment Opportunities in India’s Healthcare Sector’ — suggests that the government wants to increase privatisation in this critical sector. This invitation cites Covid-19 to lure investors: ‘The pandemic has not only presented challenges but also several opportunities... In the hospital segment, the expansion of private players to Tier 2 and Tier 3 locations, beyond metropolitan cities, offers an attractive investment opportunity.’ However, the pandemic has shown that private hospitals can often be unscrupulous. It is incumbent on the State to free citizens from the grip of unscrupulous private hospitals and build a robust health infrastructure. The first step would be to raise spending on public health, which is a little over 1% of the GDP per annum.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/strengthen-public-healthcare-285995
