22-07-2021||THE arrest of businessman Raj Kundra||Courting controversy||The film industry in India is known to have produced some of the finest talents in the business, but the name and fame that come with it also bring along pitfalls in the shape of controversies despite the onus of being circumspect in dealings, being a public figure. Actors like Sanjay Dutt have found themselves embroiled in controversies and had to fight legal battles to come out of it. Shiney Ahuja and Madhur Bhandarkar faced allegations of indecent conduct, lending substance to the charge of the casting couch in the film industry. And of late, Bollywood has seen a spate of suicides, the most notable among them being of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, which led to a media trial.The pandemic and the lockdown have also cast a shadow on the entertainment industry that is witnessing a transformation. For the stakeholders, the pressure to keep head above water in the face of economic losses is immense. But then, that should be no reason for adopting unscrupulous methods and plying banned trade. With the growing use of online technology and mobile phones, chances of misuse cannot be ruled out with a competitive video streaming environment increasing its probability. The probe should not only determine culpability, but also suggest ways to stop exploitation of struggling junior artists.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/courting-controversy-286472
22-07-2021||THERE was undeniably a nationwide shortage of medical oxygen in April-May||Covid deaths||Data recording, collection and verification have left a lot to be desired since the onset of the pandemic. Underreporting and undercounting have led to inaccuracies in the Covid numbers. Maharashtra’s Covid death toll has risen by more than 3,500 after the addition of previously unreported fatalities. Similarly, Bihar’s count of lives lost had gone up by over 5,000 in a day when unrecorded data was included last month. Though India’s official tally of deaths stands at 4.18 lakh, Washington-based Centre for Global Development has estimated that the actual figure could be as high as nearly 50 lakh.The clamour for a nationwide audit of Covid fatalities is growing. The exercise should be initiated in earnest to remove all doubts and reveal the true picture, no matter how scary. Governments must look beyond estimates and guesstimates and insist on painstaking exactitude. India’s fight against the pandemic will remain ineffectual as long as there is no transparency and accountability.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/covid-deaths-286467
