23-07-2021||IN a significant development||Not ‘gair’ anymore||The revocation of special status to Jammu and Kashmir and abrogation of Article 370 in August 2019 have led to a series of steps that ensure much-needed equality and human rights to all long-time residents of J&K. Prior to that, since Independence, only permanent residents were entitled to the domicile status. The absence of such rights had reduced lakhs of people to a life of second-class citizenry even though they had been living in the state for over seven decades. This all-important upgrading of their rank — from the hitherto derogatory ‘gair bashinde’ (non-residents) — with its attendant privileges infuses into them a fresh lease of life, ending their struggle for equality and a dignified existence. The segment whose destiny has taken a rosy turn with abrogation of Article 35-A majorly comprises refugees who had migrated from Pakistan (Sikhs and Hindus) in 1947, Gorkhas, displaced persons, Central government employees and their children.However, this inclusion of the deserving residents into the mainstream has not been welcomed by all. Backed by main political parties, including National Conference and the People’s Democratic Party, many voices are expressing concern that the new rules aim to facilitate an influx of ‘outsiders’ into the region and thus alter its demography. It is an unfounded fear and militates against the norms of democracy, development and progress. The economic uplift of any region mandates the participation of all its citizens.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/not-gair-anymore-286929
23-07-2021||The Tokyo 2020 Olympics could turn out to be a resounding success or an abject failure. Sadly for sport||Fool’s gold in Tokyo||Going ahead with the Games, then, seems nothing less than madness — the biggest show on the planet will have over 11,500 athletes and 79,000 officials, support staff, media and the sundry. The fear is real that the 32nd Summer Olympics might turn out to be the biggest ever Covid superspreader. Public opinion is strongly against organising the Games. A recent poll showed 87 per cent people were worried about holding the event. The organisers suggest that public opinion is of little concern to the International Olympic Committee, a ruthlessly commercial organisation that is known to put profit over all else.What about the athletes? They want to play on — those who missed Moscow 1980 and Los Angeles 1984 due to political boycotts still lament the lost opportunities. Some would be in action for just a day, but they’ve prepared for and dreamt of that one day for years. Tokyo might be an event that should not have happened, but now that the games are going to begin, it is hoped that extraordinary sporting feats will bring some cheer to the world. But those fortunate ones whom Covid-19 passed by without hurting must remember — medals won would be scant solace to the millions who have lost their loved ones to the virus or were pushed deeper into poverty by it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/fools-gold-in-tokyo-286925
