24-07-2021||Buoyed by the successful experimentation of admitting girl cadets in the Mizoram Sainik School since 2018-19 and the tentative steps taken subsequently by more schools to follow suit||Girls enter Sainik Schools||With the boarding schools going co-ed for the first time, their infrastructure in terms of ensuring hostel accommodation and security for the girl students should be enhanced at the earliest. The authorities need to inspect closely before ticking these boxes. Already, the new rule is a case of better late than never, considering that the induction of women officers into the defence services in non-medical fields began nearly three decades ago and that it has seen a progressive rise since then. The lady officers have earned laurels and proved their mettle as worthy soldiers. It is a pity that it has taken so long to provide the girls aspiring to join the Army, Air Force or Navy with the same facilities and training as the boys.Thankfully, the new education policy would help neutralise that disadvantage. Additionally, this step provides girls from remote and backward areas a better chance to achieve their dream career as the Sainik Schools are located in the heart of the states. Plus, the government plans to open more such schools with private partnership. The Sainik Schools prepare the young students academically, physically and mentally for induction into the defence services. A significant percentage of officer cadets joining the National Defence Academy and Indian Naval Academy every year are their students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/girls-enter-sainik-schools-287230
24-07-2021||Every action has a message||Raids on media houses||However, Dainik Bhaskar and Bharat Samachar believe that this is no routine IT investigation. They strongly contend that this has to do with their coverage of UP’s Covid second surge. Bhaskar had run a number of stories on the floating corpses on the Ganga and the makeshift graves on its banks, exposing the UP government’s gross ineptitude and under-reporting of deaths. Its Editor also wrote an opinion piece in New York Times, titled ‘The Ganges is returning the dead, it does not lie’. Bharat Samachar insists that the TV channel is being punished for its coverage of bodies on the Ganga, the oxygen crisis and the Hathras rape.This was one controversy the government could have done without while it was battling accusations of phone tapping in the Pegasus expose. The timing of these IT searches across the country has led the Opposition to claim that the government is intimidating the media. Synchronised raids at two media houses that have been critical of the government would obviously only lead to such conclusions, particularly in an atmosphere of distrust created by the expose of snooping on the country’s Opposition leaders, activists and media professionals. Mainstream Indian media has always exercised its freedom with utmost responsibility to the extent of being termed tame by the Opposition. If it is still being targeted, if the claims of victimisation are true, the government ought to leash its agencies immediately and reassure the media fraternity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/raids-on-media-houses-287231
