26-07-2021||THE Haryana Government’s strategy to incentivise water conservation to address the alarmingly critical fall in the water table in the agrarian state is showing a trend that is heartening. Under its ambitious ‘Mera Paani||From paddy to pulses||Pulling the state out of the deep morass necessitates a further push to ensuring that the plans designed by experts are implemented. It calls for close monitoring on the ground and ensuring that the promise made by the farmer to shun paddy is kept. Registration for the scheme, no doubt a laudable measure, is just the first step. Until it is translated into practice — for many more seasons — success in sustainable water conservation efforts would be elusive. Along with the state departments concerned, the Haryana Water Resources (Conservation, Regulation and Management) Authority set up in January for the purpose must be alert and should be answerable for any lapses.Indeed, the state cannot afford to be lax anymore. There is no scope for any leeway in the multi-pronged efforts under way to recharge the parched land. The urban areas can help augment the reversal of the sharp drop in water levels (from 4 m to 14 m) by adopting rainwater-harvesting methods in right earnest. The onus of saving water is on each of us. We have no choice but to pay heed to the Central Ground Water Board’s ominous 2017 report. It warns that the present over-extraction of water at the rate of 138 per cent would leave seven districts of Haryana with zero availability of groundwater. Of the 128 blocks, only 26 were found with safe levels of the precious life-sustaining resource.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/from-paddy-to-pulses-288285
26-07-2021||LAST week||Xi Jinping in troubled Tibet||The two armed forces are already in the confrontation mode in Ladakh, also called the western sector. Does the Nyingchi visit, located near China’s super-dam project on the Brahmaputra, signal China opening the eastern front as well? The answer is not apparent but the visit follows Xi’s ‘heads bashed against the bloody great wall of steel’ speech barely three weeks ago. What is noteworthy is that Xi’s delegation included Zhang Youxia, Vice-Chairman of the powerful Central Military Commission, and visuals showed Xi addressing a rapturous assembly of PLA officers. Is it Xi’s typical bellicosity or a measured response to India’s presence in the Quad?By visiting Tibet, Xi may even be preparing for questioning by the elders at the Communist Party’s summer-end retreat at Beidaihe. For, it was just over a year ago that Xi had called for further ‘Sinicisation’ of Tibet. The visit may signal China’s bid to shift the focus away from Taiwan to Tibet, which is assuming greater strategic importance. Yet, India can hardly overlook the security aspect. The visit happened amidst the largest-ever military deployment in the Himalayas. India-China ties have nosedived to a level where any Chinese clarification will appear disingenuous. India has no option but to be ready to fight fire with fire. The US Secretary of State Antony Blinken’s visit to firm up the first in-person Quad summit will only increase the tensions in the region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/xi-jinping-in-troubled-tibet-288284
