27-07-2021||The death of nine tourists after their vehicle was hit by boulders rolling downhill in Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh has brought into sharp focus the lack of preparedness of the authorities. It’s unpardonable that a business-as-usual approach is being adopted particularly during the rainy season||Fatal landslides||Landslides triggered by heavy rain have claimed dozens of lives in Raigad and Satara districts of Maharashtra recently, while several parts of Karnataka are also grappling with the problem. In a well-timed precautionary measure, the District Collector of Hassan (Karnataka) has prohibited the movement of vehicles on the Bengaluru-Mangaluru national highway till further orders. The administration’s focus is rightly on evacuating people from low-lying areas and taking them to relief camps.Be it the Himalayas or the Western Ghats, the threat of landslides always looms large whenever the heavens open up. Disaster precautions need to be initiated well before the onset of the rainy season. The situation demands monitoring on a daily basis, considering the ecological fragility of these areas. It’s also imperative to promptly repair damaged infrastructure such as roads and bridges that are the lifeline for commuters. Governments are quick to announce ex gratia relief when such tragedies happen, but the priority should be to ensure that things don’t come to such a pass. The loss of lives and property can be prevented or minimised by strictly regulating construction activity for residential and commercial purposes. Allowing hotels to operate in danger zones is an open invitation to disaster. Such laxity should not go unpunished.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/fatal-landslides-288606
27-07-2021||Ironically||Illegal rehab centres||At the same time, the unearthing of these centres notably points to a laxity by the enforcement authorities of the other districts. Regular raids on all such centres are necessary to achieve a positive outcome. Like the 51 inmates from Ugrakheri and 37 from Binjhol who were rescued from the inhuman conditions prevailing at those centres, no patient anywhere should be left at the mercy of any unauthorised centre.Concerted and widespread endeavours to provide proper infrastructure for course correction are the key for the victims kicking the obnoxious habit. Punjab and Haryana continue to be dens of the drug menace. Worryingly, patients far outnumber the beds available at the various facilities. The surge in addicts seeking help during the pandemic-imposed lockdown that dried up the drug supply chain was an eye-opener. More than 26,000 patients registered themselves in Punjab in less than a month after the curfew was first imposed on March 25 last year. The onus of saving the next generation from the scourge is on us and the time to act is now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/illegal-rehab-centres-288608
