28-07-2021||The replacement of BS Yediyurappa as the chief minister of Karnataka could well set the template for the BJP to tackle dissidence in the party. The demand for generational change was evident with the four-time CM facing resistance from the younger leaders in the state BJP and yet again failing to last his full term. Yediyurappa had steered the BJP’s course in the state and was instrumental in bringing it to power||Change in Karnataka||The change in Karnataka comes after Pushkar Singh Dhami replaced Tirath Singh Rawat in Uttarakhand and Sarbananda Sonowal made way for Himanta Biswa Sarma, who had crossed over from the Congress, in Assam. In Uttar Pradesh, a former bureaucrat, an aide of PM Modi, was made the vice-president of the state BJP ahead of the state polls next year, after initial efforts to install him as the Deputy CM met with resistance. The BJP has experimented even earlier with fresh chief ministerial faces in Himachal Pradesh and Haryana. Whether replacing Yediyurappa, known to be his own man, yields dividends, will depend on how disparate sections within the party are managed, for the BJP lost the Delhi elections even after replacing Sahib Singh Verma with Sushma Swaraj as the CM on poll eve. The change in Karnataka also comes soon after the reshuffle in the Union Cabinet which may give a hint about the way the BJP Central leadership is working, with sitting ministers being replaced with fresh faces. Generational change is evident even in other parties with younger leaders like Sachin Pilot in Rajasthan and Navjot Singh Sidhu in Punjab asking the Congress leadership for more say in party affairs.While effecting changes within the party and by trying to put its regional satraps on a tight leash, the BJP should guard against over-reach and alienating its own cadre. Allowing its own governments in states to function properly may also serve as a good augury for intra-party democracy as well as the federal spirit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/change-in-karnataka-289098
28-07-2021||VIOLENCE triggered by a festering border dispute between Assam and Mizoram claimed the lives of five policemen and a civilian on Monday. The Assam-Mizoram border has witnessed several skirmishes since October last year||Assam-Mizoram feud||It seems that both Assam and Mizoram mishandled the situation, with the Twitter face-off between the two chief ministers only escalating hostilities. Going by the turn of events, it’s unlikely that the two states would be able to resolve the long-pending issue on their own. Rather than confining itself to a facilitator’s role, the Centre would have to actively intervene to ensure peace along the border in question. At the heart of the dispute are two British-era notifications, issued in 1875 and 1933, that demarcated the inter-state boundary in different ways. Monday’s incident should serve as a wake-up call for all stakeholders to go back to the drawing board and come up with a mutually acceptable solution.The Northeast has for decades been a hotbed of insurgency. Conflicts between the states over encroachments and other unlawful activities are a dangerous contribution to that volatile area and the law and order situation there. Unrest in Assam and its neighbouring states can have grave implications for national security. The role of Central paramilitary forces in curbing violence along the inter-state borders cannot be overestimated. The deployment of these forces should be increased in accordance with the growing threat perception. The NDA government prides itself on putting the Northeast on the path of progress and development and giving Union Cabinet berths to leaders from the region. The Centre’s litmus test will be to help various states iron out their differences and work in close cooperation. The ‘Bharat Jodo Andolan’ envisaged by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for achieving national unity in diversity would remain a distant dream as long as the states are locked in bitter, violent feuds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/assam-mizoram-feud-289104
