29-07-2021||THE uproar caused by the Union Government’s recent statement in the Rajya Sabha||Oxygen deaths||Various states and UTs have been in the denial mode regarding oxygen-related deaths for obvious reasons: they want to avoid not only a public backlash but also the initiation of criminal proceedings against them on the charge of brazen abdication of responsibility. It’s apparent that the state governments have not done an exhaustive and definitive audit of the Covid deaths. The glaring discrepancy is underscored by the excess deaths, which are 5-10 times higher than the figures recorded in the corresponding period in normal years in Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and some other states.The authorities need to involve the NGOs, the media and members of the civil society in the exercise to find out how many patients died due to medical oxygen shortage. Their findings must be put on record and the accountability fixed accordingly. The Centre and the states have to work in tandem to ensure that the truth, no matter how inconvenient, is made public.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/oxygen-deaths-289629
29-07-2021||Among the other shortcomings in our country||Spotlight on the homeless||As per the 2011 Census, there are over 4 lakh beggars in India. However, there are few facilities to help uplift them from extreme depravity and, ultimately, eradicate the menace. The homes set up to improve the lot of this huge and vulnerable segment and equip them with vocational skills more often than not have abysmal living conditions. On the contrary, their numbers are shockingly increasing as begging has become an organised and dubious business, controlled by mafia and gangs of human traffickers. Statistics say a staggering 40,000 children are abducted every year. Many of them end up being violated, maimed, abused, drugged and forced into begging.These rackets must be addressed urgently. Even as the mafia dons need to be punished and their dens of crime demolished, due diligence must be paid to sift the victims, the destitute and truly poor who are forced to beg for survival. Thankfully, the judicial and legislative stand tilts towards a compassionate view. The Delhi High Court, in 2018, decriminalised begging, saying that treating it as an offence did not tackle its root cause. Observing that provisions which criminalise begging were violative of constitutional rights, a plea to repeal them in four states, including Punjab and Haryana, is pending in the SC. Expressing the same sentiment is the Abolition of Begging and Rehabilitation of Beggars Bill 2018. Parliament must expedite its passage to alleviate the sufferings of poverty-stricken people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/spotlight-on-the-homeless-289640
