30-07-2021||After a bumpy start on June 7||Fix income tax portal||Information technology major Infosys was awarded the mega contract in 2019 to develop the next-generation tax filing system that would reduce the processing time for returns from 63 days to one day, and expedite refunds. The portal is expected to improve efficiency in tax return filing along with general tax administration. The website will hopefully run smoothly eventually, but the ruse of ‘teething problems’ that see no end is too irresponsible. The tearing hurry to get the project running and in the process causing unnecessary inconvenience is self-defeating. No lessons have apparently been learnt from the GST rollout chaos.The Central Board of Direct Taxes claims many of the initial issues regarding slowness of the portal or non-availability of functionalities have been mitigated. Facing the heat, Infosys says it has augmented its tech team, increased bandwidths, released new content and that fixing the portal remains its top priority. A lot has been announced, but for the users, several concerns remain, from filing tax returns to problems being faced while dealing with remittances, or downloading documents essential for loan processing. The ‘ease of doing business’ cannot be reduced to an abstract concept that looks good on billboards; a point-by-point resolution of all the issues is the least that is owed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/fix-income-tax-portal-290162
30-07-2021||US Secretary of State Antony Blinken’s strong assertion that a Taliban takeover of Afghanistan will turn it into a pariah State does not reassure the region because of the US dependence on Pakistan to tame the Taliban. Even while slamming the Taliban’s atrocities as deeply disturbing||Blinken’s priorities||However, Pakistan does not seem impressed with this balancing act or the new Quad. It has been busy shoring up the presence and prestige of its ‘all-weather friend’ in Afghanistan by facilitating a meeting of Taliban leader Abdul Ghani Baradar with Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi. Wang called the Taliban an important military and political force and Baradar reciprocated by terming China a reliable friend, promising that he will not allow any force to use Afghan territory to harm China. Baradar’s meeting with Wang in the port city of Tianjin obviously coincided with Blinken’s high-profile India visit and his talks with India’s External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, who rightly pointed out that sovereignty of Afghanistan can be assured only ‘if it is free from the malign influence’ of Pakistan.Pakistan holds Islamist separatism through terrorism as its State philosophy and it propagates this using armed religious militia like the Taliban in Afghanistan and smaller outfits in Jammu and Kashmir. Pakistan may get the Taliban to assure China of non-interference in the affairs of Xinjiang Uyghurs, but that concession offered to its strongest ally does not mean American interests will be safe anywhere in the world. Pakistan’s ‘vital role’ will only bring instability in Afghanistan and the neighbourhood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/blinkens-priorities-290164
