01-10-2020||First Edit||No one demolished Babri Masjid||The real question is whether the nation has been able to deliver justice in the most traumatic event in its recent history. When the answer is in the negative, it may be held that the court did not appreciate the evidence presented before it, the investigating agency, in this case the CBI, did not do its job well, or that the prosecution did not effectively present the case before the court. There has been serious criticism of the CBI’s handling of the case. In criminal investigation, conspiracy is a difficult charge to prove. But in the case of a crime committed in front of the public, with any number of speeches, slogans and actions on the part of many leaders, including those who have been acquitted now, that show that there was a plan to bring down the mosque, the inability of the investigating agency to collect and present evidence is a momentous failure, deliberate or otherwise.  But the failure to deliver justice in the case is a national failure, not just a failure of the special court trying the case, the investigation and the prosecution. The Supreme Court, which awarded the land on which the masjid stood to a trust to build the Ram temple, had no doubt that the demolition was an illegal act. But the nation has been unable to find out who committed the crime and to bring them to justice even 28 years after it was committed. Justice delayed is justice denied, but justice which is both delayed and denied is more than injustice. A conviction would have shown that there was hope for justice to be sustained and the rule of law to prevail in the most adverse circumstances. But with such a crime going unpunished, the nation stands diminished.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/no-one-demolished-babri-masjid-895504.html
01-10-2020||In Perspective||Partial re-opening of schools is not good policy||As part of Unlock 4.0, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare released a standard operating procedure (SOP) for the partial resumption of facilities in schools. While this SOP states that this partial reopening is voluntary and for classes 9-12 only, this is a step to test waters and then fully reopen schools amid the pandemic, much like the voluntary ‘Janata Curfew’ that was followed by a full-scale overnight lockdown.  There are many reasons for not rushing the reopening of schools. First and foremost are recent instances from the US, where the government raced to open schools and colleges, ending up increasing the number of infections. Any argument that children of this age are virtually immune from the disease is simply misdirection. There are a significant number of reported infections in this age group and also the well-documented transmission of the disease. Recently, the World Health Organization released considerations for reopening schools where it acknowledged that outbreaks in schools are determined by background community transmission. We know that the rise in infected cases in India is no longer limited to clusters. Given that millions of elderly people are staying with their children since lockdown, the suggested partial reopening will further increase the risk for the elderly, even when they stay at home. Past and current data show that youth drive infections while the older generation pays the price. The partial reopening of schools will result in school managements forcing teachers to report to the school premises for work. About two million individuals teach classes 9-12, as per national data. Further “voluntary” reopening of primary and secondary schools would put at risk another 6.6 million teachers. Add to it the support staff that will be needed to run schools, we are looking at an additional 10 million people stepping out, an interaction we have avoided so far. Many schools in India lack basic amenities, light, ventilation, access to clean toilets and adequate water. Such problems have been highlighted before the pandemic. Adding to their burden will be the need for alcohol-based sanitizers and sufficient personal protective equipment (PPE) for staff. Managements will push these responsibilities onto individuals to cut costs. Avoiding them will exacerbate the infection. Restarting an activity can work if we can create bubbles of infection-free people and avoid contact outside these bubbles. This model has worked well for resuming professional sports activities. Universities in the US attempted to recreate this model where they extensively tested students and staff on arrival. But one needs to realise the difference in the scale of professional sports and educational institutions. At its peak, the English Premier League tests 1,500-2,000 players a week. That’s about the size of a school in India. Plus, individuals at a school won’t be staying in the bubble. Instead, they will constantly move in and out of it, thereby increasing interactions with others and increasing the risk of infections. As schools in the US realised, even extensive testing was not sufficient to stop an outbreak. According to reports, recommendations for reopening of schools have come from public health experts from medical associations. The reports speak of “returning to normalcy” in educational institutions because “young children are at extremely low risk of morbidity when infected” and “focus should be on preventing deaths” and not containing the infection. Such recommendations can only be regarded as irresponsible, especially if they are indeed coming from experts in epidemiology and disease control. Normalising the high number of infections is an attempt at gaslighting queries about the gravity of the current situation. With low testing capacity, public health experts were claiming a cut in viral transmission in April after the 30-day lockdown and yet, here we are touching a 100,000 positive cases a day. Covid-19 has affected students' education disproportionately. Most schools have switched to the online mode of conducting classes, leaving out children who may not have access to a computing device or high-speed internet. Even those who have access to schools are likely to suffer from mental health issues due to the lockdown, data for which is currently unavailable for Indian students. Access to teachers is a good move but does not have to come after a government directive. If the government wants to intervene, it should aim at providing educational services over TV or radio for all grades. State governments could be encouraged to provide content in local/regional languages to ensure maximum coverage. Schools that have shifted to online classes have simply adopted freely available solutions that enable interactions but not necessarily education. Schools should be encouraged to spend resources and innovate learning through these tools, instead of simply conducting online classes. While the government is under pressure to kickstart the economy, containing the infection will help resume economic activity, not restarting schools before the infection is contained. The focus must be on quick identification and isolation of infected individuals and not normalising infections. As the number of infections dip, people will find it safer to return to work and schools. Force-starting educational institutions will further strain the limited testing capacity that we have, leaving more undetected infections and rise in cases. Spain, Italy and other European countries are set to open schools this month, long after they saw their infection peaks. We are not yet sure of our peak, and releasing such directives and acting upon them will only delay it further. Surviving the pandemic is more important than losing an academic year. (The writer is an intern in public policy at the Takshashila Institution, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/partial-re-opening-of-schools-is-not-good-policy-895506.html
01-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Two held for selling marijuana||Arsikere police have arrested two persons, who were selling ganja, in town, on Thursday. The accused are Nawaz, 24, and Shabaz, 23. Acting on a tip-off that two persons were moving suspiciously and allegedly selling ganja at Garudanagiri Road, in the town, the police raided the spot at around 10.30 am and took the duo into custody. They also seized marijuana weighing 130 gm and a car from them. Town police have booked a case. The residents complained that the ganja network has spread in the town, and the police have already booked four to five cases for selling ganja. Strict action should be taken against them, they demanded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-held-for-selling-marijuana-895843.html
01-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Hosanagar: 14-year-old pregnant girl hangs herself; family held||A 14-year-old girl from Saakuvalli village, attached to Koduru gram panchayat in Hosanagar taluk, allegedly took the extreme step by hanging herself from a fan in her home after she came to know that she was pregnant. According to police, Raghavendra (26), a relative of the girl, has been arrested in connection with her death. In the death note, she stated that her relative, Raghavendra lured her and got into sexual relationship with her promising that he would marry her. After realising that she became pregnant, he left the village. The Ripponpet police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hosanagar-14-year-old-pregnant-girl-hangs-herself-kin-held-895885.html
01-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Gajapayana signals majestic, but quiet start to Dasara||Gajapayana, the journey of Dasara elephants from forests to Mysuru city, gave a quiet start to Dasara 2020. The festivities commence on October 17 and conclude on October 26, with the Jamboo Savari on the Vijayadashami day.  A total of five elephants, led by howdah jumbo Abhimanyu, are part of Gajapayana, which commenced at Veeranahosahalli, the entry point of Nagarahole Tiger Reserve in Hunsur taluk of Mysuru district, after a puja at the Anjaneya temple.  The 54-year-old pachyderm is slated to carry the golden howdah on his back for the first time during Jamboo Savari. He is accompanied by elephants Vikram, 47, Gopi, 38, Vijaya, 61, and Kaveri, 42.  Due to Covid-19, Gajapayana was simple, but traditional.  Priest Prahlad Rao performed puja to the jumbos. Following the puja, the elephants walked for a few meters. Later, they were transported to Mysuru in separate trucks. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri offered flower petals to the elephants. She said the event was a low-key affair as the government has decided for a simple Dasara. Only 2,000 people will be allowed to watch the Jamboo Savari at the Mysuru Palace, she said. The district administration had allowed only 100 people for Gajapayana and no people’s representative was present, due to the Covid crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gajapayana-signals-majestic-but-quiet-start-to-dasara-895957.html
01-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Overnight showers add to woes of flood-displaced||The Wednesday night downpour has further compounded the plight of hundreds of people, who had been rendered homeless by the 2009 devastating floods, in Budihal village of Nargund taluk, Gadag district. The overnight showers flooded the makeshift tin sheds and the Aasare homes of the displaced at the navagrama (new village). The spillover from streams, canal and the farmland only made matters worse. The elderly, children and women spent the entire night outside their Aasare homes, soaking in rain. With the downpour rendering the houses unfit for occupation, the taluk administration on Thursday shifted the affected to a government school in the village. The villagers expressed their anguish against the apathy of the administration by laying siege to tahsildar.  Zilla Panchayat president Rajugouda Kenchangoudar told reporters that the Aasare homes built for the flood-hit villagers in 2009 were in a dilapidated condition and might fall anytime soon. I will submit a report on the same to the government. Steps will be taken to build a protection wall to prevent floodwaters from entering the village.”  Close shave for four Meanwhile, four people had a close shave after a bullock cart swayed into an overflowing stream near Puchchaldinni in Raichur taluk on Thursday. The locals pulled all four and two oxen out of the swollen stream. Many parts of Raichur and Koppal district experienced heavy showers on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. Many dead streams in the region have come back to life, leaving acres of cotton, tur, chilli and sunflower crops under water.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/overnight-showers-add-to-woes-of-flood-displaced-895964.html
01-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka farmers to launch brand 'Namdu'||Various farmers outfits in the region, including Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, Hasiru Sene, Amruthabhoomi International Sustainable Development Centre of Chamarajanagar, Nisarga Trust in Mysuru and others have created a brand "Namdu" for the welfare of the farmers and will be launching it on the Gandhi Jayanti. The main objective of developing the brand is to deliver agricultural products, cultivated using natural and organic farming methods, directly to the consumers. Amruthabhoomi Executive Trustee Chukki Nanjundaswamy said, with the governments bringing anti-farmer laws and amendments to the Land Reforms and APMC Act, it is not enough to just oppose them by protests and revolution. It is time to think and find alternative solutions. 'Namdu' is one such attempt for farmers empowerment, she opined. Farmers groups from around 15 districts, who have involved in natural farming are a part of this effort. Some farmers adopting organic farming methods too have joined hands. It is a state-level platform and is being launched in Chamarajanagar. It would be extended to other districts in phases, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-farmers-to-launch-brand-namdu-895975.html
01-10-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka bypolls: Kumaraswamy says Congress is ‘unfit’ for alliance||JD(S) leader HD Kumaraswamy on Thursday launched a fresh attack on his former ally Congress, saying the grand old party was “unfit” for any alliance. Kumaraswamy was responding to Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah’s declaration that the Congress will not have an alliance with the JD(S) for the November 3 Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar bypolls. “Who from the JD(S) has proposed an alliance with the Congress in the first place? Unlike in 2018, when the Congress came to HD Deve Gowda’s doorstep, we haven’t gone knocking on the Congress’ door,” Kumaraswamy said in a series of tweets. After the fractured mandate in the 2018 assembly polls, the Congress and the JD(S) joined hands to form the government with Kumaraswamy as Chief Minister despite their rivalry being the stuff of legend. The coalition fell apart last year, leading to a bitter blame game. “Congress is unfit for an alliance. From causing the downfall of my government to luring BSP MLAs in Rajasthan and shaking up the Maharashtra government every day, these are testaments that it is unfit for an alliance. Besides, the Congress has its own set of friends,” Kumaraswamy said. Kumaraswamy said there will “never” be an alliance with the Congress. “Let nobody go to the Congress with an alliance opportunity for the JD(S). And let it not be assumed that an alliance only means that of the Congress and the JD(S). Also, no ‘leader’s from that party should gain advantage from using the JD(S) or Deve Gowda’s name,” the former Chief Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-bypolls-kumaraswamy-says-congress-is-unfit-for-alliance-895831.html
01-10-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka govt goes after Indian Overseas Bank to recover KRIDL money||Karnataka is on a collision course with the Chennai-based Indian Overseas Bank after the public sector lender declined the government’s request to return money that was siphoned off in a scam three years ago.  In 2017, the government lost Rs 55 crore from the Kulai branch of IOB in Mangaluru. The money belonged to the state-run Karnataka Rural Infrastructure Development Ltd (KRIDL) in whose name a fake account was created to pilfer the money.  According to documents accessed by DH, Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar shot off a letter in June to IOB managing director and CEO Karnam Shekar seeking the return of the pilfered money with interest. "If the IOB fails to return the money in this matter, then we will be constrained to withdraw all deposits made by the government organisations and departments and further action will be taken to close all such accounts," Bhaskar stated, adding that Syndicate Bank returned Rs 100 crore that was pilfered in a similar case. IOB executive director Ajay Kumar Srivastava wrote back to say the bank was not in a position to accede to the government’s demand. "Since fraud could not have taken place without initiation of the same by the employees of KRIDL, we are disputing our liability in the matter," he stated, adding that the case was sub-judice. Srivasatava also said the bank had already appraised "full facts of the matter" to the Finance ministry.  The scam was unearthed in October 2017 when the Vijaya Bank informed KRIDL that a dormant account got credited with Rs 50 lakh from its own account in the Kulai IOB branch. The CID was asked to probe this and a charge-sheet has been filed.  "I am shocked to find that despite serious irregularities and fraud committed by the branch manager and other staff of the IOB, the senior management has taken no action to cooperate with the government...," Bhaskar stated in his letter. The IOB said it was "extending all possible support to the state police."  So far, authorities have managed to recover Rs 3.47 crore from those involved in the scam.  "We have records to prove that the bank has been obstructive. We're discussing with the Finance department on issuing a show-cause notice to the IOB," a senior government official said. When the IOB’s media wing was contacted, DH could not elicit a comment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-govt-goes-after-indian-overseas-bank-to-recover-kridl-money-895919.html
01-10-2020||Karnataka Politics||Congress, JD(S) condemn Rahul Gandhi's arrest in UP||Condemning the "high-handedness" of Uttar Pradesh police against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee took out a torch rally and staged a protest, here on Thursday. Speaking to media persons, KPCC president D K Shivakumar said that the arrest of Rahul Gandhi - on his way to meet the parents of Hathras rape victim - reflected the mentality of the BJP. "If they (BJP government) can treat a leader like this, imagine how they treat a common man? The mentality of the party stands exposed," he said. Taking a dig at the Uttar Pradesh government, he said: "Yogi Sarkar had turned Rogi Sarkar." Shivakumar was later detained by the police.  The JD(S) also condemned the incident. Former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda tweeted, "UP government should treat Congress senior leaders Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi and others with great care and caution. They are fighting for a just cause. A protest is a democratic right. They should be released immediately." JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy said that if the UP police were willing to stop political opponents from visiting a place in the world's largest democracy, there is no surprise that they would cremate the victim's body in the night, by keeping her parents away.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-jds-condemn-rahul-gandhis-arrest-in-up-895947.html
01-10-2020||Main Article||Passing of the farm laws: The three-act play||When the process of law-making lacks purpose and communication breaks down, it begins to resemble the theatre of the absurd. The manner of the passage of the three farm sector legislations, and the unseemly behaviour of the Members of Parliament that ensued, must compel us to reflect. It can be likened to a three-act play that divides this important public policy discourse, as in fiction, into three parts: the set-up, and the confrontation played out by the government and the opposition at the Centre, respectively; with the third act, the resolution, left to the states. The states, doubtless, will be left to their own devices; and the farmers arguably, left to the fragmented and uncoordinated, private agricultural markets. This draws attention to the sorry state of our representative democracy, and worse still, the risks and the long-term implications of the states being regarded as subalterns. For after all, in the Constitution, ‘Agriculture’ has been placed as Entry 14 in the State List. It is axiomatic that efficient markets are important for agricultural growth, food security, and broad-based development. Taking agriculture to the market is critical, especially for the small and marginal farmers who constitute 85% of agriculture-based households, if we are to advance equity, economy and efficiency in India’s farm sector. It is clear as day that political economy factors are blindsiding the government, while playing politics is blinding the opposition. From a reforms perspective, as a result, in this battle between Tweedledum and Tweedledee, the genuine farm market problems are in danger of remaining unaddressed, even while the long-term implications for supply chain management will continue to confound the small farmer. The question to ask is: how will the three acts help advance the agricultural marketing system -- aggregating small lots, handling, storage, transport, marketing and export -- already subject to multi-layered intermediaries? A good starting point is to understand the nature of the problem and who faces it. Expanding smallholder market access is central to agriculture market reforms. The small farmer market access is constrained by high levels of risks, and vulnerability to shocks. The question to ask is: whether in the absence of market information, market infrastructure and the resources necessary for seamless and timely supply chain management, the farm sector legislations will help expand smallholder market participation. The related question that arises is, who benefits most from the food procurement and minimum support price system extant. Procurement is primarily of wheat and paddy, predominantly from farmers who have irrigated land, and who constitute, together with the intermediaries and the parastatals like the Food Corporation of India, entrenched, well organised and politically connected lobbies. There should be no surprise that any agitation that spills over into the streets will be driven by this political-economy force. Therefore, this should not be mistaken as representing the market travails of the small farmer. Indeed, the vast majority of small and marginal farmers in India have never benefited from either government procurement or price support. If anything, for all practical purposes, most crops or agricultural produce, have remained outside the public procurement system, and for that matter the public distribution system. High transaction costs and deeply entrenched rent-seeking in the system best explains why small farmers are unable to respond to fluctuations in demand or prices. Vulnerability to risk and the non-economic size of the agricultural produce are thus key determinants of the forms of agricultural production and marketing that small farmers engage in. Logically then, two conditions ought to have been built into the legislations: first, a well-designed regulatory mechanism that serves as an independent, impartial market arbiter, and protects the interests of the small agricultural producer. Such an ombudsman must be at arms-length from the government, not arm-twisting length as the legislations provide for. Second, safeguards to ensure that the private market players, whom the legislations extol as the future of trade in agriculture, underwrite the crop risks for those crops that most small farmers grow, just as government has been underwriting the risks of the paddy and wheat kulaks at considerable cost. In this backdrop, the pithy statements of intent in the legislations just rushed through, without as much as a consultation with the states or discussion in Parliament, represent at best, pious statements of intent. At worst, they signal to the states that this is now their problem, and they must do what they will to mediate between the small farmer and the market conglomerates. What might the states do under the circumstances? If ever there was a divergence between the intent of a legislation and its impact on the ground, these laws might well be the case in point. Simply put, the new laws will perhaps exacerbate rather than mitigate the problem, at least for the small farmer. Market transactions occur under a high degree of uncertainty, and are costly for small farmers. Greater market participation can lead to greater uncertainty as the safety of subsistence is replaced by the insecurity of unstable markets and adverse price conditions. The Centre would have done well to discuss the meaning and purpose of the legislation with the states. In the ultimate analysis, it is easy to legislate, far more difficult to implement the law to achieve the public good that it seeks. It will be the states that have to implement the new laws, and therefore will have to ensure the right institutional architecture, standards, and processes, if their objectives are to be met. It is uncanny that the agricultural marketing reforms roadmap that the three legislations seek to enable mimics a World Bank template. There is nothing wrong with that, provided it best serves the needs of those most in need of help. But does it? Will it? In a delicious irony, the brouhaha in the wake of the legislations; the demand of the opposition, the assurance of the government, and the calls for agitation centre on just one question -- of continuing government procurement of, and minimum support price to, wheat and paddy. This tells its own distortionary tale. So much for agricultural market reforms. (The writer is Director, Public Affairs Centre)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/passing-of-the-farm-laws-the-three-act-play-895505.html
01-10-2020||Mysuru||Dasara elephants begin journey from forest to Mysuru for festive season||With Gajapayana, the journey of Dasara elephants from forests to Mysuru city, festive fervour begins for Dasara 2020. The elephants, led by Howdah elephant Abhimanyu, have participated in Gajapayana at Veeranahosahalli gate, the entry point to Nagarahole Reserve, in Hunsur taluk in Mysuru district.  As the state government decided to celebrate Dasara in a simple manner, only five elephants will participate in Dasara jamboo savari, which is restricted to Mysuru Palace premises. Dasara will commence on October 17 and concludes on October 26 with the Jamboo Savari.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/dasara-elephants-begin-journey-from-forest-to-mysuru-for-festive-season-895632.html
01-10-2020||National||Unlock 5.0: 71% of parents unwilling to send children to schools in October||The Centre might have allowed states to decide on re-opening educational institutions from October 15 but a survey conducted recently claimed that 71% of parents were unwilling to send children to schools. The survey by LocalCircles also claimed that only 28% of parents are in favour of re-opening of schools this year while 34% feel that schools should open only in the next academic year. The survey conducted last month covered 14,500 parents located in around 217 districts of the country. To a question on whether they would send their children if schools are reopened in October, 71% responded in the negative while only 20% said ‘yes’. Nine per cent were unsure about it. In an August survey, 23% had said they would send their children to schools during the pandemic, which showed that there was a three percentage point drop within a month. Asked about their position on reopening schools keeping in mind the upcoming festive season and Covid-19 case load, 34% felt that schools should not open schools till March/April 2021. Seven per cent people said schools should open from October 1 while 12% said schools should open from November 1 and 9% were of the view that schools should open from December 1. "This means that only 28% parents are in favour of schools reopening in calendar year 2020 i.e., before December 31st, 2020, while 34% feel they should open only in the next academic year i.e., April 2021," the survey said. In its new guidelines issued on Wednesday, the Ministry of Home Affairs left it to the states to decide on reopening schools and coaching institutions after October 15 in a graded manner. However, schools should not enforce attendance and children should be allowed only after obtaining written consent from parents. The guidelines emphasised that online and distance learning should be encouraged and students who prefer to attend online classes in schools should be permitted to do so. A decision on reopening of colleges and higher education institutes has been left to the Department of Higher Education (DHE) in the Ministry of Education but after a consultation with the MHA. However, higher education institutions only for research scholars (PhD) and post-graduate students in science and technology streams requiring laboratory/experimental works will be permitted to open October 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unlock-50-71-of-parents-unwilling-to-send-children-to-schools-in-october-895527.html
01-10-2020||National||DH Toon | Babri Masjid demolition verdict: 'Quite Unrecognisable. You wore a different mask in 1992'||Twenty-eight years after the demolition of the Babri Masjid by thousands of 'karsevaks' at Ayodhya, a special CBI court on Wednesday acquitted all thirty-two accused, including senior BJP leaders L K Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Uma Bharti, Kalyan Singh and others, who were charged with hatching a criminal conspiracy leading to the demolition of the Babri Mosque, citing lack of evidence against them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-babri-masjid-demolition-verdict-quite-unrecognisable-you-wore-a-different-mask-in-1992-895536.html
01-10-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on October 1||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 63 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  63,88,010   as of October 1 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):    99,720  No. of people discharged:  52,73,201 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-october-1-895539.html
01-10-2020||National||Coronavirus super-spreaders drove explosive outbreak in India, says study||Coronavirus super-spreaders were behind the explosion of Covid-19 in India, the country with the most cases after the US, researchers said. A group of patients that included about 8% of India’s confirmed cases later led to almost two-thirds of its total infections, scientists said Wednesday in a study published in the journal Science. The research, based on tracing more than 3 million contacts in the southern states of Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu through August 1, is the first major study of transmission in a developing country. While most research on the pandemic has come from China, Europe and North America, cases are now burgeoning in India and other developing countries, according to researchers led by Ramanan Laxminarayan, director of the Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics & Policy who wrote the study. Barriers to health care are greater in these nations, and the risk of getting severely ill and dying from Covid is higher, they said. “We’ve never had this degree of information to say, hey, some people are really transmitting the virus in a massive way,” Laxminarayan said in an interview. In contrast with the super-spreader minority, 71% of confirmed cases whose contacts were traced weren’t found to have spread the virus to anyone. A nationwide serological survey showed that one in 15 Indians have been exposed to the coronavirus. Hospitals in several states are now struggling to secure medical oxygen, needed to assist patients with trouble breathing on their own. Data for the Science study were gathered by thousands of contact-tracers during India’s lockdown, when mass gatherings were banned, schools were closed and people were ordered to wear face masks in public. Almost 130 million people live in the two Indian states, accounting for about 10% of the country’s population. India has recorded more than 6.2 million Covid-19 cases. Prolonged Close Contact Both states reported their first SARS-CoV-2 infections on March 5. Health workers traced as many as 80 contacts per confirmed case, using skills and resources honed from routinely tracking potential transmitters of HIV and tuberculosis, Laxminarayan said. Prolific SARS-CoV-2 transmitters tended to spread the virus during prolonged close contact on buses and other forms of transportation, according to the researchers, who were also from Princeton University, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, and Indian state governments. In such settings, there was a 79% chance of an infection occurring. That compares with only a 1 in 40 chance of catching the virus from someone in the community who wasn’t a household member, Laxminarayan said. Children under 14, though, were found to be frequent “silent” spreaders of the virus, especially to their parents and peers. “This shows that even without schools being functional, children-to-children transmission seems to be quite important,” he said. “As terrible as it is to say -- with two kids at home myself -- it’s actually important to keep the kids home.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-super-spreaders-drove-explosive-outbreak-in-india-says-study-895553.html
01-10-2020||National||Three-minute verdict for a 28-year-old dispute||It took special CBI judge S K Yadav only three minutes to read the operative portion of the Babri Masjid demolition case verdict acquitting all the 32 accused persons before a packed courtroom here on Wednesday. Though the judge had arrived at the court a little after 10 am, he remained inside his chambers and came to the court around quarter past 12 noon. As the special CBI judge started reading the verdict, the huge army of journalists from newspapers and TV channels from across the country also got into action and began filing alerts after being tipped off by the lawyers inside. Only the accused and their lawyers were allowed inside the court, which turned into a fortress with hundreds of security personnel deployed. All roads leading to the court were sealed and traffic was diverted. The accused persons had started arriving at the court after 10 am one by one. Many of the accused, who were very old, were accompanied by attendants as they were unable to walk on their own. As many as 26 of the 32 accused were present in the court. Six were granted exemption from physical appearance. They had come prepared with bail bonds, which would be required if they were convicted. As the news of acquittal came out, the supporters of the accused persons, chanted 'Jai Shri Ram' and distributed sweets and garlanded each other.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/three-minute-verdict-for-a-28-year-old-dispute-895563.html
01-10-2020||National||Rahul, Priyanka Gandhi to meet Hathras gang-rape victim's family today||Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra are likely to visit Hathras on Thursday to meet kin of the gang-rape victim amid outrage over Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s handling of the situation. Amid the outrage over the Hathras incident, reports of another gang rape in Balrampur in Uttar Pradesh shook the state.  “A gruesome incident like Hathras has taken place in Balrampur. A girl was raped and her legs and back were broken. Girls have been brutalised in Azamgarh, Bulandshahr and Baghpat,” Priyanka said. हाथरस जैसी वीभत्स घटना बलरामपुर में घटी। लड़की का बलात्कार कर पैर और कमर तोड़ दी गई। आजमगढ़, बागपत, बुलंदशहर में बच्चियों से दरिंदगी हुई। यूपी में फैले जंगलराज की हद नहीं। मार्केटिंग, भाषणों से कानून व्यवस्था नहीं चलती। ये मुख्यमंत्री की जवाबदेही का वक्त है। जनता को जवाब चाहिए। “The jungle raj in UP has crossed all limits. Law and order are not maintained through marketing and speeches. It is time to hold the chief minister accountable. The people need answers,” the AICC General Secretary said. The Gandhi siblings have already condemned the BJP government for trying to cover up the heinous incident, over the delay in the medical treatment of the victim and the forcible cremation by the state police in the absence of the family in the early hours of Wednesday. “The government did not protect her when she was alive. The government did not provide her with timely treatment when she was attacked. After her death, the government snatched away the rights of the family to perform the last rites and denied dignity to the dead,” Priyanka had said on Wednesday. “There is no justice under your rule, injustice prevails everywhere. Yogi Adityanath should resign,” the Congress leader said. Congress President Sonia Gandhi had said that the nation would speak against the injustice meted out by the BJP government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-priyanka-gandhi-to-meet-hathras-gang-rape-victims-family-today-895608.html
01-10-2020||National||India's Covid-19 tally crosses 63-lakh mark with 86,821 new cases||India's Covid-19 caseload breached the 63-lakh mark with 86,821 infections being reported in a day, while 52,73,201 people have recuperated so far from the disease, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The recovery rate stands at 83.53 per cent. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 63,12,584, while the death toll climbed to 98,678 with the virus claiming 1,181 lives in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. There are 9,40,705 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 14.90 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The Covid-19 case fatality rate due to the coronavirus infection has dropped to 1.56 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16 and crossed 60 lakh on September 28. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 7,56,19,781 samples have been tested up to September 30 with 14,23,052 samples being tested on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-crosses-63-lakh-mark-with-86821-new-cases-895614.html
01-10-2020||National||Hathras gang-rape victim was referred to AIIMS, not Safdarjung hospital: Aligarh medical college principal||The principal of the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JNMC) hospital, where the Hathras gang-rape victim was under treatment for more than two weeks, on Thursday said he had no idea why she was admitted to the Safdarjung hospital in Delhi when they had referred her to the AIIMS. "We are not in a position to explain as to why the patient was taken to the Safarjung hospital in New Delhi when we had referred her to the AIIMS," Professor Shahid Ali Siddiqui said. "On the night of September 28, the victim's family sought permission to shift her and we willingly referred her to the AIIMS," he added. The next morning, the patient, along with her family members, left for Delhi. Asked about the issue on Wednesday, JNMC authorities told reporters, "The Hathras district administration will be able to respond to this query, we had no role in this." Siddiqui said, "Normally, the decision to shift a patient for better medical facilities is taken by doctors in consultation with the patient's family, but if the family members wish to go by their decision, they can do so and we always cooperate." Asked about certain conflicting media reports regarding the injuries suffered by the victim, he said there is no scope for speculation as "we are only authorised to submit the report to the investigating officer or the court". Meanwhile, opposition parties and organisations have severely criticised the decision of the Hathras authorities on performing the last rites of the victim allegedly without the consent of the family. The 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly raped by four upper-caste men in Hathras on September 14 and referred to the Safdarjung hospital in Delhi on Monday with spinal cord injuries, paralysis and cuts in her tongue. She died at around 3 am on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hathras-gang-rape-victim-was-referred-to-aiims-not-safdarjung-hospital-aligarh-medical-college-principal-895639.html
01-10-2020||National||CSC partners with HelpAge India to train senior citizens on digital literacy||The Common Service Centers (CSC), a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) under the Ministry of Electronics and IT, has partnered with HelpAge India, a national-level organisation working for the cause of the senior citizens, to provide digital literacy to citizens aged above 55 years on a pilot basis in selected states. “Access to digital learning, will provide them with a window of hope, whereby they can carry on with their daily living and livelihood activities, without putting themselves at risk,” said CSC Chief Executive Officer Dinesh Tyagi. As per the MoU signed between CSC Academy, the education arm of CSC, and HelpAge India, CSC will provide digital literacy to 1,500 elder citizens in the three “aspirational districts” of Karauli in Rajasthan, Birbhum in West Bengal and Ramanathapuram in Tamil Nadu. The MoU rolled out under the project “Aalambana” of HelpAge India will be implemented in a span of one year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/csc-partners-with-helpage-india-to-train-senior-citizens-on-digital-literacy-895654.html
01-10-2020||National||Prashant Bhushan asks Supreme Court to review Re one fine in contempt case||Activist-advocate Prashant Bhushan on Thursday approached the Supreme Court with a review petition against August 31 judgement which directed him to pay Re one fine, or suffer three months jail and get debarred from practice for three years in a suo motu contempt case for his tweets against the judiciary. He claimed the judgement of sentence, passed by a three-judge bench presided over by Justice Arun Mishra (since retired), contained several "errors apparent on the face of record". He said it was 'per incuriam' (without legal basis) as no semblance of procedure was followed by the court in the case. "At no point was petitioner put to notice that the court was contemplating such a drastic action against him," he said. He said the denial of opportunity to him to lead evidence was not only in explicit contravention of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 but in the teeth of the judgement of co-ordinate bench in R K Anand vs Delhi High Court (2009). In the instant case, mere mounting of the defence of truth was treated to be an “aggravation” of contempt for which he already stood convicted, his plea stated. Among other grounds, he said the sentence of imprisonment in default of the fine was disproportionate and contrary to statutory guidelines and policy. Bhushan, who had already deposited Re one fine on September 14, sought an oral hearing in the review petition. He had already sought review of August 14 judgement that held him guilty of criminal contempt, saying it was "erroneous on its face because it does not consider the totality of facts". Bhushan asked the court to rehear the matter after granting an open-court hearing in the matter. He also filed a separate writ petition, contending that there must be an appeal procedure created for conviction under the contempt. Bhushan is facing another contempt case arising out of his interview to Tehelka magazine in 2009, accusing more than half of 16 former Chief Justices of India of corruption.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prashant-bhushan-asks-supreme-court-to-review-re-one-fine-in-contempt-case-895660.html
01-10-2020||National||SC dismisses plea by ex-bureaucrats for inquiry into mismanagement of Covid-19 pandemic in India||The Supreme Court on Thursday dismissed a plea by a group of six former senior bureaucrats for an independent inquiry into Union government's "gross mismanagement" of Covid-19 pandemic in the country. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Ajay Rastogi declined to consider the petition filed by K P Fabian and others through advocate Prashant Bhushan. As the counsel insisted for appointment of a Commission for inquiry into alleged mismangement, the bench said, "This is a matter of public debate but court cannot go into this. Government has to be given latitude. It is a matter of opinion. Nobody knew this would happen." Bhushan contended despite WHO's warning, one lakh people were allowed to gather at 'Namaste Trump' event at a stadium on February 24. This was also against advice by the Union Home Ministry. He also claimed 24% decline in GDP and loss of job for two crore people due to sudden declaration of lockdown without consulting experts. In spite of this, we were not able to contain Covid-19 and our economy also got shattered, he submitted. The petitioners, namely M G Devasahayam, Meena Gupta, Somsundar Burra, Amit Bhaduri and Madhu Bhaduri, contended that the response of the government to the pandemic and the deleterious impact of it on the lives and livelihoods of citizens of the country was a matter of public importance. It warranted appointment of a Commission under Section 3 of the Commission of Inquiry Act, they said in their joint petition. They said a Commission headed by a former Supreme Court judge and comprising experts from fields of medical science, epidemiology, public health, law and social sciences should be formed to conduct an independent inquiry into issues of failure to take early measures for containment of then disease, abrupt and arbitrary declaration of lockdown, failure of lockdown to contain transmission of the disease and misery wrought upon ordinary citizens, owing to unplanned and sudden nature of lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-dismisses-plea-by-ex-bureaucrats-for-inquiry-into-mismanagement-of-covid-19-pandemic-in-india-895661.html
01-10-2020||National||Babri demolition meticulously planned, some of the 32 categorically took responsibility: Justice Liberhan||Contrary to the findings of a 2009 Justice Manmohan Singh Liberhan Commission, which called the razing down of the Babri Masjid a result of "great painstaking preparation and pre-planning," a CBI special court on Wednesday acquitted all 32 accused in the Babri mosque demolition case. The Commission had rejected the theory that it was a spontaneous act by ‘karsevaks’ whereas the CBI court has ruled that there was no evidence that demolition was a criminal conspiracy. Headed by Liberhan, the commission was set up on December 16, 1992, to "ascertain only the events, facts and circumstances leading up to the demolition of the structure at Ayodhya and certain connected matters". “My findings were correct, right, honest, and free from fear or any other bias... For posterity, it is a report that will provide an honest account of what took place and how. It will be part of history,” Justice Liberhan said. The panel had submitted its report 17 years later after examining over 100 witnesses. In its report, the commission had blamed the Sangh Pariwar and the RSS of financing and executing the demolition of the disputed structure.  "The theory or the claim made by the leaders of the movement or the icons, from political or social organisations, does not carry conviction to conclude that the demolition was carried out by the karsevaks spontaneously out of sheer anger or emotions," the report said. The special CBI court in Lucknow on September 30, acquitted all the accused in the case, including BJP leaders LK Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and Uma Bharti, in the absence of conclusive proof to suggest a criminal conspiracy. Refusing to comment on the judgement, Justice Manmohan Singh Liberhan told The Indian Express, “I will not comment on the judge or the court or the CBI investigation. I believe everyone does his job honestly. The court has the right to differ, there can be no dispute about its power or working." He, however, added that some may have had a pious intent, “but for politicians, it was one of the most important means to generate votes in their favour.” “All of them, Advani, Vajpayee, appeared before me, and what I found, I presented in my report, but they can’t be a witness against themselves… Some of them took responsibility for the demolition. Uma Bharti categorically claimed responsibility… now, if the judge says she is not responsible, what can I do… From the evidence presented before me and the accounts of witnesses, not just me, anybody could have reasonably concluded that it was a premeditated action,” he said. The commission, which continued its work during Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led NDA government, said it was evident that in order to support the prerequisites for such a movement, the finances required were channelled from the coffers of the various Sangh Parivar organisations through various banks to accounts held in the names of various organisations and individuals.  One of the longest-running inquiry commissions, it was supposed to submit its findings within three months but took 17 years with 48 extensions spending about Rs 8 crore on salaries and perks of support staff.  The Commission submitted its report to the then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on June 30, 2009.  (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/babri-demolition-meticulously-planned-some-of-the-32-categorically-took-responsibility-justice-liberhan-895665.html
01-10-2020||National||Rahul, Priyanka Gandhi leave to meet family of Hathras rape victim||Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday left the national capital for Hathras to meet the family members of the Dalit gang-rape victim, who died on Tuesday sparking nationwide outrage. Sources said both the leaders left Janpath, Delhi, the residence of the Congress president, and entered UP via the DND flyover, where a large number of Congress workers had gathered. Traffic was disrupted in the area. Congress leader Randeep Surjewala is accompanying the two senior leaders. In Hathras, the district magistrate has imposed prohibitory orders under section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and ordered sealing of the district borders to maintain peace. The Gandhis, who have been critical of the BJP-led UP government for failing to protect the victim, want to express their condolences and show solidarity to the victim's family in Hathras. A 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly raped by four upper-caste men in Hathras on September 14 and referred to the Safdarjung hospital in Delhi on Monday with spinal cord injuries, paralysis and cuts in her tongue. She died around 3 am on Tuesday. Earlier, Uttar Pradesh Congress media coordinator Lalan Kumar had said in Lucknow that a large number of party workers have gathered at Ghaziabad to receive the two leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-priyanka-gandhi-leave-to-meet-family-of-hathras-rape-victim-895678.html
01-10-2020||National||Rahul, Priyanka Gandhi detained by UP police enroute Hathras||Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra were detained by the Uttar Pradesh Police on Thursday as they set off on foot to meet the kin of the gang rape victim at Hathras, after being stopped near Greater Noida on the Agra Expressway. Dramatic scenes were witnessed on the Yamuna Expressway where Rahul fell to the ground after being pushed and shoved by the UP Police officials who told the former Congress President that he was violating the prohibitory orders by marching towards Hathras. Rahul’s request to be allowed to proceed alone to Hathras was rejected by the police and he along with Priyanka and Congress leaders including Randeep Singh Surjewala, Rajeev Shukla, Jitin Prasada, Deepender Hooda, Sushmita Dev, Ragini Nayak, Ajay Kumar Lallu were also detained by the police. Congress has been alleging a cover-up by the Uttar Pradesh government in the investigation of the Hathras gang rape case and demanding resignation of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath “Just now police pushed me, lathi-charged me and threw me to the ground,” Rahul told reporters, minutes before he and several Congress leaders were detained by the UP police and taken to a guest house at the Buddha International Circuit, a venue for motor racing events, nearby. “I want to meet the family. I can tell you nobody can stop me. Meeting the family is no crime,” Rahul told the media on Yamuna Expressway. After being stopped from proceeding further, Rahul was seen asking the police officials the reasons for his “arrest”. “They prevented us from going to Hathras. When we all went out on foot with Rahulji, we were repeatedly stopped, they used lathis in a barbaric manner. Many workers have been injured. But our intention is clear. The sticks of an arrogant government cannot stop us,” Priyanka said. Political fellow travellers such as NCP, DMK, Shiv Sena, CPI came out in support of Congress leaders and condemned the BJP government for the police action. “Reckless behaviour of UP Police towards Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is extremely condemnable. It is reprehensible for those who are supposed to uphold the law to trample upon the democratic values in such a manner,” NCP supremo Sharad Pawar said. Union Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi described the Congress leader’s march towards Hathras as “political tourism” and insisted that the “barbaric criminals” will be punished for their barbarism. “Those who are trying to increase the tension through political tourism should not do that,” Naqvi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-priyanka-gandhi-detained-by-up-police-enroute-hathras-895695.html
01-10-2020||National||4,327 urban local bodies declared open defecation-free under Swachh Bharat: HUA||The Centre on Thursday said 4,327 urban local bodies have so far been declared open defecation-free in the country under the Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban. "Since its launch in 2014, Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban (SBM-U) has made significant progress in the area of both sanitation and solid waste management. A total of 4,327 urban local bodies have been declared open defecation-free (ODF) so far," the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs said in a statement. The ministry said it has been made possible through the construction of more than 66 lakh individual household toilets and over 6 lakh community and public toilets, far exceeding the mission's targets. Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri will release a compendium and a dynamic GIS portal showcasing innovative practices for effective solid waste management (SWM) from across India on Friday. "In the area of solid waste management, 97 per cent of wards have complete door-to-door collection and 77 per cent of wards have source segregation of waste, while 67 per cent of the total waste generated is being processed, a jump of nearly four times over 2014 levels of 18 per cent processing," the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4327-urban-local-bodies-declared-open-defecation-free-under-swachh-bharat-hua-895721.html
01-10-2020||National||Hathras-like incidents won't be tolerated in Maharashtra: CM Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday said that Hathras-like incidents will not be tolerated in the state and those indulging in crime against women would be dealt with severely. His statement comes amid a nationwide outrage over the death of a 19-year-old Dalit woman from Uttar Pradesh's Hathras on Tuesday, days after she was raped by four men on September 14. Thackeray was speaking while virtually inaugurating the newly-formed Mira-Bhayandar Vasai-Virar police commissionerate. "When incidents like the one happened in UP occur, we usually discuss it for a while and then forget. But in Maharashtra, such incidents will not be allowed to happen," he said. "Hathras-like incidents will never be tolerated in Maharashtra. For that matter, any kind of crime against women, including harassment and eve-teasing, would be dealt with severely," the chief minister said. There should be fear of police and they should crush criminal activities in the region, he added. "Policing should be such that even if the police personnel are present everywhere, they are not visible, but people feel safe," Thackeray said. He observed that the need to have a separate police commissionerate for Mira Bhayandar and Vasai-Virar was long- pending. State DGP Subodh Jaiswal said the Maharashtra police manual of 1935 has not not been revised and a new version is pending approval of the government. Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said the proposal for the new police commissinerate remained on paper during the previous government and it was brought to reality by the MVA government. Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said Rs 25 crore would be allocated for the new commissionerate soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hathras-like-incidents-wont-be-tolerated-in-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-895725.html
01-10-2020||National||Active Covid-19 cases below 10 lakh for 10th successive day||For the tenth successive day, active cases of coronavirus infection in India were below 10 lakh while the country's steady trend of posting high levels of daily recoveries continued, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. With 85,376 people having recuperated from Covid-19 in a span of 24 hours, India's total recoveries surged to 52,73,201 on Thursday pushing the recovery rate to 83.53 per cent, according to the data updated at 8 am. "The rise in total recovered cases has been steep. The last 10 lakh recoveries were added in just 12 days," the ministry underlined. It said that 77 per cent of the total recovered cases were in 10 states and UTs -- Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, West Bengal, Odisha, Bihar and Telangana. Maharashtra has contributed the highest number to the total recovered cases followed by Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. There are 9,40,705 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 14.90 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The ministry said 76 per cent of the active cases are in 10 states and UTs ---Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhar Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Telangana.   India reported 9.4 lakh active cases earlier on September 11. "India has sustained its trend of maintaining the active cases of Covid-19 below the 10 lakh mark. For the 10th successive day, the active cases are less than 1 million (10 lakhs), " the ministry said.  A total of  86,821 new confirmed cases have been reported in a span od 24 hours in the country. Seventy-six per cent of the new cases are concentrated in ten states. Maharashtra contributed more than 18,000 to the new cases. Karnataka and Kerala, both contributed more than 8,000, the ministry said. Also, 82 per cent of the 1,181 new deaths registered in a span of 24 hours are reported from 10 states and UTs with 40 per cent of them being from Maharashtra with 481 deaths followed by Karnataka with 87 deaths.  India's Covid-19 caseload mounted  to 63,12,584 with 86,821 infections being reported in a day, while the death toll due to Covid-19 climbed to 98,678 with the virus claiming 1,181 lives in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/active-covid-19-cases-below-10-lakh-for-10th-successive-day-895730.html
01-10-2020||National||Police claim Hathras victim was not raped; family seeks CBI probe||Amid the nationwide outrage, Uttar Pradesh police on Thursday claimed that the postmortem report and forensic examination of the Hathras victim did not confirm ''rape or gang rape' and that she had died owing to injury on her neck. The family members, however, accused the police and district administration of 'pressuring' them and sought a CBI probe into the incident. A senior police official apprehended that there was a deliberate attempt to malign the image of the state government and foment caste violence by some elements, who spread rumours that the victim was gang-raped. ''Neither the postmortem report nor the forensic examination has confirmed rape....sperm was not found in the samples,'' the official said. ''There were injury marks on her neck and cervical spine...she also had a heart attack and had infection in blood,'' he added. The official said that some people apparently in Hathras tried to foment caste violence and deliberately twisted the facts of the case. ''We will identify such people and act against them,'' he said. The family members, however, accused the cops and the district officials of ''pressuring '' them and obtaining their signatures on blank papers under duress. In a video, which went viral on social media, the father of the victim was heard saying that he wanted a probe by the CBI or a sitting Supreme Court judge.  The girl, who hailed from SC community, had been brutally assaulted by four youths in Hathras district and died in the hospital. The family members alleged that she was gang-raped. The police allegedly held her family hostage and cremated the body at midnight on Tuesday. All the four accused have been arrested. Meanwhile, the administration in Hathras clamped section 144 in the district in a bid to prevent the opposition leaders from reaching the village of the victim. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra were detained enroute Hathras and were kept at a guest house, police said. The administration also banned entry of the media into the village, sources said. The police claimed that the father of the victim had written a letter expressing satisfaction at the action taken by the UP government and urged the opposition not to politicise the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/police-claim-hathras-victim-was-not-raped-family-seeks-cbi-probe-895732.html
01-10-2020||National||Will continue to fight till women's safety is ensured in Uttar Pradesh: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday said her party will continue to fight till women's safety is ensured in Uttar Pradesh and unless the government is shaken and woken up, it will not do anything on this front. Talking to reporters while walking on the Yamuna Expressway towards Hathras, she said Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath would have to take the responsibility for the alleged gangrape of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in the district and strict action should be taken against the perpetrators of the crime. The victim died in a Delhi hospital on Tuesday. "Since our cars have been stopped, we will walk down to Hathras as we want to meet the victim's family. We want to express our condolences to the family," Priyanka Gandhi said. "He (Adityanath) would have to do something for women's safety. We will continue to fight till the time he does something. The women in the entire state will fight as they realise that they are not safe and secure. Everyday such incidents are happening. Eleven rape cases are registered in Uttar Pradesh everyday. "Such cases are rising and the government is not doing anything. Unless we shake the government or wake them up, they will not do anything for women's safety," she added. The Congress general secretary recalled that around the same time last year, her party was protesting for the Unnao rape victim. Taking on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Uttar Pradesh for "not allowing the family to cremate the victim's body with honour", she said, "You claim to be the protectors of the Hindu religion, we are Hindus, but where has it been written that you cannot allow a father to lit the pyre of his daughter and not allow the family to cremate the victim? "The incident was a big injustice. What the state government did after that was a bigger injustice." Priyanka Gandhi, along with Rahul Gandhi and other Congress leaders and workers, started walking towards Hathras after their cars were stopped by the Uttar Pradesh police near the Pari Chowk on the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-continue-to-fight-till-womens-safety-is-ensured-in-uttar-pradesh-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-895736.html
01-10-2020||National||Covid-19 tally in India crosses 63-lakh mark||India's Covid-19 caseload crossed the 63-lakh mark with 86,821 infections being reported in a day, while 52,73,201 people have recuperated so far, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The recovery rate stands at 83.53 per cent. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 63,12,584, while the death toll climbed to 98,678 with the virus claiming 1,181 lives in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. There are 9,40,705 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 14.90 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The Covid-19 case fatality rate due to the coronavirus infection has dropped to 1.56 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16 and crossed 60 lakh on September 28. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 7,56,19,781 samples have been tested up to September 30 with 14,23,052 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 1,181 new fatalities include 481 from Maharashtra, 87 from Karnataka, 69 from Uttar Pradesh, 67 from Tamil Nadu, 59 from West Bengal, 48 from  Andhra Pradesh, 47 from Punjab, 41 each from Chhattisgarh and Delhi and 35 from Madhya Pradesh. A total of 98,678 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 36,662 from Maharashtra followed by 9,520 from Tamil Nadu, 8,864 from Karnataka, 5,828 from Andhra Pradesh, 5,784 from Uttar Pradesh, 5,361 from Delhi, 4,958 from West Bengal, 3,540 from Gujarat, 3,406 from Punjab and 2,316 from Madhya Pradesh.  The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its  website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-tally-in-india-crosses-63-lakh-mark-895738.html
01-10-2020||National||Maximum impact of Covid-19 felt by women, children claims Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan||Despite the country's health systems being under severe strain due to the ongoing pandemic, every effort has been made to ensure that "healthcare services are made available to women, children and adolescents", said Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan. Addressing the Partnership for Maternal, Newborn and Child Health (PMNCH) 'Accountability Breakfast', through video conference, he said "the maximum impact of Covid-19 has been felt by women, children, and adolescents and this called for urgent action". "We are in a constant dialogue to ensure that healthcare services are made available to women, children and adolescents remain in focus despite the health systems being under severe strain due to the Covid epidemic," said Vardhan. The 'Accountability Breakfast 2020', held on September 29, focused on securing global accountability for protecting women's, children's, and adolescents' health and rights during the Covid-19 crisis and beyond. The virtual event, attended by over 1600 delegates from all over the world,  was co-hosted by the White Ribbon Alliance (WRA) and Every Woman Every Child (EWEC). It attracted a wide range of stakeholders from governments to grass-roots organisations, bringing together people with power to make changes and people calling for those changes to be made. The minister, during his speech, also talked about India's "zero-tolerance" approach for service denial to pregnant women and their newborn babies and strengthening the system for "client feedback, grievance redressal, and greater accountability and transparency". "The idea is to have a fully responsive and accountable health system that will not only result in a positive birthing experience but also help end preventable maternal and newborn deaths," he explained. Further, he shed light on the Indian government's stated policy of no denial for essential services, which include "Reproductive Maternal Newborn, Child and Adolescent Health (RMNCAH), tuberculosis, chemotherapy, dialysis, and healthcare of the elderly". He also expressed satisfaction that the steps taken by his government have helped reduce 'out-of-pocket-expenditure' of those affected.  The event took place as the global 'Every Woman Every Child' movement's recently published report warned that a decade of remarkable progress, including under-five deaths reaching an all-time low, maternal deaths falling by 35 per cent, and one billion children vaccinated is now threatened by conflict, the climate crisis, and increasingly by the health, social and economic consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maximum-impact-of-covid-19-felt-by-women-children-claims-union-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-895751.html
01-10-2020||National||September accounted for 41.53% of total Covid-19 cases in India||September accounted for 41.53 per cent of the total Covid-19 cases in the country, with 26,21,418 infections of the over 63 lakh cases being reported in the month alone. The past month also saw 33,390 deaths due to the disease, which is around 33.84 per cent of the total 98,678 deaths recorded so far.   September witnessed 24,33,319 people recuperating from coronavirus infection contributing to around 46.15 per cent of the total 52,73,201 recoveries registered so far in the country. India is at number one position in terms of the number of recovered coronavirus cases followed by Brazil and the US, according to the Johns Hopkins University, which has been compiling Covid-19 data from all over the world. India is the second worst hit nation in terms of Covid-19 cases after the US, while it is in the third spot in terms of fatalities globally after the US and Brazil, according to the JHU data. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5 . It went past  50 lakh on September 16 and crossed 60 lakh on September 28. It took 110 days for the Covid-19 cases in the country to reach one-lakh mark, while it had taken 59 days more to go past the 10-lakh post. The cases jumped from 10 lakh to 20 lakh in 21 days, then it took 16 more days to race past 30 lakh, 13 days more to cross the 40-lakh mark, 11 days to go past 50 lakh and 12 days to cross 60 lakh.  According to the Union Health Ministry data updated at 8 am on Thursday, India's Covid-19 cases mounted to 63,12,584 with 86,821 infections being reported in a day, while 52,73,201 people have recuperated so far from the disease pushing the recovery rate to 83.53 per cent.  The death toll due to Covid-19 climbed to 98,678 with the virus claiming 1,181 lives in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 7,56,19,781 samples have been tested up to September 30 with 14,23,052 samples being tested on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/september-accounted-for-4153-of-total-covid-19-cases-in-india-895753.html
01-10-2020||National||More than 10k Covid-19 cases in CRPF; recovery rate at 85%||There have been over 10,000 Covid-19 cases in the CRPF with an estimated recovery rate of 85 per cent, the chief of the country's largest paramilitary force, A P Maheshwari, said on Friday. He said the force is undertaking various measures to ensure that its troops remain fit and have high immunity levels to combat diseases such as Covid-19. "We have had over 10,000 coronavirus cases in our force, but most people have recovered. The recovery rate is about 80-85 per cent. "Conducting a running event like this during the times of Covid-19 is to underline the fact that we need to boost our immunity and enhance physical capability to combat diseases like the coronavirus while following medical protocols such as wearing face masks and ensuring physical distancing," the CRPF director general told reporters at the closing event of the 'Fit India Freedom Run' at Vijay Chowk in the national capital. CRPF spokesperson Deputy Inspector General Moses Dhinakaran said the force personnel deployed across the country have collectively walked and run about 1.5 crore kms as part of the fitness initiative that was launched on August 15. Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) officials, sportspersons including the first Arjuna award recipient of the country G S Randhawa, Olympian Sushil Kumar, weightlifter Kunjarani Devi and others took part in a run from Vijay Chowk to India Gate in central Delhi to mark the occasion.     The CRPF, with about 3.25 lakh personnel in its ranks, is the mainstay for anti-Naxal operations in the country and counter-terrorist operations in the Kashmir valley. According to latest data, 58 personnel of the force have succumbed to the coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-than-10k-covid-19-cases-in-crpf-recovery-rate-at-85-895759.html
01-10-2020||National||Supreme Court refuses to entertain plea for fixing accountability of WHO officials over Covid-19||The Supreme Court Thursday refused to entertain a plea seeking direction to fix accountability of WHO officials for their alleged failure in preventing the Covid-19 pandemic in the world.   A bench headed by Justice S K Kaul said that the plea, which had also said that China may be made to pay appropriate compensation to India for the losses incurred due to the pandemic, was not maintainable.   "We do not have the jurisdiction to summon the Government of China," the bench, also comprising Justice Hrishikesh Roy, said.   "How can this court say what the WHO and China should do? This court is not the government," the bench told Raman Kakar, who had filed the petition.   "The petition is not maintainable," the apex court said.   It observed that the petitioner is a doctor and has experience in that field but he is not a lawyer and it is reflected from the prayers made in the plea. The plea had said that World Health Organisation (WHO) officials, who are allegedly found guilty of causing or exacerbating the "avoidable genocide", should be prosecuted.  It claimed that the WHO had delayed declaring Covid-19 as a "global health emergency" by a month.   "This pandemic is a manifestation of the deep-seated rot that has set in the unsupervised organisation from top to bottom. WHO has betrayed the human race," the plea had alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-refuses-to-entertain-plea-for-fixing-accountability-of-who-officials-over-covid-19-895760.html
01-10-2020||National||Heard narrator’s voice in my head: Avni Doshi on writing Booker nominated novel||At the centre of Avni Doshi’s debut novel “Girl in White Cotton” is a dysfunctional mother-daughter relationship, but it wasn’t a theme the author had in mind before she set out to write.   According to her, her “narrator’s voice” guided her through nearly 300 pages to put together the book that was seven years in the making and is in the Booker Prize shortlist of six. “I didn’t set out to write about a particular kind of relationship. Rather, I heard the voice of the narrator in my head and as I began to write the novel, the characters emerged, and their relationships to one another grew from there,” Doshi told PTI over email from Dubai, where she currently lives. The book primarily revolves around the narrative of a woman (Antara) trying to take care of her mother, Tara, who is suffering from Alzheimer’s. Equal parts uncomfortable and relevant, even more so in current times, the US-born Doshi mirrors the worst fears, insecurities and uncertainties of a generation living through a pandemic. The book – part of the shortlist that has previously featured Indian writers like Salman Rushdie, Arundhati Roy and V S Naipaul -- came out in India last year as “Girl in White Cotton” and was released in the UK in July this year as “Burnt Sugar”.     “It feels wonderful, a dream come true… 2020 has been difficult for debut novels. I am grateful that the book is reaching so many readers,” the 38-year-old writer said, adding that one had to be “insane” to spend over half a decade on a single project. The Booker Prize jury has described Doshi’s book as an “utterly compelling read” that  “examines a complex and unusual mother-daughter relationship with honest, unflinching realism — sometimes emotionally wrenching but also cathartic, written with poignancy and memorability”.  Through its central mother-daughter duo of Tara and Antara, it talks about the reality of being trapped in difficult situations when life throws curve-balls, but also the helplessness of being caught in a labyrinth created by one’s own choices, and how all of this gets a tad more challenging if you are a woman. Having always been the one to follow her heart, Tara falls in line with the conventional life plan laid out by the world for a woman — she gets married and has a child, but eventually gives in to her true self and runs away to an ashram with her daughter who is too young to make a choice for herself. What follows is a heartbreaking and confusing life for both. The daughter despises her mother for her choices and struggles to battle her own anxieties for the rest of her life, even after she herself becomes mother to a baby girl. “Tara probably should have never gotten married and never become a mother – I imagine many women can relate to that kind of regret. Society pushes us in certain directions, and often years later we realise our lives are unrecognisable,” Doshi said. The suffocation of billions of people across the world as they remain cooped up in their homes due to the pandemic is likely to find resonance in both Tara and Antara’s claustrophobia, making the book a true reflection of immediate times. “There is a certain claustrophobia I tried to capture in the novel, one that is experienced in the various domestic spaces, and I think that is something many people faced over the lockdown,” the author said. Doshi makes the book even more identifiable by investing large portions of her prose on the most innocuous objects of daily life — things that one, intentionally or unintentionally fixates on — like a medicine bottle on a shelf, missing potatoes in a dish, or a damp patch on a wall.  Often such situations reveal more about the individual than about the singular object in question, she said, “To me, that is the reality of everyday life. Those are the things we notice when we inhabit various spaces. The novel is quite spare in terms of descriptions, so usually if I go into writing about a particular object, it is there for a reason, mostly to evoke a feeling or reveal something about the character,” Doshi said. The other authors in the shortlist are Diane Cook for “The New Wilderness”, Tsitsi Dangarembga for “This Mournable Body”, Maaza Mengiste for “The Shadow King”, Douglas Stuart for “Shuggie Bain” and Brandon Taylor for “Real Life”.  The Booker Prize for Fiction, which is open to writers of any nationality, writing in English and published in the UK or Ireland, will be announced on November 19 and carries a cash prize of GBP 50,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heard-narrator-s-voice-in-my-head-avni-doshi-on-writing-booker-nominated-novel-895763.html
01-10-2020||National||Firm to sell INS Viraat for Rs 100 crore if NOC comes through||The new owner of decommissioned warship INS Viraat has sought Rs 100 crore from a Mumbai-based firm which is making last ditch efforts to save the warship from being dismantled and to convert it into a museum. INS Viraat, the aircraft carrier which was inducted into the Indian Navy in 1987 and decommissioned in 2017, was purchased by Shree Ram Group for a sum of Rs 38.54 crore at an auction in July this year. The warship, which is the symbol of India's rich maritime heritage, reached the ship-breaking yard at Alang on Gujarat coast last week. Since the ship was bought as scrap in an auction, aspiring buyers would also need to procure a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the Ministry of Defence to buy the ship now, Shree Ram Group Chairman Mukesh Patel told PTI on Thursday. "I bought this warship just out of my love for my country. Now, a Mumbai-based company wants to convert this ship it into a museum. Since they are also doing it out of patriotism, I agreed to sell the ship to them," he said. "But, they need to first procure NOC from the defence ministry, without which I can't re-sell the ship," he said. Patel also said he first demanded Rs 125 crore and then agreed to sell it for Rs 100 crore considering that the company's cause is noble. Patel also said it is a limited period offer and he would wait only till next week. "I am told the interested firm is trying hard to get the NOC. But, I can't wait forever. I will wait for another week. After that, I will start the dismantling process," he added. V K Sharma, the managing director of Envitech Marine Consultants Pvt Ltd, has shown interest in buying the warship. He had earlier expressed confidence of getting an NOC from the Centre so that INS Viraat can be converted into a museum. Sharma had claimed he received support from the Goa government in this patriotic endeavour. "We are trying our best to get the NOC and we are confident of getting it soon. I had personally met Mukeshbhai and we both agreed on a price of the ship," Sharma said. Viraat, the world's longest serving warship that was decommissioned by the Indian Navy three years ago, arrived at Alang in Gujarat from Mumbai last week for dismantling. It is the second aircraft carrier slated to be broken down in India. In 2014, INS Vikrant was dismantled in Mumbai. The 70-year-old aircraft carrier, in its earlier avatar, had won the Falklands War against Argentina in 1982 for the Royal British Navy. It weighs about 27,800 tonnes and served the British Navy as HMS Hermes from November 1959 to April 1984 and after refurbishment, was commissioned into the Indian Navy in 1987.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/firm-to-sell-ins-viraat-for-rs-100-crore-if-noc-comes-through-895772.html
01-10-2020||National||Apurva Chandra takes over as Labour Secretary||Senior IAS officer Apurva Chandra on Thursday assumed charge as Labour Secretary. "Apurva Chandra who belongs to the 1988 batch of the Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Maharashtra Cadre assumed charge as new Secretary, Ministry of Labour & Employment here today," a labour ministry statement said. Prior to this, Chandra was serving as Special Director General, Defence Acquisition, Ministry of Defence, a position where he played a key role in contributing towards AatmaNirbhar Bharat in terms of greater defence acquisition from domestic industry and at the same time keeping Defence Forces equipped with all its challenging requirements. A civil engineer, Chandra obtained his bachelor's Degree in Civil Engineering and Masters’ in Structural Engineering from IIT Delhi. Chandra has spent more than seven years in the Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas. He has been involved in framing policies with regard to fuel supplies to industries, supply logistics, transportation, storage & distribution of fuel products etc. He was directly associated with Natural Gas transportation infrastructure, setting up of city gas distribution companies, LNG import terminals and allocation of gas to industries. Chandra has served on the Board of Directors of Maharatna PSU, GAIL (India) and petronet LNG. He also served as Joint Secretary, Union Ministry of HRD, Department of School Education & literacy from August 2011 to February 2013. Between 2013 and 2017, he worked as Principal Secretary (Industries). Chandra joined as Director General (Acquisition) in the Ministry of Defence from December 1, 2017 with the mandate of strengthening the Indian Armed Force by expediting the acquisition process. He chaired the Committee to draft the new Defence Acquisition Procedure (DAP). The DAP 2020 has come into effect from October 1, 2020 and will go a long way in promoting AatmaNirbhar Bharat while expediting procurement for the Armed Forces.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/apurva-chandra-takes-over-as-labour-secretary-895784.html
01-10-2020||National||Power consumption grows by 5.6% in September, recovers after six months of slump||Power consumption in the country registered a growth of 5.6 per cent in September at 113.54 billion units (BU) after six-month gap since March this year, showing spurt in sluggish industrial and commercial activities amid Covid-19 pandemic. Power consumption had declined from March onwards after Covid-19 outbreak as economic activity came to a standstill due to the lockdown. The government had imposed the lockdown on March 25, 2020, to contain the spread of coronavirus infections. Power consumption in September last year was at 107.51BU, as per the power ministry data. Power consumption on a year-on-year basis had declined 8.7 per cent in March, 23.2 per cent in April, 14.9 per cent in May, 10.9 per cent in June, 3.7 per cent in July and 1.7 per cent in August. The data showed that electricity consumption grew by 11.73 per cent in February. The Covid-19 situation affected power consumption for six months in a row since March this year till August 2020. As per the data, power consumption has improved after the government started giving relaxations for economic activities since April 20. Experts said the government's continuous focus on boosting economic activities through easing lockdown restrictions has paid dividends and the power consumption would record even higher growth in coming months than recorded in September this year. Peak power demand in September too surpassed last year's level, recording a growth of 1.8 per cent at 176.56 GW compared to 173.45GW in the same month in 2019, the data showed. Peak power demand met is the highest supply of power in the country in a day. Peak power demand met had recorded negative growth from April to August this year. In March, the peak power demand growth was muted at 0.8 per cent. The peak demand met dropped to 24.9 per cent in April, 8.9 per cent in May, 9.6 in June, 2.7 per cent in July and 5.6 per cent in August. The peak power demand met was affected due to the pandemic in April-August this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/power-consumption-grows-by-56-in-september-recovers-after-six-months-of-slump-895787.html
01-10-2020||National||Like Sita had to give 'Agni Pariksha', Hathras woman's body was put on pyre: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday lashed out at the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh alleging that the body of the Dalit woman who was allegedly gang raped and brutalised at Hathras was cremated by force without the consent of her family. Questioning the actions of the Uttar Pradesh government, Mamata asked how can the woman’s body be creamed in such a manner and why no action had been taken against the accused. “Have no words to condemn the barbaric & shameful incident at Hathras involving a young Dalit girl. My deepest condolences to the family. More shameful is the forceful cremation without the family’s presence or consent, exposing those who use slogans & lofty promises for votes,” tweeted Mamata. Later in the day, she accused BJP of “committing atrocities” against Dalits. Without naming the party the Chief Minister alleged that they (BJP leaders) bring food from outside and pretend to eat at a Dalit’s house during elections. “During elections they visit a Dalit’s house. They bring food from outside and claim to have eaten at a Dalit’s house. Then they commit atrocities against Dalits,” said Mamata. Speaking at a government program at Jalpaiguri in North Bengal Mamata said that even after the woman’s body was cremated, no action was taken by the related state administration. “Sita had to give 'agni pariksha'. Now in Uttar Pradesh' not only did they rape a Dalit woman, but she was burnt after being raped. If there is a crime police should take prompt action. But she was burnt and no action was taken. What kind of administration is this?” said Mamata. Without naming that saffron party, she further alleged that “sometimes there are atrocities against minorities, sometimes against Dalits and sometimes against tribals.” Her comments come at a time when the Trinamool Congress (TMC) is desperate trying to regain ground it lost to BJP in the last Lok Sabha elections. BJP won all the eight seats in North Bengal in the last Lok Sabha elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/like-sita-had-to-give-agni-pariksha-hathras-womans-body-was-put-on-pyre-mamata-banerjee-895792.html
01-10-2020||National||Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel tests positive for Covid-19||Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel on Thursday said he has tested positive for Covid-19 and has gone into self-isolation at his residence here. Announcing his infection on Twitter, he urged all those who have come in close contact with him recently to self-isolate themselves. "I have tested positive for Covid-19. I request all those who came in close contact with me recently, to self-isolate," he said on Twitter. Many Congress leaders, including Abhishek Singhvi and Tarun Gogoi, have tested positive for Covid-19. Besides, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, union ministers Amit Shah, Nitin Gadkari and Pralhad Patel have also been infected with the novel coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/senior-congress-leader-ahmed-patel-tests-positive-for-covid-19-895798.html
01-10-2020||National||CBI did not probe possibility of Pakistan intel agencies' role in Babri case: Court||A special court here has said the CBI did not probe on an "important" secret information that people from Pakistan intelligence agency may have also entered and damaged the disputed Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid in Ayodhya to foment communal disturbances in the country. Special Judge S K Yadav referred to inconsistencies in testimonies of several prosecution witnesses while holding that the charge of criminal conspiracy to demolish the structure and other charges were not proved against 32 high-profile accused in the case. In the 2,300 page-long verdict written in Hindi, the judge said the Central Bureau of Investigation's (CBI) case became weaker or "forceless" in view of the fact that it did not probe and ruled out the Pakistan angle to the demolition to make the criminal conspiracy charge stand the judicial scrutiny.   The special CBI judge observed this on Wednesday in the judgement while acquitting the accused, including veteran BJP leaders L K Advani and M M Joshi, of conspiring to raze the structure among other charges.  The court said the CBI's allegations against the accused persons "become forceless also because it did not investigate a report sent by Local Intelligence Unit (LIU) on December 5, 1992, that on December 6, 1992, some persons from Pakistani intelligence agencies may cause damage to the disputed structure after merging with the local crowd". It noted that there were local intelligence reports that on December 2, 1992, itself some 'majaar' (shrine) were broken and set on fire by persons from the Muslim community with an aim to vitiate the communal atmosphere so that 'kar seva' (voluntary service) may be interrupted. It cited an LIU report, which was signed by Inspector General (security), Uttar Pradesh, that said "persons related to Pakistani intelligence agencies have merged with the masses in Ayodhya and they may create unrest in the state and the country by damaging the disputed structure with explosives and other means". The court also noted that there were reports that explosives originated from Pakistan had reached Ayodhya via Delhi, while another intelligence report had warned the administration that "about 100 persons, including anti-social/anti-national elements, from Udhampur area of Jammu and Kashmir are coming to Ayodhya in the garb of kar sevaks (volunteers)". The reports were received by authorities concerned and acted upon, the court observed. "This information was sent to Principal Secretary (Home), Uttar Pradesh, and the state's all security agencies were informed about the same in written form. "Despite having such crucial information, these aspects were not investigated," the judge said. The case is related to the razing of the disputed structure in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992, which triggered riots for several months leaving nearly 2,000 people dead across the country. The structure was demolished by 'kar sevaks' who claimed that the 16th century Babri mosque in Ayodhya was built on the site of an ancient Ram temple. The 32 accused include former deputy prime minister Advani, former Union ministers Joshi and Uma Bharti, former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh during whose tenure the structure was pulled down, besides Vishva Hindu Parishad leaders Vinay Katiyar and Sadhvi Rithambara. Charges were framed against 49 people, but 17 (including stalwarts like Ashok Singhal, Balasaheb Thackeray, Vijayraje Scindia) have died during the course of the trial. The serious criminal conspiracy charge against the accused was first dropped by the trial court in 2001. The verdict was upheld by the Allahabad High Court in 2010, but the Supreme Court ordered restoration of the conspiracy charge against the accused on April 19, 2017. The charge of conspiracy was in addition to other charges, including promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion. The CBI had argued that the accused conspired and instigated 'kar sevaks' to demolish the 16th century mosque. However, the accused had pleaded innocence, maintaining there is no evidence to prove their guilt and claiming that they were implicated by the then Congress government at the Centre as political vendetta.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-did-not-probe-possibility-of-pakistan-intel-agencies-role-in-babri-case-court-895803.html
01-10-2020||National||Sushant and Rhea were seen together the night before his death: Mumbai BJP Secretary||Maharashtra BJP leader claimed that a day before Sushant Singh Rajput's death, he was spotted outside with Rhea Chakraborty. Rajput's family has demanded a probe over this new detail. Sushant (34) was found dead on 14 June noon at his rented duplex flat in Mount Blanc building at Carter Road in Bandra in Mumbai. Mumbai BJP Secretary Vivekanand Gupta, a lawyer by profession, claimed that Sushant and Rhea were seen together on the night of June 13. “There is an eyewitness…I am ready to share details of it to the CBI,” said Gupta. “Whenever CBI calls me, I will go in the interest of justice,” he told a TV channel. "On the 13 June night, there was a birthday of a big politician and another politician has also tweeted about how there can be a party in the lockdown. It means the minister knows there was a party and he knows who all were present. This incident happened on the night of 13th and 14th. An eyewitness has told me that around 2 am to 3 am, Sushant went to drop Rhea till her home,” he said. Gupta also said that no one has seen Sushant hanging. However, when pointed out that Sushant’s flatmate and creative art designer Siddharth Pithani has seen, he said: “He should have first informed the police…he should have taken photograph…Sushant was murdered and then hanged,” he said. Meanwhile, Sushant’s sister Shweta Singh Kirti tweeted, “This is true Breaking News in all sense, a game changer! A witness who can confirm that Bhai met Rhea on the 13th night! What exactly conspired on the 13th night, that Bhai was found dead the next morning?.” From the statement of Pithani, it was established that Rhea left Sushant's apartment on June 8 and Sushant’s sister Meetu came to stay with her brother on that day. Meetu left the house on June 12 evening. Rhea too has said that it was Sushant who had asked her to leave on 8 June because of some health issues. She had even claimed that on an earlier occasion too Sushant had asked her to leave which she did but the actor called her back the next day. This time, he did not do so and she blocked his number. Rhea has also claimed that Meetu should be able to tell what happened between 8-14 June.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushant-and-rhea-were-seen-together-the-night-before-his-death-mumbai-bjp-secretary-895804.html
01-10-2020||National||MSP will be hiked continuously in coming years: Rajnath Singh||Seeking to allay concerns of farmers over a new set of laws amid continuing protests by some parties, senior union minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday assured the farm community that the MSP (minimum support price) will not only stay, it will be continuously increased too in coming years. He also hit out at Congress for the burning of a tractor by protesters from their youth wing, saying, "As a weapon is sacred to soldiers, so is a tractor for farmers and by burning them, they are insulting our farmers." The Congress' youth wing activists on Monday had set a tractor ablaze near India Gate in the national capital, a few hundred metres from the Rashtrapati Bhavan and Parliament, to protest the contentious farm laws. Talking to a select group of journalists, the Defence Minister said, " Being a farmer's son myself, I want to make it clear that the Modi government will not do anything that is not in the interest of farmers." "I appeal to all farmers' organisations that if they have any issue please come and talk with us. I have already started talking to farmers organisations to clear misgivings and misconceptions," he said. "I want to assure farmers that the MSP will stay and rather it will be continuously raised in coming years," he said. The new laws have come into effect after the passage of three key farm bills in the recently concluded monsoon session of Parliament. The government presented these bills as pro-farmers, saying these will ensure that farmers get better prices for their produce and do not get subjected to regulations of 'mandis'. It has also said that farmers will be now free to sell their produce to anyone and these legislations will increase competition and promote private investment, which will help in the development of farm infrastructure and generate employment. However, opposition parties have slammed the bills as "anti-farmers", claiming that the agriculture sector will be left to the fate of corporate interests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/msp-will-be-hiked-continuously-in-coming-years-rajnath-singh-895806.html
01-10-2020||National||Now, no police officer can force 'Good Samaritan' to disclose identity||No police officer or any other person shall compel a Good Samaritan to disclose his/her name, identity, address or any such other personal details, says the rules notified by the Centre to protect people who help accident victims. The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has notified the rules for the protection of Good Samaritans. A 'Good Samaritan' is a person who voluntarily comes forward to administer immediate assistance or emergency care to a person injured in an accident. "No police officer or any other person shall compel a 'Good Samaritan' to disclose his/her name, identity, address or any such other personal details. However, he may voluntarily choose to disclose the same," says the rules. "If a person has voluntarily agreed to become a witness in the case in which he has acted as a 'Good Samaritan', he shall be examined in accordance with the provisions of this rules," it says. The rules also provide that every public and private hospital should publish a charter in Hindi, English and vernacular language, at the entrance or other conspicuous location, and on their website, stating the rights of Good Samaritans under the Act and the rules made thereunder. "... the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019, inserted a new section 134A, viz. "Protection of good Samaritans" which provides that a Good Samaritan shall not be liable for any civil or criminal action for any injury to or death of the victim of an accident involving a motor vehicle, where such injury or death resulted from the Good Samaritan's negligence in acting or failing to act while rendering emergency medical or non-medical care or assistance," the statement said. The government put out the rules so that people who came forward to help the road accidents victims on the spot should not be put through legal quagmire at the hospital or later by law enforcement authorities. With India witnessing around 1.5 lakh deaths due to road accidents in a year, which is highest in the world, the government has been taking several steps to reduce the mishaps. The Good Samaritians rules are to encourage the public to come forward to help accident victims so that they get shifted to a nearby hospital immediately.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/now-no-police-officer-can-force-good-samaritan-to-disclose-identity-895827.html
01-10-2020||National||Railways to introduce 200 more trains during festive season: V K Yadav||Indian Railways is planning to introduce 200 special trains between October 15 and November 30 to meet the demand during the festive season. “We have conducted meetings with the general managers of zones and instructed them to speak with local administration and review the status of coronavirus. They have been asked to give us a report after which we will decide how many trains can be introduced during the holiday season. Our estimate as of now is that we will run around 200 trains, but it is an estimate, the number could be more,” Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav told reporters here. "The railways is taking stock of passenger train services on a daily basis. Depending on the needs and state governments' request, the railways will take decision on operating more trains," he said. On clone trains, he said at present these trains run on 60% capacity. Wherever the clone train has long waiting list, another clone train will be operated on same route to meet the demand, he said. The Railways has currently suspended all regular passenger trains indefinitely. Regular trains have remained suspended since March 22. It started operations of 15 pairs of premium Rajdhani special trains connecting Delhi with different parts of the country on May 12, and 100 pairs of long-distance trains on June 1. It also started 80 trains additionally on September 12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-to-introduce-200-more-trains-during-festive-season-v-k-yadav-895828.html
01-10-2020||National||CSC partners with HelpAge India to impart digital literacy to elderly citizens||IT Ministry's e-governance services arm Common Services Centre (CSC) on Thursday said that it has partnered HelpAge India to provide digital literacy to citizens above the age of 55 years through a pilot project in selected states. The move is aimed at digital inclusion and literacy of the rural elderly, especially those disadvantaged, at a time when online and digital services have assumed paramount significance due to social distancing in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, a statement said. "As most elderly, especially those living in rural areas are not digitally literate, it is deeply impacting their way of life, accessing basic goods and services and survival," CSC CEO Dinesh Tyagi said. "Access to digital learning will provide them with a window of hope, whereby they can carry on with their daily living and livelihood activities, without putting themselves at risk," Tyagi added. As per a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed between CSC Academy, the education arm of CSC, and HelpAge India, CSC will provide digital literacy to 1,500 elderly citizens in three "aspirational districts" of Karauli in Rajasthan, Birbhum in West Bengal and Ramanathapuram in Tamil Nadu. The MoU rolled out under the project 'Aalambana' of HelpAge India will be implemented in a span of one year and seeks to empower the elderly so that they can digitally avail their entitlements as well as access financial and healthcare services, the statement said. CSC Academy Chief Operating Officer (COO) Rishikesh Patankar said CSC has been working towards digital inclusion of citizens from disadvantaged groups, through Pradhan Mantri Gramin Digital Saksharta Abhiyan. "On the International Day of Older Persons, we are taking one step further in this direction by beginning digital literacy training for elderly citizens. "At a time when coronavirus pandemic has necessitated social distancing for the vulnerable groups, especially elder citizens, digital literacy will enable them to access their entitlements without having to step out of home," Patankar said. HelpAge India Mission Head Livelihoods Rajeshwar Devarakonda said that while the country has been on the digital highway, the elderly were only bystanders. "Signing the MoU with the CSC Academy is actually a watershed moment for the rural elderly of India. This will not only help them become digitally literate, but also help them in earning their livelihoods and accessing their entitlements," Devarakonda said. CSC Academy provides access to professional learning for learners of diverse backgrounds and educational needs. CSC SPV plans to set up 7,000 CSC Academy centres (one in every block) across the country, out of which more than 5,000 are already in place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/csc-partners-with-helpage-india-to-impart-digital-literacy-to-elderly-citizens-895829.html
01-10-2020||National||DRDO successfully test fires laser-guided anti-tank guided missile||An indigenously developed laser-guided anti-tank guided missile was successfully test-fired on Thursday in Maharashtra's Ahmednagar, officials said. It was the second such successful test firing of the missile, having a range of upto 5 km, in the last 10 days, they said. The weapon was test-fired from an MBT Arjun Tank at KK Ranges in Armoured Corps Centre and School (ACC&S) in Ahmednagar on Tuesday, the officials said. "The ATGM employs a tandem heat warhead to defeat explosive reactive armour (ERA) protected armoured vehicles in ranges from 1.5 to 5 km," the Defence Ministry said in a statement. It said the ATGM has been developed with a capability to launch from multiple platforms and is currently undergoing technical evaluation trials from 120 mm rifled gun of MBT Arjun. The Arjun is a third-generation main battle tank developed by the DRDO. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh congratulated the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on the successful test firing of the ATGM. The ministry said the defence minister congratulated the DRDO on successful test firing of the missile. Pune-based Armament Research and Development Establishment (ARDE) developed the ATGM in association with High Energy Materials Research Laboratory and Instruments Research and Development Establishment (IRDE).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drdo-successfully-test-fires-laser-guided-anti-tank-guided-missile-895832.html
01-10-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Rahul, Priyanka Gandhi, K C Venugopal detained by UP police en route Hathras||In your evening news brief, From the Newsroom, Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra were detained by the Uttar Pradesh Police today as they set off on foot to meet the kin of the gang rape victim at Hathras; a 22-year-old Scheduled Caste woman died after allegedly being raped by two men in Uttar Pradesh's Balrampur district; Supreme Court has approved the proposal prepared by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation for the airlines to refund air tickets booked for flights cancelled due to Covid-19-induced lockdown. Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom— your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald.      Here are the top news of October 1, 2020: The National Commission of Women has today sought an explanation from Uttar Pradesh Police on the urgency to cremate the body of the Hathras gang rape victim in the middle of the night in the absence of her family members. On the other hand, Uttar Pradesh’s Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar has said that the FSL report shows that the victim was not raped. Kumar said that the postmortem report confirmed that the girl died due to neck injury and further said that the FSL report showed that she was not raped, and that deliberate attempts were made to "stir caste-based tension".   Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra were detained by the Uttar Pradesh Police today as they set off on foot to meet the kin of the gang rape victim at Hathras, after being stopped near Greater Noida on the Agra Expressway. The Gandhis along with party leaders Randeep Singh Surjewala, Rajeev Shukla, Jitin Prasada, Deepender Hooda, Sushmita Dev, Ragini Nayak, Ajay Kumar Lallu and scores of Congress workers set off on foot with hundreds of policemen tailing them and requesting them to turn back. The Gandhis have already condemned the BJP government for trying to cover up the incident, over the delay in medical treatment of the victim and the forcible cremation by the state police in the small hours of Wednesday in the absence of the family. Meanwhile, raising questions on the law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh, BSP chief Mayawati has demanded that the leadership should be changed or president’s rule be imposed in the state.   In another shocker from Uttar Pradesh, a 22-year-old Scheduled Caste woman died after allegedly being raped by two men in Balrampur district. Police said that both the accused in the Balrampur incident have been arrested and added that the victim was cremated on Wednesday after the post-mortem in the presence of her family members.     The Supreme Court has approved the proposal prepared by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation for the airlines to refund air tickets booked for flights cancelled due to Covid-19-induced lockdown. The decision contains directions including an immediate refund and grant of credit shell for utilisation till March 31, 2021.   Shares of India's two largest multiplex operators PVR Ltd and Inox Leisure Ltd surged in morning trading today after the government said it would allow states to reopen movie theatres at half their capacity from October 15. The theatres have remained shut for six months PVR's shares rose as much as 15% to 1395.15 rupees, while Inox surged 17.6% to 318 rupees, pushing the Nifty media index up 4.3%. Facebook has banned ads on its flagship website and Instagram photo and video sharing service that claim widespread voting fraud, suggest US election results would be invalid, or which attack any method of voting The company announced the new rules in a blog post, adding to earlier restrictions on premature claims of election victory.     That is it today, From the Newsroom. If you liked this show, please share this podcast with your friends, family and on social media. Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-rahul-priyanka-gandhi-k-c-venugopal-detained-by-up-police-en-route-hathras-895839.html
01-10-2020||National||Oman 16th country to have air bubble arrangements with India||India has established a separate bilateral air bubble arrangement with Oman for operation of special international passenger flights between the two countries, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Thursday. Till Wednesday, India had formed such arrangements with 15 countries -- Afghanistan, Bahrain, Canada, France, Germany, Iraq, Japan, the Maldives, Nigeria, Qatar, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan, the UK and the USA. "Happy to announce that bilateral air bubble arrangement is now in place for flights between India & Oman, taking the number of such arrangements to 16," Puri said on Twitter. "Carriers of India & Oman will operate between the two countries," he added. Scheduled international flights have been suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic. However, special international passenger flights have been operating in India under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under bilateral air bubble arrangements formed between India and other countries since July.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oman-16th-country-to-have-air-bubble-arrangements-with-india-895842.html
01-10-2020||National||India rejects Pakistan criticism of court ruling in Babri Masjid demolition case||India on Thursday hit back at Pakistan, which condemned acquittal by a court of all the 32 people, who were accused in the 28-year-old case of demolition of Babri Mosque in Ayodhya. “India is a mature democracy where the government and citizens abide by the verdicts of the court and show respect for the rule of law,” MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. India said it may be difficult for the neighbouring country, having a "coercive apparatus", to understand the ethos of democracy and rule of law. “India is a mature democracy where the Government and citizens abide by the verdicts of the Court and show respect for the rule of law,” Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), said in New Delhi, when journalists asked for New Delhi’s reaction to the critical remarks made by Imran Khan’s government in Islamabad about the judgment of the court in India. “It may be difficult for a system with a coercive apparatus where people and the courts can be silenced at the will of the establishment, to understand such democratic ethos,” he added, taking a dig at Pakistan. A special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court acquitted all the 32 accused of conspiring to demolish the shrine on December 6 in 1992. “#Pakistan strongly condemns acquittal of criminals responsible for demolishing historic #BabriMasjid in Ayodhya,” Zahid Hafeez Chaudhri, a spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Pakistan Government, posted on Twitter. “Permeation of extremist Hindutva ideology in all state institutions of India is deeply concerning,” tweeted the spokesperson of the Pakistan Government. He called it “another manifestation of pliant judiciary” under the “BJP-RSS regime” which gives precedence to “Hindutva” over “all principles of justice and international norms”. All the 32 accused in the Babri mosque demolition case, including BJP veterans L K Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi, were on Wednesday acquitted by a special CBI court in Lucknow which said there was no conclusive proof against them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-rejects-pakistan-criticism-of-court-ruling-in-babri-masjid-demolition-case-895847.html
01-10-2020||National||Vaghela takes charge as TRAI Chairman||The newly-appointed Chairman of TRAI, P D Vaghela on Thursday took charge at the helm of the telecom and broadcasting regulatory body. Vaghela has been appointed as the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) chief for three years or till he attains the age of 65. He takes over the baton from R S Sharma, who completed his tenure on Wednesday. A 1986-batch IAS officer of Gujarat cadre, Vaghela was earlier Secretary, Department of Pharmaceuticals. Vaghela's appointment as TRAI chairman was announced earlier this week. Cellular Operators' Association of India (COAI) Director General SP Kochhar, in a statement earlier this week, had said, "We heartily welcome Dr P D Vaghela as the new TRAI Chairman and look forward to working with him for taking forward the telecom industry's critical role in nation-building." COAI had further said that the industry is keenly looking for the leadership and support of the regulator and government for creating a more stable regulatory environment, essential for further growth of the digital services sector. This is essential to enable the realisation and timely achievement of the government's targets specified in the National Digital Communications Policy 2018, COAI had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaghela-takes-charge-as-trai-chairman-895850.html
01-10-2020||National||Not involved in conspiracy to topple Babri mosque; Congress did it: Vinay Katiyar||After being acquitted by a CBI court in the Babri mosque demolition case, BJP leader Vinay Katiyar denied allegations of involvement in the conspiracy to bring down the disputed structure. He alleged that the mosque was demolished by the Congress to topple his party's governments in states. The special CBI court on Wednesday acquitted all 32 accused, including BJP veterans L K Advani, M M Joshi and Uma Bharti of involvement in the destruction of Babri Masjid 28 years ago. In a 2,300-page judgment, the CBI court said there was no conclusive evidence against the accused of being part of any conspiracy to bring down the disputed structure in Ayodhya. Reacting to the judgment, Vinay Katiyar told PTI that no “conspiracy meeting” took place at his residence on December 5, 1992, a day before the demolition of the mosque. “Only symbolic karseva was planned," he said. “Advaniji had reached Ayodhya that night and was staying at Janki Mahal. As he was my senior leader, I invited him for a dinner at my residence. We had dinner and discussed a 'sanketik Karseva' (symbolic karseva) the next day. We took a decision that no karseva will be allowed near Babri Masjid," he added. Katiyar alleged that Babri Masjid was demolished by the Congress. "Babri Masjid was demolished by the Congress and we were made the accused. It was a conspiracy of the Congress to topple our governments in states through the demolition," Katiyar claimed, adding that they never wanted the razing of the structure. He also claimed that a conspiracy was hatched to mix some “unknown elements” among the "karsevaks". They provoked and started razing the structure, he said, claiming that they had only asked “karsevaks” to bring some sand and Saryu water for a symbolic “karseva”. We were unable to understand how people went out of control, he said. Katiyar demanded that an inquiry must be initiated to probe the role of the Congress and its leaders in the demolition of Babri Masjid. When asked about the Gyanvapi mosque in Kashi and Shahi Idgah mosque in Mathura, the BJP leader said, "No other mosque will be touched now. Let peace prevail in the country."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-involved-in-conspiracy-to-topple-babri-mosque-congress-did-it-vinay-katiyar-895856.html
01-10-2020||National||Govt to soon unveil new National Textile Policy: Secretary||The government will soon announce the much-awaited new National Textile Policy entailing a "futuristic" strategy and action plan for India to unleash its full potential and become globally competitive in the sector, a top official has said. Addressing the annual general meeting of the Confederation of Indian Textile Industry (CITI), Textiles Secretary Ravi Capoor said, "Hopefully, in the next month or so, we should be able to announce the new textiles policy. It is a futuristic looking policy." The secretary said the government is in the "last stages of finalising the textile policy", which got delayed due to the coronavirus pandemic. It will be unveiled after the final round of consultation between the textiles ministry and the industry players, he added. At the AGM that took place virtually earlier this week, Capoor also said the government is also working on a Focus Product Scheme, wherein it has analysed the export data of top-40 manmade fibre (MMF) products and found that India has a miniscule share of just 0.7 per cent in the total global market of USD 150 billion. Similarly, in the top-10 technical textile lines, India just has a share of 0.6 per cent out of the total global market size of USD 100 billion. He also told the industry players that a study done by the government has revealed that by 2030, the share of MMF-based textile and apparel products will reach 80 per cent. The cotton will get reduced to 20 per cent as the global demand is more for MMF based products, he added. The formulation of the new policy has been under consideration for some time now. In 2016, then textiles minister Santosh Gangwar had said the new policy will envisage creation of additional 35 million jobs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-to-soon-unveil-new-national-textile-policy-secretary-895861.html
01-10-2020||National||Centre announces state mourning on October 4 as mark of respect to Kuwait's Emir||The Centre on Thursday announced one-day state mourning on October 4 across India as a mark of respect to Emir of Kuwait, Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmed Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, who passed away on September 29. The national flag will be flown at half mast on all government buildings on that day. A statement by the Ministry of Home Affairs said Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmed Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, Emir of the State of Kuwait, passed away on September 29. "As a mark of respect to the departed dignitary, the Government of India has decided that there will be one day's State Mourning on October 4, 2020 throughout India," the statement said. The national flag will be flown at half mast on all buildings throughout India where it is flown regularly and there will be no official entertainment on the day, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-announces-state-mourning-on-october-4-as-mark-of-respect-to-kuwaits-emir-895864.html
01-10-2020||National||Monsoon season ends with 109% excess rainfall; August sets record with 127% excess rain: IMD||India received the third-highest monsoon rainfall of the past three decades in 2020 with the monsoon season ending with 109% more than the average rainfall, India Meteorological Department said on Thursday. The all India southwest monsoon rainfall this year was the third-highest since 1990 after 112% of the average rainfall in 1994 and 110% in 2019. Since 2019 was also an excess rainfall year, this is also for the first time in six decades that two consecutive years ended with excess rainfall after 1958-1959. August was particularly bountiful as there were five back-to-back low-pressure systems in the Bay of Bengal resulting in 127% more than average rainfall—a record in the past four decades. Twenty-eight out of 31 days in August were low-pressure days. Such a huge quantity of August rainfall was seen last time 44 years ago in 1976 when there was 128.4% more than average rainfall. It is also the fourth highest August rainfall in the past 120 years, causing 2-3 spells of riverine floods in Odisha, Telangana, Madhya Pradesh, south Gujarat and south Rajasthan. “The 2020 monsoon performance was good as expected with the help from La Niña (opposite to El Nino conditions) that involves cooling of the Pacific sea surface. It will help Kharif (summer) crops and Indian economy to some extent,” M Rajeevan, Secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences, told DH. For four consecutive weeks in August, the country received excess rain, which wipes out not only the deficiencies seen in July but led to more-than-predicted rainfall in three out of four regions. Northwest India is the only region that ended with a deficient rainfall of 84% of the average as against the predicted value of 107%. The other three regions were showered with copious rainfall with central India receiving 115% of average rainfall (103% was IMD forecast), northeast India getting 107% (forecast: 96%) and peninsular India receiving 129% of its average rainfall as against 102% predicted by the IMD. Out of 36 meteorological subdivisions, only five recorded deficient rainfall with west Uttar Pradesh registering the worst shortage of 37%. The withdrawal of monsoon from the western parts of northwest India began on Sept 28, after a delay of 11 days, due to an active monsoon system following the formation of two low-pressure systems in September. As on October 1, southwest monsoon has withdrawn from Punjab, western Himalayas, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and parts of Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. "The process of withdrawal should be completed by October 15,” Rajeevan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/monsoon-season-ends-with-109-excess-rainfall-august-sets-record-with-127-excess-rain-imd-895866.html
01-10-2020||National||NLC India decommissions first thermal power station-I||NLC India has decommissioned its vintage 600MW Thermal Power Station-I (TPS-I) with the withdrawal of the last unit from service on September 30 as part of the company's planned phase out process. "..we wish to inform that as part of retirement of Thermal Power Station I (6x50MW+3x100MW), Unit6 (50MW) has been withdrawn from service on September 30," the company said in a statement. The company officials commenced decommissioning activities since March this year and Unit6 was decommissioned last evening, officials told PTI. The Thermal Power Station-I, which has been in service for more than 50 years, stands "fully decommissioned", they said. Officials said the total installed capacity of thermal power generation alone at NLC India was 3,140MW and including the joint venture projects it was 4,140MW. According to NLC India, the TPS-I was the first unit to be synchronised in May 1962 and the power generated after meeting NLC India requirements, was fed into the Tamil Nadu electricity board which was its sole beneficiary. Due to the aging of the equipment, the life extension programme was approved by the Centre and was successfully completed in March 1999. The government had sanctioned a 2x500MW power project at the Neyveli New Thermal Power Plant as a replacement for Thermal Power Station-I.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nlc-india-decommissions-first-thermal-power-station-i-895869.html
01-10-2020||National||PM Modi seeks panchayat heads' help for effective implementation of Jal Jeevan Mission||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has sought the help of sarpanches and gram pradhans for effective implementation of the Centrally-sponsored Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM). The Prime Minister in his letter also mentioned how the scarcity of water adversely impacts women and children. While appealing to people and gram panchayats to make Jal Jeevan Mission a people's movement, Modi mentioned: "This mission will not only address the issue of water supply, but will also help in tackling water-borne diseases such as cholera, dysentery, diarrhoea, encephalitis, and typhoid." The JJM is being implemented by the Union Ministry of Jal Shakthi to provide drinking water to all rural households by 2024. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi reached out to all sarpanches/gram pradhans of the country through a letter dated 29th September 2020 for more effective implementation of the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM). The goal of the Mission — Har Ghar Jal — can be fully realised with the help of all Sarpanch/Pradhan/village community leaders, as they play a pivotal role in its implementation," Jal Shakti Ministry said in a statement. Also, when the livestock is provided with safe and clean water, it not only improves their health but plays a critical role in improving their productivity, thus enhancing the income of families, he added. The letter mentioned the efforts of the Union government in the last six years in providing road, housing, toilet, gas connection, electricity, bank account, and pension to all. The Prime Minister also stated how JJM has emerged as a one-of-its-kind programme in which planning, implementation, operation and maintenance role has been vested with the village communities to ensure drinking water to every home. In the past year, more than 2.3 crore households have already been provided tap water connections across the country. As on date, 5.5 crore households get assured safe tap water in their homes, i.e. almost 30% of total rural households, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-seeks-panchayat-heads-help-for-effective-implementation-of-jal-jeevan-mission-895870.html
01-10-2020||National||Workers not to bear brunt of losses caused by Covid-19: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday said financial losses, caused due to the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown, cannot be offset on the weary shoulders of the labouring workers, by denying them the dignity of overtime payment and putting them into chains of servitude. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and K M Joseph quashed the Gujarat government's notifications issued on April 17 and July 20, giving blanket exemptions to all factories to raise working shift to 12 hours a day without any overtime allowance, contrary to provisions of the Factories Act. "A workers’ right to life cannot be deemed contingent on the mercy of their employer or the State. The notifications, in denying humane working conditions and overtime wages provided by law, are an affront to the workers’ right to life and right against forced labour that is secured by Articles 21 and 23 of the Constitution," the court said. It rejected a contention by the state government that the pandemic and the ensuing lockdown had created a public emergency as defined by the explanation to Section 5 of the Factories Act allowing issuance of notifications. Instead, the court noted, "the brunt of the pandemic and of the lockdown has been borne by the working class and by the poorest of the poor. Bereft of social security, they have no fallback options."  Acting on a plea by Gujarat Mazdoor Sabha and others, the court said the notifications are "indicative of the intention to capitalise on the pandemic to force an already worn-down class of society, into the chains of servitude." "Those notifications legitimised the subjection of workers to onerous working conditions at a time when their feeble bargaining power stands whittled by the pandemic," the bench added. The court said no factory could have been exempted from compliance with provisions of the Factories Act, unless an ‘internal disturbance’ caused a grave emergency that threatened the security of the state, so as to constitute a ‘public emergency’ as provided under the law. It said the economic hardships caused by Covid–19 certainly posed unprecedented challenges to governance.  However, such challenges are to be resolved by the state governments within the domain of their functioning under the law, in coordination with the central government.  "Unless the threshold of economic hardship is so extreme that it leads to disruption of public order and threatens the security of India or of a part of its territory, recourse cannot be taken to such emergency powers which are to be used sparingly under the law," the court said. The court used its power under Article 142 of the Constitution to do complete justice to direct payment of overtime wages to all those who worked extra hours since the date of notifications. It said the unforeseen challenges posed by the unanticipated nature of Covid-19 pandemic will need to be addressed with ingenuity and commitment.  "The Covid-19 pandemic in India was accompanied with an immense migrant worker crisis, where several workers (including workers employed or contracted with factories) were forced to abandon their cities of work due to the halt in production which cut-off their meagre source of income," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/workers-not-to-bear-brunt-of-losses-caused-by-covid-19-sc-895871.html
01-10-2020||National||ITI signs Rs 7,796 cr contract with Defence to build Army's communication network||State-owned ITI on Thursday said it has signed a Rs 7,796 crore deal with the defence ministry for deployment of a strategic and secured communication network for the Army across the country. The telecom and defence equipment manufacturer was declared the lowest bidder for the Army Static Switched Communication Network (ASCON) Phase IV tender in 2017. "To strengthen the communication network for Indian Army, ITI Limited...today signed Rs 7,796 crore Phase IV Project of ASCON for deploying strategic network for secured communication across the country and subsequent maintenance for next 10 years," ITI said in a statement. ASCON is the army's telecom network spread across different terrains in the northern, north-eastern and western regions. The project is an Internet Protocol- Multi Protocol Label Switching (IP-MPLS) based communication network with microwave radio, satellite and optical fiber network as media. "Having successfully implemented and maintained the first three phases of the ASCON project for the last 3 decades, we have an edge in implementing this prestigious project. Having ASCON IV project at this juncture certainly gives a big boost to the Indian Army and ITI is very much excited to roll out this network," ITI Chairman and MD RM Agarwal said. The project includes installation, commissioning and maintenance of telecom equipment like IP/MPLS routers, network managed services, mobile nodes, test equipment and civil works for providing the complete infrastructure at various sites and rollout of optical fiber network of about 11,000 kilometer. "The scope of the project also includes a warranty period of two years and maintenance support of the network for another eight years after the warranty," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iti-signs-rs-7796-cr-contract-with-defence-to-build-armys-communication-network-895880.html
01-10-2020||National||Railways surpasses freight revenue of September 2019 by 13.5%, says 'remarkable turnaround'||The Indian Railways said Thursday it has made a "remarkable turnaround" of 13.54 per cent in its freight revenue earnings in September this year when compared to the same month last year despite coronavirus-related challenges. It said freight loading increased to 102.12 million tonnes in September this year from 88.53 million tonnes in the same month last year, a jump of 15.35 per cent. Resultantly, the Railways earned Rs 9,896.86 crore in September this year, an increase of Rs 1,180.57 crore compared to last year's earnings for the same month. The increase in freight revenue is 13.54 per cent, it said. "In a remarkable turnaround, Indian Railways has earned more revenue in the month of September as compared to last year in spite of covid related challenges. Covid-19 has been used by Railways an opportunity to improve all round efficiencies and performances,” it added in a statement. The freight basket for September this year included 42.89 million tonnes of coal, 13.53 million tonnes of iron ore, 6.3 million tonnes of foodgrains, 5.34 million tonnes of fertilizers, 6.05 million tonnes of cement (excluding clinker), 3.85 million tonnes of clinker, and 3.52 million tonnes of mineral oil. Railway Board Chairman VK Yadav said in a press briefing Thursday that they were currently working on the National Rail Plan 2030. According to preliminary studies, the railways freight loading will be around 2,400 million tonnes by 2024 and by 2030, it will be around 3,200 million tonnes, he said. "It is being envisaged that in 2030, out of the 3,200 MT loading, 1,400 MT will be coal, which is less than 50 per cent," said Yadav, indicating that he expects a variety of goods to be included in Railways' freight basket.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-surpasses-freight-revenue-of-september-2019-by-135-says-remarkable-turnaround-895887.html
01-10-2020||National||Nagpur-based private company gets Rs 400 crore contract to make grenades||Defence Ministry on Thursday awarded a Rs 409 crore contract to a Nagpur-based private company to manufacture modern multi-mode hand grenades that would replace the World War-II design grenades that are being used by the Indian Army. Designed by the Terminal Ballistic Research Laboratories, Chandigarh — one of the DRDO units — the grenades will be manufactured by the Solar Group that would supply 10 lakh such modern hand-grenades in the next two years. The grenade that can be used in defensive and offensive modes offer a number of advantages over the vintage ammunition that is being used currently. This is for the first time in India that a privately-owned company has received an order to supply complete ammunition to the Army. “The multi-mode hand grenades have highly accurate delay time, very high reliability in usage and are safe for carriage. Extensive trials were successfully undertaken by the Indian Army and Director General of Quality Assurance in 2017-18 in plains, deserts and high altitude during the summer and winter periods,” Satyanarayan Nuwal, Solar Group Chairman and Executive Director, said in a statement. The technology was transferred to Economic Explosives Ltd, a subsidiary of the Solar group, in 2016 as a part of the government’s efforts to encourage Indian private sector to enter into the defence manufacturing space. Defence Ministry on Thursday also awarded a Rs 7,796.39 crore contract to Indian Telephone Industries Ltd to establish the next phase of the Army Static Switched Communication Network (ASCON) for a secure strategic and theatre area communication network. An upgrade of the existing ASCON network, the project would be executed in the next 36 months, Defence Ministry said in a statement. With approximately 80% of indigenous content, the project will provide a boost to the Indian industry. The project would generate some amount of local level employment as it involves civil works, laying of optical fibre cables and construction of towers with the utilization of local resources, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nagpur-based-private-company-gets-rs-400-crore-contract-to-make-grenades-895888.html
01-10-2020||National||Best time to invest in pharma, medical device sector: DV Sadananda Gowda||This is the most opportune time to invest in the Indian pharma and medical device sector as the government is extending production linked incentives  for new manufacturing units in the upcoming bulk drug and medical devices parks, Union Minister DV Sadananda Gowda has said. The Indian pharma sector, currently valued at $40 billion, has the potential to become a global pharmacy hub in the coming years, the Chemicals and Fertilisers Minister said in a statement.    The sector is likely to grow to $65 billion by 2024, and to $120 billion by 2030, he added. The medical devices industry in India has the potential to grow at 28 per cent per annum to reach $50 billion by 2025, Gowda said. The Indian pharma and medical device sector has immense potential to contribute towards making India a 5 trillion-dollar economy in the next 4-5 years, he added.   The government is supporting development of 3 bulk drug and 4 medical device parks with state-of-art infrastructure and world-class centres of excellence across the country, Gowda said.  "Government will also provide production linked incentives to eligible new manufacturing units to ensure a level playing field to domestic manufacturers," he added. It is expected that the schemes of the government for development of bulk drug and medical device parks will attract cumulative investment of Rs 78,000 crore and can generate about 2.5 lakh employment, he added.   "There is a need for the pharma industry to focus on R & D activities in order to remain as one of the leading global suppliers of medicines," Gowda said.  The full potential of growth cannot be tapped unless the sector comes up with discovery of new drugs or repurposing in India, he added.  Gowda also expressed hope that the Indian pharma sector will be among the first ones to develop and supply low cost vaccines for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/best-time-to-invest-in-pharma-medical-device-sector-dv-sadananda-gowda-895907.html
01-10-2020||National||Despite Dhaka’s pleas, India refrains from publicly nudging Myanmar to speed up repatriation of Rohingyas||Notwithstanding recent pleas by Dhaka, New Delhi on Thursday refrained from publicly nudging Aung San Suu Kyi’s government in Nay Pyi Taw to expeditiously take back nearly a million Rohingyas, who had fled ethnic cleansing in Myanmar and taken refuge in Bangladesh. New Delhi, however, discussed with Nay Pyi Taw the development projects in Myanmar’s restive Rakhine State, where the Rohingyas fled from and sailed in small boats across the Bay of Bengal to take refuge in Cox’s Bazar in Bangladesh. Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Thursday had a virtual meeting with his counterpart in Myanmar Government, U Soe Han. They reviewed the entire gamut of bilateral relations, including border cooperation and upgradation of border infrastructure, status of India’s ongoing development projects in Myanmar, bilateral trade and investment ties as well as power and energy cooperation. Shringla noted during his meeting with U Soe Han that New Delhi’s cooperation with Nay Pyi Taw under the Rakhine State Development Programme continued apace. He also noted that India and Myanmar had of late started trilateral cooperation with Japan to create “soft infrastructure” for 15 schools in the Rakhine State. The Foreign Secretary also stated that New Delhi would continue efforts towards ensuring an early, safe and sustainable repatriation of the internally displaced persons in Myanmar. He, however, did not directly refer to the issue of repatriation of nearly one million Rohingyas, who had fled from Myanmar to Bangladesh. The press-release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) too did not have any mention of the return of the refugees from Bangladesh to Myanmar. “The progress in the Rakhine State Development Programme, which is being implemented under our development cooperation project, was discussed,” Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), said, when a journalist asked him if the repatriation of the return of the Rohingyas from Bangladesh to Myanmar had been touched upon during the virtual meeting between the Foreign Secretary and his counterpart in Nay Pyi Taw. The India-Myanmar virtual Foreign Office Consultation on Thursday came just two days after External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his counterpart in Bangladesh Government, A K Abdul Momen, had a video conference. A joint statement issued after Jaishankar-Momen video conference noted that the two ministers reiterated the importance of the “safe, speedy and sustainable return” of the “forcibly displaced” Rohingyas from Bangladesh to Myanmar. Momen also told Jaishankar that Bangladesh would expect India, which would start its two-year stint as a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, to play during its stint on the horse-shoe table a “more meaningful role” to ensure safe and sustainable return of the Rohingyas from Bangladesh to Myanmar. The minority Rohingyas have since long been victims of persecution in the Rakhine State, where Buddhists constitute the majority. They have been denied citizenship and most of them have been stateless, despite living for generations in Myanmar. Myanmar's armed forces launched the latest military crackdown against the Rohingyas on August 25, 2017 after a militant outfit killed 12 security personnel in Rakhine. With hundreds of them killed and villages burnt down, over 742,000 more Rohingyas, including women and children, fled Myanmar and took refuge in Bangladesh, taking the number of refugees to nearly one million. New Delhi, however, stood by Aung San Suu Kyi's Government and refrained from joining others in criticising her. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had in fact visited Nay Pyi Taw just a week after the violence against the Rohingyas started in Rakhine. He and Suu Kyi had agreed on the need for undertaking both infrastructure and socio-economic projects for overall development in the Rakhine State. India, however, in 2017 committed financial assistance of $ 25 million (US $ 5 million per year) for undertaking projects in Rakhine State over a period of five years. New Delhi completed construction of 250 prefabricated houses in the first phase of  the Rakhine State Development Program for the Rohingyas, who were expected to return from Bangladesh to Myanmar. Though the prefabricated houses were already handed over to the Government of Myanmar by July 2019, the much-awaited repatriation of the refugees is yet to start. Kyaw Tint Swe, a minister of Myanmar Government, earlier this week told the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) that the militant groups like Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army (ARSA) and the Arakan Army (AA) had found a sanctuary in Bangladesh. He also said that the organisations like the ARSA and AA had resorted to intimidation and violence in the refugee camps in Cox’s Bazar in Bangladesh to stall the repatriation and the Sheikh Hasina’s government in Dhaka should do more to stop them. His statement irked Bangladesh, which accused the Myanmar Government of resorting to disinformation campaign. New Delhi has been treading cautiously on the issue, maintaining a delicate balance between the two neighbouring nations – Bangladesh and Myanmar, where India has been trying to resist China’s moves to expand strategic footprints.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/despite-dhaka-s-pleas-india-refrains-from-publicly-nudging-myanmar-to-speed-up-repatriation-of-rohingyas-895912.html
01-10-2020||National||ICMR develops anti-sera from the horse blood for treatment of Covid-19 patients||Hunting for a weapon against Covid-19, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have now taken recourse to a decade-old strategy to extract antibodies from horse blood for the treatment of novel coronavirus patients. “ICMR and Biological Evans, Hyderabad, have developed highly purified anti-sera (raised in animals) for prophylaxis and treatment of Covid-19. Such measures have previously been used in medical science to control many viral and bacterial infections such as rabies, hepatitis-B, vaccinia virus, tetanus, botulism and diphtheria,” the health research agency said in a tweet. Although the plasma recovered from patients experiencing Covid-19 could serve a similar purpose, ICMR claimed that the anti-sera from the animal blood is a better option since the profile of (human) antibodies, their efficacy and concentration keep varying from one patient to another because of which human plasma was an unreliable clinical tool for patient management. “On the other hand, standardisation of the antibodies are achievable through equine sera based treatment modality,” tweeted the agency. While countries like Brazil and Argentina are trying to develop a therapy with antibodies produced in horse blood, researchers at the University of Texas, Austin, used a llama to generate antibodies against Covid-19. All such therapies are still in the research stage. In the Indian project, the antibodies were generated by scientists at the National Institute of Virology, Pune and the drug firm. “The study provides evidence of the potential of generating highly purified antibodies from equines against SARS-CoV-2 that can demonstrate consistent and high neutralization activity. Further, in-vivo testing for the efficacy of this indigenous cost-effective product will pave the way to clinical evaluation,” the scientists reported in the journal Virology. “Additionally, being a donor independent method, this may prove as an efficient alternative to convalescent plasma for treatment of Covid-19 patients.” Independent scientists, however, raised questions that need to be settled before the use of such anti-sera can be an effective therapy against Covid-19 after going through the clinical evaluation process. “It’s an approach that is used and most effective mainly early in infection. The problem with Covid-19 is that one could be infected but asymptomatic for a few days. By the time symptoms appear the virus has multiplied sufficiently. since multiplication happens inside cells and antibodies cannot get into cells, such passive immunisation is not going to be very effective,” eminent virologist Shahid Jameel from the Ashoka University told DH. “The infections where this technique is used are those in which the infection time is known. For example, you know when a dog bit and therefore take the anti-rabies serum. Same goes for Hepatitis-B, vaccinia, tetanus based on needle prick or cuts. Another area where it’s commonly used is against snakebite,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-develops-anti-sera-from-the-horse-blood-for-treatment-of-covid-19-patients-895913.html
01-10-2020||National||What Mahatma Gandhi said in his anti-untouchability campaign letter||India is celebrating the 152nd birth anniversary of 'Father of the Nation' Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi but did you know that Gandhi’s anti-untouchability campaign letter, which is about 88 years old, was auctioned online earlier this year? It is well known that M K Gandhi, back in his days, was vocal about atrocities faced by the lower caste people in the country. In 1932, Gandhi founded the Harijan Sevak Sangh as part of his efforts to eradicate the concept of 'untouchability' from India's caste system. He put his close friend, the pioneering industrialist Ghanshyam Das Birla, in charge of the organisation. In that same year, Gandhi had written a letter regarding raising funds for the Sangh. The letter was auctioned online by Boston-based RR Auction and was sold at over $15,000. The one-page handwritten letter is signed "M. K. Gandhi," and dated October 9, 1932.  The letter read, “Dear friends, I thank you for your letter of sympathy. The funds can be sent to the anti-untouchability association formed under the chairmanship by Sjt. G. D. Birla for the furtherance of its subjects”. The group's noble efforts have helped the depressed classes to access public places such as temples, schools, roads, and water resources that were previously available only to those of privilege, the letter added. Additional highlights from the sale included Gandhi's signature with a fountain pen, "M. K. Gandhi," on an off-white slip of paper. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/what-mahatma-gandhi-said-in-his-anti-untouchability-campaign-letter-895918.html
01-10-2020||National||Groundwork for new Parliament building begins; to be completed in 22 months||The groundwork for the new Parliament building has begun and the agencies have started digging soil in a plot where the structure will come up, officials said on Thursday. Last month, Tata Projects Limited won the bid to construct a new Parliament building near the existing one under the Central Vista redevelopment project. It is expected to be completed in around 22 months from the start of construction work. The new building will come up on plot number 118 of the Parliament House Estate. "One of the receptions for the entrance to Parliament building is being shifted to widen the space for movement of heavy vehicles," an official said. He said small offices of the CPWD and a power station have been shifted from the plot to pave the way for the new Parliament building, adding that digging work has been started. Another official said the work to shift two entrances to the existing Parliament building has also begun. The redevelopment project of Central Vista -- the nation's power corridor -- envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a common central secretariat and revamping of the 3-km-long Rajpath, from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate More MPs can be accommodated in the new building as the strength of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha may increase after delimitation of constituencies. It will have spacious seating arrangements for around 1,400 MPs. The building will be a reinforced cement concrete framed structure. According to the CPWD, the existing Parliament building will continue to function during the entire period of execution of the project. Once the new building is complete, the existing building will be used for other purposes. Last month, Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had told Lok Sabha that the Central Vista redevelopment project would generate large number of direct and indirect employment which could be "an important fulcrum for economic revival". In his written reply to a question, Puri had said, "In the current economic scenario, the project shall generate large number of direct and indirect employment which could be an important fulcrum for economic revival." He had also said that the estimated cost for construction of the new Parliament building was Rs 971 crore. About the rationale behind the need for the project, the minister had said that the existing Parliament House Building was started in 1921 and commissioned in 1927 and hence, the building is already 93 years old, adding that its facilities and amenities are "highly inadequate" to meet the current demand of Parliament.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/groundwork-for-new-parliament-building-begins-to-be-completed-in-22-months-895929.html
01-10-2020||National||Farm laws: Cops detain SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and party workers||SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, his wife and former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Prem Singh Chandumajra and other senior Akali leaders were detained by the Chandigarh police on Thursday night while they were going towards the residence of the Punjab governor to protest the contentious new agri laws. The police even used water cannons and resorted to cane charge to disperse the Akalis at the Chandigarh-Mullanpur and Chandigarh-Zirakpur borders, party leaders said. There was heavy police deployment, including jawans of the Rapid Action Force, along the two borders. Barricades were put up to stop the Akalis going towards Chandigarh. The SAD leaders wanted to hand over a memorandum to Governor V P Singh Badnore, seeking revocation of the three new farm laws. The Chandigarh administration had imposed Section 144 of CrPC, banning assembly of five and more people at one place. The police wanted only a few leaders to meet the Punjab governor to submit the memorandum but the SAD leadership demanded that all Akali members be allowed. "We detained them (Akali leaders) for a brief period and they were later released," Chandigarh Senior Superintendent of Police Kuldeep Chahal said. Among the leaders who were detained were Bikram Singh Majithia, Parambans Singh Romana, Daljit Singh Cheema, Manjinder Singh Sirsa and a few others. Sukhbir Singh Badal was leading a 'Kisan march' from the Akal Takht in Amritsar, while Harsimrat Kaur Badal was leading another procession from Takht Damdama Sahib at Talwandi Sabo in Bathinda. A third procession was led by senior Akali leaders Prem Singh Chandumajra and Daljit Singh Cheema from Takht Keshgarh Sahib in Anandpur Sahib. The march led by Sukhbir Badal was joined by the one led by Bikram Singh Majithia, Chandumajra, Jagir Kaur and Cheema and it reached the Chandigarh-Mullanpur border at around 9:30 pm. From there, the police took Sukhbir Badal, Majithia, Chandumajra and Jagir Kaur into preventive custody as they tried to enter Chandigarh. "We wanted to hand over a memorandum to the governor but it is sad he did not meet us. We were lathi-charged which we strongly condemn. It is an injustice. They tried to suppress the voice of farmers," Sukhbir Badal said. The procession led by Harsimrat Kaur reached the Chandigarh-Zirakpur around 8 pm. When the police stopped the Akalis from going towards Chandigarh, Harsimrat Badal and MP Balwinder Singh Bhunder sat on a dharna on the road. They were later detained by the police. The Akali leadership was taken to the Chandigarh sector 17 police station and released around 10:45 pm. Meanwhile, Akali stalwart Parkash Singh Badal strongly condemned the use of force on "peaceful" Akalis by the Chandigarh Police and said that the "brutal" lathicharge made this a "painful and dark day" for democracy in the country's history. Last week, the SAD had announced to part ways with the NDA, the third major party to walk out of the BJP-led coalition in the last couple of years. On September 17, Harsimrat Kaur Badal had quit the Union Cabinet after the SAD chief strongly opposed the farm bills in Lok Sabha, claiming the legislations will "destroy" the agriculture sector in Punjab. President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday gave assent to the three contentious bills -- Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-laws-cops-detain-sad-chief-sukhbir-singh-badal-and-party-workers-895955.html
01-10-2020||National||Tuition fee can be charged only if online education being imparted: High Court||The Punjab and Haryana High court on Thursday ruled that schools in Punjab can charge tuition fee if and only if they have been imparting online education to students during the lockdown period. A division bench of justices Rajeev Sharma and Harinder Singh Sidhu also held that that teachers and staff, whether permanent or appointed on a contractual basis, were entitled to their regular salaries which they were getting before the imposition of the lockdown on March 23. “We direct that tuition fee would be charged only if the students are being offered online classes on day to day basis during the lock-down period,” the bench said in its order. The court also asked the schools not to charge any transportation charges as students were not being ferried during the lockdown period. The court also directed the school managements to file their balance sheets for preceding seven months, duly verified by chartered accountant within two weeks. The division bench gave its order partially amending a single-judge bench order of June 30 this year on the issue. “The directions issued by the learned Single Judge vide judgment dated June 30, 2020 shall stand modified to the extent as ordered here-in-above till the disposal of these appeals,” the division bench said in its order. The bench fixed November 12 as the next date for the final hearing. The order came on a bunch of petitions filed by parents and also the Punjab government against the June 30 order of single bench Justice Nirmaljit Kaur who had allowed private schools to collect the fee irrespective of they were offering online education or not, and to charge actual expenses incurred, for the lockdown period. A division bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shankar Jha and Justice Arun Palli had on July 20 given an interim relief to the students saying that their names would not be struck off the rolls of private schools in Punjab on account of the non-payment of fees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tuition-fee-can-be-charged-only-if-online-education-being-imparted-high-court-895959.html
01-10-2020||National||US, UK, EU nudge India to allow Amnesty International to continue working; New Delhi counters||Even as the United States and the European Union subtly expressed concern over the action initiated by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government in New Delhi against the Amnesty International, India on Thursday asked foreign governments not to condone violation of its laws by any organisation. “(The) NGOs (non-governmental organisations) are expected to adhere to all our laws including in respect of foreign funding just as they presumably would in other countries including the US and in the European Union,” Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), said. He was responding to a question by a journalist on New Delhi’s reactions to the statements coming from the US Government and the EU after the Amnesty International announced suspension of its activities in India. The Amnesty International India alleged on Tuesday that freezing of its bank accounts by the government had brought all works done by it to a grinding halt. It said that the action against it was “the latest in the incessant witch-hunt of human rights organisations by the Government of India over unfounded and motivated allegations”. A senior official of the US State Department said that the President Donald Trump’s administration was “very, very closely” following the “situation involving Amnesty International in India”. The official also said that the issue had caught the attention of the members of the US Congress too. “It has received attention at the highest levels of our government.” “The US is committed to the health and vibrancy of civil society in all countries, but also especially India. We believe that the strength of civil society and the openness of society is a strength of India, and it is something that is part of what powers our cooperation, our bilateral cooperation,” said the official, adding: “And, therefore, we’re concerned about obstacles to the work of civil society, whether in India or anywhere else in the world.” The official also said that the US was looking forward to a response and a resolution to this situation that would be consistent with international principles and the rule of law. New Delhi responded to the US official’s statement during the weekly media-briefing at the MEA. “We also expect that other governments would not condone contravention of Indian laws by any entity,” Srivastava, the MEA spokesperson, said. The EU too recently expressed hope that the Amnesty International would be allowed to continue its works in India. “Not prejudging the outcome of any investigation or judicial proceedings, the European Union highly values the work of Amnesty International worldwide and hopes that the matter will be resolved allowing Amnesty to continue its activities in India without interruption,” Nabila Massrali, a spokesperson of the EU, said in a statement issued in the headquarters of the 27-nation-bloc in Brussels. “The EU is committed to the protection and empowerment of civic actors, including human rights defenders, and to the promotion of space for civil society”. The acting High Commissioner of the UK in New Delhi, Jan Thompson, also had a meeting with officials of the Government of India after the account of the human rights organization was frozen. She is learnt to have emphasised the importance of the organisations like the Amnesty International being able to continue works in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-uk-eu-nudge-india-to-allow-amnesty-international-to-continue-working-new-delhi-counters-895974.html
01-10-2020||National||Won't allow Rahul Gandhi's tractor rally to enter Haryana: Home Minister Anil Vij||Haryana's Home Minister Anil Vij on Thursday said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi can do whatever he wants during his visit to Punjab, where he is scheduled to hold tractor rallies against Centre's new farm laws, but his rally will not be given permission to enter the neighbouring state. Rahul Gandhi will hold tractor rallies in Punjab and Haryana from October 3 to 5 to protest against the Centre's new farm laws, the party said. "They will not be allowed to disturb Haryana's atmosphere. Earlier, two Congress-sponsored rallies were also stopped from entering the state. Likewise, we will stop his (Rahul's tractor) rally and won't allow him to enter Haryana," Vij told reporters. "Rahul Gandhi may do whatever he wishes in Punjab, but his rally won't be allowed entry in Haryana, he added. The Bharatiya Janata Party leader, who has been vocal against the Nehru-Gandhi family, said the Haryana government had on two occasions last month denied entry to tractor rallies from Punjab. The rallies, from Punjab to Delhi, were taken out on different dates by the Punjab Youth Congress and the opposition Lok Insaaf Party to protest against the farm laws. But Haryana police stopped them upon reaching Ambala after which the protesters had to retreat and terminate the rallies. The Haryana police had also denied permission to another rally organised by the Haryana Youth Congress, which tried to move from Panipat to Delhi. In all the three cases, the state police had denied permission, citing restrictions due to coronavirus pandemic. Vij said that the farmers understand the Congress is trying to use their shoulder to further its own politics. "In India, there are some elements who disregard Parliament, the Constitution and the courts. There is a need to deal with such elements strictly," he said, adding that the farm laws are for the benefit of farmers. According to a Punjab Congress spokesperson, the tractor rallies are expected to be supported by farmers' organisations and they will cover more than 50 km over three days. The rallies are scheduled to begin at around 11 am on each of the three days and they will be conducted amid strict COVID-19 protocols, said the spokesperson. On October 5, the protest will begin from Dudhan Sadhan (Patiala) with a public meeting, and the tractors will then travel 10 km to Pehowa border, from where Gandhi will enter Haryana, for a series of programmes there, the spokesperson added. Gandhi is likely to address rallies at Kaithal and Pipli along the national highway in Kurukshetra district on October 5 after which he will return to Delhi. The farmers in Punjab and Haryana have been protesting against the farm laws and the Congress has been demanding their rollback.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wont-allow-rahul-gandhis-tractor-rally-to-enter-haryana-home-minister-anil-vij-895984.html
01-10-2020||National Politics||PM Modi, VP Venkaiah Naidu greet President Kovind on birthday||President Ram Nath Kovind turned 75 on Thursday, with Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi among others wishing him good health and long life on his birthday. Kovind was born on October 1, 1945, at Paraunkh village in Kanpur district of Uttar Pradesh. He was sworn in as the 14th President of India on July 25, 2017. “I convey my heartiest greetings to the Hon'ble President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind ji on his birthday today. He is known for his simplicity, warmth, vision, exemplary leadership and concern for the poor. May he be blessed with good health and a long life,” the Vice President said. I convey my heartiest greetings to the Hon'ble President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind ji on his birthday today. He is known for his simplicity, warmth, vision, exemplary leadership and concern for the poor. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also wished the President. “Birthday wishes to Rashtrapati Ji. His rich insights and wise understanding of policy matters are great assets for our nation. He is extremely compassionate towards serving the vulnerable. I pray for his good health and long life,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-vp-venkaiah-naidu-greet-president-kovind-on-birthday-895625.html
01-10-2020||National Politics||UP jungle raj has no limits, says Congress on Balrampur rape incident||The 'jungle raj' that has spread in Uttar Pradesh has no limits and the time for accountability is now, the Congress said on Thursday as a Dalit woman in the state’s Balrampur district died after being allegedly raped by two men. News of the death of the 22-year-old comes amid the nationwide outrage over the Hathras gangrape case, in which a 19-year-old Dalit woman died in a Delhi hospital a fortnight after she was allegedly assaulted by four upper caste men. Several Congress leaders, including former president Rahul Gandhi, reacted to the two incidents. UP के जंगलराज में बेटियों पर ज़ुल्म और सरकार की सीनाज़ोरी जारी है। कभी जीते-जी सम्मान नहीं दिया और अंतिम संस्कार की गरिमा भी छीन ली। Alleging that "atrocities" on women and the government's brazenness is continuing, Rahul Gandhi said, "Did not give respect when alive and also snatched the dignity in death." His tweet in Hindi referenced the Hathras gangrape victim's family being allegedly denied the right to properly perform her last rites. "BJP's slogan is not 'save girl child', it is 'hide facts, save power'," he added, using the hashtag '#Balrampurhorror'. Gandhi was referring to the Centre's scheme 'Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao'.   Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Congress general secretary, in-charge of UP, said a gruesome incident like Hathras has taken place in Balrampur too. हाथरस जैसी वीभत्स घटना बलरामपुर में घटी। लड़की का बलात्कार कर पैर और कमर तोड़ दी गई। आजमगढ़, बागपत, बुलंदशहर में बच्चियों से दरिंदगी हुई। यूपी में फैले जंगलराज की हद नहीं। मार्केटिंग, भाषणों से कानून व्यवस्था नहीं चलती। ये मुख्यमंत्री की जवाबदेही का वक्त है। जनता को जवाब चाहिए। The woman was raped and her legs and back broken, she said.  "In Azamgarh, Baghpat, Bulandshahr, girls were brutalised," the Congress general secretary said in a tweet in Hindi. "The jungle raj spread in UP has no limits. Law and order is not run by marketing and speeches. This is time for accountability of the Uttar Pradesh chief minister. The public wants accountability," Priyanka Gandhi added. Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also lashed out at the Yogi Adityanath government over the Balrampur incident, asking if the “law is alive or dead”. "Is it a government of the Constitution or of criminals," Surjewala said and asked why the UP CM doesn't resign. Both the accused in the Balrampur incident have been arrested, police said. The young woman was cremated on Wednesday, the same day as the Hathras teen whose last rites were conducted in the dead of the night around 3 am. The Hathras teen was allegedly sexually assaulted on September 14 in Hathras. She was referred on Monday to the Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi with spinal injuries, paralysis and cuts in her tongue and died in the early hours of Tuesday||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/up-jungle-raj-has-no-limits-says-congress-on-balrampur-rape-incident-895651.html
01-10-2020||National Politics||Akali Dal begins kisan marches against farm laws from Punjab to Chandigarh||The Shiromani Akali Dal on Thursday began three separate kisan marches from the three religious Takhts in Punjab to Chandigarh against the new farm laws.         SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal is leading one of the marches which started from the Akal Takht in Amritsar while his wife and former union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal is leading another procession which commenced from Takht Damdama Sahib at Talwandi Sabo in Bathinda.       The third procession is led by senior Akali leaders Prem Singh Chandumajra and Daljit Singh Cheema from Takht Keshgarh Sahib in Anandpur Sahib.         The processions from the three Sikh Takhts will reach Chandigarh later in the day where the SAD leadership will hand over a memorandum against the farm laws to Punjab Governor V P Singh Badnore.       Addressing the media in Amritsar, Sukhbir Singh Badal said his party wanted a rollback of the farm bills and that the farming community was against the “black laws”.       The kisan marches by the SAD, which are being seen as the party's show of strength, are being organised days after the Akalis quit the National Democratic Alliance over the bills.         Last week, the SAD had announced to part ways with the NDA, the third major party to walk out of the BJP-led coalition in the last couple of years.         On September 17, Harsimrat Kaur Badal had quit the Union Cabinet after the SAD chief had strongly opposed the bills in Lok Sabha, claiming the legislations will "destroy" the agriculture sector in Punjab.             President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday gave assent to the three contentious bills -- Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/akali-dal-begins-kisan-marches-against-farm-laws-from-punjab-to-chandigarh-895720.html
01-10-2020||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi to inaugurate strategic Atal Tunnel at Rohtang on October 3||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the strategically important all-weather Atal Tunnel, which reduces the distance between Manali and Leh by 46 km and the travel time by four to five hours, at Rohtang in Himachal Pradesh on Saturday.  After the inauguration function, Modi will also attend public functions at Sissu in Lahaul Spiti and at Solang Valley, the Prime Minister's Office said on Thursday.  Atal Tunnel is the longest highway tunnel in the world, and the 9.02 km long tunnel connects Manali to Lahaul-Spiti valley throughout the year, the PMO said, noting that the valley was earlier cut off for about six months every year due to heavy snowfall.  The tunnel is built with ultra-modern specifications in the Pir Panjal range of Himalayas at an altitude of 3000 metres (10,000 feet) from the Mean Sea Level (MSL). The south portal (SP) of Atal Tunnel is located at a distance of 25 km from Manali at an altitude of 3,060 metres, while the north portal (NP) of the tunnel is located near village Teling, Sissu, in Lahaul Valley at an altitude of 3,071 metres.  It is a horse shoe shaped, single-tube double lane tunnel with a roadway of 8 metres and has an overhead clearance of 5.525 metres, the PMO said.  Atal Tunnel has been designed for traffic density of 3000 cars per day and 1,500 trucks per day with max speed of 80 kmph.  The Atal Bihari Vajpayee government had taken the decision to construct the strategic tunnel below the Rohtang Pass on June 3, 2000, and the foundation stone for the access road to the south portal of the tunnel was laid on May 26, 2002. The Modi government decided to name the Rohtang Tunnel as Atal Tunnel in December 2019 to honour the former prime minister who had passed away the previous year.  The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) worked relentlessly to overcome major geological, terrain and weather challenges that included the most difficult stretch of the 587-metre Seri Nalah Fault Zone. The breakthrough from both ends was achieved on October 15, 2017, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-to-inaugurate-strategic-atal-tunnel-at-rohtang-on-october-3-895745.html
01-10-2020||National Politics||Jharkhand's Covid-positive Minister Jagarnath Mahato complains of breathlessness||Jharkhand education minister Jagarnath Mahato, who had tested positive for Covid-19 earlier in the week, was on Thursday shifted to a private hospital in Ranchi from state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), after he complained of breathlessness. A spokesperson at RIMS said that Mahato had requested that he be shifted to Medica, following which arrangements were made and the minister was moved to the private hospital. Mahato had on September 28 taken to Twitter to announce that he was diagnosed with the infection. He asked people who came in contact with him recently to get themselves examined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jharkhands-covid-positive-minister-jagarnath-mahato-complains-of-breathlessness-895761.html
01-10-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi to hold tractor rallies in Punjab, Haryana from October 3-5 to protest against farm laws||Stepping up the agitation against the new farm sector laws, Rahul Gandhi is all set to hit the streets in Punjab on Saturday by leading a three-day tractor rally demanding a rollback of the reform measures that Congress fears could lead to phasing out of support price and dismantling of APMC markets. Seeking to re-create the campaign that had forced the Modi government to shelve the amendments to the land acquisition law in 2015, the former Congress President is scheduled to traverse to Punjab and Haryana – the states that had witnessed strongest protests against the farm laws. Rahul is likely to address public meetings and hold stump meetings at public receptions organised for him at different villages in the state. Rahul’s programme is also seen as part of efforts for his comeback bid as Congress president. Punjab also goes to polls early 2022 and Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, state Congress chief Sunil Jakhar and AICC General Secretary Harish Rawat are expected to join the tractor rally on all the three days. Rahul is also expected to address a rally in Kaithal in Haryana on Monday before returning to Delhi. Congress hopes to cash in on farmers’ angst against the agriculture sector reforms unveiled by the Modi government as it seeks to emerge as an alternative to the BJP. Congress has planned protests and dharnas in every assembly constituency across the country on Friday, the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. The day would be observed as ‘Kisan Mazdoor Bachao Diwas’ (Save Farmers and Labourers Day). On October 10, state Congress units will organise farmers’ conventions across all states and also start a signature campaign against the farm sector laws and present it to President Ram Nath Kovind on November 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-to-hold-tractor-rallies-in-punjab-haryana-from-october-3-5-to-protest-against-farm-laws-895765.html
01-10-2020||National Politics||Will PM Modi hold another 'Namaste Trump!' rally to honour his dear friend Trump, asks Chidambaram||Taking a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over US President Donald Trump's remarks questioning the credibility of India's COVID numbers, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram asked whether the PM will hold another 'Namaste Trump' rally to honour his "dear friend". During the first presidential debate ahead of the US polls, President Trump raised questions over the credibility of India's Covid-19 tally, claiming that it was among the countries that do not accurately disclose the number of deaths due to the pandemic. Reacting to the remarks, Chidambaram said, "Mr Donald Trump clubs India with China and Russia and accused the three countries of hiding the number of COVID deaths. He also accused the three countries for causing the most air pollution." "Will Mr Modi hold another 'Namaste Trump!' rally to honour his dear friend?" he said, taking a dig at Modi over the grand event held in Ahmedabad during the US president's India visit in February this year. "'In 47 months I have done more than you have in 47 years' said Mr Donald Trump in the Presidential debate yesterday. If the statement reminds you of someone in India, that's your imagination!" Chidambaram said in a series of tweets. The remarks by Trump came during his first presidential debate with Democratic challenger Joe Biden, who attacked the US president over the handling of the coronavirus crisis and said the president lied to Americans on the Covid-19 pandemic, which has killed more than 200,000 people and infected over seven million others in the country. Defending his handling of the crisis, Trump said "millions" could have died in America without his actions. "When you talk about the numbers, you don't know how many people died in China. You don't know how many people died in Russia. You don't know how many people died in India. They don't exactly give you a right number. Just so you understand," Trump said. Trump has repeatedly blamed China, where the coronavirus first emerged in December last year and spread around the world, killing over one million and infecting more than 30 million people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/will-pm-modi-hold-another-namaste-trump-rally-to-honour-his-dear-friend-trump-asks-chidambaram-895844.html
01-10-2020||National Politics||Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta announces new team; Kuljeet Chahal, Dinesh Singh appointed general secretaries||Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta on Thursday announced his new team and appointed Kuljeet Chahal, Dinesh Pratap Singh and Harsh Malhotra as general secretaries. Siddharthan has retained the post of general secretary (organisation) of Delhi BJP. Gupta tweeted the list of new office bearers and congratulated them on their appointment. The eight vice presidents of the party include Rajiv Babbar, Virendra Sachdeva, Rekha Gupta, Ashok Goel and Sunil Yadav. Naveen Kumar has been made Delhi BJP's media cell head. The newly-appointed presidents of various frontal organisations of the party are Yogita Singh (Mahila Morcha), Vasu Rukkhad (Yuva Morcha), Bhupendra Gothwal (SC Morcha), Santosh Pal (OBC Morcha), Vinod Sehrawat (Kisan Morcha), Kaushal Mishra (Purvanchal Morcha) and Haroon (Alpsankhyak Morcha), Gupta said. Laxminagar MLA Abhay Verma will be chief spokesperson of Delhi BJP, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/delhi-bjp-chief-adesh-gupta-announces-new-team-kuljeet-chahal-dinesh-singh-appointed-general-secretaries-895853.html
01-10-2020||National Politics||Bihar Assembly polls: Congress mulling dumping Mahagatbandhan, may contest on all 243 seats||Miffed over being ‘shabbily treated’ over the seat-sharing issue, the Congress too is mulling over the proposal to dump the Mahagathbandhan and contest on all the 243 seats in Bihar. Sources in Patna, as well as in New Delhi, confirmed that the Congress Screening Committee meeting in New Delhi could not resolve the deadlock with the RJD over the number of seats and “as such the party, was also working on Plan B.” According to this alternate plan, the grand old party was working on a strategy to have “a greater alliance with like-minded parties minus RJD,” and field its candidates by roping in smaller allies like Upendra Kushwaha, Pappu Yadav and the Left. “Till two days back, our talks with the RJD were going on in the right direction. But ever since the state RJD president Jagdanand Singh said ‘those who want to leave the Mahagathbandhan are free to do so’, the already soured ties took a turn for worse,” said a senior Congress functionary. He also quoted how RJD vice-president Shivanand Tiwary accused the Congress of “trying to stifle the RJD” by pressurising it to concede more seats to the grand old party. Already, Jitan Ram Manjhi’s HAM and Upendra Kushwaha’s RLSP have deserted the Mahagathbandhan charging Tejashwi Yadav with high-handedness, arrogance and not being accommodative. The seat-sharing talks with the Congress reached a deadlock when the RJD offered the Congress 58 seats and a Lok Sabha bypoll seat of Valmikinagar. The RJD itself wants to contest on no less than 150 seats out of 243 constituencies. The remaining seats were left for Left parties comprising the CPI-ML, CPI and CPM, besides a couple of seats for Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM). The Left too called off its ties on Wednesday and announced its candidate list saying the RJD was behaving in an arrogant manner. Meanwhile, the Congress has made a last-ditch effort to save the Mahagathbandhan and told the RJD that it would not contest on less than 70 seats. “Or else, we are free to field candidates on all the 243 seats or form a new alliance with like-minded parties including Kushwaha and the Left,” the Congress source told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bihar-assembly-polls-congress-mulling-dumping-mahagatbandhan-may-contest-on-all-243-seats-895862.html
01-10-2020||National Politics||'Jungle raj' bogey rises to haunt BJP in UP amid Hathras, Balrampur gang rape cases||The alleged gangrape-murder cases of Hathras and Balrampur could not have come at a worse time for the BJP, raising the bogey of 'jungle raj' for its government in the state that sends 80 Lok Sabha MPs. With this the BJP is now fighting on four fronts — The issue of farmers (after the passage of new farm bills), labourers (after the passage of new bills replacing some old provisions with amendments that have irked the Opposition), the disquiet of Muslim community after two judgements related to Ayodhya (decision in favour of Hindu side for temple construction in November last year and the exoneration of 32 Babri demolition case accused on Wednesday) and now the Scheduled Caste issue, a front which has more than often been proved to be a political nightmare for the ruling party. This comes at a time when election campaign for Bihar polls scheduled in October-November is gaining momentum and Opposition parties are already putting their strategy in place for the Assembly polls in UP in 2022. Priyanka is the is in-charge of UP and is trying revive the moribund Congress in UP, which was once its bastion. In 2017, when the BJP came to power ousting Akhilesh Yadav, one major poll plank of the BJP was the ‘jungle raj’ in UP. The barb has now come to haunt it in past few months. On Thursday not only SP but Congress, NCP and BSP also revived the ‘jungle raj’ charge on Yogi Adityanath government. “Instead of Kanoon Ka Raj, there is goondaraj in UP,” said Mayawati, whose reign has seen charges of widespread corruption but is considered an effective one on the law and order front. NCP leader Anil Deshmukh said that instead of commenting on the affairs of other states, Yogi Adityanath should focus on ending the "jungle raj" in Uttar Pradesh and “it would be better if you focus on making ‘crime-free city’ instead of ‘Film city’ so that our sisters can be safe”.   "The jungle raj spread in UP has no limits. Law and order are not run by marketing and speeches," Priyanka said. Union minister from BJP Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, however, dismissed Rahul-Priyanka’s march as “political tourism” telling them such incidents should not be politicised as they have many more occasions to do that. Two days before Rahul is to lead a tractor rally from Punjab to the national capital against the farm reforms, Union minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday assured the farm community that the minimum support price will not only stay but will be continuously increased too in the coming years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jungle-raj-bogey-rises-to-haunt-bjp-in-up-amid-hathras-balrampur-gang-rape-cases-895881.html
01-10-2020||National Politics||Babri Masjid demolition has wounded country like Gandhi's assassination: Vijayan||A day after a CBI special court in Lucknowacquitted all the accused, including BJP veteran LK Advani, in the Babri Masjid demolition case, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday said the 1992 incident was an unparalleled crime that has deeply wounded the country like the assassination of Mahatma Gandhi. Urging that it was "time to fight against religious hegemony" in order to protect the country's democracy and secularism, Vijayan said the CBI and the central government have the responsibility to take necessary legal action to punish the perpetrators of the crime. All the 32 accused in the Babri mosque demolition case, including BJP veterans Advani and MM Joshi, were on Wednesday acquitted by a special CBI court, which said there was no conclusive proof against them. "The demolition of the Babri Masjid is not just a destruction of a mosque - it is an unparalleled crime that has deeply wounded the country like the assassination of Gandhi," Vijayan said. The case relates to the razing of the disputed structure in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992, which triggered riots for several months leaving nearly 2,000 people dead across the country. "We have before us the perpetrators of the Rath yatra that preceded the demolition of the mosque, those who led the yatra, their aides, those who called for Karseva, the organisations that provided people and means to it. We also have people who asked who the court was, to stop them at that point. It is unfortunate that such criminals are not punished. They deserve the punishment for their attempts to destroy secularism in our country," Vijayan said. He lashed out at the Sangh Parivar and said: "it was responsible for this heinous act which has inflicted the greatest blow on India's secularism." The Left leader also hit out at the Congress and said the national party, along with its allies were also responsible for the events that led to the destruction of the Mosque, facilitating it and for creating favourable conditions. "It was the Congress party which opened the doors of Babri Masjid for the Sangh Parivar. It was the Congress that gave permission for the laying of the foundation stone of the temple. As a natural consequence of all this, when the Sangh Parivar demolished the Babri Masjid, it was the Congress that allowed it and remained silent through inaction," Vijayan said. He also pointed out that even the Supreme Courtin the final verdict on the land dispute of Ayodhya case on November 9 last year, had said the installation of Lord Ram's idol at the disputed site on December 22 1949, was part of a conspiracy. "The apex court had said the demolition of Babri Masjid was an abuse of rule of law.In today's context, the time has come to fight religious hegemony. It is indispensable to protect our democracy and secularism," Vijayan added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/babri-masjid-demolition-has-wounded-country-like-gandhis-assassination-vijayan-895902.html
01-10-2020||National Politics||FIR against Rahul, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and 200 other Congress workers in Noida||The police in Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar on Thursday said it has lodged an FIR against Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and around 200 other party workers under The Epidemic Diseases Act for not maintaining social distancing and not wearing face masks. The FIR was lodged under Indian Penal Code sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (unlawfully or negligently spreading infection of any disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and under section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, the police said. “Some party members have also been booked for indulging in a scuffle during which some women constables were hurt while the uniform of a lady sub-inspector got torn,” the Gautam Buddh Nagar police said in a statement. Earlier in the day, around 200 Congress workers, including senior leaders of the party, had started a march on the expressways in Greater Noida after their convoy was stopped near Pari Chowk. The two Gandhi siblings and around 150 party workers were briefly detained by the police and later released on personal bond, a senior officer told PTI. The party workers were en route to Hathras to meet the family of the 19-year-old Dalit woman, who had died in a Delhi hospital on Tuesday, a fortnight after she was allegedly gang-raped near her village in western UP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/fir-against-rahul-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-and-200-other-congress-workers-in-noida-895939.html
01-10-2020||National Politics||Directionless, issueless Opposition trying to mislead farmers: Piyush Goyal||Union Minister of Commerce and Industries Piyush Goyal on Thursday said a directionless and issueless opposition is trying to mislead farmers of the country over farm laws. "The Opposition is directionless and is not left with any issue so they are trying to mislead farmers. However, they cannot mislead farmers beyond a limited area," Goyal said at a press conference here. He was here as part of BJP's campaign to address the issues related to farm laws and hold discussion with various stakeholders. President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday gave assent to the three contentious bills -- Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill. Goyal said that strengthening farmers has been the priority of the Narendra Modi-led government, which believes that if the farmer is empowered, the country will become stronger. He said that Centre has been working tirelessly for six consecutive years to bring changes in the lives of farmers, increase their production and fetch right price for their produce. Goyal said that the farmers have been tied up in many chains for years and the Centre has taken transformative steps to ensure that the farmers get rid of them. "Now, the farmer is free to sell his products to anyone and anywhere. Neither we have abolished the mandis nor the Agricultural Produce and Livestock Market Committee. While maintaining the system, the farmer can sell the product anywhere he wishes," Goyal said. Goyal said that through these laws, farmers have also been made self-reliant and given opportunities to increase their income. On the issue of minimum support price, Goyal said under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, MSP payments to farmers in the last six years almost doubled as compared to the tenure of the UPA government. "The farmers of the country have full faith in the intentions and policies of Prime Minister Modi," he said. Earlier, Goyal consulted people related to the agriculture sector and answered various questions in a dialogue programme organised on the steps taken by the Union government to benefit the farmers and empower them. Union ministers Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and Kailash Chaudhary were also present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/directionless-issueless-opposition-trying-to-mislead-farmers-piyush-goyal-895962.html
01-10-2020||National Politics||Those who backed Kangana should speak up for Hathras victim: Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Thursday said those who attacked his party for demolition at actor Kangana Ranaut's bungalow should now demand justice for the Hathras rape-and-murder victim. He also criticized the alleged rough treatment meted out by the police to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi when he was on his way to meet the victim's family at Hathras in Uttar Pradesh. "Those who took a stand against us over the demolition of illegal construction done by an actress should demand justice for the Hathras victim," Raut told reporters here. His party had come under fire after the Sena- controlled Mumbai civic body pulled down alleged illegal alterations at Ranaut's bungalow her following her public spat with Raut. Commenting on alleged "man-handling" faced by Rahul Gandhi, Raut said the purpose of this high-handedness was "to ensure that the cries for justiceof a poor girl and her family should not reach the world". Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and around 150 party workers were briefly detained in Greater Noida on Thursday for alleged violation of prohibitory orders while walking towards Hathras to meet the Dalit rape victim's family. Rahul Gandhi also fell down in the scuffle after police tried to stop him and his supporters from proceeding on the Yamuna Expressway near the Jewar toll plaza.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/those-who-backed-kangana-should-speak-up-for-hathras-victim-raut-895972.html
01-10-2020||North and Central||After Hathras incident, yet another Dalit girl gang-raped in Uttar Pradesh, dies||Close on the heels of the death of a teen after brutal assault and alleged gang rape in Hathras, yet another Dalit girl died after allegedly being gang raped in Uttar Pradesh's Balrampur district, about 200 kilometres from here. According to the police sources here, the victim, a student at a local college, was gang raped by some youths at Gaisadi area in the district on Tuesday. The youths had summoned a local doctor to treat her after her condition worsened, sources said adding that the doctor, suspecting some foul play, refused to treat her. Sources said that the culprits hired a rickshaw and asked the rickshaw puller to drop the victim home in the evening. The mother of the victim said that the teen had left for her college to fill an admission form. She was drenched in mud and could barely walk, when she returned home. "Her legs were broken....she had injuries on her hip as well...she could not walk properly," the mother said. The family members rushed her to the hospital, but she died on the way, sources said. The police, however, denied that the victim's legs and hip were broken. "We have arrested two persons in this connection and hunt was on to nab the other culprits," said a senior police official in Balrampur on Thursday. The incident sparked fresh outrage in the state with the opposition leaders lashing out against the BJP government over its alleged failure to ensure safety of the womenfolk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-hathras-incident-yet-another-dalit-girl-gang-raped-in-uttar-pradesh-dies-895521.html
01-10-2020||North and Central||Tickets of flights cancelled during lockdown to be refunded; Supreme Court nod to DGCA plan||The Supreme Court on Thursday put its stamp of approval on a proposal by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) for the airlines to refund the air tickets booked for domestic and international flights cancelled due to Covid-19 lockdown. The decision contained a mixture of immediate refund to grant of credit shell for utilisation till March 31, 2021. "We feel that such formulations are workable solutions in the peculiar circumstances, prevailing in the country," a bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan said.  According to the formulations, tickets booked during the period of lockdown for domestic and international travel in such time would be refunded without any cancellation charges. Such tickets booked through agents would be refunded immediately. "In all other cases, the airlines shall make all endeavours to refund the collected amount to the passenger within 15 days. If on account of financial distress, any airline is not able to do so, they shall provide credit shell, equal to the fare in the name of passenger (which would be transferable) so as to consume on or before March 31, 2021," the bench said. Disposing of a batch of PILs filed by NGO Pravasi Legal Cell and others, the bench, also comprising Justices R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah, noted in ordinary course, modalities for refund of tickets would have been governed by Civil Aviation Requirements under the Aircraft Act but its strict enforcement at this moment may not yield any meaningful result for any stake holder.   "We cannot lose sight of the present situation prevailing in the country and across the globe, i.e., the effect of pandemic Covid-19. It cannot be disputed that the civil aviation sector, which is one of the important sectors, is seriously affected in view of the ban imposed for operating flights," the bench said. The court also said air passenger traffic has come down heavily.  "At this moment any strict enforcement action of the CARs would further restrict or reduce their operations and such enforcement action may further jeopardise the possibilities of generation of cash by airlines which can further adversely affect or delay the refund cycle," the bench added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tickets-of-flights-cancelled-during-lockdown-to-be-refunded-supreme-court-nod-to-dgca-plan-895640.html
01-10-2020||North and Central||Prohibitory orders clamped in Hathras, district borders sealed||The administration here has imposed prohibitory orders in this district of Uttar Pradesh for maintaining law and order. "Section 144 (of the Code of Criminal Procedure) has been imposed in the district. It will be in force till October 31," District Magistrate PK Lakshkar said on Thursday. The administration has also ordered to seal the borders of Hathras district. The decision was taken to maintain law and order in the district, which hogged limelight after a 19-year-old Dalit gangrape victim from the district died at a Delhi hospital on Tuesday. Various organisations and political parties have made it an issue and their leaders have either visited or are trying to reach the victim's village. Sources said Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra are planning to visit the victim's village.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/prohibitory-orders-clamped-in-hathras-district-borders-sealed-895647.html
01-10-2020||North and Central||Three soldiers killed, five injured as Pakistan violates ceasefire along LoC in J&K||Three army soldiers were killed and five others were injured on Thursday in separate ceasefire violations by Pakistan along the Line of Control (LoC) in Kupwara and Poonch districts of Jammu and Kashmir. The Indian Army said that a befitting reply will be given to Pakistan, which is using mortars to target Indian forward posts. However, it was not known whether the Pakistan army suffered any casualties. In Naugam sector of north Kashmir’s Kupwara district, two soldiers died and four others were injured after Pakistan initiated an unprovoked ceasefire violation. “Pakistan initiated an unprovoked Ceasefire Violation along LoC in Naugam Sector, Kupwara today morning by firing mortars & other weapons. Two soldiers fatal. Four soldiers injured, being evacuated,” a defence spokesperson said in Srinagar. The slain soldiers were identified as Havaldar Kuldeep of 15 Sikh Light Infantry and Rifleman Shubham, Unit 8 JAK Rifles. In Poonch district of Jammu region, an Army jawan was killed and another injured when Pakistani troops violated the ceasefire and resorted to heavy firing and mortar shelling in Mankote and Krishna Ghati sectors. Reports said Sepoy Karnail Singh and Rifleman Virender Singh suffered injuries in Pakistani firing. While Karnail Singh died before being admitted to a hospital, Virender Singh has sustained injury in his right eye and is being treated at a military hospital. According to official figures, there has been around 75 per cent jump in ceasefire violations by Pakistan in the first six months of 2020 along the LoC in J&K as compared to the same period last year. Over 3,200 ceasefire violations by Pakistan troops were recorded in 2019.  The Pakistani army violated the ceasefire over 40 times in September. The Indian Army maintains that Pakistani troops have been frequently violating ceasefire by resorting to heavy shelling and firing to help the militants infiltrate. Sources said the forward areas, where ceasefire violations are being reported, are in strict cordon and searches have been launched to monitor if there is any intruder who have crossed the LoC. There is a 198 km International Border and over 510 km of LoC with Pakistan in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-soldiers-killed-five-injured-as-pakistan-violates-ceasefire-along-loc-in-jk-895682.html
01-10-2020||North and Central||16-year-old girl gang-raped in Madhya Pradesh; hunt for culprits on||(Warning: Story contains some graphic details, reader discretion advised) A 16-year-old girl was allegedly raped by three unidentified persons after being pulled out of her house in Madhya Pradesh's Khargone district, police said. The incident took place near Marugarh village in Madhya Pradesh, a day after the death of a 19-year-old Dalit woman, who was gang-raped in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras district. The minor girl and her brother lived in a hut at an agriculture field where they worked as labourers, Khargone Superintendent of Police Shailendra Singh Chauhan said. Their parents live in some other village, police sources said. On the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday, three unidentified men came to the field on a two-wheeler and tried to pull the girl out of the hut, Chauhan said. When her brother opposed it, they hit him with a stick and took the girl to a field where they allegedly took turns to rape her, he said. After committing the crime, the offenders dumped the girl on a main road near her hut started running away. In the meantime, the girl's brother raised an alarm and called other villagers who chased the culprits, but failed to catch them, the official said. The three culprits fled the spot leaving behind their two-wheeler, he said. Based on the girl's complaint, a case was registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and her medical examination was conducted, he said. The two-wheeler used by the culprits turned out to be a stolen one, the official said, adding that an investigation was underway into the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/16-year-old-girl-gang-raped-in-madhya-pradesh-hunt-for-culprits-on-895689.html
01-10-2020||North and Central||Woman's body found stuffed in box in Uttar Pradesh's Gorakhpur||The body of an unidentified woman was found stuffed in a box lying in the Maniram area in Uttar Pradesh’s Gorakhpur district on Thursday, police said. The police said there was no visible injury marks on the body of the woman, who is believed to be in her early 30s. She was wearing a red dress and put on vermilion and bindi on her forehead. "Prima facie, it seems that the woman was killed somewhere else, and her body stuffed in a box and thrown at Gholhawa embankment in the Maniram area," Superintendent of Police (North) Arvind Pandey said. "There is a tattoo on her hand. Some clothes, medicines and a 'mangalsutra' were found in a packet inside the box. It seems that it is a case of domestic violence and she was strangled to death,” he said, adding that the matter will be clear after post-mortem and investigation. Efforts are on to ascertain the identity of the woman, the police officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/womans-body-found-stuffed-in-box-in-uttar-pradeshs-gorakhpur-895713.html
01-10-2020||North and Central||17-year-old rape victim attempts death by suicide in Uttar Pradesh||A teenage girl attempted death by suicide after she was allegedly raped and blackmailed by a neighbour, who has been arrested by police. An FIR against the accused, Naseem, was registered by the police on a complaint from the 17-year-old girl's father on Tuesday night. The rape survivor consumed poison on September 27 and fell unconscious. Once she regained her consciousness, she narrated her ordeal to her father and named Naseem, a neighbour, as the culprit, following which the police complaint was lodged. According to the complainant, his daughter was not only raped, but also harassed and blackmailed by the accused, due to which she attempted to commit suicide. Superintendent of Police (SP) Abhishek Singh said the accused has been arrested and a probe is on in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/17-year-old-rape-victim-attempts-death-by-suicide-in-uttar-pradesh-895714.html
01-10-2020||North and Central||NCW seeks explanation from UP Police on urgency to cremate body of Hathras gang rape victim||A "disturbed" National Commission for Women (NCW) on Thursday sought a report from Uttar Pradesh Police for the haste in which the body of a 19-year-old gang rape victim from Uttar Pradesh's Hathras was cremated. Expressing shock at her death after fighting for life for two weeks, the NCW said the incident underlines the "grim state of women" in the society. It said it has come across a "disturbing report" on police officials cremating her body in the middle of the night without the permission and presence of her family members. "The Commission has now written to the Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh seeking an explanation on the urgency to cremate the body of the victim in the middle of the night that too in the absence of her family," a statement said. The NCW has asked the police to send a reply on the same at the earliest. Quoting reports, it said the victim’s body was cremated at 2:30 am by the police without the presence of any family member. The victim’s family had reportedly appealed to the District Magistrate for taking her body home for performing the last rites. However, the police went ahead with the cremation while most of her family members were away. The NCW had earlier taken suo motu of the gang rape and an Action Taken Report was received from the Uttar Pradesh police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ncw-seeks-explanation-from-up-police-on-urgency-to-cremate-body-of-hathras-gang-rape-victim-895723.html
01-10-2020||North and Central||Farm laws: Farmers in Punjab block rail tracks for indefinite period||Intensifying their protests against the new farm laws, farmers in Punjab on Thursday blocked rail tracks at many places in the state for an indefinite period as part of their 'rail roko' agitation.           Besides, farmers also said they have staged sit-ins outside houses of some BJP leaders. A total of 31 farmers' bodies had joined hands to intensify the agitation and they had announced to block rail tracks from October 1 for an indefinite period. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan on Thursday said farmers belonging to the 31 organisations have blocked rail tracks at many places in the state for an indefinite period to press the Centre to revoke new farm laws. Kokrikalan said BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) has blocked rail tracks at Dhablan (Patiala), Sunam (Sangrur), Budhlada (Mansa) and Gidderbaha (Muktsar). Some other farmers' unions have also blocked rail tracks in Barnala, Ludhiana, Bathinda and other places. Farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee have been squatting at rail tracks in Amritsar and Ferozepur since September 24. Kokrikalan said farmers have also staged sit-ins outside toll plazas in Sangrur, Barnala, Moga and Gurdaspur, besides holding 'dharnas' outside fuel pumps and shopping malls belonging to some corporate houses. Farmers have already given a call to boycott some corporate houses and their products in the state. According to them, the Centre wanted to "benefit" a few corporate houses with these "black laws".     BKU (Dakunda) general secretary Jagmohan Singh said all the 31 farmers' bodies have staged sit-ins at about 27 places in the state against the new farm laws. Farmers have expressed apprehension that the Centre's farm reforms would pave a way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates. President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday gave assent to the three contentious bills -- Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farm-laws-farmers-in-punjab-block-rail-tracks-for-indefinite-period-895729.html
01-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi to maintain status quo on prohibited, permitted activities till October 31||The Delhi government has decided to maintain status quo on prohibited and permitted activities till October 31 in the national capital. In an order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Wednesday night, Chief Secretary Vijay Dev said that two weekly markets in each civic body zone will be allowed. The order stated that all social, academic, entertainment, cultural, religious, political functions, as well as other gatherings and large congregations, will continue to be prohibited across the city. However, maximum 50 people will be allowed in marriage related gatherings and maximum 20 people are allowed in funeral and last rites related gatherings, it stated. On Wednesday, the Union Home Ministry issued new guidelines for permitting more activities in areas outside the containment zones that included opening up of cinemas, theatres and multiplexes with up to 50 per cent of their seating capacity from October 15. States and Union Territories have been given the flexibility to decide on reopening schools and coaching institutions after October 15 in a graded manner, and permitting social, religious and political gatherings beyond the limit of 100 people, subject to certain conditions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-to-maintain-status-quo-on-prohibited-permitted-activities-till-october-31-895797.html
01-10-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: Cinemas, schools to remain shut in Delhi in October||Cinema halls and educational institutions will continue to remain shut in Delhi on October with the state government deciding to maintain the status quo on prohibited activities. "The situation of Covid-19 in Delhi has been reviewed and it has been decided that status quo in respect of prohibited/permitted activities (including activities on a trial basis) may be maintained in NCT of Delhi till 31.10.2020 or further orders, whichever is earlier," the order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Wednesday night said. Instead of one, two weekly markets in each civic body zone will now be allowed. All social, academic, entertainment, cultural, religious, political functions as well as other gatherings and large congregations will continue to be prohibited across the city. A maximum of 50 people will be allowed in marriage related gatherings and a maximum of 20 people are allowed in funeral and last rites related gatherings. The central guidelines had taken down the restrictions with a cap of 200 people in closed places. Bars would be allowed to open on a trial basis (except in containment zones) up to October 31 or till further orders, subject to strict compliance of Standard Operation Procedures issued by the Centre and Delhi government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-cinemas-schools-to-remain-shut-in-delhi-in-october-895801.html
01-10-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh Congress calls for statewide protest against detention of Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka||The Uttar Pradesh Congress has given a call for a statewide protest against the detention of party leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra while they were on their way to meet the family of the Hathras gang rape victim on Thursday. The in-charge of the party administration, Siddhartpriy Srivastava, here in a letter said all district and city unit presidents have been asked to hold immediate dharnas against the behaviour of the UP Police, which detained the leaders. “We Congress workers will not tolerate this kind of behaviour of the state police with our leaders and so the UP Congress Committee has decided to hold immediate dharnas in all assembly segments," the letter said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-congress-calls-for-statewide-protest-against-detention-of-rahul-gandhi-priyanka-895833.html
01-10-2020||North and Central||UP CM unable to handle govt, demand President's Rule: Bhim Army chief||Azad Samaj Party chief and Bhim Army founder Chandrashekhar Azad on Thursday demanded President's Rule in Uttar Pradesh, alleging failure of constitutional machinery in the state over crimes against Dalits. Azad said he has started a “dharna” at his home in Saharanpur where he is put under a “house arrest”, which was ordered by the local police on Wednesday. The Dalit activist was accompanying the family of the 19-year-old woman, who died in a Delhi hospital on Tuesday, a fortnight after she was allegedly gang raped in UP's Hathras, to their home but was detained midway. He was brought to his home in Saharanpur the next evening and put under house arrest, according to Azad Samaj Party office-bearers. "I am sitting at my house on a dharna, injustice will not be tolerated. In Uttar Pradesh, Dalits are being meted out with injustice. The DM and the SSP of Hathras who have been protecting criminals and performing inhuman acts have not been removed yet. How can one expect justice from such unworthy people,” he said in a tweet in Hindi. “Hathras, Azamgarh, Bulandshahr, Meerut, Balrampur… every district in Uttar Pradesh is being embarrassed with incidents of rape. The constitutional machinery has failed completely. Yogi Adityanath cannot handle the government. The president should announce President's Rule as soon as possible,” he said in another tweet. He also alleged that public servants in Hathras were not following rules and demanded that the state government remove senior administration and police officials of the district. The young woman's brutal death and subsequent cremation in the dead of the night in Hathras allegedly under police pressure on Tuesday has triggered massive outrage across the country over the law and order situation in UP and over women safety in general. The state has also reported the death of a 22-year-old Dalit woman on Tuesday after she was allegedly raped by two men in Balrampur district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cm-unable-to-handle-govt-demand-presidents-rule-bhim-army-chief-895852.html
01-10-2020||North and Central||Hathras gang rape issue: Mayawati urges PM Modi to either sack UP CM Adityanath or ask him to resign||BSP supremo Mayawati, who was hitherto 'soft' on the Uttar Pradesh government, on Thursday joined the chorus of Opposition leaders in demanding the resignation of chief minister Yogi Adityanath over the latter's alleged failure to ensure safety of the women, especially those from the SC community, in the state. In a statement, Mayawati urged prime minister Narendra Modi and the BJP leadership to either 'sack' Adityanath or ask him to 'resign' owning moral responsibility for the rising crimes against the women in the state. ''BJP should send Adityanath back to Gorakhpur Mutt (he is the mahant of the Mutt)... else he may be asked to supervise the construction of the Ram Temple at Ayodhya,'' she said. ''Instead of the rule of law, mafia and goonda elements are ruling the state...the Dalits are being persecuted,'' Mayawati said. Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Congress have also demanded that Adityanath should resign. UP minister Siddharth Nath Singh, however, hit back at the Opposition parties and asked them not to play politics on the unfortunate incidents. Singh justified the police action against the former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and said that they could not have been allowed to march on the expressway with thousands of others during a pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hathras-gang-rape-issue-mayawati-urges-pm-modi-to-either-sack-up-cm-adityanath-or-ask-him-to-resign-895860.html
01-10-2020||North and Central||MP: Congress burns UP govt's effigy for stopping Rahul, Priyanka||Congress workers burned the Yogi Adityanath government's effigy here on Thursday, questioning the Uttar Pradesh police's move of stopping party leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra when they were walking towards Hathras to meet the rape victim's family. The party workers held a protest and burned the effigy near Lillie Talkies. Local MLA Arif Masood, who led the protest, said, "Jungle raj is prevailing in Uttar Pradesh, where a Dalit daughter was raped." "When our leaders Rahul Gandhiji and Priyanka Gandhiji set out to meet the victim's family they were stopped. The limit was crossed when Rahulji was pushed," he added. "That is why we burnt the effigy of the Yogi Adityanath government. Time has come for the entire nation to stand together to ensure that the voice of the Dalits is not suppressed," Masood said. Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra were on Thursday detained by the Uttar Pradesh police after they were stopped on the Yamuna Expressway in Greater Noida while walking towards Hathras to meet the rape victim's family. Rahul Gandhi also fell down in the scuffle after police tried to stop him and his supporters from proceeding on the Yamuna Expressway near the Jewar toll plaza. Pictures of the incident were shared by the party. Meanwhile, criticising Yogi Adityanath over the detention of Gandhis, former Madhya Pradesh minister and Congress leader Sajjan Singh Verma said it showed the cowardice of the UP government. "Is getting justice for a daughter a crime in India?" the Congress MLA asked. Entire Congress party is on the ground on the issue of atrocities against women and if the Modi government wants, it can fill the jails in the country with the Congress workers, he added. Providing secure environment to daughters should be the topmost priority of any government, Verma said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-congress-burns-up-govts-effigy-for-stopping-rahul-priyanka-895876.html
01-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi to launch massive anti-air pollution campaign from Oct 5: Gopal Rai||Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Thursday said the city government will launch a mega anti-air pollution campaign on October 5, and that a centre is being set up in Najafgarh to produce a chemical to deal with stubble burning. Rai said he has also appealed to the Centre and neighbouring states to use the chemical developed by scientists at the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) here to manage stubble. "Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will launch a mega anti-air pollution campaign after a meeting with officials from departments of environment, transport, development, PWD, Delhi Development Authority, Delhi Jal Board, traffic police and municipal corporations," he said. At a meeting of NCR states with Union Environment Prakash Javadekar, Rai asked the Centre to take time-bound action to ensure that 11 thermal power plants and more than 1,900 brick kilns using outdated technology in the national capital region control their emissions. There are 11 plants around Delhi - in Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab -- which were supposed to retrofit their units with technology called flue-gas desulphurisation to reduce emissions by December 2019.   Rai said there are more than 1,640 such brick kilns in Uttar Pradesh, 161 in Haryana and 164 Rajasthan. "All these contribute to Delhi's air pollution massively," he said.   The minister said the Delhi government presented its plan to tackle stubble burning in the city during the meeting with Javadekar. He said a centre is being set up in Kharkhari village in Najafgarh where "bio-decomposer" solution will be prepared in around 400 containers starting Tuesday. IARI's new technology involves a liquid formulation prepared using bio-decomposer capsules, fermenting it over 8-10 days and then spraying the mixture on crop residue to ensure speedy bio-decomposition of the stubble. Capsules worth Rs 20 can effectively deal with 4-5 tonnes of raw straw per acre. Rai said the Centre has been providing subsidies up to 80 per cent on farm machinery, but farmers still have to pay from their own pocket to use it. "The Pusa bio-decomposer is an economically viable option. We have estimated that only Rs 20 lakh is needed to manage stubble in 800 hectares of agricultural land in Delhi," he said. The minister said an action plan has been prepared to stop stubble burning in the city. Under it, farmers will fill a form providing details such as name, address, village, the area where they produce non-basmati rice and the date when they want the government to spray the chemical to tackle stubble burning. Based on this form the Delhi government will send officials to spray the chemical at the designated farmland. Agricultural development officers of all the districts will lead this work, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-to-launch-massive-anti-air-pollution-campaign-from-oct-5-gopal-rai-895895.html
01-10-2020||North and Central||Hathras gang rape: Student bodies holds protest at DU's north campus, demand justice for victim||Members of various students organisations held a protest at Delhi University's north campus against the brutal Hathras gang-rape and murder incident and demanded justice for the 19-year-old victim. A senior police official said 20-22 protestors were detained and later released. A statement said Krantikari Yuva Sangathan (KYS) activists along with other progressive organizations of DU held demonstrations against the barbarous gang-rape in Hathras and the denial of justice to the victim and her family by UP government's state machinery. A large number of activists were wrongfully detained while protesting and taken to Maurice Nagar Police Station, they alleged. The 19-year-old woman was brutally gang-raped in a village in Hathras district two weeks ago. She died of her grievous injuries at a Delhi hospital on Tuesday, prompting outrage, protests and calls for justice. The woman was gang-raped on September 14 following which she was admitted to the J N Medical College Hospital in Aligarh with serious injuries. She was referred to Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital on Monday after her condition showed no signs of improvement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hathras-gang-rape-student-bodies-holds-protest-at-dus-north-campus-demand-justice-for-victim-895934.html
01-10-2020||North and Central||Filing of nomination papers for Bihar Assembly polls begins||Filing of nomination papers for the Bihar Assembly elections commenced on Thursday when notification was issued for the first of the three-phase poll. Seventy-one of the total 243 constituencies go to polls in the first phase on October 28, though only three independent candidates turned up to file their nomination papers on the first day. Election Commission sources said that two candidates filed their nomination papers in Aurangabad while one did it in Wazirganj. Filing of nominations for the first phase will come to a close on October 8. The process may pick up momentum once the major players, including the ruling NDA and the opposition Grand Alliance, decide which seat is to be contested by which constituent. Many key Assembly segments go to polls in the first phase, for which the last date of withdrawal of nomination is October 12. One among the seats where contests would be closely watched is Mokama in rural Patna, where mafia don-turned- politician Anant Singh would seek to prove a point to his former mentor, Chief Minister and JD(U) president Nitish Kumar. Singh had begun his political career over a decade ago as a JD(U) MLA and retained the seat for the party twice before parting ways ahead of the 2015 Assembly polls which Kumar fought in alliance with arch-rival Lalu Prasad of the RJD. He retained the seat as an Independent in 2015, defeating the JD(U)'s Neeraj Kumar, who is currently a powerful minister in the state cabinet. Booked under the stringent UAPA last year following the recovery of hand grenades and an AK-47 rifle from his residence, Singh seeks to retain his seat with support of the RJD-Congress combine though it is not clear whether either party is willing to field him as the official candidate. His wife Veena Devi had unsuccessfully fought from Munger in the Lok Sabha polls last year. His late elder brother Dilip Singh, himself a history-sheeter, had served as a minister in the Rabri Devi government. The first phase is also likely to be in the spotlight because of former IPS officer Gupteshwar Pandey, who had served as an outspoken DGP of Bihar until taking voluntary retirement last week and following it up with a formal induction into the JD(U). He is expected to be fielded from one of the Assembly segments in his native district of Buxar, all of which go to polls in the first phase. Other prominent figures whose fates might be decided in the first phase include veteran Congress leader and former Assembly Speaker Sadanand Singh, who has been winning Kahalgaon in Bhagalpur district on the trot, and former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi who will be looking forward to retaining Imamganj as the NDA candidate. Notifications for the second and third phases will be issued on October 9 and 13, respectively. Elections for those two phases will be held on November 3 and 7. Votes will be counted on November 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/filing-of-nomination-papers-for-bihar-assembly-polls-begins-895937.html
01-10-2020||Opinion||Anyone else want to see Donald Trump ‘shut up’?||When the nation looks back on the presidential debate we witnessed this week, do you think it’ll be remembered as: — A moment that will live on in history, second in historical import only to Lincoln-Douglas. — That thing where Joe Biden called Donald Trump “Putin’s puppy.” — The worst television programming since “I Wanna Marry Harry.” Really, you have to go with the puppy quote. Particularly since it was about the nicest thing either of them said. Trump had painted the debate as a virtual death sentence for Biden, who he strongly suggested was too old, at 77, to survive so much pressure. But Biden held up pretty well. Meanwhile Trump did a terrific imitation of a 74-year-old toddler up past his bedtime. Maybe the president figured if he yelled, interrupted and made nasty faces all night long it might trigger some kind of fainting spell in his opponent. If so, the plot boomeranged. I’ll bet there are a whole lot of voters wandering around now saying: “Wow, if Biden could stand all that time being yowled at by Trump, he’d definitely have no problem handling a bloodthirsty dictator with nuclear warheads.” Some dedicated citizens were hoping for a more enlightening show. Saddest moment of the evening was perhaps the introduction by Dana Bash, chief political correspondent for CNN. “This is really one of the most important moments that we’ve seen in politics,” Bash said solemnly, ushering in the debate. What followed apparently didn’t live up to her expectations, since she later bracingly described the evening on air as a “shitshow.” Cheer up, loyal viewers: You may not have been elevated, but you were definitely witnessing a significant moment — a historian friend of mine called it “easily the worst” debate of its kind in American history. At Thanksgiving dinner you’ll be able to impress your relatives by comparing moderators and imitating Chris Wallace trying to get a word in edgewise. In the future when you look back on 2020 there are going to be a lot of long blank periods. But at least you’ll be able to tell your grandchildren you were witness to a presidential debate implosion. About Round One: The night definitely belonged to Donald Trump, in the sense that he’s the one the whole world was talking about the next morning. Never — at least never since the invention of the microphone — has a candidate yelled so loudly for so long for so little reason. At one point Trump claimed he didn’t do any rehearsing before the debate, which sounds kinda like a high school sophomore assuring his friends he never studied for that test, to create a cover in case he got a D. But there were little hints of crash prep. When Biden warned Trump would leave the country vulnerable to a lot more coronavirus fatalities “unless he gets a lot smarter,” the president’s little ears seemed to instantly perk up. “Did you use the word smart?” he began. “You said you went to Delaware State, but you forgot the name of your college.” Biden went to the University of Delaware, but there’s a right-wing theory that he tries to pass himself off as a graduate of Delaware State, a historically Black college. Now let’s think about this for a minute. Trump is extremely insecure about the whole IQ thing. Nobody could possibly brag that much about being smart unless he was really afraid he was pretty stupid. (Have I ever mentioned I have a letter from the future president in which he misspelled the word “too”?) So perhaps he wanted a line to paint Biden as a faker of academic credentials. This is not the kind of political gossip that is going to get much traction at your local bar. About Joe Biden. Everybody knows he isn’t much of a debater. And in a perfect world, the former vice president would not be calling the president of the United States a “clown.” Or crying out: “Will you shut up, man?” Although the last one is, admittedly, a not uncommon sentiment around the country, every day of the Trump era. Pushing back on Trump’s optimistic vaccine predictions, Biden mentioned one of the president’s most infamous medical theories: “And by the way, maybe you can inject some bleach in your arm, and that would take care of it.” Bull’s-eye. “That was said sarcastically, and you know that,” Trump jumped in quickly. “That was said sarcastically.” People, do you remember the bleach era? The horrified look on the face of one of Trump’s health experts when he started suggesting his bleach-treatment theory? Did you sense any sarcasm whatsoever? Trump’s worst debate moment came when he was invited to denounce white supremacy and ducked. (“Almost everything I see is from the left wing, not from the right wing.”) He followed with what sure sounded like a shoutout to the militant right-wing Proud Boys. (“Stand back and stand by.”) By Wednesday our president was standing back and denying he knew who the Proud Boys were and simultaneously advising they “stand down.” It was a tough path for his supporters to follow. South Carolina’s Tim Scott, the only Black Republican in the Senate, jumped in mid-crisis with a really good try: “I think he misspoke. I think he should correct it. If he doesn’t correct it, I guess he didn’t misspeak.” So say we all.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/anyone-else-want-to-see-donald-trump-shut-up-895612.html
01-10-2020||Panorama||Pakistan’s most terrifying adversary is climate change||Karachi is home. My bustling, chaotic city of about 20 million people on the Arabian Sea is an ethnically and religiously diverse metropolis and the commercial capital of Pakistan, generating more than half of the country’s revenue. Over the decades, Karachi has survived violent sectarian strife, political violence between warring groups claiming the city, and terrorism. Karachi has survived its gangsters sparring with rocket launchers; its police force, more feared than common criminals; its rulers and bureaucrats committed to rapacious, bottomless corruption. Now, Karachi faces its most terrifying adversary: climate change. In August, Karachi’s stifling summer heat was heavy and pregnant. The sapodilla trees and frangipani leaves were lush and green; the Arabian Sea, quiet and distant, had grown muddy. When the palm fronds started to sway, slowly, the city knew the winds had picked up and rain would follow. Every year, the monsoons come — angrier and wilder — lashing the unprepared city. Studies show that climate change is causing monsoons to be more intense and less predictable, and cover larger areas of land for longer periods of time. On August 27, Karachi received nearly nine inches of monsoon rain, the highest amount of rainfall ever in a single day. Nineteen inches of rain fell in August, according to the meteorological officials. It is enough to drown a city that has no functioning drainage, no emergency systems and no reliable healthcare (except for those who can pay). Thousands of homes and settlements of the poor were subsumed and destroyed, and more than 100 people were killed. A traders’ association estimated that the submerging of markets and warehouses damaged goods worth 25 billion Pakistani rupees, or about $150 million. Local papers estimated that with Karachi at a standstill for a week, in some congested areas for longer, Pakistan’s GDP suffered daily losses of $449 million — a number that didn’t include the enormous informal economy. The World Bank estimates that 15% of GDP of the Sindh province (Karachi is its capital) is lost every year to environmental damage and climate change. Pakistan is the fifth most climate vulnerable nation in the world. Between 1998 and 2018, according to the Global Climate Risk Index, the country is estimated to have lost nearly 10,000 lives to climate-related disasters and suffered losses amounting to about $4 billion from 152 extreme weather events in that period. Analysts have estimated Pakistan’s climate migrants over the past decade at around 30 million people. There is no end to the catalogue of climate disasters affecting my country. The glaciers in the Hindu Kush, the Himalayas and the Karakoram in northern Pakistan are melting at an accelerated pace. If the emission trends and temperature rises continue unabated, these mountains could lose between a third to two-thirds of their ice fields by 2100. The result will be catastrophic: By 2050, the increased melting will result in landslides, heavy flooding, dam bursts and soil erosion. After the glaciers have melted away, drought and famine will follow. The terror of our coming era will be born of heat and fire and ice. Some years ago, I was in a village in Sindh after a massive flood had devastated it. Thousands were displaced overnight. The blistering heat soaked the faces of displaced young women in sweat thick like glycerin. I was unsure what would be more lethal — the drowning or the heat. Not far from that drowned village in Sindh is the city of Jacobabad, where temperatures in the summer run as high as 124 degrees Fahrenheit. It is the hottest city in Asia, if not the world. Jacobabad has long electricity blackouts. Its poor die as they toil in the fields. Temperature increases have brought plague after plague in rural areas. This year has brought Pakistan the most devastating locust infestations in nearly 30 years. The insects destroyed entire harvests, causing the government to call a national emergency as winter crops were decimated, resulting in losses of $2.5 billion. The locusts descend like a haze, so thick that from a distance it looked like a soft pink fog. Because of heavy rains and cyclones, there has been unprecedented breeding of locusts in the United Arab Emirates. They travelled to us from the Arabian Peninsula. This is a climate war between the large industrial superpowers, financial predators that have polluted and poisoned our planet for profit, and the poor, who have done the least damage but will pay all of the consequences. Pakistan is responsible for less than 1% of global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, but its people will bear the burden of the world’s deadliest polluters. If nothing is done to mitigate global GHG emissions, according to the World Bank, 800 million people in South Asia will be at risk of amplified poverty, homelessness and hunger. The World Bank has identified Karachi as one the planet’s climate hot spots. Temperatures across South Asia are estimated to rise by 3.9 degrees Fahrenheit in the next 30 years. Karachi is already struggling with poor road connectivity, dire educational facilities and limited market access. Its already pathetic public health system will plummet. The rich might buy generators for electricity, pay for water tanks and rely on expensive hospitals, but the poor will continue to be devastated. Pakistan’s current government is speaking about climate change, but it is a conversation that has come too late, unaccompanied by serious action. In 1947, Pakistan was 33% forest. Today, we have tree cover of just about 4%, all because of deforestation. This destruction, largely caused by the illegal logging by timber mafias, has silted up our waterways and left us undefended against floods and storms. The country can easily be whipped into hysteria over supposed religious infractions committed by minorities and can debate women’s modesty and honour inexhaustibly, but it has little attention for the ferocious and imminent dangers of climate change. Karachi’s rainfall, like the rising temperatures, is a consequence of the raging climate war. We have sat by and watched how cities die: slowly. We didn’t watch closely enough when the villages sank and struggled. But it is clear now that this is how a planet burns, one fire at a time, one degree hotter until eventually all that remains will be the chalky bones of Karachi’s ancient saints, buried on disappeared cliffs. (The writer is the author, most recently, of the novel The Runaways)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/pakistan-s-most-terrifying-adversary-is-climate-change-895508.html
01-10-2020||Panorama||No lockdowns, but Sweden seems to have controlled the Covid-19 pandemic||The scene at Norrsken House Stockholm, a coworking space, oozed with radical normalcy: Young, turtleneck-wearing hipsters schmoozed in the coffee corner. Others chatted freely, at times quite near one another, in cozy conference rooms. Face masks were nowhere to be seen. It seemed like January, before the spread of the coronavirus in Europe, but it was actually last week, as many European nations were tightening restrictions amid a surge of new cases. In Sweden, new infections, if tipping upward slightly, still remained surprisingly low. “I have potentially hundreds of tiny interactions when working here,” said Thom Feeney, a Briton who manages the coworking space. “Our work lives should not be reduced to just the screen in front of us. Ultimately, we are social animals.” Normalcy has never been more contentious than now in Sweden. Almost alone in the Western world, the Swedes refused to impose a coronavirus lockdown in the spring, as the country’s leading health officials argued that limited restrictions were sufficient and would better protect against economic collapse. It was an approach that transformed Sweden into an unlikely ideological lightning rod. Many scientists blamed it for a spike in deaths, even as many libertarians critical of lockdowns portrayed Sweden as a model. During a recent Senate hearing in Washington, Dr. Anthony Fauci, the leading U.S. infectious disease specialist, and Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky., angrily clashed over Sweden. For their part, the Swedes admit to making some mistakes, particularly in nursing homes, where the death toll was staggering. Indeed, comparative analyses show that Sweden’s death rate at the height of the pandemic in the spring far surpassed the rates in neighboring countries and was more protracted. (Others point out that Sweden’s overall death rate is comparable to that of the United States.) Now, though, the question is whether the country’s current low caseload, compared with sharp increases elsewhere, shows that it has found a sustainable balance, something that all Western countries are seeking eight months into the pandemic — or whether the recent numbers are just a temporary aberration. “It looks positive,” said Anders Tegnell, Sweden’s state epidemiologist, who gained global fame and notoriety for having kept Sweden out of lockdown in March. With a population of 10.1 million, Sweden averaged a little more than 200 new cases a day for several weeks, although in recent days that number has jumped to about 380. The per capita rate is far lower than nearby Denmark or the Netherlands (if higher than the negligible rates in Norway and Finland). Sweden is also doing far better, for the moment, than Spain, with 10,000 cases a day, and France, with 12,000. Critics say Sweden does not test for the virus as thoroughly as many other nations — with 142,000 tests for the week ending Sept. 13. Britain, with about six times the population, tested only 587,000 people in the most recent week, far fewer per capita than Sweden. And Britain conducted far more tests than France, Germany or Spain in that period. In early September, 1.2% of tests in Sweden were positive, compared with about 7% currently in Northwest England, Britain’s hardest-hit area. In response to the recent outbreaks, many European countries are imposing new restrictions. But political leaders, anxious to avoid unpopular and economically disastrous lockdowns, are relying mostly on social-distancing measures, while trying to preserve a degree of normalcy, with schools, shops, restaurants and even bars open. In essence, some experts say, they are quietly adopting the Swedish approach. “Today, all of the European countries are more or less following the Swedish model, combined with the testing, tracing and quarantine procedures the Germans have introduced, but none will admit it,” said Antoine Flahault, director of the Institute of Global Health, in Geneva. “Instead, they made a caricature out of the Swedish strategy. Almost everyone has called it inhumane and a failure.” Back in the spring, when other nations were clamping down, Sweden was often vilified for having gone its own way. Its borders stayed open, as did bars, restaurants and schools. Hairdressers, yoga studios, gyms and even some cinemas remained open, as did public transportation and parks. Gatherings of more than 50 people were banned, museums closed and sporting events canceled. But that was the extent of the measures, with officials saying they would trust in the good sense of Swedes to keep their distance and wash their hands. Flahault lauded Sweden’s government for that part of its approach. “The Swedes went into self-lockdown,” he said. “They trusted in their people to self-apply social distancing measures without punishing them.” But Flahault also warned about what he called a major flaw in the Swedish approach. “They continue not to wear masks,” he said. “That can be a big drawback in the Swedish strategy if masks prove effective and key in fighting the pandemic.” Sweden might also just be enjoying a lull between peaks of infection. The public face of the country’s coronavirus policies, Tegnell, agrees, saying the numbers can always go up, as they just have. That said, however, “Sweden has gone from being one of the countries in Europe with the most spread to one that has some of the fewest cases in Europe,” he said in a recent interview. Some experts believe that Sweden is now almost fully in control of the virus. “There are indications that the Swedes have gained an element of immunity to the disease, which, together with everything else they are doing to prevent the infection from spreading, is enough to keep the disease down,” Kim Sneppen, professor of biocomplexity at the Niels Bohr Institute in Copenhagen, said in an interview. He stressed that the country could have avoided the high death toll in the beginning but said that Sweden had regained control from mid-April, when deaths declined steadily. While the Swedes are far from having achieved herd immunity, he said, “we can conclude that their social distancing rules have proven essential.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/no-lockdowns-but-sweden-seems-to-have-controlled-the-covid-19-pandemic-895509.html
01-10-2020||Panorama||Are human challenge trials ethical?||India has the second-highest number of Covid-19 cases, and everyone is hoping for a vaccine. A safe and effective vaccine has to go through a rigorous safety and efficacy clearance process. The WHO Guidelines for clinical trials follow the following steps (broadly stating): Phase one, 50-100 healthy people to check safety. Phase two, 100-300 infected people for efficacy. Phase three, large and diverse healthy people (300-30000) for efficacy and side effects. Generally, vaccine development takes years. In Phase three, the vaccine is tested on a large group of diverse people, who then go about their daily lives and are monitored. They may or may not get infected. This prolongs the trials. Because of the infectious nature of Covid-19, people are taking extra precautions and are less likely to get the virus or may take a longer time to be exposed to it. So, Phase three methods could take years. Phase three trials could be conducted on high-risk people in densely populated areas, or healthcare workers. But since the risk is not absent, it might not be correct to test on people in densely populated areas. They live there because of larger systemic injustices. The risks could also compromise an already compromised health force. Therefore, Human Challenge Trials (HCT) have emerged as a controversial solution. In HCT, volunteers are deliberately exposed to the virus. This shortens the time frame by eliminating the chance factor of infection. The participant’s body is ‘challenged’ by the pathogen in controlled situations.  HCTs have been conducted for diseases like malaria, dengue, etc and WHO has already published an ethical framework. The controversy in the Covid-19 vaccine is that, unlike malaria, there is no available treatment. The dilemma is ethical i.e. deliberately infecting a participant with a virus and the ability of the participant to consent to it, if done voluntarily. Medical professionals follow the 'first do no harm' principle. So, can they infect a healthy person? The answer can be yes if we see it through the utilitarian lens. Simply put, utilitarianism means the greatest good for the greatest number. Since a large number of participants may not get infected in traditional Phase three trials, the sample size has to be extremely large. In HCT, a small number can be tested as all of them will be 100% infected. So, both the time and the number of people needed is less. The faster we can test a vaccine, the more lives we can save. Other lenses can be altruism and choice. Many people work in high-risk professions due to their inherent altruistic tendencies. They have a need to serve others and derive value from it. Many NGOs working in conflict zones have such people working in them e.g. Doctors Without Borders (MSF). We must respect their choices. Are HCT participants different from these people? If a person has volunteered (without any coercion, economic or otherwise), and has been informed and understands the risks, but still chooses to participate, then we can say that it is a choice made freely.  Therefore, HCT trials are probably the most ethical way to fast-track Phase three. One Day Sooner is an international movement advocating for HCT for Covid-19 vaccines. Around 36,000 people have already volunteered, showing that people will volunteer.  HCT also gains importance as the US FDA is considering granting emergency approvals for Covid-19 vaccines, and there are legitimate fears that safety standards could be reduced.  In the international vaccine race, both China and Russia are hoping to be the first to produce a commercial vaccine. Given the lack of transparency in both China and Russia, the vaccine’s viability and safety cannot be certain unless data is shared and verified. Recently, Russia proposed to partner with India for Phase three trials for Sputnik V, which could give a confidence boost to the vaccine by making the process transparent and ethical. For this, a movement for volunteers, like the one day sooner programme can be started in India. This will ensure that the trial time is reduced ethically, and a viable vaccine can be mass-produced as the Indian pharmaceutical industry is known for quality production at a low cost. In times like these, there is no perfect solution, only a solution that is better than others. (The writer is a Public Policy Student, Takshashila Institution)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/are-human-challenge-trials-ethical-895510.html
01-10-2020||Right in the Middle||A thing of beauty||The first day of Covid-19 lockdown started with the appearance of a beauty in our backyard. The spoon full of rice I kept for crows was suddenly gulped by this black canine beauty. From then, as soon as we opened the back door blew a shrill whistle; there she comes with soft steps, neither running nor walking but trotting like a horse. Some days, she gets biscuits and some days exclusively made hot dosa or idly. Whatever the food, she picks it in a unique way, as she had lost her canines in a fight with other dogs in the neighbourhood. Our neighbour would often guess that she does not have proper vision, which was why she ate like that. All our theories were disproved when we saw her chasing low flying swallows and other birds. Even during the nights, we saw her catch jumping frogs and toads in our garden. A couple of weeks in, I guessed that she was pregnant after seeing her engorged teats. My husband argued that without a bulged abdomen, how on earth could she be pregnant? During the lockdown, it was not even possible to get her scanned. The whole first phase of the lockdown passed like this, watching the many charismatic pranks of our slender beauty. One day, our beauty disappeared and to our dismay, we did not spot her for more than 48 hours. Our neighbour said that she had littered in the bushes and the shrill sounds of puppies could be heard near the far corner of a weed-infested field beside their house. I jumped and proclaimed that my second guess had become true, our beauty had become a mom. However, sadly the pups did not seem to be seen, but their mother was spotted roaming here and there, searching for her pups. The puppies may have died naturally or might have been preyed by other animals. In a matter of a day or two, she forgot her grief and returned to my house, eagerly waiting for some eatables from us. She got everything from milk, curd, hot beverages in an exclusive glass cup that was left over the tank lid that looked like a dining table for her. All that we ate for breakfast, lunch or dinner, a share was reserved for her. By the lockdown 3.0, she started glowing with smooth skin because of all the nourishments she got. Still, she retained her tucked abdomen and characteristic rhythmic walking style of Mudhol hound, the pride of Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-thing-of-beauty-895507.html
01-10-2020||Second Edit||After Hathras gang rape, what hope for justice in UP?||The horrific gang-rape and murder of a 20-year-old Dalit woman in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district underscores the continuing vulnerability of women, especially Dalit women, to extreme violence and atrocities in this country, especially in Uttar Pradesh. The four rapists subjected her to unspeakable violence. In addition to raping her, they battered her body. She suffered severe spinal injuries and both legs and an arm were fractured. The assailants had tried to strangulate her and she was brought in a paralysed and unconscious state to Delhi’s Safdarjang Hospital. As shocking and distressing as the violence unleashed by the rapists is the failure of Uttar Pradesh police. When her kin reported her missing, they did not initiate a search for the woman immediately. In the weeks since the rape, their attitude has only worsened. There are signs that the police are trying to cover up or at least diminish the magnitude of the crime. Two weeks after the incident, UP police have avoided describing the crime for what it is; they are reported to be saying that they are not clear whether it is a rape or a gang-rape. Besides, they cremated the woman in the dead of the night without the consent of her family. Not only have ridden rough shod over the family’s sentiments and rights to see the woman’s body one last time before her cremation and to perform the last rites but also, the rush to cremate her body was clearly aimed at destroying evidence. In most cases of violence against women, the police and courts back the assailant; entrenched patriarchy in our society and culture is to blame for justice rarely being done to women. This is especially so when women from marginalised castes or classes are subjected to violence by upper caste, rich and politically powerful men. The Hathras case involves a Dalit woman and her assailants are upper class men. The latter should be tried for gang-rape and murder under the Prevention of Atrocities Act, nothing less. Uttar Pradesh accounts for 14.7% of all crimes against women. Under the Yogi Adityanath government, the state has witnessed a 27.9% rise in crimes against Dalits. In the Hathras case, as in the many other cases of horrific crimes that have been regularly reported from UP, there is little hope that the establishment will work to ensure justice. Civil society must keep an eye on the progress in the case to ensure that the victim’s family is not pressured to withdraw the case, the police do not dilute the crime, and that justice is done.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/after-hathras-gang-rape-what-hope-for-justice-in-up-895503.html
01-10-2020||South||Telangana reports 2,214 new Covid-19 cases, 8 deaths||Telangana recorded 2,214 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally of infections to 1,93,600, while the death toll rose to 1,135 with eight more fatalities. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) recorded 305 fresh cases, followed by Rangareddy (191), Medchal Malkajgiri (153), Nalgonda (149), Warangal Urban (131), Karimnagar (106) and other districts, a state government bulletin said on Thursday, providing data as of 8 pm on September 30. The bulletin said 54,443 samples were tested on September 30. Cumulatively, the number of samples tested moved past 30 lakh and stood at 30,50,444. The samples tested per million population was 81,957, the bulletin said. The cumulative recovered cases stood at 1,63,407, while 29,058 were under treatment. The recovery rate in the state rose further to 84.40 per cent, while it was 83.51 per cent in the country, it said. The case fatality rate in the state was 0.58 per cent, while it was 1.56 per cent at the national level, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-reports-2214-new-covid-19-cases-8-deaths-895699.html
01-10-2020||South||Puducherry allows opening of theatres, schools under Centre's Unlock-5 guidelines||The Puducherry government on Thursday said it would implement the Centre's guidelines under Unlock-5 to reopen more activities in a calibrated manner in areas outside the containment zones including opening of schools, cinemas, theatres and multiplexes. Puducherry district Collector T Arun, who is also Special Secretary (Relief and Rehabilitation), said the lockdown in containment zones in the union territory has been extended till the end of this month. "All the guidelines of the Centre which have been annexed to the order of the Collector came into effect today and would be in force till the end of this month," the Government Order said. Any violation of the guidelines is punishable under the Disaster Management Act 2004 and Epidemics Act 1897, it said. Cinemas, theatres, multiplexes will be permitted to open with up to 50 per cent of their seating capacity in areas outside containment zones only with effect from October 15 for which SOP (Standard Operating Procedure) will be issued by the Union Information and Broadcasting Ministry. The Collector, in his order said students of classes IX to XII are permitted to visit schools in areas outside containment zones. Opening of schools would be in a phased manner. Class X and XII will start from October 5 while classes for IX and XI will begin from October 12. Detailed SOP would be issued by the Directorate of School Education, Puducherry. Listing out various activities that have been reopened in a calibrated manner, the order said that all shops and establishments and private offices would function between 6 am and 9 pm only. Hotels, restaurants including the dining in would function from 6 am to 9 pm and parcels and takeaways would be permitted upto 10 pm. Liquor shops and bars which remained closed all these months shall open as per licensing conditions, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-allows-opening-of-theatres-schools-under-centres-unlock-5-guidelines-895752.html
01-10-2020||South||Puducherry allows opening of theatres, schools under Unlock 5 guidelines||The Puducherry government on Thursday said it would implement the Centre's guidelines under Unlock-5 to reopen more activities in a calibrated manner in areas outside the containment zones including opening of schools, cinemas, theatres and multiplexes. Puducherry district Collector T Arun, who is also Special Secretary (Relief and Rehabilitation), said the lockdown in containment zones in the union territory has been extended till the end of this month. "All the guidelines of the Centre which have been annexed to the order of the Collector came into effect today and would be in force till the end of this month," the Government Order said. Any violation of the guidelines is punishable under the Disaster Management Act 2004 and Epidemics Act 1897, it said. Cinemas, theatres, multiplexes will be permitted to open with up to 50 per cent of their seating capacity in areas outside containment zones only with effect from October 15 for which SOP (Standard Operating Procedure) will be issued by the Union Information and Broadcasting Ministry. The Collector, in his order said students of classes IX to XII are permitted to visit schools in areas outside containment zones. Opening of schools would be in a phased manner. Class X and XII will start from October 5 while classes for IX and XI will begin from October 12. Detailed SOP would be issued by the Directorate of School Education, Puducherry. Listing out various activities that have been reopened in a calibrated manner, the order said that all shops and establishments and private offices would function between 6 am and 9 pm only. Hotels, restaurants including the dining in would function from 6 am to 9 pm and parcels and takeaways would be permitted upto 10 pm. Liquor shops and bars which remained closed all these months shall open as per licensing conditions, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-allows-opening-of-theatres-schools-under-unlock-5-guidelines-895756.html
01-10-2020||South||Tamil Nadu launches 'One Nation, One Ration Card' plan, joins nation-wide portability||Facilitating inter and intra state portability, Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Thursday launched the "One Nation One Ration Card Scheme" allowing beneficiaries to receive essential commodities from Public Distribution Outlets anywhere in Tamil Nadu and in other states that have already been integrated under the plan. Marking the launch of the scheme, which is operational effective Thursday in as many as 32 districts including Chennai, Kancheepuram, Chengelpet and Tiruvallur, Palaniswami gave away commodities to three card holders at the state secretariat. From October 16, six other districts including Thanjavur, Ramanathapuram and Madurai covering the entire state, an official release here said. With the implementation of the plan, Tamil Nadu card holders, on migration to states connected to the scheme could get food grains as per their entitlement under the NFSA and similarly, those coming to Tamil Nadu would be able to get commodities at the Central issue price. Biometric authentication is required for availing the benefits under the plan. Card holders of Tamil Nadu, who could not carry out biometric based authentication may receive commodities by receiving One Time Password in their registered mobile phones or by scanning Aadhar or existing smart cards, the government said. If elderly people or beneficiaries who could not be present at the PDS outlets to get entitlements, they may receive commodities by sending their authorised representatives to shops. The One Nation One Ration Card Scheme facilitates delivery of subsidised food grains to all National Food Security Act beneficiaries. It is operational in 22 states including Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan and union territories of Jammu and Kashmir, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu and the entire nation is expected to be connected under the plan by March 2021, according to the Centre. The Public Distribution System in Tamil Nadu was computerised at a cost of Rs 330 crore and the state subsequently rolled out 'Smart Cards" (integrated with Aaadhar) to ration card holders in 2017. Also, the Centre's Integrated Management of Public Distribution System (IM-PDS) was implemented which enables migratory ration card holders to receive food grains from any Fair Price Shop (FPS) located anywhere in the country by using their ration card issued in their home states or union territories after biometric authentication on electronic Point of Sale (ePoS) devices installed at the FPS. Minister for Co-operation, Sellur K Raju, Food Minister R Kamaraj, Chief Secretary K Shanmugam and senior state officials participated in the scheme's launch.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-launches-one-nation-one-ration-card-plan-joins-nation-wide-portability-895777.html
01-10-2020||South||Proactive steps behind low Covid-19 fatality rate in Kerala's Pathanamthitta district||Pathanamthitta district in Kerala is setting model with its proactive measures that are helping to keep the case fatality rate at the lowest level, despite having considerable elderly population. The southern district was earlier in the news for effective Covid-19 contact tracing measures as well as the recovery of an aged couple. Reaching out to the elderly population, opening exclusive dialysis facility for Covid-19 patients, early initiation of plasmapheresis, engaging private hospitals for medical care and meticulous care for Covid-19 patients are key factors that are helping in keeping the mortality rate to 0.076 per cent, which is the lowest in the district. This achievement has been highlighted as a model in the latest weekly review report of the Covid-19 situation by the Kerala health department. The mortality rate of Kerala as a whole in also comparatively low, 0.38 per cent. With regard to the total number of Covid-19 cases also, Pathanamthitta is the district with third lowest numbers of 7,845 cases so far, of which six died. Idukki with 3,792 cases and three deaths and Wayand with 3,643 cases and five deaths are the other districts with low cases. But the fatality rate of Idukki and Wayanad districts are slightly higher than Pathanamthitta. Pathanamthitta district medical officer Dr A L Sheeja told DH that the district has an elderly population of around 2.5 lakh and a considerable number of them are staying alone at houses. Considering this, the health and social justice departments initiated proactive measures like preparing an accurate database of the elderly and health teams reaching out to them regularly to meet their medical requirements. Medicines were also being distributed to the needy. The cooperation of elderly people with health workers was also a key factor. Dr Sheeja said once it was noticed that many undergoing dialysis regularly were getting Covid infection, one of the dialysis centres in the district was made exclusive for Covid-19 patients and non-Covid patients were advised to seek the service of the other four dialysis centres in the district. Meticulous care at Kottayam medical college, which is functioning as the referral hospital for the district, is also a contributing factor to the low fatality rate. Recovery of a couple hailing from Pathanamthitta, who was aged around 90, at the Kottayam medical college had received much attention during the initial months of the Covid-19 breakout in Kerala. Over 70 per cent of those who died of Covid-19 in Kerala were aged above 60 and 98 per cent of the deaths occurred among people with co-morbidity. Hence proactive interventions among these segments assumed much significance, said health department sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/proactive-steps-behind-low-covid-19-fatality-rate-in-keralas-pathanamthitta-district-895799.html
01-10-2020||South||Kerala HC rejects plea to adjourn nun rape case citing Covid-19||The Kerala High Court on Thursday rejected a petition of the former bishop of Jalandhar, Franco Mulakkal, seeking to adjourn the trial in the nun rape case for two months considering the Covid-19 situation. It directed the accused to seek the option of trial through video conferencing. Mulakkal moved the petition maintaining that owing to the pandemic, it would be difficult for lawyers to reach the court and hence the trial may be adjourned for two months. But the prosecution strongly objected to it citing the threats being faced by the witnesses in the case and the need to expedite the trial. It also suggested trial through video conferencing. The court directed Mulakkal to make a plea before the trial court for conducting the proceedings through video conferencing. The trial in the rape case against Mulakkal commenced at a court at Kottayam district last month. The court restrained the media from reporting the in-camera trial procedures. A nun of a convent at Kuravilangad in Kottayam district alleged that Franco sexually assaulted her 13 times between 2014 and 2016 at the convent. He was charged under various sections of Indian Penal Code for rape, unnatural sex, illegal detention and criminal intimidation. The Supreme Court earlier rejected Mulakkal's discharge petition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-rejects-plea-to-adjourn-nun-rape-case-citing-covid-19-895808.html
01-10-2020||South||Textile firm ties up with NGO to save livelihoods of differently-abled||47-year-old Murugan has been running a corner shop in Kannagi Nagar here for the past one year making anywhere between Rs 300 to Rs 400 a day. But the Covid-19 lockdown turned his life upside down with none turning up at his shop to buy things leaving him and his family in penury. However, there is hope for Murugan. On Friday, he will be among the 23 physically challenged persons who will receive assistance from a textile major to sell face masks, face shields and other products that could save one from getting infected with Covid-19 on their three-wheelers. This has been possible due to a partnership between Loyal Textiles Limited, Inclusion Beyond Abilities Trust (iBAT), which has been working the differently abled for the past 20 years, and Tamil Nadu Differently Abled Federation Charitable Trust, Chennai (TNDFCT) headed by Dr P Simmachandran. “We get to hear wearing masks will be mandatory for at least another year and I hope to make some money everyday by selling masks. As my house is close to the IT corridor, I plan to park my vehicle on the main road and sell face masks. I am told the quality is good and I am sure people will buy. I am told I can make Rs 200 to Rs 300 a day in the form of commission by selling these masls,” Murugan told DH. The three-wheelers of the beneficiaries will be fitted with umbrellas, boxes and show platforms to display face masks and shields for them to move around the city and sell the products, ensuring livelihood in times of Covid-19. These mobile kiosks will sell masks and other products from the range of Rs 20 to Rs 90 and the company says the products are scientifically designed to deal with viral transmissions and have been tested and certified by reputed labs in India and abroad. The initiative, which will be launched in Chennai on Friday by state minister Kadambur Raju in the presence of Loyal Textile Mills CEO A Velliangiri, will be expanded across Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, and Karnataka in the coming months. “When I saw a post on Facebook by a senior member of the Loyal Textiles team that they were looking for distributors to sell their reasonably-priced masks, I thought why not use this opportunity to help differently-abled people. When I approached the company, they were more than happy to associate with the cause,” Lakshmi Ravishankar, Founder & Managing Trustee of IBAT, told DH. Devadas Dhamodaraswamy, Chief Technology and Business Development Officer at Loyal Textile Mills Limited, said the programmee has been designed in a way that the differently-abled persons to take anywhere between Rs 200 to Rs 300 home every day by selling the masks. “We have identified around 10 shops where the beneficiaries can collect the products in the morning and get their commissions at the end of the day. This way we thought we can ensure the livelihood of such people,” he told DH. Lakshmi Ravishankar said the project of ensuring livelihood of differently abled persons will be expanded to Maharashtra, where 5,000 differently-abled persons have already registered with IBAT, and Karnataka very soon. “By this method, we are ensuring a source of regular income for the disabled. The prices of the products are also reasonable, and we hope this light up the lives of people who are in distress due to Covid-19 lockdown,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/textile-firm-ties-up-with-ngo-to-save-livelihoods-of-differently-abled-895854.html
01-10-2020||South||Tamil Nadu BJP IT Wing chief shares Hathras victim's video, stokes row||The chief of IT Wing of the Tamil Nadu BJP has stoked a controversy by sharing the video of the Hatras victim and accusing the Congress of doing “cheap politics” on innocent people. C T R Nirmal Kumar on Wednesday posted a tweet along with the video of the 19-year-old girl who was allegedly gang raped saying she “never mentions rape” in her statement. “This is the video of #Hatras victim. She speaks fluently, Her tongue was not cut. Neither mentions anything about 'rape'. "Italian Mafia's" always does cheap politics on innocent people,” he wrote on his verified Twitter page. Activists pointed out that Nirmal Kumar violated Supreme Court guidelines by identifying the victim. After his tweet went viral, activists and other Twitter users condemned the IT Wing chief for his comments and posting the video of the girl. However, Nirmal Kumar justified his action saying his “intention” was to “carry the truth which most of the media failed.” “19-year-old innocent (girl) had lot of courage, gave an interview. She wanted people to know the truth. But no media carried this message. Rather only rumours like tongue was cut were spread. We definitely wanted maximum punishment for these criminals. Intention of my tweet was to carry the truth which most of the media failed yesterday,” he wrote. He also said media and opposition should stop politicising such incidents and asked them not to conclude from “WhatsApp university” before an official statement from the government or police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-bjp-it-wing-chief-shares-hathras-victims-video-stokes-row-895855.html
01-10-2020||South||Late CM Jayalalithaa’s close aide Thanga Tamilselvan gets key responsibility in DMK||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), on Thursday, named a trusted aide of late J Jayalalithaa as secretary of its newly-formed Theni (North) district, a key responsibility as the unit includes the assembly constituency currently represented by deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam. Thanga Tamilselvan, who was handpicked by Jayalalithaa to represent Andipatti assembly constituency from where she won twice, is a bete noire of Panneerselvam though they once belonged to the AIADMK. In fact, it was Tamilselvan who was the first to raise a rebellion against Panneerselvam after he was sworn-in as Chief Minister in 2016 after Jayalalithaa’s death and demanded that he hand over the chair to V K Sasikala. Tamilselvan, who joined the DMK in 2019 after a fallout with AIADMK rebel T T V Dhinakaran, has now been tasked to ensure party’s victory in Bodinayakkanur, currently held by OPS, and Periyakulam that have been added to the Theni (North) district. Appointment of Tamilselvan, who has considerable influence in the Thevar-dominated district as he too hails from the caste, is significant as the DMK makes a concerted effort to eat into the AIADMK’s vote base in Theni district, which has traditionally stood with the ruling party since the days of legendary M G Ramachandran. DMK’s organizational structure in Theni district is weak, but the party had won the Andipatti, held by both MGR and Jayalalithaa in the past, and Periyakulam, from where OPS had won in 2001 and 2006, during the by-elections held in 2019. By appointing Tamilselvan to take on OPS, the DMK, which hopes to form the government in 2021 after a gap of 10 years, has taken the fight into the senior AIADMK leader’s bastion, who is already feeling sidelined in his own party.   “Tamilselvan was actually waiting for such a responsibility and no doubt it is a challenging task for him as both Bodinayakanur and Periyakulam are traditional AIADMK strongholds. He now faces the task of strengthening the party at the grassroots and deliver in the district where he holds considerable influence,” a senior DMK leader told Deccan Herald. Though the district has just four assembly constituencies, the DMK has bifurcated the party organisation in Theni district to facilitate better administration and good results in the next assembly elections.  Tamilselvan was elected from Andipatti in 2001 assembly elections but resigned within four months to pave the way for Jayalalithaa to contest. When Jayalalithaa represented the seat from 2002 to 2011, Tamilselvan was her “representative” in the constituency. As a reward for vacating the seat, Tamilselvan was sent to Rajya Sabha in 2002 and he successfully contested 2011 and 2016 assembly elections from Andipatti. However, he was disqualified as a legislator after he sided with Dhinakaran in 2017 and contested the 2019 elections from Theni Lok Sabha seat on behalf of Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam but lost to OPS’ son O P Raveendranath. He joined the DMK months after losing the polls following differences with Dhinakaran.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/late-cm-jayalalithaa-s-close-aide-thanga-tamilselvan-gets-key-responsibility-in-dmk-895857.html
01-10-2020||South||CBI probe into Kerala housing project to continue||In a setback to Kerala government in its tussle with CBI, Kerala High Court on Thursday did not issue any stay on the CBI probe into the alleged irregularities and kickbacks in a UAE agency funded housing project of Kerala government. The court even orally mentioned that the probe may continue. Kerala government on Wednesday filed a petition seeking quashing of the FIR filed by the CBI alleging that there were political and extraneous considerations behind the CBI decision to file the FIR on the basis of a petition given by Congress MLA Anil Akkara. A single bench of the high court that considered the petition on Thursday maintained that it could not interfere with the investigation at this stage and also orally remarked that the CBI investigation shall go on. The court will consider the case again next Thursday. The court also pointed out that CBI did not arraign anyone as accused so far, but only summoned officials to produce documents pertaining to the matter. The case pertained to alleged commissions and irregularities involved in a Rs 20 crore housing scheme for 140 families funded by the UAE-based Red Crescent initiated under the state government's flagship LIFE Mission scheme. Kerala gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh, who was a former employee of the UAE consulate in Kerala, was among those suspected to have received a commission in the deal. Opposition parties alleged that the Rs 20 crore project involved Rs nine crore commission and many in the government received it. The state government's major contention against CBI probe was that it did not involve FCRA violation. The foreign fund was received by the private agencies carrying out the construction. The state also alleged that registration of a case by CBI just on the basis of a complaint was certainly on political considerations. Meanwhile, Kerala Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau also registered a case on Wednesday in the matter. No one was arraigned in the case. The probe was initiated as per Kerala government's order and the opposition alleged that he Vigilance probe was an attempt to scuttle CBI probe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cbi-probe-into-kerala-housing-project-to-continue-895865.html
01-10-2020||South||Kerala Left Front leader in customs custody in connection with gold smuggling probe||The Kerala gold smuggling case caused further embarrassment to the ruling Left Front in Kerala as a Left Front municipal councillor was being quizzed by the customs and raids were being held at his premises. Karat Faisal, a Left Democratic Front councillor at Koduvally municipality in Kozhikode, was taken into custody by Customs (Preventive) unit probing the gold smuggling using the cover of diplomatic baggage addressed to the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. Customs was also learnt to have conducted raids at a couple of premises, including a private hospital co-owned by Faisal. Faisal, who was involved in a gold smuggling case earlier also, was suspected to be a key person involved in the present gold smuggling racket comprising the UAE consulate former employees. The customs was learnt to have received evidence regarding Faisal's link with some of the key accused in the gold smuggling who were already held. Faisal was in the news couple of years back when CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan used his luxury car during a demonstration of the party. With Faisal coming under customs probe, Kerala Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala alleged that as the probe into the gold smuggling was progressing, the Left Front in Kerala was under the grip of fear. The gold smuggling case already caused much embarrassment to the Left Front government as Higher Education Minister K T Jaleel, Chief Minister's former principal secretary M Sivasankar and CPM state secretary's son Bineesh Kodiyeri came under probes by various central agencies into the gold smuggling rackets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-left-front-leader-in-customs-custody-in-connection-with-gold-smuggling-probe-895873.html
01-10-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh: Interstate gang targeting temple treasures nabbed by Chittoor police||The Andhra Pradesh police has apprehended eight members of an interstate gang, including five men from Karnataka, which is targeting the Hindu temples for the rumoured hidden treasures. The Chittoor district police have arrested the gang on Wednesday for their involvement in the desecration of a Nandi statue at the Abhaya-Anjaneya Swamy temple at Agaramangalam of Gangadhara Nellore Mandal on 26 September. The band is found to have visited several famous holy towns like Kanipakam, Mantralayam, Mahanandi, Tirupati, Kadiri is suspected of hatching plans to break into the temples there.    The arrest comes at a time when a flurry of vandal incidents reported at various temples across the state has rattled the YSRCP government. The TDP, BJP and JanaSena are rallying over the communally sensitive matter, attempting to connect the miscreant acts as a methodical attack on Hindu temples and traditions under CM Jaganmohan Reddy’s watch. According to Chittoor Superintendent of Police Senthil Kumar, the ancient stone idol of Nandi in front of the Lord Siva shrine in the premises had previously developed cracks which were filled with lead.  A rumour then spread around that the temple authorities placed gold, panchaloha, navaratna etc., valuables inside the Nandi figurine before sealing with the liquid metal. On Saturday night, the offenders scaled the temple compound wall, extricated the Nandi idol, shifted behind the temple, and cracked it. The incident following mutilation of religious idols in Krishna district, gutting of the Antarvedi temple chariot and silver figurines theft at Vijayawada Kanakadurga temple – all in September - alarmed the Chittoor police. State DGP Gautam Sawang promised to solve the case with a swift probe. On Wednesday morning, special police teams constituted for the purpose detained eight persons found wandering suspiciously at Kanipakam, famous for the Vinayaka temple.  While the gang’s mastermind Kuruva Somasekhar (24) is from Kurnool, MS Manikanta (30) is from Tumkur, JL Naveen (35) and M Vikas (34) are from Tiptur, S Kiran Kumar (39) from Chikmagalur and Ashok Kumar (57) from Bijapur. Rest two are from Chittoor.  Topu of Bangalore, Ladda of Madanapalli and Yogi of Tiptur are still on the run.  “During interrogation, we found that the gang members toured in places like Kanipakam, Mantralayam, Mahanandi, Tirupati, Kadiri. We suspect they have conspired to break into those temples too,” Kumar told DH.  However, police assert that the gang is uninvolved, unconnected with other recent temple incidents in AP.   “The gang’s modus operandi is identifying ancient temples, and with the assistance of local bad hats verifying about the treasures believed to be hidden. They recce and finally break-in, damage the idols, or dig in the temple premises for troves,” the official said.  Main accused Somasekhar was earlier booked under various sections of the IPC, Indian Treasure Trove Act 1878, and the Explosive Substance Act 1908.  The police seized a hammer, chisels, tweezer, six gas cylinders, 16 cell phones and two cars from the accused offenders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-interstate-gang-targeting-temple-treasures-nabbed-by-chittoor-police-895886.html
01-10-2020||South||Goldman Sachs unveils plans to expand to Hyderabad; to begin operations in 2021||Investment banking firm Goldman Sachs has on Thursday revealed its plans to operate from Hyderabad, in addition to its current location in Bangalore. According to an official statement, the Hyderabad office is expected to commence in the second half of 2021 with about 500 employees, “and has potential for future growth.” The new office will be the second location for Goldman Sachs services in India and will complement the Bengaluru office footprint in terms of both the execution and support that it will provide to the firm’s businesses globally, the company said. Representatives of Goldman Sachs have interacted with Telangana’s IT and investments minister KT Rama Rao through a virtual conference and explained their plans to come to Hyderabad. Rao responded positively and stated that the government will provide complete support to the firm’s future ventures. The Hyderabad plan is said to be part of the financial services firm’s India location strategy “to diversify its geographic presence and enhance talent reach, to support the growing global businesses and enhance long-term competitiveness.” “The new centre will leverage the expertise of the existing leadership in the Bengaluru office, while investing in a strong pool of competitive world-class local talent. Key criteria for the new office location included the availability of commercial real estate and housing for employees, a diverse talent pool, quality infrastructure in the city, and support and commitment from the local government,” the statement said. The Bengaluru Office with over half of its 6,000 employees as engineers, will continue to be a major location for Goldman Sachs in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/goldman-sachs-unveils-plans-to-expand-to-hyderabad-to-begin-operations-in-2021-895896.html
01-10-2020||South||TTD to conduct Navaratri Brahmotsavams from October 16, with limited public participation||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams has decided to conduct the Navaratri Brahmotsavams of Lord Venkateshwara with limited public participation. The annual 10-day Salakatla Brahmotsavams, which concluded on Sunday were held without the common devotees in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The temple officials who on Thursday reviewed the arrangements for the second Brahmotsavams this year chose to conduct the procession of vahana sevas in the four Mada streets allowing a limited number of pilgrims. The Navaratri Brahmotsavams would commence on 16 October. Only those devotees with darshan tickets would be allowed inside the galleries including on the Garuda Seva day, TTD officials said. The morning vahana sevas will take place between 8 am and 10 am while the evening sevas would be between 7 pm and 9 pm including the most prominent Garuda Seva on October 20. On the sixth day, falling on October 21, Pushpaka Vimana Seva would be held while the procession of the deity on the golden chariot will take place on October 23. The annual fete concludes with the Chakrasnanam on October 24. TTD Executive Officer shifted In a change in administration of the revered temple, the Jaganmohan Reddy government has on Wednesday transferred the EO Anil Kumar Singhal posting him as Principal Secretary, health, and family welfare department. Additional EO Dharma Reddy, who chaired the Thursday meeting, is given the EO post charge till further orders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ttd-to-conduct-navaratri-brahmotsavams-from-october-16-with-limited-public-participation-895909.html
01-10-2020||South||Lockdown: Gathering of more than five banned in Kerala till Oct 31, Section 144 of CrPC to be enforced||Kerala government banned the gathering of more than five people at a time from October 3 to 31 in view of the surge in Covid-19. Provisions of CrPC Section 144 will be enforced in the state in this regard. Kerala has been witnessing a steep increase in the number of Covid-19 cases over the last few weeks. With 8,135 more fresh cases on Thursday, the total number of persons infected so far reached 2,04,241, while the number of active cases reached 72,339. According to an order issued by Kerala Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta, public gatherings pose and impending danger of COVID super spread. Hence assembly or gathering of more than five people cannot be permitted. However, existing relaxations for weddings and funerals would continue. District collectors were directed to issue area-specific directives considering ground situations. An all-party meeting convened by the chief minister on Tuesday had decided not to go for a total shutdown in the near future considering the inconvenience it would cause to the people. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday announced that at least 50,000 jobs will be created in the next 100 days as part of the efforts to address unemployment caused by COVID.  All government departments were directed to immediately report all vacancies to the Kerala Public Service Commission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lockdown-gathering-of-more-than-five-banned-in-kerala-till-oct-31-section-144-of-crpc-to-be-enforced-895967.html
01-10-2020||South||Tamil Nadu's Covid-19 case count tops six lakh-mark||With an addition of 5,600 plus new Covid-19 cases, Tamil Nadu on Thursday crossed six lakh virus cases while the toll mounted to 9,586 with 66 more fatalities. The tally of positive cases stood at 6,03,290 which includes 5,688 new infections. Over a span of nearly three months, the state has added a whopping 5,00,569 cases as Tamil Nadu had crossed the one lakhmark (1,02,721 cases) on July 3. Tamil Nadu, which breached the five lakh cases on September 13 has added a little more than one lakh cases in 17 days. On that day, the state's case tally and total recoveries stood at 5,02,759 and 4,47,366 respectively. As on October 1, the recoveries increased to 5.47 lakh with 5,516 patients getting discharged from various hospitals and active cases were 46,369, a health department bulletin said. As many as 87,647 RT-PCR samples were tested and cumulatively 74.41 lakh specimens examined. Those dead include three men aged 37, 38 and 93 and in total 57 had co-morbidities and nine no chronic diseases. Today's fresh infections include Chennai's 1,289, Coimbatore 550, Chengelpet 356, Tiruvallur 260 and Kancheepuram 148. The toll of 9,586 covers the state capital's 3,228 Chengelpet 560, Coimbatore 444, and Tiruvallur 550.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadus-covid-19-case-count-tops-six-lakh-mark-895969.html
01-10-2020||State||A year after devastating floods in Belagavi, relief a mirage for many||Among the hundreds of villages inundated in the worst floods in over a century last year was Hampiholi, in Ramdurg taluk, Belagavi. Over 250 houses were damaged due to the swollen Malaprabha, locals say. A year on and another round of flooding later, 80 victims in the village are yet to receive relief for the collapsed houses. They are among the 9,000 odd victims in Belagavi district alone, awaiting compensation from the state, according to officials. According to the government, only 1,808 of the 34,528 houses identified for relief were complete. In the 17 flood-hit districts 34,528 houses were damaged -- 9,635 completely and 24,893 partially. Of these, only 1,808 were complete, while works of 5,793 houses were yet to begin. Housing Minister V Somanna, in his response to Hukkeri MLA Umesh Katti in the Legislative Assembly, said that 3,129 houses were yet to be certified. Hanumanth Ambiger, one of the victims, is currently sheltered at a room in the local gram panchayat building along with his wife and two children. “I have applied for relief and also spoke to tahsildar about it. But money is not sanctioned even after GPS certification of the collapsed house was done,” he told DH. “For many houses, even GPS certification is not taken up,” said Basappa, another resident. Activist Ashok Chandaragi said that more than 9,000 houses were yet to receive relief in Belagavi district. M G Hiremath, deputy commissioner of Belagavi district said that around 9,000 houses were yet to receive relief. “These include partially damaged houses -- classified in three categories and those which collapsed completely. We have sent details on the government,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/a-year-after-devastating-floods-in-belagavi-relief-a-mirage-for-many-895516.html
01-10-2020||State||Karnataka clears major tie up with Tata Technologies||The Karnataka Cabinet on Thursday is learnt to have approved a major partnership with Tata Technologies Ltd for the modernization of 150 state-run Industrial Training Institutes (ITI) at a cost of Rs 4,636 crore. The Tatas will revamp the training with state-of-the-art infrastructure in order to bridge the skill gap, which the government hopes will provide better employment opportunities for ITI students. According to sources, the Tatas will invest Rs 4,080 crore on 150 ITIs, which is about Rs 27.20 crore on each institute. The company will also take up maintenance of the 150 ITIs for a 5-year period free of cost. Over the next two years, 300 people will be made trainers and the company will also create an online platform. The partnership will cost Rs 657 crore to the state government, which will be borrowed with the Tatas as the bank guarantor, sources said. The project is anchored by the Skill Development, Entrepreneurship & Livelihood department headed by Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan.“The partnership will involve new technology, equipment and industrial linkage to create technology hubs to train people in line with the requirements of businesses within and outside the state,” according to a note prepared by the government. The Karnataka Skill Development Corporation will spend Rs 105 crore from its own available funds to take up building repairs, additional electricity requirements and other works for the partnership. Karnataka has 1,713 ITIs - 270 government, 196 aided and 1,247 private - where some 1.8 lakh students are enrolled. Of the 270 state-run ITIs, 150 have their own building. Auditing firm KPMG has been roped in as a knowledge partner for this partnership for a period of 24 months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-clears-major-tie-up-with-tata-technologies-895826.html
01-10-2020||State||Karnataka cabinet decides to re-promulgate three controversial ordinances||The Karnataka cabinet on Thursday decided to re-promulgate three controversial ordinances after the bills introduced to replace them could not get passed in the state legislative council during the recently concluded session of the Legislature, official sources said. While the Industrial Disputes and Certain Other Laws (Karnataka Amendment) Bill 2020, that tweaks labour laws, was passed in the legislative assembly, it got defeated in the council by the united opposition of Congress and JD(S), as they enjoy majority there. The Karnataka Land Reforms (Second) Amendment Bill, 2020 and the Karnataka Agriculture Produce Marketing (Regulation and Development) (Amendment) Bill, 2020, also passed by the assembly, were not adopted by the upper House as it was adjourned sine die on the intervening night of September 26 and 27. Official sources said as the ordinance promulgated earlier will lapse in six weeks after the legislature session, if a replacement bill to it is not passed by both the Houses, it has now been decided to re-promulgate the ordinances. While the amendments to land reform act liberalises farmland ownership, the APMC amendment bill curtails the powers of local Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMC) and allows private individuals to start agricultural trading, if they hold a permanent account number (PAN). The bill that tweaks labour laws is aimed at making only those establishments that employ 300 or more people will have to seek the government's permission for closure, retrenchment or layoff. It also proposed to increase the overtime work of employees in any quarter from 75 to 125 hours. Farmer and labour organisations, also opposition parties, especially the Congress, had vehemently opposed the three bills calling them "anti-people" and had even called for a state wide bandh on September 28 opposing it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cabinet-decides-to-re-promulgate-three-controversial-ordinances-895893.html
01-10-2020||State||Babri verdict: Ex-law minister Veerappa Moily calls it 'travesty of justice'||Former law minister M Veerappa Moily on Thursday said acquittal of all the accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case by a special CBI court was a "travesty of justice", and claimed that the verdict reflects "insensitiveness" on the part of the judiciary. The senior Congress leader also said the judgment is not consistent with the observation made by the Supreme Court in 2019 that the demolition of the mosque was an "egregious violation of the rule of law". All the 32 accused, including BJP veterans L K Advani and MM Joshi, in the Babri masjid demolition case were acquitted on Wednesday by the special CBI court in Lucknow which said there was no conclusive proof against them. Another senior Congress leader P Chidambaram also criticized the verdict, saying "the trial court’s verdict defies logic and common sense, besides denying the conclusions of the Supreme Court!". "‘No one killed Jessica’ was the anguished cry a few years ago. ‘No one demolished the mosque’ is the anguished cry today," Chidambaram tweeted. In a statement, Moily said the verdict of the case reflects the "insensitiveness" on the part of the CBI and also the judiciary. "Babri Masjid was demolished, the evidence of which is very clear as two years of Rath Yatra was conducted with volunteers carrying bricks and other materials for the construction of Ram Mandir in the place of Babri Masjid. To say that there is no evidence for demolition of Babri Masjid is a travesty of justice," Moily said. "The Rath Yatra and the consequent demolition of Babri Masjid had been done amid the gaze of the entire nation and the entire world had witnessed the act. The judicial consciousness, and insensitivity of CBI failed to read the evidence written on the wall," said Moily, who was also the law minister from May 2009 to May 2011. There was an "institutional conspiracy" to indulge in the act of sabotage, but the court could not pinpoint the conspirators, he claimed. There is no doubt that the benefit of the doubt goes to the accused, but when the conspiracy is clear and a criminal act has been carried out, how could the CBI judge exonerate everyone, he asked. "This demonstrates the fact that the judiciary has no eyes, ears or consciousness. The verdict has proved that truth and justice has no value in the country. The judgment is a bad reflection on the credibility of the judiciary," he alleged. In a judgment that ran to 2,300 pages with enclosures, the special CBI court said there was no conclusive evidence against the 32 accused of being involved in any conspiracy to bring down the disputed structure in Ayodhya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/babri-verdict-ex-law-minister-veerappa-moily-calls-it-travesty-of-justice-895905.html
01-10-2020||State||Cops arrest 3 drug peddlers, seize 45 kg ganja||The JC Nagar police have arrested three interstate drug peddlers and seized 45 kg ganja and 70 grams MDMA. The arrested are Kadugodi resident Jindo James, 29, and Attibele residents Adarsh M, 27, and Unmesh Xavier, 32). All three hail from Kerala. Police said the trio were caught when they had come to sell ganja on Bore Bank Road in Benson Town in a car on September 23. They possessed five kg ganja and 20 grams of MDMA. During interrogation, the trio confessed to the police that they bought ganja from Lubin Amalnath, who the Jalahalli police had recently arrested and sent to Parappana Agrahara central jail. James further told police that Amalnath procured the drugs from a peddler in Visakhapatnam, while buying the MDMA from a Nigerian drug seller. They brought huge quantities of ganja through trucks to the city and ferried the consignment to the apartment in their cars. They later sold it to small-time peddlers and consumers. Peddler for a decade James, a graduate, became friends with drug peddlers since he could not get a job. He became involved in the drug trade a decade ago, but was caught only now by the JC Nagar police.  He told the police that he bought ganja for Rs 3,000 a kilo and sold it for nearly Rs 25,000. In Bengaluru, he rented two flats and stockpiled drugs. James led a lavish life from the drug money.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cops-arrest-3-drug-peddlers-seize-45-kg-ganja-895944.html
01-10-2020||State||PPP model to ramp up Covid-19 testing in Karnataka, says K Sudhakar||Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar, who is in charge of Covid-19 affairs, has his fingers crossed on what Unlock 5.0 would mean for Karnataka. DH's Bharath Joshi caught up with the minister for a quick chat. Excerpts:  As someone who has always advocated caution, how do you see Unlock 5.0 playing out? Because our spike (in cases) happened very late, we’re in the middle of that spiking process. So, we need to be more vigilant, take more accurate and aggressive measures. Positivity rate has increased across India, with some states reporting 20-40%. We’re going to go big on awareness. Next, as part of enforcement, we’ve hiked the penalty for not wearing a mask. We’re reducing the number of guests at functions and congregations to 50, despite the Centre allowing up to 200 people.  Is there a concern with false positives?  False positives are very less in Rapid Antigen Testing (RAT). However, I won’t deny it. But, the only worrying factor for me with RAT is false negatives with asymptomatic people. If symptomatic people are shown as positive, it means the RAT accuracy is over 90%. We still want to increase RT-PCR testing, which is the gold standard. We want to increase our testing capacity to one lakh, which will happen in about 10 days.  How do you plan on scaling up testing?  We’re going for a public-private partnership (PPP). We don’t want to invest again. The government will provide facilities and those with ICMR permission and NABL accreditation should invest in equipment, reagents and everything else. We will pay them based on tests done. We’ve floated a tender for this. The cost of testing, which wehave fixed at Rs 1,200 now, will decrease further.  What after scaling up testing?  We want to do more targeted testing and focus on people who work in crowded places such as markets, those with comorbidities or above 60 years of age and contacts of infected people, whom we want to trace within 48 hours for early detection.  Bengaluru was divided into zones for Covid-19 management. Has it worked? Systems will work only if citizens cooperate. This is a huge pandemic. I’ll also concede that there’s fatigue among local officers and personnel. That’s why we wanted a citizen-driven mechanism with booth-level committees. Unfortunately, civil society hasn’t actively responded the way we expected. People still expect health workers or the BBMP to do things.  Everybody is waiting for the Covid-19 vaccine.  We’re anticipating a vaccine to come as early as January 2021. I’m also in touch with scientists at Astra Zeneca and Oxford University. They’re very confident. Soon after clinical trials, it’ll be a dependable vaccine ready for general use.  What about distributing the vaccine? The Centre will spearhead the distribution. This is the right time to sit and plan well in advance. The state government will hold meetings this month. Karnataka’s health system network is robust with PHCs and anganwadis. We will ensure proper distribution to all villages and that every citizen gets it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ppp-model-to-ramp-up-covid-19-testing-in-karnataka-says-k-sudhakar-895949.html
01-10-2020||State||Air Force Training Command gets new chief||Air Marshal R D Mathur took over as Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief (AOC-in-C) of Training Command, Indian Air Force (IAF), in Bengaluru on Thursday. The Air Marshal took over the command from Air Marshal A S Butola. Air Marshal Mathur was commissioned into the IAF in June 1982 as a fighter pilot. His flying experience is said to be more than 5,100 hours on a variety of fighter aircraft, trainers and helicopters in the inventory of Indian Air Force.  Mathur was Commanding Officer of a fighter squadron and has also commanded a frontline Fighter Base, the IAF said in a statement.  As an Air Vice Marshal, he held the coveted appointments of Assistant Chief of Air Staff Operations (Space) at Air HQ Vayu Bhawan and Air Defence Commander at HQ Eastern Air Command.  As an Air Marshal, he held the appointment of Senior Air Staff Officer at HQ South Western Air Command, Gandhinagar. Before his present appointment, he was AOC-in-C Eastern Air Command.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/air-force-training-command-gets-new-chief-895950.html
01-10-2020||State||HAL’s helicopter division gets new CEO||The helicopter division of Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) saw the appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer (CEO) on Thursday. S Anbuvelan, a 34-year-veteran of the firm, was handed the CEO position. He was previously heading the Helicopter Division as Executive Director. “My focus will be to ensure quality products and services and timely delivery from the Helicopter Complex,” Anbuvelan said. He holds a BE in Mechanical Engineering from Alagappa Chettiar College of Engineering, Karaikudi, Tamil Nadu, and a Masters of Technology in Aircraft Production Engineering from IIT Madras. He also holds a postgraduate Diploma in Business Management from XIME, Bengaluru. He joined HAL as a management trainee (technical) in 1986. He was involved in productionising ALH’s integrated transmission assembly, ramping up production of ALH gear boxes, reduction of snags during equipping of ALH and quality improvements in the repairs and overhauls of Cheetah and Chetak helicopters at Barrackpore. He also helped streamline ALH production.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hal-s-helicopter-division-gets-new-ceo-895960.html
01-10-2020||State||'Integrated regional offices not to hit autonomy of bodies'||The Union Government on Thursday assured the High Court that the independence or functional autonomy of regional offices will not be impeded by constituting 19 Integrated Regional Offices (IRO), comprising four independent authorities of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF and CC). The High Court directed the Union Government and the authorities to file affidavits on the notification. The MoEF and CC had issued the notification on August 13, 2020, proposing to constitute IROs in 19 locations in the country. A PIL, filed by Bengaluru-based engineer Giridhar Kulkarni, challenged the notification. The petition said though this was claimed as a mere administrative exercise, it defeats the object and purpose of setting up of the four entities - Forest Survey of India (FSI), National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), Central Zoo Authority (CZA) and Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB). According to the petition, MoEF said the decision of merger was taken as lack of coordination was found among the regional offices. The observation suffers from a foundational fallacy since the authorities are intended to be independent, the petition said. In its preliminary submission, the Central Government submitted that the notification was issued after due concurrence of Integrated Finance Division and does not involve creation of additional posts. The counsel assured that the notification does not intend to impede in any manner the independence or functional autonomy of the organisations. He clarified that none of the organisations are merged. The organisations, earlier located at only a few locations, now will be in all the 19 locations, including one IRO in Bengaluru.   A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka directed the Union Government and the organisations to file affidavits in response to the notification. The next hearing has been posted to October 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/integrated-regional-offices-not-to-hit-autonomy-of-bodies-895966.html
01-10-2020||State||Mega movies may take a while to hit the big screen as producers discuss release dates||Producers of big-budget films are thinking long and hard about when to release their films, now that cinema halls are reopening on October 15.  The central government on Wednesday said it would allow cinema halls to open, after a six-month pandemic break, with 50% seating. D R Jairaj, president of the Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce, is convening a meeting of producers, distributors and exhibitors to decide on how to go about with the resumption of business. “We have to first understand whether producers are willing to release films, especially the big-budget ones, and whether the exhibitors are in a position to bear the additional sanitation costs,” he told DH.  Some theatre owners, especially in Hubballi and Dharwad, plan to screen old hits starring Yash, Darshan, Sudeep and Puneeth. The idea is to test the waters before they start screening new films. D K Ramakrishna, president, Karnataka Film Producers Association, says 100% occupancy should be allowed. “We can follow all the standard operating procedures. Recovering costs is impossible with 50% occupancy.” Karnataka has 650 single-screen theatres and 250 multiplex screens, according to K V Chandrashekar, president of the Karnataka Film Exhibitors Association. “Theatre owners have incurred a loss of about Rs 800 crore over the last seven months. Every month we lose about Rs 120 crore,” he says. About 65% of total earnings go towards theatre maintenance, and the new sanitation rules put an additional financial burden on owners, he says.  Blockbuster-scale films ‘Roberrt’ and ‘Yuvarathnaa’ will not hit the screens right away. Tarun Sudhir, director of Darshan-starrer Roberrt, says the film is in post-production and the team is in no hurry, given the restrictions. “All sectors are affected. We don’t have any previous experience to go by. This is a peculiar situation,” he told DH. Coming but not so soon Sudeep-starrer ‘Kotigobba 3’, Duniya Vijay’s directorial ‘Salaga’ and Puneeth Rajkumar’s ‘Yuvarathnaa’ are ready for release. Santhosh Anandram, director of ‘Yuvarathnaa’, says big-budget film producers are wary. “We have to wait and see how things pick up. If everything goes well, ‘Yuvarathnaa’ may hit the screen for Christmas or Sankranti, not before that,” he says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mega-movies-may-take-a-while-to-hit-the-big-screen-as-producers-discuss-release-dates-895979.html
01-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Rising ridership amid Covid-19 pandemic major challenge for RTCs||Rising ridership amid a raging Covid-19 pandemic has come as a major challenge for the transport corporations, which are also under pressure to generate revenue to meet expenditures.  Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) saw the daily ridership touch 11 lakh by operating 5,000 of the 8,200 buses. In the pre-pandemic days, the corporation accounted for 30 lakh riders, including 9-10 lakh students, and operated nearly 8,000 buses.  Overcrowding, passengers not wearing masks and even employees not following social distancing rules have been reported from buses run by the four corporations across the state.  Officials in KSRTC and BMTC said they have given strict instructions not to allow passengers beyond the seating capacity, but admitted that violations were reported. "We are continuously monitoring the situation on the ground and deploying additional buses as per the demand to prevent overcrowding. There may be rare incidents where the buses are completely crowded," a senior official in KSRTC said. The BMTC is clocking daily ridership of 14 lakh and faces a major challenge in crowd management as, unlike KSRTC, dynamics of the crowd in a bus changes for each kilometre due to multiple bus stops. Still, officials went a step ahead and suspended a conductor for ignoring repeated warnings against overcrowding. "On the one hand, transport services are essential to people as well as the corporation's revenue. On the other, the new milestones of Covid-19 cases in Bengaluru are making all our standard operating procedures inadequate," a senior official said. The NEKRTC served a notice to a bus conductor for not wearing a mask while distributing tickets inside the bus scheduled to travel on the Koppal-Mundaragi route. Passengers in NWKRTC buses have taken to social media to complain about the violation of protocols in the vehicles. The government has extended aid to help the four corporations meet 75% of the expenditure and told them to generate the remaining 25%. An official said the corporations have no option but to continue the services in the best manner possible. "We are seeing a steady rise in the ridership of all corporations. That means, there are still people who have no option but to use public transport buses," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rising-ridership-amid-covid-19-pandemic-major-challenge-for-rtcs-895906.html
01-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Cabinet approves re-promulgation of ordinances on APMC, land reforms, labour||The Cabinet on Thursday is learnt to have approved the re-promulgation of three ordinances - APMC, land reforms and labour laws - as their Bills were not cleared in the recent legislature session. The ordinance on Industrial Disputes and Certain Other Laws (Karnataka Amendment), which relaxes some labour-related laws, will be promulgated once again after its Bill was defeated in the Legislative Council last week.  The Karnataka Land Reforms (Second) Amendment ordinance that liberalises agricultural landholdings and the Karnataka Agriculture Produce Marketing (Regulation and Development) (Amendment) ordinance that frees up agricultural trading will be re-promulgated after their Bills were not adopted in the Council despite passage in the Legislative Assembly. The ordinances will be re-promulgated as amendments effected by them, if not passed in the form of Bills by both Assembly and Council, will lapse six weeks after the adjournment of a legislature session. The Cabinet is also said to have approved the creation of the Maulana Azad Trust, with a corpus of Rs 25 crore, for educating backward Muslims.  According to sources, the Cabinet favoured two schemes aimed at construction labourers - procurement and distribution of safety kits to 90,000 workers at a cost of Rs 42.39 crore, and mason tool kits for 76,000 workers costing Rs 23.18 crore. Totally, these two kits will be given to 1.66 lakh workers registered with the Karnataka Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.  The Cabinet also discussed providing 8,980 tool kits free to SC/ST students enrolled in industrial training institutes at a cost of Rs 11.75 crore.  In other decisions, the Cabinet is said to have approved the revised estimate of Rs 98.93 crore for the construction of the Dr Jagjivan Ram Research and Training Centre on the premises of the homeless welfare centre on Magadi Road in Bengaluru, Rs 63 crore for the development of the gold mine at Devadurg taluk in Raichur, administrative approval for development works costing Rs 23.98 crore in Ramatirtha Nagar Layout in Belagavi, upgrading the Bableshwar gram panchayat to a town panchayat and extension of the concession in the concession agreement with the Bengaluru International Airport Ltd.  There was no customary press briefing due to the election model code of conduct that is in effect.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cabinet-approves-re-promulgation-of-ordinances-on-apmc-land-reforms-labour-895925.html
01-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||PG doctors challenge urban service rule in Karnataka HC||Post graduate degree and diploma medical students have filed an appeal before the High Court, challenging the notification envisaging one-year compulsory training in urban areas after the completion of the course. The appeal, filed by 281 students, contended that students have secured the seats under the private, management and NRI quotas and are paying huge tuition fee, ranging from Rs 6 lakh to Rs 75 lakh every year. The appeal filed by Dr Sadhwini M N and others challenged the notification dated July 23, 2020 and also the single judge bench order on August 30, 2020. The single judge passed a common order in which the validity of Section 4 of the Karnataka Compulsory Service Training by Candidates Completed Medical Course (KCS) Act 2012 was also upheld. As per Section 3 of the Act, the candidates are required to undergo one-year training in rural government hospitals after the completion of the MBBS course. Section 4 of the Act was amended in 2017. It envisages one-year compulsory training in urban areas after the completion of the PG course. The petitioners prayed for quashing of Section 4, stating that it negates the very purpose of the enactment. Though not parties before the single bench, the students submitted they moved the appeal because it applies to them. The counsel appearing for the petitioners said that the Director of Medical Education at the RGUHS is not issuing credentials to successful candidates in view of the notification and the single bench’s order. The petitioners submitted that the challenge was only against bringing them under the provision of the KCS Act and they have no issues serving under the Disaster Management Act. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S Kinagi ordered issuance of notice to the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pg-doctors-challenge-urban-service-rule-in-karnataka-hc-895961.html
01-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Closure notice to quarries within 1 km of Kappatagudda wildlife sanctuary||The Mines and Geology department has issued notice to 14 quarry owners/contractors to stop quarrying within 1 km of Kappatagudda wildlife sanctuary. The notices were issued following the direction by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change that no quarrying/mining should be allowed within 1 km of national parks and sanctuaries. A total of 11 stone quarries and two sand quarries and one soil quarry were operating close to the sanctuary. Rajesh, senior geologist of the department, told DH that the department had issued notice to 14 quarries on August 31 and seven of them have replied. “The quarry owners/contractors claim that they had obtained the necessary permission from the Forest, Revenue and Environment departments for quarrying before the area was declared wildlife sanctuary.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/closure-notice-to-quarries-within-1-km-of-kappatagudda-wildlife-sanctuary-895965.html
01-10-2020||West||Anurag Kashyap reaches police station in connection with alleged rape case||Filmmaker Anurag Kashyap arrived at the Versova police station here on Thursday after he was summoned by police in connection a rape case filed against him by actress Payal Ghosh, an official said. Kashyap along with his two associates reached the police station around 10 am, he said. The filmmaker was seen carrying some documents in his hand while arriving at the police station. His lawyer also reached the police station after some time, the official said. The police on Wednesday issued summons to Kashyap in connection with the rape case against him. The Versova police registered an FIR against Kashyap on September 22 after the actress along with her lawyer Nitin Satpute approached the police, the official said. In her police complaint, the actress alleged that Kashyap raped her in 2013. On Tuesday, Ghosh and Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Ramdas Athawale met Maharashtra Governor B S Koshyari to seek action against Kashyap. On Monday, Ghosh in a joint media press conference with Athawale, president of the Republican Party of India (RPI-A), demanded that Kashyap be arrested. Athawale on Monday met Mumbai's joint commissioner of police (law and order) Vishwas Nangare Patil along with Ghosh, seeking action against the filmmaker. The Union Minister had also said his party will stage a protest if the police do not arrest Kashyap in a week. The Versova police last week registered the FIR against Kashyap under Indian Penal Code Sections 376 (I) (rape), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty,), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 342 (wrongful confinement).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/anurag-kashyap-reaches-police-station-in-connection-with-alleged-rape-case-895620.html
01-10-2020||West||Shops gutted in fire at Mumbai's Chembur market||A fire broke out in a market near Chembur railway station in Mumbai early Thursday morning, gutting seven to eight shops in the area, officials said. No one was injured in the incident, they said. The fire broke out around 5.15 am in Janata Market located near the Chembur railway station in eastern suburbs, a fire brigade official said. Seven to eight shops were gutted in the blaze, a civic official It was a level-2 blaze, the fire official said, adding that 10 fire engines were rushed to the spot and the blaze was extinguished by 7.40 am. "The fire has been doused. There is no report of any injury. Cooling operation is underway at the spot," he said. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, the civic official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shops-gutted-in-fire-at-mumbais-chembur-market-895623.html
01-10-2020||West||Fire at chemical unit in Pune; none hurt||A major fire broke out at a chemical solvent manufacturing unit in Maharashtra's Pune district in the wee hours of Thursday, a fire brigade official said. No casualty was reported as the plant, located in Kurkumbh industrial area on Pune-Solapur Road, around 80 km from the district headquarters, was closed at the time of the incident, he said. Twelve workers and two dogs were rescued from the unit, and some vehicles were also moved out of the plant to safety, fire officer Sudhir Khandekar said.  "The fire broke out at Shiv Shakti Oxalate Pvt Ltd, located in the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) area in Kurkumbh, around 1.30 am. Drums containing mixed solvent were kept at the plant and after the blaze they started exploding," the official said. Eight to nine water tankers were rushed to the spot and fire personnel took about four-and-a-half hours to douse the flames, he said. "No one was injured in the incident. Cooling operation is currently going on," the official said, adding that the cause of the fire is not yet known. Pune Collector Rajesh Deshmukh said he has sought a report on the incident from local authorities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-at-chemical-unit-in-pune-none-hurt-895644.html
01-10-2020||West||Covid-19 norms violations 'intolerable', Navi Mumbai corporation warns of strict action||Navi Mumbai Municipal Commissioner Abhijit Bhangar has warned of strict action if citizens and those working in the APMC market do not follow the lockdown guidelines and protocols to curb the spread of Covid-19. After inspecting an APMC vegetable market in Vashi area, that sees around 50,000 footfalls daily, Bhangar on Wednesday said it was observed that some people in Navi Mumbai and the APMC were violating the Covid-19 prevention norms. "We will not tolerate this and we are once again warning people to abide by the rules or else, they will face stringent action," he said. He said the action is not meant to target citizens, but to give them a message to understand the seriousness of the situation. "Even though the situation is under control and the death rate also has gone down, but the threat is not over and we should not invite a second wave of the pandemic," he said. The civic chief said he has already instructed the flying squad teams to strictly implement the social distancing guidelines and use of masks in Navi Mumbai. Till Wednesday, Navi Mumbai reported 36,673 Covid-19 cases and 750 deaths due to the disease, as per official data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-norms-violations-intolerable-navi-mumbai-corporation-warns-of-strict-action-895649.html
01-10-2020||West||Brain dead woman gives new life to four in Maharashtra||A 62-year-old Navi Mumbai-based woman, who was declared brain dead, has given a new lease of life to four people. The woman, hailing from Panvel here in Maharashtra, was brought to a private hospital at Belapur in Navi Mumbai on September 26 in a critical condition. She was diagnosed with intra cranial hemorrhage and in spite of all the treatment and efforts, she did not recover and was declared brain dead on September 29, the hospital said in a release on Wednesday. Doctors treating the woman counselled her family members following which they agreed to donate her organs. The hospital doctors then harvested liver, kidneys and lungfrom the deceased donor.    The liver was transplanted to a 39-year-old man from Kolhapur, who was suffering from an end stage liver disease, the Apollo Hospitals said in the release. The woman's kidneys were transplanted to two patients from Navi Mumbai, it said. As there were no suitable recipient for lung in Maharashtra, a recipient was found in Chennai through the Zonal Transplant Coordination Centre. A 'green corridor' was subsequently created and the organ was transported from the hospital to Mumbai airport, covering a distance of 30 km in 38 minutes, and then flown in a flight to Chennai, the release said. The hospital thanked the woman's family for donating her organs and giving a new lease of life to four patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/brain-dead-woman-gives-new-life-to-four-in-maharashtra-895674.html
01-10-2020||West||Goa govt announces programme to make villages self-reliant||The Goa government on Thursday announced its ambitious programme to increase economic activities and make every village in the state self-reliant by "harnessing resources available within the area". Under the 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat Swayampoorna Goa' initiative, which will be implemented from Friday, benefits of all the state and central government schemes will be brought to the doorsteps of people, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said. "As part of the programme, government officers, teachers and students will reach out to each and every village panchayat to ensure that every village becomes self-reliant, harnessing the available resources within the area," he said. The programme will be implemented in three phases of one year each- beginning from October 2, 2020, and culminating on October 2, 2023, he said. "Besides government officers, teachers and students, who will be called 'swayampoorna mitra', would also be involved in the programme which will provide benefits of all the state and central government schemes to village panchayats," he said. Under the programme, there would be skill mapping of the population and resource identification of villages to ensure that every village becomes self-sustainable, he said. "We want to eradicate poverty from every village. This is possible if locals and the state government come together. We are expecting cooperation from you all," the chief minister said in a video address to the state. The programme will be banking on the data collected by various government agencies about social and economic assets and liabilities of each of the village, he said. The Chief Minister said private industrial sector would also be encouraged under this programme by facilitating ease of doing business. As a part of 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat Swayampoorna Goa', training programmes would be conducted during the entire year for people to enhance their skills, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-govt-announces-programme-to-make-villages-self-reliant-895701.html
01-10-2020||West||Goa: Panaji residents can exchange dry waste for essentials||Starting October 2, the civic body in Goa's capital Panaji will kickstart its "shop with your waste campaign" (SWYWC), under which citizens will be provided essentials in exchange of dry waste, an official said on Thursday. The innovative scheme is being introduced to mark the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti and the sixth year of Swacch Bharat Mission, said Sanjith Rodrigues, the commissioner of Corporation of City of Panaji (CCP). "The campaign is technically supported under the 'Waste NAMA' project being implemented by GIZ India, a German Government Development Corporation, and the Energy and Resources Institute, a national think-tank," he said. The drive is also supported by 21st Century Polymers Private Limited, as a large-scale buyer of recyclables, he added. Citizens are expected to bring in recyclable dry waste such as milk pouches, cardboard, crushed bottles, and exchange them for daily essentials such as bread, milk, eggs, rice, pulses etc, from shops that are part of the drive, he said. The campaign is only open to shopkeepers who are based in Panaji city, the civic chief said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-panaji-residents-can-exchange-dry-waste-for-essentials-895710.html
01-10-2020||West||Maratha leaders need to wake up, says Parth Pawar||Young and fiery Parth Pawar, the grandnephew of NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, stunned Maharashtra’s political circles when he said Maratha leaders need to wake up and ensure that the community gets justice by way of reservation. The 30-year-old Parth is the son of Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and nephew of NCP’s Baramati MP Supriya Sule. Parth raised the issue of a Maratha youth who died by suicide demanding reservation for the Maratha community in jobs and educational institutions.It needs to be mentioned here that 79-year-old Pawar Sr is referred to as the Maratha strongman. “Devastated to hear of the tragic death of Vivek who died by suicide for the cause of Maratha reservations. Before a chain reaction of such unfortunate incidents starts,” he said.Parth said that Maratha leaders have to wake up and fight for this cause and requested the Maha Vikas Agnadi government to step in to solve the crisis. Parth said "The flame that Vivek has ignited in our minds can set the whole system ablaze." “The future of an entire generation is at stake. I have no choice but to approach the Supreme Court and file an intervenor application in the Maratha reservation matter pending before it,” he said. “I am ready to carry the burning torch of Maratha agitation in my heart and knock the doors of justice for Vivek and millions of other helpless ‘Viveks’. Jai Hind. Jai Maharashtra,” he tweeted. Parth’s statement comes at a time when after a series of consultations with the MVA partners – Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress and with opposition BJP, the state government moved the Supreme Court to get a stay on the Maratha reservation vacated. In 2018, when the BJP-Shiv Sena government was in power, the Maharashtra legislature had unanimously resolved to provide 16 per cent reservation in jobs and education. The Bombay High Court has upheld the decision but asked the state government to ensure that the quota does not exceed 12 per cent in employment and 13 per cent in admission in educational institutions. \ However, the Supreme Court struck down the reservation. The Marathas account for nearly 33 per cent of the total 11.25 crore population of Maharashtra. This is not the first time that Parth created ripples in Maharashtra’s political circles. In August, Parth took a diametrically opposite stand and demanded a CBI probe into the death of actor Sushant  Singh Rajput and hailed the bhoomi poojan of Ram temple in Ayodhya. The NCP chief has also publicly snubbed him. “We do not give much importance to what he says....he is immature," Pawar Sr had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maratha-leaders-need-to-wake-up-says-parth-pawar-895747.html
01-10-2020||West||Ex-Congress minister, infected with Covid-19, discharged after a record 101 days||Former union minister and senior Congress leader Bharatsinh Solanki, who had tested positive for coronavirus, on Thursday was discharged from the hospital in Ahmedabad after a record 101 days, out of which he was on ventilator for 51 days. The doctors have termed the period as the "longest" to recover for a covid-19 infected patient in the country and in Asia. Solanki, 66, had developed symptoms and was admitted to a hospital at his hometown in Anand on June 21, two days after he lost Rajya Sabha polls. After his condition deteriorated, he was shifted to CIMS (Care Institute of Medical Sciences), Ahmedabad on June 30 from a hospital in Vadodara. CIMS officials said that Solanki was suffering from "pneumonia, renal failure, coma, paralysis and sepsis." A note issued by the hospital stated that "On admission, he was kept on BiPAP (Non Invasive Ventilator) support for 7 days followed by 44 days of Invasive Ventilation. Due to his prevailing multiple comorbidities of hypertension, diabetes and asthma he was injected with the antiviral drug remdesivir, doses of immunosuppressive drug tocilizumab and also underwent Convalescent Plasma therapy." Before his discharge, Solanki told mediaperons that his recovery is nothing short of a "miracle" and advised everyone to wear masks. He said that he didn't take the infection seriously initially and kept meeting people without taking precaution. "We have won the battle with the unmatched and relentless efforts of COVID Care Team of CIMS Hospital. After a record hospitalization of 101 days (the longest in India and Asia), we are glad to see the patient going home walking and smiling from CIMS Hospital. It has been one of the most difficult Critical Cases in CIMS history," Dr Keyur Parikh, chairman, CIMS, said in a release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ex-congress-minister-infected-with-covid-19-discharged-after-a-record-101-days-895778.html
01-10-2020||West||Will approach Supreme Court over Maratha quota issue: Parth Pawar||Terming the suicide of a Maratha youth from Maharashtra's Beed as "tragic", NCP chief Sharad Pawar's grandnephew Parth Pawar said he will file an intervention application before the Supreme Court over the Maratha quota issue. In a series of tweets on Wednesday night, Parth said he was devastated to hear about the "tragic death" of Vivek Rahade and urged leaders of the Maratha community to wake up and fight for the quota cause before a chain reaction of such "unfortunate" incidents starts. The son of Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar requested the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, comprising the NCP, Shiv Sena and Congress, to step in to resolve the crisis. The Supreme Court had last month stayed implementation of the Maratha quota in jobs and education, as it referred the case to a larger bench, and the Maharashtra government on September 21 said it had filed an application before the apex court, seeking vacation of the stay. "The flame that Vivek has ignited in our minds can set the whole system ablaze. The future of an entire generation is at stake. I have no choice but to approach the Hon'ble Supreme Court and file an intervenor application in the Maratha reservation matter pending before it," Parth tweeted. "I am ready to carry the burning torch of Maratha agitation in my heart and knock the doors of justice for Vivek and millions of other helpless 'Viveks'," he added. The NCP leader also shared a photograph of Vivek and a suicide note purportedly written by the latter on the micro-blogging site. Vivek purportedly wrote in the note that he had not been able to secure a seat after appearing for National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), an exam for medical college aspirants, since the quota has been stayed. Vivek purportedly said he was the son of a poor farmer and his family could not afford admit him to a private college. "The state and Central governments will feel pity for sons of Marathas at least after my death and my death will be of some use," reads the note shared by Parth on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-approach-supreme-court-over-maratha-quota-issue-parth-pawar-895786.html
01-10-2020||West||Ashok Gehlot takes umbrage at comparing Baran incident to Hathras gang-rape||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday hit out at a section of the opposition and media for “misleading” the public by comparing an incident in Baran district of the state to the gruesome gang-rape of a Dalit woman in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras. According to police, two minor sisters went missing from their home in Baran district on September 19. They were later found in Kota on September 22. The girls were handed over to their families after recording their statements, police said, adding that medical examination of the girls did not confirm rape. "The incident in Hathras is highly condemnable. But, unfortunately the incident in Baran district of Rajasthan is being compared to the incident in Hathras. Girls in (the Baran case) have given their statement before the magistrate that they had gone with the boys on their own," Gehlot said in a tweet in Hindi. "Medical examination of the girls was done and it was revealed in the investigation that the boys were also minors. Further investigation is on in the matter,” he said. The chief minister added that a “section of media and the opposition are trying to mislead the people of the state and the country by comparing it (Baran incident) to the gruesome incident in Hathras”. Meanwhile, BJP chief spokesperson Ramlal Sharma targeted the Congress government over ‘rising’ rape incidents in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ashok-gehlot-takes-umbrage-at-comparing-baran-incident-to-hathras-gang-rape-895791.html
01-10-2020||West||Mumbai Police grills Anurag Kashyap over Payal Ghosh's sexual harassment complaint||Filmmaker Anurag Kashyap was on Thursday grilled by Mumbai police in connection with charges of sexual harassment levelled by actor Payal Ghosh. Kashyap (48) appeared before the Versova police station where the case against him has been lodged. "Based on Payal Ghosh’s complaint, an FIR was registered under Indian Penal Code Sections 376 (I) (rape), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 342 (wrongful confinement)," an officer said, adding that further investigation is underway. In her police complaint and statement, the actor alleged that Anurag Kashyap sexually assaulted her at a place on Yari Road in Versova in 2013. The interrogation is still underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-grills-anurag-kashyap-over-payal-ghoshs-sexual-harassment-complaint-895809.html
01-10-2020||West||Former Maharashtra CM Narayan Rane tests Covid-19 positive||BJP Rajya Sabha member and former chief minister of Maharashtra Narayan Rane on Thursday said he has tested positive for Covid-19. Rane (68) disclosed the diagnosis on his official Twitter handle. "I have tested positive for Covid-19. My health condition is fine but I have decided to isolate myself as per doctors advise. "I will return soon to public life, he added.  माझी कोविड टेस्ट पॉझिटिव्ह आलेली आहे. माझी तब्येत अतिशय उत्तम असून डॉक्टरांच्या सल्लानुसार मी काही दिवस आयसोलेट राहणार आहे. गेल्या काही दिवसांत माझ्या संपर्कात आलेल्या नागरिकांनी स्वतःच्या आरोग्याची काळजी घ्यावी. लवकरच मी लोकसेवेत पुन्हा रुजू होईल.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/former-maharashtra-cm-narayan-rane-tests-covid-19-positive-895926.html
