02-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Drug peddlers to be rehabilitated to nip supply: Commissioner||There are plans to rehabilitate youth arrested for peddling drugs in Mangaluru police commissionerate limits and help them lead normal lives, Mangaluru Commissioner of Police Vikash Kumar Vikash said on Thursday. “The counselling and rehabilitation of drug peddlers is part of a bigger objective to trace the sources of drugs supply and destroy them,” Commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash stressed during Praja vani’s phone-in-programme organised at the PV office in Hampankatta. “We are not running after names. But after those involved in supply of drugs,” he declared. “A fortnight ago, police had raided petty shops suspected of selling drugs. When colleges reopen, such petty shops will be monitored by the jurisdictional police stations. If shops selling cigarettes are found within 100 metres of a school/college, they will be pushed back,” the Commissioner said, while responding to a query from Sridhar Holla of Kottara. To MBA graduate Vijetha’s query on students from outside state being targeted by the drug peddlers, the commissioner said the drugs being sold illegally to customers do not carry any state tag. Those from outside and those residing in the state are involved in supplying drugs and abusing drugs. “Police do not have a soft corner for drug peddlers,” he stressed. When his attention was drawn to BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel’s statement on closing down pubs, Vikash Kumar Vikash said police will take action on pubs, banks or even wine shops involved in illegal activities. He said police, in co-ordination with the Excise and the Narcotics Cell in the Customs department had stepped up pressure on the drug peddlers. The commissioner, responding to advocate Ismail’s suggestion on setting up a task force to combat drug abuse, said the Cyber Crime, the Economic Offences wing and the Narcotics (CEN) police station, acting like a dedicated force, will soon be organising programmes with involvement of public to discourage youth from drug abuse.The commissioner also warned of suspending license and sealing pharmacies if they were caught selling drugs without prescriptions from doctors. To an appeal from Irfan, the commissioner agreed to rescrutinise the list of newly declared no parking zones. He also promised that humps are installed and measures are taken to prevent bullet tankers from parking vehicles near the MRPL. Assistant Commissioner of Police A Jagadeesh and Traffic Inspector Gopalkrishna Bhat were also present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/drug-peddlers-to-be-rehabilitated-to-nip-supply-commissioner-895999.html
02-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Online darshan, live streaming planned for Hasanamba festival||This year, the annual Hasanamba festival will be limited to online darshan and live streaming, as the district administration is planning to restrict the entry of devotees to the temple, which opens doors for darshan once in a year. As the Covid-19 cases are on the rise in Hassan district and across the state, the district administration has decided to observe Hasanamba festival in a simple manner and restrict visitors to the temple. The temple opens every year, on the first Thursday after Poornima (full moon day), in the month of Ashwayuja. The temple will remain open from November 5 to November 17. If the entry of devotees is restricted, the popular temple will have to limit its celebration to pujas and rituals. Deputy Commissioner R Girish said, "Though we understand that scores of devotees would be disappointed, it has become inevitable due to alarming rise in Covid-19 cases. However, a decision would be taken after holding discussions with the District in-charge Minister Gopalaiah soon. There are plans for online darshan of the deity via website", he said. The temple would be opened on the first and last day to observe the rituals as per the tradition. The remaining days, only temple priests and employees would be allowed. It is also planned for a live telecast via LED screens at places, where it is possible to maintain social distancing, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/online-darshan-live-streaming-planned-for-hasanamba-festival-896373.html
02-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||6 killed in head-on collision between two vehicles||Six persons were killed and 23 others were injured in a head-on collision between a Bolero and a Tata Ace vehicle on the Savadatti-Dharwad road on the outskirts of Savadatti town in Belagavi district on Friday night. The deceased and injured were yet to be identified. According to preliminary information, deceased were from Chunchnur village in Savadatti. The accident occurred when they were returning home after work. Savadatti police visited the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/6-killed-in-head-on-collision-between-two-vehicles-896375.html
02-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Marijuana worth Rs 4 lakh seized, three arrested||CEN police arrested three persons from Maharashtra who had been selling marijuana in Athani and seized the contraband, weighing 20 kg and worth Rs 4 lakh on Friday. Nased on a tip off that a person from Pandarpur in Maharashtra has been selling marijuana in Athani, police nabbed Raosaheb Annappa Nandiwale, a resident of Billur village in Jat taluk in Sangli district in Maharashtra, and found two kg marijuana worth Rs 40,000, a bike worth Rs 20,000, and a cell phone. During interrogation, Nandiwale informed the police that Sangeeta Dattatreya Wagaz and Vilas Pandurang Ghatge from Mohale in Pandarpur had given him the marijuana for sale. Based on the information, police nabbed Wagaz and Ghatge, and marijuana weighing 20 kg worth Rs 4 lakh was recovered from them. A car and motorcycle worth Rs 2.70 lakh was also recovered from them. CEN police are investigating.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/marijuana-worth-rs-4-lakh-seized-three-arrested-896387.html
02-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karwar naval base officer killed in motorglider mishap||A Seabird naval base officer was killed in a freak motorglider mishap at Rabindranath Tagore beach on Friday. The victim has been identified as Madhusudhan Reddy (56), a native of Gedare Bommasandra near Gowribidanuru, Chikkaballapur. Glider instructor Vidhyadhar Vaidya escaped unhurt in the incident. Reddy and Vaidya flew the motorglider for two rounds. After a while, the glider developed a snag and plunged into the sea at some distance from the beach. Local fishermen and expert swimmers managed to rescue the instructor. Reddy, however, got entangled with the rope as the glider dragged him below the water. The lifeguards swung into action and managed to pull Reddy, along with the glider, out of the water. But their efforts proved too little and too late. Reddy was declared brought dead by the doctors at the district hospital. The Town police have registered a case and investigation is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karwar-naval-base-officer-killed-in-motorglider-mishap-896438.html
02-10-2020||Mysuru||Karnataka project at Tirumala symbolises universal brotherhood: Rohini Sindhuri||Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, who is also the Religious and Endowment Commissioner, has clarified about the Karnataka Choultries project, an accommodation complex in Tirumala, to be developed at the cost of Rs 200 crore. It has to be mentioned that JD(S) MLA Sa Ra Mahesh had alleged irregularities in the project and accused Sindhuri of helping the Andhra Pradesh government by handing over the project to TTD for execution. The project, to be developed on 7.05 acre of land owned by Karnataka, is funded by Karnataka government.  In a statement, Rohini Sindhuri has stated that "The project symbolises universal brotherhood showcasing the ideal -- Vasudeva Kutumbakam -- which cannot be held hostage to narrow minds and narrower hearts." According to the Officer, every month about 50,000 devotees from Karnataka visit the 'Devasthanam'. In fact, historically TTD was part of the Great Vijayanagara empire and all artificial boundaries are insignificant in front of the unity of mankind. The project will provide stay facilities for 1,803 devotees on a space of about 3.4 lakh square feet with Kalyana Mantapa and other facilities. It has been made possible only after decades of efforts. The seven-acre-five-gunta land at Tirumala is a gift of the Maharajas that the Endowment Department, Karnataka inherited. However, despite lakhs of devotees from Karnataka visiting every year, there are no proper facilities for them at Tirumala. The project will meet the needs of millions of devotees from Karnataka. The solemn and sacred duty of Endowment Department, Karnataka to serve the devotees is finally being discharged, she mentioned. The Governments of Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh have come together to realise the vision by building world class facilities for the devotees.  The foundation stone of the last facility, built at Tirumala on the said land, was laid by the then Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Morarji Desai – about 60 years ago, according to the officer. The dream of building facilities for the devotees had not materialised for many decades. A dream pursued by many Karnataka Governments is finally being realised now. Hence, the laying of the foundation stone for the project recently by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa  is a historical event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/karnataka-project-at-tirumala-symbolises-universal-brotherhood-rohini-sindhuri-896074.html
02-10-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on October 2||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 64 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  64,67,066 as of October 2 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):    100,774 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->    No. of people discharged:  53,52,078 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-october-2-896023.html
02-10-2020||National||Gandhi Jayanti 2020: Lessons in financial discipline from the Mahatma||Mahatma Gandhi, known for his messages of truth and self-reliance, has numerous facets to his charismatic personality. His life is filled with examples of patience, self-belief, persistence towards the goal of Independence and it may also have some financial lessons for us. On the occasion of his birthday, here are a few of the Mahatma's mantras to keep in mind before making financial decisions: The future depends on what we do in the present This is perhaps one of the key financial lessons from Gandhi, who led the Salt Satyagraha (1930) with persistence, keeping in mind the independence dream. Often people tend to postpone investment plans for tomorrow and enjoy their earnings “today”. But only today’s decision to bring in financial discipline will bring prosperity to us in our future.  There is more to life than simply increasing its speed Gandhi’s sole goal was to free India from the British Raj, which he achieved after several years of patience and perseverance. Similarly, one needs to make steady and diversified moves to achieve one’s financial goal. It is a good idea to keep definite short and long-term financial goals. The world is sufficient for man's need but not for man's greed One’s desire to make a quick buck may lead them to fall prey to dubious schemes that promise large returns. Such impulsive investments can deplete your funds. It’s always good to invest in a trusted scheme after balancing the risk-return ratio.   A living faith will last in the midst of the blackest storm The freedom struggle went on for decades and Gandhi faced a lot of challenges but he did not lose faith in his belief that India could be a free bird. Even the road to achieve one’s financial goal is filled with ups and downs. One must always have faith in one's conviction. While investing in the stock market, one must keep the hope alive during difficult market conditions, and identify mistakes as early as possible. Gandhi often said that freedom is of no worth if it does not allow you the freedom to make mistakes.  Whatever you do may seem insignificant to you, but it is most important that you do it Your decision to invest Rs 500 per month at the starting of your career may seem quite insignificant to you, but you will be surprised to find out the amount you have accumulated in the long run. The steady investment will this inculcate financial discipline but prepare a safety net for the future. During his life, Gandhi always adopted a simple and sure-footed approach to achieve his goals.  Strength does not come from physical capacity. It comes from an indomitable will One has to learn to face financial adversities and short-term losses to achieve the long-term goal of returns. Gandhi, who lived a life of self-discipline, had a strong will that helped him tide through tough times. Investment goals are not easy to follow but investors need to stick to their commitment, despite everyday pressures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gandhi-jayanti-2020-lessons-in-financial-discipline-from-the-mahatma-896024.html
02-10-2020||National||DH Toon | 151 years of Mahatma Gandhi||India observes 152nd birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi today. The birthday of Gandhi comes amid the outrage across the nation over the alleged gangrape-murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras, Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-151-years-of-mahatma-gandhi-896026.html
02-10-2020||National||PM Modi pays tribute to Bapu at Raj Ghat, says 'much to learn from his life, noble thoughts'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday paid tribute to Mahatma Gandhi at Raj Ghat on his birth anniversary. "We bow to beloved Bapu on Gandhi Jayanti. There is much to learn from his life and noble thoughts. May Bapu’s ideals keep guiding us in creating a prosperous and compassionate India," PM Modi said in a tweet.  We bow to beloved Bapu on Gandhi Jayanti. There is much to learn from his life and noble thoughts. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-pays-tribute-to-bapu-at-raj-ghat-says-much-to-learn-from-his-life-noble-thoughts-896031.html
02-10-2020||National||A lesser known Gandhi, the son of the Mahatma: Manilal Gandhi||The apple doesn't fall far from the tree, and this was the case in Manilal Gandhi and his father, the renowned Mahatma Gandhi. While the father of the nation is hailed as an all important figure, his son, Manilal Gandhi too left a mark on the world.  Born on October 28, 1892 in Gujarat's Rajkot, Manilal was the second son of Gandhi and Kasturba. Having been home-schooled because his father did not believe in formal education, Manilal was trained at Phoenix Settlement (founded in 1904) and Tolstoy Farm (founded in 1910). He was regarded as one of the first experimental students.  The education in these systems revolved around manual labour, character building and some formal subjects, and Manilal worked at a printing press in Phoenix.  Uma Dhupelia-Mesthrie, Manilal’s granddaughter, in her book Gandhi’s Prisoner? The Life of Gandhi’s Son Manilal writes, “Phoenix and Manilal’s life would become intertwined in ways he could hardly imagine”. Therein, he undertook laborious tasks, worked on the land, spent time in the press assisting in the publication process, and tended to the elderly and sick. After Gandhi cleared his barrister examinations, he went on to accept a year-long contract with an Indian-owned firm in South Africa. Gandhi's family who were then in India, joined the lawyer in 1897. It was in 1901 that Gandhi made the decision of returning to his motherland. His family followed. In 1902, the family returned to South Africa, again Following his father’s footsteps? Manilal felt strongly towards Indians, and identified himself with all non-whites who were struggling due to various reasons - from trying to improve their lives and secure rights to battling racism and oppressive struggles. He was merely 17 when he joined the Satyagraha movement to mark his resilience against the British in India. He also served four jail sentences between 1910 and 1913. Dhupelia's book narrates instances that showcased Manilal’s integrity, and the morals that made up the man. In one anecdote, when he had to choose between a 10-day imprisonment or a 30-shilling fine, Manilal picked jail over the penalty. In prison he practiced Satyagraha and suffered solitary punishment for the same but also won the hearts of the prisoners - something that came naturally to Manilal probably became of his father. Manilal was a key figure in India too, and helped his father found the Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad. He learnt to produce hand-spun khadi from 1914-1917.Back in South Africa in 1917, he helped set up Indian Opinion and served as the editor for zero remuneration.In 1929 he returned to India and joined the Freedom Movement. Manilal was one of the 78 people that accompanied Gandhi on his Dandi March, and also served a 10-month prison sentence for the same. Dignity and death Upholding his father’s principles of non-violence and Satyagraha, Manilal believed that this could create a revolution. A notable human rights activist, it is said that he was willing to sacrifice his life for change and had no fear. On his death, India’s then-President Rajendra Prasad wrote, “Indians in South Africa have lost a prominent leader…The whole Indian community…needed the help, cooperation and guidance of men of his type”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-lesser-known-gandhi-the-son-of-the-mahatma-manilal-gandhi-896047.html
02-10-2020||National||151 years of Gandhi, political jostling over his legacy continues||His writings, his spoken words and vignettes from his life -- Mahatma Gandhi was the refrain as tributes poured in and parties jostled to stake claim to his legacy. From Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi and from schools big and small to the beaches of Dandi, there were multiple odes to the man whose ideas and ideals were instrumental in shaping India's freedom struggle and post-Independence journey. An outpouring of tributes, marches and commemorative events marked the holiday last year that saw the customary ceremony and grandstanding but also genuine remembrances of the Mahatma and efforts to understand his profound contribution to society. When he launched the ambitious Swachh Bharat (Clean India) campaign after becoming the prime minister in 2014, he had announced October 2, 2019, as the day India will be open defecation free, citing how Gandhi had laid immense stress on cleanliness and wanted the countrymen to pursue it. The Congress, which has seen over the years a gradual appropriation of some of its stalwarts by the BJP, launched a counter-drive with its president Sonia Gandhi taking a swipe at the Modi government last year, saying the Mahatma would have been pained by what has happened in India over the last few years. She claimed that the Congress was the only one party that followed the path shown by him and carried on his legacy. Those who indulge in the politics of falsehood cannot understand his ideals of truth and selfless service, she said in 2019. Numerous events were organised by various government departments, ministries and voluntary organisations last year to celebrate life and legacy of Gandhi, who also inspired millions of people across the globe, including leaders such as Nelson Mandela, Martin Luther King Jr and the Dalai Lama. Prayer meetings were organised in numerous places in 2019 connected with Gandhi. In Gujarat, for instance, school students gathered at Hriday Kunj, Gandhi's home at the Sabarmati Ashram, to attend an all-faith prayer meet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/151-years-of-gandhi-political-jostling-over-his-legacy-continues-896050.html
02-10-2020||National||Maratha royals call for calm calm after NEET aspirant allegedly kills self||Rattled by the suspected suicide of a youth demanding reservation, Maratha royals and descendents of legendary warrior Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj have urged the Maratha community to be patient and not to take such steps. An 18-year-old youth and NEET aspirant, Vivek Rahade, allegedly died by suicide in Beed district of Marathwada region. Chhatrapati Udayan Raje Bhosale and Sambhaji Raje Chhatrapati have urged people to be patient and cautious रहाडे परिवारासाठी ही कधीही न भरून निघणारी हानी आहे. समाजातील नवयुवकांना आमचे आवाहन असेल. राष्ट्राचे भविष्य असणाऱ्या नवयुवकांनी असे पाऊल उचलणे हे राष्ट्राच्या व समाजाच्या दृष्टीने खूप हानिकारक आहे असा धीर सोडून व टोकाचा निर्णय घेउन चालणार नाही आणि यातून काही निष्पन्न होणार नाही. While Udayanraje is from the Satara royal family and a Rajya Sabha member from Maharashtra, Sambhaji is from the Kolhapur royal family and a President-nominated Rajya Sabha member. “We are fighting a fierce battle for Maratha reservation. This fight will continue and I am sure you will win! While this fight is going on, the youth should not commit suicide. Suicide is not an option. Don't be discouraged, my brave warriors. Today, even if the situation seems to be against us, it seems to be going dark, tomorrow will definitely be dawn. Everything will be fine,” said Sambhaji Raje. “Youths, who are the future of the country, should not resort to such extreme steps but be patient,’’ said Udayan Raje. एक लक्षात ठेवा हा समाज, "लढून मरावं, मरून जगावं" हेच आम्हाला ठावं, असे पोवाडे गाणारा आहे. माझ्या शूर सरदारांनो खचून जाऊ नका. आज परिस्थिती जरी आपल्या विरोधात वाटत असली, अंधारात जात असलेली वाटत असली तरी, उद्या नक्की पहाट होईल. सर्व काही ठीक होईल. आपण लढाई जिंकूंच! The two members of the royal families have been in the forefront for demanding reservation. Earlier this week, NCP supremo and Maratha strongman Sharad Pawar had urged the two Maratha royals to take lead. “They must take initiative and put pressure on the Centre. They can do it as both got nominations to Rajya Sabha because of BJP,” Pawar had said during his visit to Western Maharashtra. Meanwhile, Parth Pawar, the son of Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and and grandnephew of Pawar had urged the Maratha leaders and the Maha Vikas Aghadi government to resolve the crisis. “The future of an entire generation is at stake. I have no choice but to approach the Supreme Court and file an intervenor application in the Maratha reservation matter pending before it….I am ready to carry the burning torch of Maratha agitation in my heart and knock the doors of justice for Vivek and millions of other helpless ‘Viveks’.  Jai Hind. Jai Maharashtra,” he tweeted.   The flame that Vivek has ignited in our minds can set the whole system ablaze. The future of an entire generation is at stake. I have no choice but to approach the Hon’ble Supreme Court and file an intervenor application in the Maratha reservation matter pending before it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maratha-royals-call-for-calm-calm-after-neet-aspirant-allegedly-kills-self-896055.html
02-10-2020||National||President Ram Nath Kovind pays homage to Mahatma Gandhi at Rajghat||President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday paid floral tributes to Mahatma Gandhi, the father of the nation, on his 151st birth anniversary at Rajghat here. They also paid homage to former prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri on his birth anniversary at Vijay Ghat. Modi in his tributes to Mahatma Gandhi said there is much to learn from his life and thoughts. May Bapu's ideals keep guiding us in creating a prosperous and compassionate India, he said. President Kovind was accompanied by Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal as they paid tributes at Shastri's memorial at Vijay Ghat. An interfaith prayer was held and Mahatma Gandhi's favourite bhajans "Vaishanv Jan To" and "Raghupati Raghava Raja Ram" were rendered as dignitaries paid homage at his memorial at Rajghat. Union ministers Hardeep Singh Puri and Gajendra Singh Shekahawt, senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad were among others who paid homage to the father of the nation at Rajghat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-ram-nath-kovind-pays-homage-to-mahatma-gandhi-at-rajghat-896068.html
02-10-2020||National||Mahatma Gandhi's belongings, artefacts auctioned over the years||As the country marks 151 years of Mahatma Gandhi today, let's take a look at his belongings and artefacts that have been auctioned over the years 1. Mahatma Gandhi's charkha | Sold for 1,10,000 pounds Mahatma Gandhi's 'charkha' which he used in Yerwada Jail during the 'Quit India Movement' was sold at an auction in the UK for a whopping 110,000 pounds, nearly double the expected price. The charkha (spinning wheel), with a minimum bid of 60,000 pounds, was used by Gandhi while he was in the prison in Pune and was later gifted to American Free Methodist missionary Revd Floyd A Puffer. Gandhi spent several years in Yerwada Jail during India's freedom struggle notably in 1932 and later in 1942 during the Quit India movement along with many other freedom fighters. 2. Spectacles believed to be worn by Gandhi | Sold for 260,000 pounds A pair of gold-plated spectacles believed to have been worn by Mahatma Gandhi and presented as a gift in the 1900s to a family from England have broken all records for a UK auction house after a US-based collector acquired them with a whopping bid of 260,000 pounds. The glasses, which were dropped through the letterbox of East Bristol Auctions in Hanham, south-west England, were estimated to fetch between 10,000 pounds and 15,000 pounds but the online bids for the lot kept multiplying to finally go under the hammer of the six-figure sum. The auction house said that the lot had attracted interest from all over the world, including bids from India, Qatar, American, Russia, Canada. 3. Pinch of soil Gandhi died on | Sold for 10,000 pounds In 2012, Mullock’s auctions sold a pinch of soil and blood-stained blades of grass from the place where he was assassinated in 1948, among many other artefacts belonging to Mahatma, for 10,000 pounds. 4. Mahatma Gandhi's will, blood sample and chappals | Sold for 300,000 pounds Mahatma Gandhi's last will and testament, which was auctioned in 2013, was described as a "highly important document". The two-page handwritten will on folio paper. It was complete with a fragment of Mahatma Gandhi's blood on a microscopic slide. The iconic leader's will and testament along with his prayer beads and leather chappals went under the hammer fetching a whopping 300,000 pounds. The hand-woven linen shawl, made from material hand-spun by Gandhi himself, was sold for 40,000 pounds - nearly double the estimated price. "While the blood sample may be sacred for some, the will is an extremely important historical document. It is hand-written in Gujarati and signed by Gandhi," Richard Westwood-Brookes, historical documents expert for Mullock's auctioneers, told PTI from the auction site at Ludlow Racecourse in Shropshire. The slide of Mahatma Gandhi's blood dates back to 1924 when the leader of India's freedom movement was in convalescence from an appendectomy near Mumbai. He is believed to have donated the blood to the family he was staying with at the time. 5. Glasses and pocket watch | Sold for $1.8 million Mahatma Gandhi's glasses, sandals, plate and bowl, and pocket watch are seen before an auction of his memorabilia March 5, 2009, in New York City. Gandhi's iconic round glasses, watch and other items sold for $1.8 million to liquor baron Vijay Mallya, in spite of an order to cancel the sale by owner James Otis. Just before the auction, owner of the items James Otis had agreed to withdraw them from the auction but the auction house did not agree. Several community leaders had expressed relief that the promise of keeping Gandhi's iconic items, including his glasses, sandals, pocket watch, plate and a bowl, in India has been fulfilled. Here are some of his other belongings that are up for auction: 1. Gandhi's letter thanking British Lord for birthday wishes  A signed letter, penned by Mahatma Gandhi a year before India's Independence, thanking a British Lord for wishes on his birthday is expected to fetch over $20,000 at an online auction. Signed 'M K Gandhi', the one-page letter to Lord Pethick-Lawrence, Secretary of State for India and Burma, was written from New Delhi on October 10, 1946. "Dear friend, it was good of you to send me your wishes for my birthday which is synonymous with the rebirth of the spinning wheel in 1918," the letter reads. It is to be noted that shortly after World War I, Gandhi developed a broad base of support from Indians for peaceful non-cooperation. After December 1921, Gandhi expanded his non-violence programme to include the swadeshi policy -- the boycott of British goods. 2. Gandhi's autographed letters to his son The Mullock auctioneers also put out Gandhi's three autograph letters signed to his son Harilal dated June 6th, June 19th and June 27th, 1935, discussing his situation, his relationships, and his behaviour – saying he has been accused of lying in his behaviour with two named women, adding: " ...please let me have pure truth please tell me if still, you are interested in alcohol and debauchery...I wish that you better die rather than resort to alcohol in any manner." The letters have not been sold yet and are priced between 50,000 - 60,000 pounds. 3. Photograph showing Gandhi and Nehru under arrest An unsold photograph showing Gandhi and Nehru under arrest by the British. This is a 1942 Press still with a caption to verso. It is priced between 200 - 300 pounds by the Mullock auctioneers.   (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mahatma-gandhis-belongings-artefacts-auctioned-over-the-years-896075.html
02-10-2020||National||Workshop on 100 years of Indus Valley Civilisation||In a first-ever event of its kind, the India Study Centre Trust and the Directorate of Archaeology and Museums of the Maharashtra government is celebrating 100 years of discovery of Indus Valley Civilisation. Titled ‘100 at Harappa’, a series of online workshops and lectures have been planned from October 5-16. “We will celebrate the 100 years of the discovery of a Bronze Age Civilisation in South Asia which pushed the Indian history by 2000 years in one go,” says Mugdha Karnik, the Managing Trustee of Mumbai-based Instucen Trust. The organisers have lined up a big list of speakers including Prof Vasant S Shinde, excavator of Harappan sites like Padri, Farmana and Rakhigarhi. He is also responsible for the data that has revealed the first-ever Harappan DNA. Archaeologist and culinary anthropologist Dr Kurush Dalal will be moderating the sessions. Prof P Ajithprasad of MS University Baroda, excavator of numerous archaeological sites, prehistoric and protohistoric, will be speaking on four of his recent excavations including Bagasra and Vejalka. Dr Tejas Garge, Director of the Directorate of Archaeology and Museums, Maharashtra will be talking about Harappan site explorations in the Chautang Basin of Haryana. Dr Prabhodh Shirvalkar from Deccan College, Pune, excavator of Kotada Bhadli, author of a book on Harappans and the excavator responsible for the first-known evidence for the processing of milk in the Harappan context, will also speak at the session. Dr Jeewan Singh Kharakwal from the Institute for Rajasthan Studies (IRS), Udaipur and the excavator of the Harappan site of Kanmer, will also make a presentation Dr Rajesh SV from Kerala University, excavator of the Harappan burial site of Juni Khatiyan and researcher of human habitation in the Kutch from Protohistoric to Medieval times, will be talking about his research. Dr B R Mani, Director General of the National Museum, Delhi, ex Joint Director General of the Archaeological Survey of India, and currently excavating the very important pre-Harappan site of Kunal, will elaborate on his findings. Dr S K Manjul, Joint Director General, NMMA, ASI who has excavated the post Harappan site of Sanauli and the very interesting Harappan manufacturing site of Binjor, will speak about his work. As a precursor of the event, the Instucen Trust is posting a series of articles on social media on the discovery of Indus Valley Civilisation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/workshop-on-100-years-of-indus-valley-civilisation-896083.html
02-10-2020||National||25 vocalists to voice tribute to Mother India||Twenty-five vocalists from different parts of the country have rendered their voice to the song Meri Maati, a tribute to Mother India. Meri Maati will be unveiled on YouTube on October 3 at 8.30 pm. Roshan D’Souza Angelore, a composer, wrote the music to Meri Maati keeping in mind the rich legacy our freedom fighters have left behind and is produced by Dilraj Rodrigues along with Jossie and Lona Mendonca. When writing a song, a strong structure can help the song really shine and reach listeners effectively. Understanding the basic elements of a patriotic song structure, famous lyricist hailing from Delhi Sanjeev Sarathie gave meaning to the song. Roshan said “There is no dearth of patriotic songs celebrating our freedom. My favourite patriotic song is Vande Mataram. Listening to it not only speaks volumes about freedom but also gives a sense of independence. The words of the song have successfully managed to tug at one's heartstrings. Its lyrics paved the way for creating the song Meri Maati.” “We are indebted to our freedom and sovereignty to the Indian Army. These real heroes sacrifice so much, even their lives, to keep our country’s flag flying high.  As a producer, my job is to make the composers vision a reality” said Dilraj Rodrigues. Lead singers Mohammad Iqbal, Jason Lobo, Munita Veigas Rao, Dr Vyshnavi N Kini, Chinmayi V Bhat, Vidhya Suvarna, Nithin Koottungal followed by choral singers Shilpa Cutinha, Joshal Dsouza, Janisha Dsouza, Zeena Pereira, Elton Nazareth, Wiltan Arul Fernandes, Llewellyn Lobo, Rynel Sequeira, Dr. Suraj Noronha accompanied by adolescent choral group Perpetua Franciska Pereira, Simone DSouza, Alma Lathisa Pinto, Simona Adline Monteiro, Abigail Melanie Crasta, Senora Cutinha, Synola Albuquerque, Gabrielle Clementine Viegas, Melony Minol Dsilva, Portia Goretti Furtado. Two prominent guitarists from South India have tendered their skills to give elegance in the arrangement, Santhosh Chandran on lead guitar and Josy John on the Bass guitar. Production and mixing mastering duties were handled by Nithin Koottungal from Ernakulam. Direction, screenplay and editing were handled by Ivan Pereira, Propix Studios, Mangaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/25-vocalists-to-voice-tribute-to-mother-india-896099.html
02-10-2020||National||The Mahatma & the Poet: Letters between Tagore and Gandhi||Tagore and Gandhi were quite different in the ways in which they they philosophised ideas of truth and protest. However, even as adversaries, this powerful exchange of ideas between the leaders is a poignant example of the self-critical and contemplative nature of the Indian freedom movement. Dear Mahatmaji, Power in all its forms is irrational; it is like the horse that drags the carriage blindfolded. The moral element in it is only represented in the man who drives the horse. Passive resistance is a force which is not necessarily moral in itself; it can be used against truth as well as for it. The danger inherent in all force grows stronger when it is likely to gain success, for then it becomes temptation. I know your teaching is to fight against evil by the help of good. But such a fight is for heroes and not for men led by impulses of the moment. Evil on one side naturally begets evil on the other, injustice leading to violence and insult to vengefulness. *** 3 January 1932 Dear Gurudev, I am just stretching my tired limbs on the mattress and as I try to steal a wink of sleep, I think of you. I want you to give your best to the sacrificial fire that is being lighted. With loveM.K.Gandhi *** Dear Mahatmaji, What I fear is that following so close upon the tremendous impact made on our consciousness by the recent fast a repetition of it may psychologically be too much for us properly to evaluate and effectively to utilise for the uplift of humanity. The mighty liberating forces set in motion by your fast still continue to operate and spread from village to village, removing age-long iniquities, transforming the harshness of the callously superstitious to a new feeling of sympathy for the distressed. Were I convinced that the movement has suffered any abatement or in any way shows signs of lacunae, I would welcome even the highest sacrifice which humanity today is capable of making, the sacrifice of your life in penance for our sins. But all my experiences, of the activities of the villages around us here, as well as of other localities, convince me that the movement generated by your fast continue to gain in strength and conquer formidable obstacles. The testimony of my friends from all parts of India confirm this truth. It may be that there are reactionary elements but it seems to me that we should allow them time— the pressure of a growing public opinion is sure to win them over. *** 9 October 1932 Dear Gurudev, I have your beautiful letter. I am daily seeking light. This unity between Hindus and Muslims is also life's mission. The restrictions too hamper me. But I know that when I have the light, it will pierce through the restrictions, meanwhile I pray, though I do not yet fast. I hope you were none the worse for the strenuous work in Poona and equally fatiguing long journey. Mahadev translated for us your beautiful sermon to the villagers on 20th ultimo. With love, Yours M.K.Gandhi *** The Cult of the Charkha by Tagore published in the Modern Review, 1925 The appointed time has not long gone by, yet die intoxication lingers,—the intoxication which consists in a confusion of haste with speed, in a befogged reliance on one or two narrow paths as the sole means of gaining a vast realisation. Amongst those paths prominently looms the charkha. And so the question has to be raised: What is this swaraj? Our political leaders have refrained from giving us any dear explanation of it. As a matter of feet we have the freedom to spin our own thread on our own charkha. If we have omitted to avail ourselves of it, that is because die thread so spun cannot compete with the product of die power mill. No doubt it might have been otherwise if the millions of India had devoted their leisure to the charkha, thereby reducing the exchange value of home spun thread. But nothing proves die hopelessness of such an expectation more than the fact that those very persons who are wielding their pens in its support are not wielding the charkha itself. The second point is, even if every one of our countrymen should betake himself to spinning thread, that might somewhat mitigate their poverty, but it would not be Swaraj. What of that? Is the increase of wealth a small thing for a poverty stricken country? What a difference it would make if our cultivators, who improvidently waste their spare time, were to engage in such productive work! Let us concede for the moment that the profitable employment of the surplus time of the cultivator is of the first importance. But the thing is not so simple as it sounds. One who takes up the problem must be prepared to devote precise thinking and systematic endeavour to its solution. It is not enough to say: Let them spin. Gandhi's rejoinder to The Cult of the Charka published in Young India: The criticism is a sharp rebuke to Acharya Ray for his impatience of the Poet's and Acharya Seal's position regarding die charkha, and a gentle rebuke to me for my exclusive love of it. Let the public understand that the Poet does not deny its great economic value. If every disagreement were to displease, since no two men agree exactly on all points, life would be a bundle of unpleasant sensations and therefore a perfect nuisance. On the contrary, the frank criticism pleases me. For our friendship becomes all the richer for our disagreements. Friends to be friends are not called upon to agree even on most points. Only disagreement must have no sharpness, much less bitterness, about them. And I gratefully admit that there is none about the Poet's criticism. I am obliged to make these prefatory remarks as Dame Rumour has whispered that jealousy is the root of all that criticism. Such baseless suspicion betrays an atmosphere of weakness and intolerance. A little reflection must remove all ground for such a cruel charge. Of what should the Poet be jealous in pie? Jealousy presupposes the possibility of-rivalry. Well, I have never succeeded in writing a single rhyme in my life. There is nothing of the Poet about me. I cannot aspire after his greatness. He is the undisputed master of it. The world today does not possess his equal as a poet. My 'Mahatmaship' has no relation to the poet's undisputed position. It is time to realise that our fields are absolutely different and at no point overlapping. The Poet lives in a magnificent world of his own creation—his world of ideas. I am a slave of somebody else's creation—the spinning wheel. The Poet makes his gopis dance to the tune of his flute. I wander after my beloved Sita, the charkha and seek to deliver her from the ten-headed monster from Japan, Manchester, Paris etc. The Poet is an inventor—he creates, destroys and recreates. I am an explorer and having discovered a thing I must cling to it. The fact is that the Poet's criticism is a poetic licence and he who takes it literally is in danger of finding himself in an awkward corner. *** In Young India of 11, March 1926, Gandhi wrote a postscript to the controversy between him and Tagore: In spite of the weakness of body to which the Poet himself referred in his address at the Abhoy Ashram, it was a good thing for Dr. Suresh Banerji, the manager of the Abhoy Ashram, at Comila to have drawn Dr. Tagore there. The reader knows that the Abhoy Ashram was established for the purpose of khaddar development. The Poet's acceptance of the address and such association as it may imply on his part with the khaddar movement, dispels if any dispeller was necessary, the superstition that the Poet is against the spinning wheel and the khaddar movement in every shape or form. Life is an organic whole. It is the spirit that after all matters. It is not a fact that there is lack of strength in our arms. The fact is that our mind has not been awakened. "Our greatest fight here therefore is that against mental lethargy. The village is a living entity. You cannot neglect any one department of its life without injuring the other. We are to realise today the soul of our country as a great indivisibleBetween 1915 and 1941, Mahatma Gandhi and Rabindranath Tagore exchanged a series of letters debating subjects such as truth, freedom, democracy, courage and the future of humanity as the nation was fought for independence. *** Depite their differences, both Gandhi and Tagore also identified the inherent flaws with capitalism and modernity - the unending spiral of more and its essential Western nature. While they believed in the idea of a modernist education, both believed that the Indian idea of simplicity could best counter the perils of Western modernity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-mahatma-the-poet-letters-between-tagore-and-gandhi-896113.html
02-10-2020||National||India's Covid-19 tally inches closer to 64 lakh-mark; recoveries reach 53 lakh||India's Covid-19 caseload inched closer to 64 lakh-mark with 81,484 infections reported in a day, while the number of people who recuperated from the disease crossed 53 lakh pushing the recovery rate to 83.70 per cent, the Union health ministry said on Friday. The total number of coronavirus cases in the country mounted to 63,94,068, while the death toll climbed to 99,773 with the infection claiming 1,095 lives in a span of 24 hours, according to the ministry data updated at 8 am on Friday. The total recoveries have surged to 53,52,078. There are  9,42,217 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 14.74 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.   The Covid-19 case fatality rate was recorded at 1.56 per cent, it said. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past the 50 lakh-mark on September 16 and crossed 60 lakh on September 28. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 7,67,17,728 samples have been tested for Covid-19 up to October 1, with 10,97,947 samples being tested on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-inches-closer-to-64-lakh-mark-recoveries-reach-53-lakh-896116.html
02-10-2020||National||Mahatma Gandhi showed us the path of truth and selfless service: M Venkaiah Naidu||Mahatma Gandhi showed us the path of truth and selfless service, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu said on Friday. Gandhi was born on this day in 1869 at Porbandar in Gujarat. Remembering Mahatma Gandhi on his birth anniversary, Naidu said, "Bapu, through his life and teachings showed us the path of truth, love and selfless service to mankind." Gandhi's idea of 'Antyodaya' guides us to work for the uplift of the last person, the Vice President Secretariat tweeted quoting Naidu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mahatma-gandhi-showed-us-the-path-of-truth-and-selfless-service-m-venkaiah-naidu-896123.html
02-10-2020||National||DH Radio | The Lead: The spiritual message of Mahatma Gandhi's khadi||In this episode of The Lead from DH Radio, Santosh Koulagi of the Janapada Seva Trust tells us what Khadi means, the message that Mahatma Gandhi gave, and the state of Khadi culture today.  Ahmed Shariff: Today is Gandhi Jayanti and when one talks about Gandhi, the first thing that comes to mind is a spinning Charaka weaving the powerful Khadi. Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and today we are joined by Santosh Koulagi of the Janapada Seva Trust, who established Hosa Jeevana Daari which translates to a new way of life, which is a centre for sustainable living alternatives and he also started a Khadi unit. Hi sir, welcome to DH Radio. Santosh Koulagi: Hi. Ahmed: Not many know, what Khadi is? Can you explain and shed some light on the close links between Gandhiji and the Khadi. Santosh: The Khadi is a fabric for many people which is hand-spun and handwoven. It was a traditional weaving method which was happening in India for centuries. By the time, Gandhi entered the political arena of India, the weaving and Khadi industry was diminishing because of the mill-produced fabric which was coming from England. The cotton went all the way from here to Manchester and came back as a finished good. Because of that a lot of artisans in rural India lost their livelihood. The spinners, the weavers, the dyers and block printers all lost their jobs. At the same time, companies in the UK started making a lot of money. So Gandhi thought that it was high time for Indians to encourage local artisans and local production... To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-radio-the-lead-the-spiritual-message-of-mahatma-gandhis-khadi-896125.html
02-10-2020||National||'Vaishnava Jana To': Mahatma Gandhi's fight against untouchability||Eradicating untouchability from its roots was one of Mahatma Gandhi’s cardinal principles, upheld by the force of a lifetime of actions towards achieving it. To begin with, Mahatma coined the term ‘Harijan’ or ‘Man of God’, intending to replace the term ‘Dalit’, which was a term that by and large means ‘oppressed’. Although the terminology was debated widely by other leaders, the intention was to accord the community their own status in society. This title served as a linchpin to Gandhi’s philosophy. His revolt against untouchability began at a very young age in 1881, when his mother warned him not to touch a boy named Uka who cleaned their toilets. The 12-year-old Gandhi dismissed his mother’s warnings and questioned her belief in the system. In 1915, when Gandhi had recently returned from South Africa, he founded the ‘Satyagraha Ashram’ in Ahmedabad to spread his ideologies and train the community, despite the resistance shown by the local Vaishnavas. In 1920, he pushed the envelope further and declared that his notion of ‘Swaraj’ was the complete eradication of untouchability and said: “Swaraj is a meaningless term if we desire to keep a fifth of India under perpetual subjection, and deliberately deny to them the fruits of national culture.” On Nov. 27, 1927, Gandhi openly proclaimed that “if varnashrama goes to the dogs in the removal of untouchability, I shall not shed a tear.” “For reforms of Hinduism and for its real protection, removal of untouchability is the greatest thing...removal of untouchability is....a spiritual process,” he said. On Sept. 20, 1932, the Mahatma began his ‘fast unto death’ and "intended to sting the Hindu conscience into right religious action". Between November 1933 and August 1934, Gandhi set out on a journey that extended over 20,000 kilometres by train, car, bullock cart and on foot to raise money for his ‘Harijan Sevak Sangh’. His expedition went on for nine months and was undertaken across the nation, including in the Princely States. The Sangh was a medium through which he wanted to spread his message of uprooting untouchability as a practice as well as an ideology and empower the social, political, economic and cultural spheres of society. In his weekly newspaper, ‘Harijan’, Gandhi had written on this subject, saying, “Today, Brahmins and Kshatriyas, Vaishyas and Shudras are mere labels. There is utter confusion of Varna as I understand it and I wish that all the Hindus will voluntarily call themselves Shudras. That is the only way to demonstrate the truth of Brahminism and to revive Varnadharma in its true state.” "This religion, if it can be called as such, stinks in my nostrils. This certainly cannot be the Hindu religion. I shall put up a lone fight, if need be, against this hypocrisy...the dirt that soils the scavenger is physical and can be easily removed but there are those who have become soiled with untruth and hypocrisy, and this diet is so subtle that it is very difficult to remove it..." (cited in Rajmohan Gandhi's The Good Boatman: A Portrait of Gandhi, New Delhi, Viking 1995, pg 237). Gandhi did not believe in rebirth. Yet, to empathise with the oppressed caste, he once said, “If I have to be reborn, I should be born an untouchable, so that I may share their sorrows, sufferings, and the affronts levelled at them, in order that I may endeavour to free myself and them from that miserable condition.” “Vaishnava Jana To” was Gandhi's vision, which meant that a true human is one who feels the pain of others, removes misery and is never arrogant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaishnava-jana-to-mahatma-gandhis-fight-against-untouchability-896126.html
02-10-2020||National||Trinamool Congress delegation stopped at Hathras; Derek O'Brien, MPs manhandled||Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha leader Derek O'Brien was manhandled by joint magistrate Prem Prakash Meena and police in Uttar Pradesh when a party delegation went there to meet the family of a 19-year-old gang rape victim. O'Brien, two other MPs Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar and Pratima Mondal and former MP Mamata Thakur were stopped by police around 1.5 km from the victim's house. The delegation was headed to Boolgarhi village in Hathras to express solidarity with the grieving family of the victim and convey their condolences. After being stopped, the MPs asked the police and district administration officials to allow them to move ahead and they would not be violating any rules. O'Brien told police, "we are maintaining all protocols. We are not armed. Why are we stopped? What kind of jungle raj is this that elected MPs are prevented from meeting a grieving family." He also told police that he would stay back but the women leaders should be allowed to meet the families. When a policeman attempted to stop a woman leader, O'Brien intervened but a district administration official first pushed him following which he fell down. When he got up, according to video footage, some other policemen were seen pushing him. Mondal was also allegedly manhandled by Meena. Later, the Trinamool Congress delegation marched to a nearby police station to register a complaint against the officials who manhandled them. The incident came a day after former Congress president Rahul Gandhi was manhandled by UP Police when he was walking towards Hathras along with Priyanka Gandhi to meet the family of the victim, who died earlier this week. The cremation of the girl by the police in the wee hours without the presence of family had triggered a controversy even as police claimed that forensic examination did not confirm sexual assault. With leaders attempting to reach Hathras, the administration has imposed Section 144 of CrPC in the area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trinamool-congress-delegation-stopped-at-hathras-derek-obrien-mps-manhandled-896127.html
02-10-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi pays tribute to Lal Bahadur Shastri on birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday paid tributes to Lal Bahadur Shastri on his birth anniversary, saying he epitomised simplicity and lived for the welfare of our nation. "Lal Bahadur Shastri Ji was humble and firm. He epitomised simplicity and lived for the welfare of our nation. We remember him on his Jayanti with a deep sense of gratitude for everything he has done for India," Modi tweeted. Lal Bahadur Shastri Ji was humble and firm. He epitomised simplicity and lived for the welfare of our nation. The prime minister also went to Vijay Ghat, memorial of Shastri, to pay his tributes. Shastri, the second prime minister of India, was born in 1904 in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-pays-tribute-to-lal-bahadur-shastri-on-birth-anniversary-896131.html
02-10-2020||National||Lal Bahadur Shastri steered the nation through critical times, says Vice President Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday paid tributes to former prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri on his birth anniversary, saying he steered the nation through critical times with his exemplary leadership. Shastri, the second prime minister of India, was born in 1904 in Uttar Pradesh. "Shri Shastri was an epitome of simplicity, humility and wisdom. He steered the nation through critical times with his exemplary leadership," the Vice President Secretariat tweeted quoting Naidu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lal-bahadur-shastri-steered-the-nation-through-critical-times-says-vice-president-naidu-896151.html
02-10-2020||National||Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat pays tributes to statehood activists killed in 1994 police firing||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday paid tributes to the seven activists from the hill state who died in the Rampur Tiraha firing episode in 1994, when the statehood movement was at its peak. Part of an agitation demanding a separate state of Uttarakhand, the activists were going to Delhi to stage a dharna, when police opened fire at them. Some protestors alleged that women activists were also molested by the police. Speaking at a programme held at Rampur Tiraha in Muzaffarnagar district of Uttar Pradesh, Rawat said October 2 remains a “black day” for every individual hailing from Uttarakhand as innocent activists were killed in the police firing. Several political leaders from Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh were present at the Shaheed Sthal at Rampur Tiraha along with Rawat. Uttarakhand, which used to be a part of Uttar Pradesh, came into being on November 9, 2000 through the Uttar Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttarakhand-cm-trivendra-singh-rawat-pays-tributes-to-statehood-activists-killed-in-1994-police-firing-896167.html
02-10-2020||National||Anurag Kashyap denies sexual harassment charges, says he was in Sri Lanka in 2013||Denying charges of rape and sexual harassment leveled by actor Payal Ghosh, veteran filmmaker Anurag Kashyap on Friday stated that in 2013 he was away in Sri Lanka for professional commitments. Kashyap's statement was recorded by the Versova police station on Thursday – nearly a week after Payal, who hails from Kolkata stunned Bollywood with the allegations that the filmmaker sexually harassed her in 2013, and then filed an FIR. Kashyap denied the allegations through a brief statement issued by his lawyer Priyanka Khimani. “The material provided by Kashyap, in support of his statement, demonstrates that the complaint of Payal Ghosh is an outright lie. Kashyap has provided documentary proof of the fact that throughout August of 2013, he was away in Sri Lanka in connection with the shooting of one of his films,” the statement said. Kashyap has categorically denied that any such alleged incident ever took place and has also denied all allegations levelled against him. “These sudden, belated allegations of an alleged incident of August, 2013 have been widely publicised by the complainant for the purpose of vilifying Kashyap, irrespective of the outcome of the judicial process, it said. According to Khimani, Kashyap is confident that the “falsity of the complaint has been exposed”, not only by the evidence presented by him, but also the ever-shifting version of events put forth by Payal Ghosh in the media. “Kashyap is apprehensive that now that the falsity of her allegations in the FIR have been established, she will alter her version of events in the investigative process as well. Kashyap is distressed with the false and reckless allegations made against him that have caused pain to him, his family and his fans,” she said. Kashyap intends to “vigorously pursue the legal remedies”available to him. “Kashyap vehemently denies any such incident, as has been alleged, and has sought for severe action against Payal Ghosh for misusing the criminal justice system and for hijacking the #MeToo Movement for her ulterior motives. Kashyap is confident that justice will prevail,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anurag-kashyap-denies-sexual-harassment-charges-says-he-was-in-sri-lanka-in-2013-896172.html
02-10-2020||National||Amarinder, Khattar pay tributes to Mahatma Gandhi, Lal Bahadur Shastri||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and his Haryana counterpart Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi and former prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri on their birth anniversaries. Paying his tributes to Mahatma Gandhi on his 151st birth anniversary, Amarinder Singh in a tweet said, “He was a great man who united & led the nation to regain its freedom.” “He (Mahatma Gandhi) famously said in a gentle way, you can shake the world. His path of #nonviolence is the way to articulate any dissent,” the Punjab CM said. In his tributes to former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri, the Punjab CM said, “A self-effacing and resolute person, he led India remarkably to victory in the 1965 war against Pakistan.” “His famous slogan of 'Jai Jawan-Jai Kisan' still reverberates in the country,” he added. Paying tributes to Mahatma Gandhi, the Haryana chief minister in a tweet said his ideals are their "guiding light". Shastri epitomised simplicity and gave the slogan of 'Jai Jawan- Jai Kisan’, Khattar said. Mahatma Gandhi was born on this day in 1869 at Porbandar in Gujarat. Shastri, the second prime minister of India, was born in 1904 in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amarinder-khattar-pay-tributes-to-mahatma-gandhi-lal-bahadur-shastri-896174.html
02-10-2020||National||Anurag Kashyap denies 'false, reckless’ rape allegations||“Vehemently” denying actor Payal Ghosh’s allegations of rape against him, filmmaker Anurag Kashyap on Friday described them as “false and reckless” and said he was out of the country during the period she has mentioned in her FIR. A statement issued by his lawyer a day after he was questioned in the case said Kashyap provided documentary proof to the police to establish the fact that he was in Sri Lanka shooting for a film in August 2013. Versova police registered a First Information Report (FIR) against Kashyap on September 22 after Ghosh alleged that he had raped her in August 2013. "Mr. Kashyap has denied all wrongdoing in the matter and has provided his statement to the police. The material provided by Mr. Kashyap, in support of his statement, demonstrates that the complaint of Ms. Ghosh is an outright lie,” said the statement by his lawyer Priyanka Khimani. Kashyap, who was questioned by Mumbai Police for eight hours on Thursday, has said he will “vigorously pursue” legal remedies. “Mr. Kashyap has provided documentary proof of the fact that throughout August, 2013 he was away in Sri Lanka in connection with the shooting of one of his films. Mr. Kashyap has categorically denied that any such alleged incident ever took place and has also denied all allegations levelled against him,” Khimani said in the statement. She said the filmmaker believes the falsity of the complaint has been exposed by the “ever-shifting” versions of events shared by Ghosh. Khimani said the filmmaker is “distressed” with the “false and reckless allegations made against him that have caused pain to him, his family and his fans”. “Mr. Kashyap vehemently denies any such incident, as has been alleged, and has sought for severe action against Ms. Ghosh for misusing the criminal justice system and for hijacking the Me Too Movement for her ulterior motives. Mr. Kashyap is confident that justice will prevail,” the statement read. Last month, Ghosh took to Twitter to claim that Kashyap was sexually inappropriate towards her, an allegation the director had dismissed as “baseless”. Police has invoked IPC sections 376 (I) (rape), 354 (assault on woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 342 (wrongful confinement) against the “Gangs of Wasseypur” filmmaker. Earlier this week, Ghosh and Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Ramdas Athawale had met Maharashtra Governor B S Koshyari to seek action against Kashyap.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anurag-kashyap-denies-false-reckless-rape-allegations-896175.html
02-10-2020||National||Google launches online exhibition of postcards inspired by Mahatma Gandhi||Inspired by the teachings of Mahatma Gandhi on his 151st birth anniversary, Google Arts & Culture launched "Be the Voices of Change via Postcards" online exhibition on Friday. Organised in association with Kochi-based non-profit LetterFarms, the online exhibition aims to inspire people to be the change through messages written or painted on handcrafted postcards.  The postcards featured in this exhibition bear “ideas of change” by ordinary citizens, and were handpicked from the nationwide CHANGE150 community art project by LetterFarms.  The exhibition comprises a cluster of 10 exhibits each categorised on themes of national relevance such as ‘Equality’, ‘Education’, ‘Nation’, ‘Governance’, ‘Health’, ‘Community Action’, ‘Women’s Empowerment’, ‘Environment’, ‘Rights’ and ‘Humanity’.  Google Arts & Culture will launch one exhibit every Friday starting October 2 for the next nine weeks.  As part of this plan, the first thematic exhibit on "Equality" was launched on Gandhi Jayanti by boxing champion Mary Kom.  The exhibit addresses the issue of inequality of various kinds and features people’s voices on closing the gap in all spheres of life. “The handwritten change ideas on postcards are nothing short of the collective voices of the people of India articulating their vision for our society and our country in the future. That it comes from the ordinary Indian cutting across caste, creed, culture and economic status makes you want to sit and take note," said Saji Mathew, co-founder - LetterFarms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/google-launches-online-exhibition-of-postcards-inspired-by-mahatma-gandhi-896182.html
02-10-2020||National||Govt launches 100-day campaign under Jal Jeevan Mission to ensure potable water supply in schools||The Centre on Friday launched a 100-day campaign under Jal Jeevan Mission to ensure potable water supply in all schools and Anganwadi centers across the country. Speaking at the launching of the event, Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat requested the states and Union territories to make it a ''Jan Andolan'' (people's movement). Insisting that the initiative will be a fitting tribute to Mahatma Gandhi on his 151st birth anniversary on Friday, the Minister said that he had written to chief ministers lieutenant governors, requesting them to lead the campaign in their respective region. The Jal Shakti Ministry requesting all the state governments to ensure piped drinking water in all schools and Anganwadi centres in the next 100 days, he said. These facilities will be operated and maintained by the Gram Panchayat and/or its sub-committee i.e. Village Water & Sanitation Committee or Paani Samiti. As a ‘nodal department’, the Public Health Engineering Department of States will spearhead the campaign by involving Gram Panchayats and/or its sub-committees, along with other line departments including Education, Women & Child Welfare, Panchayati Raj & Rural Development, and Tribal Welfare. The Jal Jeevan Mission is Jal Shakti Ministry sponsored scheme aimed at providing tap water supply to households with a special focus on women and children by 2024.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-launches-100-day-campaign-under-jal-jeevan-mission-to-ensure-potable-water-supply-in-schools-896186.html
02-10-2020||National||Mahatma Gandhi and his stance on the 22 yards||Mahatma Gandhi and cricket may sound like a perfect example of an oxymoron, for 'Bapu' is hardly associated with the sport. Gandhi was comfortable grasping a stick rather than a cricket bat. Unlike a batsman, the propagator of Ahimsa or non-violence never wielded the stick. Is there any connection then that ties Gandhi to cricket? Both shaped the course of India's history and influenced society in different ways. Mahatma was at the forefront of India's freedom struggle. His ideals, beliefs and virtues shaped the crux of society and influenced India's relationship with other countries. On the other hand, cricket imbibed the consciousness of the country, its aspirations and desire to carve out a place on the world stage. When an independent but bewildered India was looking for a way to establish itself on the world map, cricket arrived as a rescuer. India's series victories against elite teams, its 1983 World Cup win and its subsequent emergence as a powerhouse in a game invented by its erstwhile coloniser served as a platform to showcase nationalistic sentiments. In such a scenario, cricket and Gandhi were bound to cross paths. Ramachandra Guha mentions one such example in his piece titled Gandhi: did he spin more than khadi? in which he discusses Louis Fischer, the author of The Life of Mahatma Gandhi, who had sent a list of questions to Mahatma's sister in 1948. Here's an extract from the article - In answer to "What does she remember about her brother Mohandas as a child and as a boy? Did he play games?" she replied: "When Mahatmaji was young he used to play with rubber balloons, tennis, cricket and such other games. He used to have such great interest for those games that he would not remember even his meals… He would not stay at home in the evenings as he would get engrossed in playing." In the same article, Guha mentions a humorous incident involving Gandhi and cricket. He talks about an occasion when Laxmi Merchant, the sister of legendary Indian opening batsman Vijay Merchant, went to get the Mahatma's autograph. Gandhi scanned through Laxmi's book for a suitable page to sign, eventually settling upon one containing the names of the 1933-34 MCC touring party. Captained by Douglas Jardine, the 16-member team comprised stalwarts like Hedley Verity and Stan Nichols. Gandhi added an extra member to the team: "17. M. K. Gandhi". Gandhi encountered cricket during his student years when he went to Rajkot and enrolled in high school. According to Kausik Bandyopadhyay's Mahatma On The Pitch, the headmaster of the school Dorabji Edulji Gimi made cricket and gymnasium compulsory for everyone. Gandhi, however, resented the instruction, partly because he was too shy to take part in the game and partly because he wanted to be with his ailing father after school. In his own words, "I never took part in any exercise, cricket or football because they were made compulsory. My shyness was one of the reasons for this aloofness, which I now see was wrong." As fate would have it, Gandhi had among his four notes of introduction one addressed to Prince Ranjitsinhji, one of the legends of the game, when he arrived in England in 1888. Arghya Ganguly in his piece, The link between cricket and Mahatma Gandhi, explores the myth that those two used to be in the same Rajkot college and Ranji's hostility to Gandhi's movements. Cricket commentator Scyld Berry has remarked, "both the prince and self-made pauper were schooled in the sporting ethos of Rajkot." In later years, Gandhi would give his 'not so favourable' viewpoint regarding cricket. "In the west, they have invented games like cricket for such people...To be sure, spending time in sports does give some exercise to the body, but an exercise of this kind does nothing to improve the mind...What proportion of men of high intellectual calibre shall we find among those who regularly play cricket or from among the large number who play football?" he wrote in a letter in 1931.  He even condemned cricket by stating that such a game had no place in a country burdened by the yoke of colonial bondage. Ramachandra Guha in the article, Why Gandhi would have been appalled by the Gandhi-Mandela Trophy, quotes him, "Our colonial-born Indians are carried away with this football and cricket mania. These games may have their place under certain circumstances. But I feel sure that for us, who are just now so fallen, they have no room. Why do we not take the simple fact into consideration that the vast majority of mankind who are vigorous in body and mind are simple agriculturists, that they are strangers to these games, and they are the salt of the earth?" Cricket mirrors society and the problem of caste-based discrimination was present in the sport too. At a time when Gandhi was fighting against untouchability and working for the upliftment of Harijans (a term he used for the caste that means People of God), one Palwankar Baloo was struggling to make his mark in the gentleman's game by breaking through caste barriers. He had to face discrimination throughout his career despite being an excellent spin bowler, so much so that he featured in the first Indian team to visit England in 1911. Despite his cricketing prowess, Baloo was marginalised time and again and was denied captaincy by the Hindu Gymkhana. Gandhi's fight against untouchability inspired him and his brothers Shivram and Vithal to fight for their rights. Later, Baloo became the vice-captain of the team and even got the chance to lead them for one innings in the final of the Bombay Quadrangular tournament. Vithal would later go on to lead the Hindu team in the 1923 edition. According to Guha in his book Cricket and Politics in Colonial India, "Gandhi never watched Baloo bowl or Vithal bat. But his campaign against Untouchability emboldened the Palwankars and their followers to fight more openly for their rights." Gandhi had a direct influence in cricket during the 1940 Bombay Pentangular. According to Boria Majumdar's article Why Gandhi said no to British India’s top cricket tournament, Gandhi reportedly said, “I would discountenance such amusements at a time when the whole of the thinking world should be in mourning over a war that is threatening the stable life of Europe and its civilisation and bids to overwhelm Asia." It must be noted that the tournament was going to be held at a time when World War II was threatening to ravage the world. It led to the cancellation of India's tour of England in 1940. Gandhi condemned the tournament and vehemently criticised its communal nature. Eminent personalities like the Maharajkumar of Vizianagaram agreed with Gandhi. The tournament was abolished in 1946 and the Ranji Trophy became the premier domestic tournament in its place. Despite Gandhi's lack of interest in cricket, his son Devadas was an ardent follower of the game and an admirer of Sir Don Bradman. In 1948, Bradman visited England for what was to be his farewell series. According to Guha, Devadas visited London to attend a meeting of Reuters, on whose board he served. But there was another purpose: to watch Bradman bat. Tickets for the Trent Bridge Test were sold out but he managed to get a complimentary pass through contacts. All hotel rooms in Nottingham were sold out also. Guha said that finally, the younger Gandhi found accommodation in the house of the warden of the Nottingham county jail. All of it to watch Bradman bat. As Abhishek Mukherjee writes in his article for Cricket Country, "He took the train back to London after the second day’s play and did not get to see the rest of the Test (the first Test in Nottingham). He missed some spectacular performances, but it did not matter anymore to him. He had seen what he had wanted to."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mahatma-gandhi-and-his-stance-on-the-22-yards-896190.html
02-10-2020||National||Congress prepares draft model law to annul central farm laws||Congress has prepared a draft model law that will be legislated by party-ruled states in order to annul the central farm laws. Sources said on Friday that the model law has been drafted and will soon be sent to Congress-ruled states to replicate it in their state assemblies. The move comes days after Congress chief Sonia Gandhi asked states under the party's rule to enact legislations to bypass Centre's three farm-related laws that have triggered protests by farmers. The move also comes ahead of the tractor rallies to be taken out by the Congress in Punjab and Haryana from October 4, in which party leader Rahul Gandhi will participate. The rallies are part of Congress's agitations against the farm legislations. The Congress is strongly opposing the three legislations and it has launched countrywide protests in each district and Vidhan Sabha on Gandhi Jayanti. The Congress president had advised the Congress-ruled states to pass laws in their respective states under Article 254(2) of the Constitution which allows the state legislatures to pass a law to "negate anti-agriculture central laws" that "encroach" upon the state's jurisdiction under the Constitution. The Congress claims that rules under Article 245(2) allow a state legislature to enforce laws "repugnant to the parliament law", a provision used by the BJP earlier against the central land acquisition act. The sources said that while Congress-ruled states are set to pass the law, some of the non-NDA ruled states are also likely to pass it, as they are opposed to the central farm legislations. Parliament had passed The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020 during the Monsoon Session and the president granted his assent for them. The laws seek to liberalise the agriculture sector and allow farmers to sell their products anywhere in the country they want at a better price. The model law brought by the Congress will be called the Protection of Farmers Interest and Farm Produce (Special Provisions) Bill that has been cleared by party MP and legal expert Abhishek Singhvi. The model law shall declare "null, void and inoperative" anything that is inconsistent in the three central legislations with the state law. It will also include a provision to ensure that no farmer shall be paid below the minimum support price for the price of the produce. The draft model bill seeks to ensure safeguards for farmers including the minimum support price regime and the framework under the APMC Act to protect their interests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-prepares-draft-model-law-to-annul-central-farm-laws-896214.html
02-10-2020||National||Reliance develops RT-PCR kit that can give Covid-19 results in two hours||Reliance Life Sciences has developed an RT-PCR kit that promises diagnosis of Covid-19 infection in about 2 hours, company sources said. At present, Covid-19 RT-PCR test, which is a real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (rRT-PCR) test for the qualitative detection of nucleic acid from SARS-CoV-2, takes up to 24 hours to give a diagnosis. The sources said computational biologists at Reliance Life Sciences, a subsidiary of billionaire Mukesh Ambani-run Reliance Industries Ltd, analysed more than 100 genomes of SARS-CoV-2 sequenced in India and designed unique RT-PCR primers for developing quantitative-Real Time PCR (RT-PCR) kit for Covid-19 detection. RT-PCR kit is so far considered as Gold standard. The kit, developed by scientists at Reliance Life Sciences, is named R-Green Kit (SARS COV2-real-time PCR) and has been technically validated by ICMR for satisfactory performance, the sources said. ICMR's validation process does not approve/disapprove the kit design as well as it does not certify user-friendliness. The sources said the kit can detect the presence of E-gene, R-gene, RdRp gene of SARS COV2 virus with Actin as an internal control. As per ICMR results, the kit shows 98.7 per cent sensitivity and 98.8 per cent specificity. This kit is a complete indigenous development by the R&D scientists working at the firm, they said, adding one biggest advantage of this kit is that it is simple to use and uses readily available simple reagents and primers which can be synthesised in India. The diagnosis time is approximately 2 hours, they added. A separate study by Reliance Life Sciences has indicated that the death rate for Covid-19 pandemic may significantly reduce by the end of 2020. The study showed mutation occurrence of structural and non-structural proteins of SARS-CoV-2 form more than 7,000 genome sequences of SARS-CoV-2 virus from 49 countries. Statistical analysis showed an inverse correlation between the mutation rates of two proteins NSP6 and Surface glycoprotein (S) with the death rate, according to the study published in the Scientific Journal of Biology. It has been predicted that mutations of these two proteins will grow constantly, while the death rate would drop below 0.5 per cent by end of 2020 in cluster I countries (India and Bangladesh). In the study, it has been observed that the cluster II country (USA) mutation rate of NSP6 and S proteins are lower than cluster I and cluster III (Australia and NZ) countries. Therefore, it has been proposed that in cluster II country the death rate of Covid-19 pandemic will weaken later than cluster I and III countries, the study says. Reliance also got a US patent for genetically modified microalgae that is said to defend/delay death. The United States Patent on September 8 issued the patent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reliance-develops-rt-pcr-kit-that-can-give-covid-19-results-in-two-hours-896224.html
02-10-2020||National||No physical SAT hearing till October 16 amid Covid-19||The Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) has extended the suspension of physical hearing till Oct 16 amid the coronavirus pandemic. Interim orders, if any, which are operational would remain in force till the next date of hearing, according to a notification. "... the judicial work of the Tribunal (physical hearing) shall remain suspended till 16th October, 2020," SAT said in a notification dated October, 1. The directions already issued and permitted from time to time shall be continued and all earlier orders shall be aligned with the present order and shall remain in force up to and inclusive of October 16. However, it would keep functioning via video conference from October 5 from 11.30 am to 4.30 pm until further orders, it said. Further, the office of the registry would function from October 5 from 11 am to 4.30 pm on all working days, it added. Besides, matters fixed for hearing between October 5 to October 16 would be rescheduled from December 18, 2020, to January 8, 2021. Earlier, the tribunal had suspended judicial work till October 1 while continuing to function through video conference. In case of extreme urgent matters, parties may file cases by adopting standard operating procedures introduced by the tribunal earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-physical-sat-hearing-till-october-16-amid-covid-19-896245.html
02-10-2020||National||Army pays tributes to soldiers killed in Pakistani firing along LoC in Jammu & Kashmir's Kupwara||The Army on Friday paid tributes to two soldiers who were killed in Pakistani firing along the Line of Control (LoC) in Kupwara district of Jammu and Kashmir. The Army paid a befitting tribute to Havildar Kuldeep Singh and Rifleman Shubam Sharma, who made the supreme sacrifice on Thursday in north Kashmir, an Army spokesman said. The two soldiers were killed when Pakistani troops resorted to unprovoked ceasefire violation along the LoC in Naugam sector of frontier Kupwara district on Thursday morning. In a solemn ceremony at Badamibagh Cantonment here, Chinar Corps Commander Lt Gen B S Raju and all ranks paid homage to the bravehearts on behalf of the proud nation, the spokesman said.     He said Singh and Sharma were directing retaliatory fire from a forward post on the LoC in response to an unprovoked ceasefire violation by Pakistan. Both of them laid down their lives in the line of duty as a result of a direct hit by the enemy fire and succumbed to injuries, the spokesman added. He said Singh (37) had joined the Army on 26 August 2002, and belonged to Raju Dwakhari village in Hoshiarpu District of Punjab and is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter. Sharma (22) had joined the Army on 17 September 2016, and hailed from Shakhian Chak village in Jammu district and is survived by his father. The spokesman said while Singh was enrolled in the 15 Sikh Light Infantry, Sharma belonged to the 8 Jammu and Kashmir Rifles. They both displayed their mettle by doing extremely well in their trade work and all fields. These brave sons of the soil displayed immense physical and mental strength in the face of the enemy, he said. Their bodies were taken for last rites to their native places, where they would be laid to rest with full military honours, the spokesman said. In this hour of grief, the Army salutes their sacrifice and stands in solidarity with the bereaved families, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-pays-tributes-to-soldiers-killed-in-pakistani-firing-along-loc-in-jammu-kashmirs-kupwara-896246.html
02-10-2020||National||India's active Covid-19 cases remain below 10 lakh for 11th consecutive day||For the eleventh successive day, India's active Covid-19 cases remained less than 10 lakh, while the country continued to maintain its global position of having the maximum number of recovered patients, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. With 78,877 people having recuperated from Covid-19 in a span of 24 hours, India's total recoveries surged to 53,52,078 pushing the recovery rate to 83.70 per cent, according to data updated at 8 am. "The last 10 lakh recoveries were added in just 12 days. With this, India continues to maintain its global position of being the country with maximum number of recovered Covid patients in the world," the ministry said. There are 9,42,217 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 14.74 per cent of the total caseload. Maharashtra is leading the tally among states with more than 2.5 lakh cases. Karnataka follows with more than 1 lakh cases, the ministry said. Fourteen states and union territories, including Meghalaya, Chhattisgarh, Puducherry, Himachal Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Goa and Sikkim, have less than 5,000 active cases of Covid-19, the ministry highlighted. A total of 81,484 new confirmed cases have been reported in the last 24 hours in the country. The ministry said that 78.07 per cent of the 81,484 new cases reported in a span of 24 hours are concentrated in 10 states and UTs -- Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal, Delhi and Chhattisgarh. Maharashtra contributed more than 16,000 new cases. Karnataka has contributed around 10,000 cases and Kerala follows with more than 8,000. Also, 10 States and UTs -- Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, West Bengal, Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Kerala -- account for 72 per cent of the newly recovered cases, the ministry said. Maharashtra has the highest number of newly recovered cases, followed by Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. Further, 1,095 fatalities due to Covid-19 have been registered in the country in a span of 24 hours, 83.37 per cent of which were reported from 10 states and UTs -- Maharashtra, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Kerala, Chhattisgarh. India's Covid-19 caseload mounted to 63,94,068 with 81,484 infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 99,773  with the virus claiming 1,095 lives in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-active-covid-19-cases-remain-below-10-lakh-for-11th-consecutive-day-896247.html
02-10-2020||National||Shun violence, will help you with jobs: Sinha to militants||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Friday appealed to local militants to shun the path of violence and promised to help them with jobs and entrepreneurial opportunities. He was speaking after launching the third phase of the pioneering 'Back to Village' programme in the militancy-hotbed Shopian district in south Kashmir. Sinha said the people of J-K, especially the youth, want to tread on the path of progress and development and appealed to the “misguided” youth to shun violence and return to the mainstream. “The government is ready to help with jobs and entrepreneurial opportunities,” he added. The Lt Governor said the administration will work hard to make Jammu and Kashmir one of the most developed union territories in the country. The administration is committed to make the UT a role model of development and prosperity, he said, adding it will empower youth and strengthen the Panchayati raj institutions. On the occasion, Sinha inaugurated a youth recreation centre and a children's library in Shermal village. He also laid the foundation stone of a 100-bedded girls' hostel costing Rs 306.34 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shun-violence-will-help-you-with-jobs-sinha-to-militants-896250.html
02-10-2020||National||Lalu-Nitish two sides of same coin: Upendra Kushwaha||Describing Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and RJD supremo Lalu Prasad as "two sides of the same coin", RLSP president Upendra Kushwaha on Friday said the three-party front they have formed is not to "spoil" votes of any alliance but to give a "positive choice" to the people of Bihar. People of the state want an end of 15 years of "misrule" under Kumar and on the other hand, the RJD-headed Grand Alliance does not have a "strong face" for the post of chief minister besides people have not forgotten the 15-year rule of Lalu Prasad's party in the state. Rivals have criticised RJD's rule from 1990 to 2005 for bad law and order situation and also lack of any development initiatives. "People don't have confidence in Nitish Kumar and they don't want to go with the RJD as they are two sides of the same coin...in such a situation we have come out with a front of the three parties to give a positive choice to the people," Kushwaha told PTI-Bhasha in an interview. After being spurned by the NDA and discarded by the RJD- helmed mahagathbandhan, Kushwaha has forged an alliance with Mayawati's Bahujan Samaj Party and a non-descript Janatantrik Party (Socialist) ahead of Bihar polls. BSP supremo Mayawati has also announced that her party would be supporting Kushwaha as the "Chief Ministerial" candidate in Bihar, an assertion that is being scoffed at by the ruling NDA in Bihar as well as the grand alliance comprising RJD, Congress, and others. Replying to a question on leaving the grand alliance, the former union minister said "the present leadership of the RJD is not strong enough to remove Nitish Kumar from power and its chief ministerial candidate (Tejashwi Yadav) is no match to him (Kumar)." In the absence of Lalu Prasad, who is in jail in Ranchi after being convicted in four cases of multi-crore rupees fodder scam, his younger son Tejashwi Yadav is commanding the party along with his mother Rabri Devi. "Had the opposition coalition made some decision on another face for the chief ministerial post it would have helped in removing Kumar from power...but unfortunately this did not happen," he said. "In such a circumstance I thought instead of getting wiped out in the polls it's better to form another alliance to give a choice to people of Bihar," the Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) president said. Asked if his separate alliance would divide votes of the opposition grouping and help the ruling NDA, he said "our front is neither to spoil anybody's vote or indirectly help another. We have come in the field to give a viable option to the voters." In reply to a question, if he had any talks on tie-up with the LJP of Union minister Ramvilas Paswan, which appears uncomfortable in the ruling coalition and taking potshots at Kumar, Kushwaha said "LJP has not made its stand clear. If Chirag Paswan decides to walk out of the alliance then we will talk. "If LJP comes with us we will be able to give an, even more, stronger positive choice to the people of Bihar." In the 2015 Bihar polls, RLSP as a partner of the grand alliance had fielded 23 candidates in the fray out of which two had won. It later succeeded in getting one of its members elected to the legislative council. However, all the three legislators revolted against Kushwaha's decision to walk out of the NDA in December 2018 and after the party drew a blank in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, they merged with Kumar's headed JD(U). The party had garnered 2.56 per cent votes in that elections. The BSP had contested 228 seats in the previous election in Bihar, but it could not win any of the seats. The Uttar Pradesh based party had got 2.7 per cent votes in the 2015 polls in Bihar and many of its candidates had forfeited their deposit. Kushwaha's political move has forced some leaders of his own party to say goodbye to him. Its Bihar unit president Bhudev Chaudhary has joined RJD and another top leader Madhav Anand tendered resignation from the party two days later. On the desertions, Kushwaha has said "it's better that people are getting down from the ship before it sails deep in the sea."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lalu-nitish-two-sides-of-same-coin-upendra-kushwaha-896256.html
02-10-2020||National||President Ram Nath Kovind wishes Donald Trump, Melania speedy recovery after they test positive for Covid-19||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday wished US President Donald Trump and his wife Melania Trump a speedy recovery after they tested positive for coronavirus. "I wish President Donald Trump @POTUS @realDonaldTrump and First Lady Melania Trump @FLOTUS a speedy recovery. Our prayers and best wishes are with you during this time," Kovind tweeted. Trump on Friday said he and Melania have tested positive for coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-ram-nath-kovind-wishes-donald-trump-melania-speedy-recovery-after-they-test-positive-for-covid-19-896261.html
02-10-2020||National||Two held for smuggling gold worth Rs 51.8 lakh by hiding it in rectum: Customs||Two people have been arrested by the customs officials for smuggling gold, worth nearly Rs 52 lakh, by concealing it in their rectum at the Indira Gandhi International Airport, according to an official statement issued on Friday. The accused, a man and a woman, were intercepted here after their arrival from Dubai on Wednesday. The officials seized gold weighing 1.14 kg, amounting to Rs 51.8 lakh, from the two passengers concealed in rectum in paste form," the statement issued by the customs department said. The passengers, both natives of Madurai, admitted to previous smuggling of gold and goods amounting Rs 1.03 crore during their past visits, it said, adding that the duo were arrested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-held-for-smuggling-gold-worth-rs-518-lakh-by-hiding-it-in-rectum-customs-896270.html
02-10-2020||National||Uttar Pradesh govt conspiring to prove Hathras woman a liar: Surjewala||A day after a senior UP Police officer claimed that the Hathras Dalit woman was not raped, Senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala accused the state BJP government of "conspiring" to prove her a "liar". He alleged that the UP authorities tried to “hush up things and forcibly cremated the victim” in the dead of night against Hindu rituals. "This in itself was a painful incident," he said, adding that the Yogi Adityanath government should "hang its head in shame". "Adityanath's DIG, Law and Order, now says no rape took place. If you had a daughter Adityanathji, you would understand the pain. If any untoward incident takes place with a daughter or a son, how much pain one faces," the Congress leader said. The former Haryana Minister said the victim in her dying declaration had confirmed gang rape. "After she died you are conspiring to prove her a liar. God will never forgive you, Adityanath, for such acts. You must resign and go to the people of Uttar Pradesh, who will tell you what is the reality of the BJP government,” Surjewala said in Kaithal during a protest against the Centre's farm laws. Citing forensic examination, Uttar Pradesh Police Additional Director General (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar had said the forensic examination on the woman who died at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on Tuesday did not indicate rape. But legal experts debunked the theory, telling PTI that the presence of sperm on the victim’s body cannot be an essential ingredient to prove the crime. Earlier officials had said the rape charge was added to the FIR after the victim told police that she was sexually assaulted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttar-pradesh-govt-conspiring-to-prove-hathras-woman-a-liar-surjewala-896272.html
02-10-2020||National||Those who even think of harming self-respect of women will face total destruction: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||Facing flak over the alleged gang rape and killing of a Dalit girl in Hathras, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday assured stern punishment to the offenders. ''The perpetrators will be sternly punished....their punishment will be an example for anyone, who thinks about hurting the women,'' Adityanath said in a post on his Twitter handle. उत्तर प्रदेश में माताओं-बहनों के सम्मान-स्वाभिमान को क्षति पहुंचाने का विचार मात्र रखने वालों का समूल नाश सुनिश्चित है। इन्हें ऐसा दंड मिलेगा जो भविष्य में उदाहरण प्रस्तुत करेगा। यह हमारा संकल्प है-वचन है। Adityanath has come under attack from opposition leaders over his alleged failure to ensure safety of the womenfolk in the state. The leaders of many opposition parties have demanded that he should resign owing moral responsibility for the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/those-who-even-think-of-harming-self-respect-of-women-will-face-total-destruction-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-896273.html
02-10-2020||National||NIA files charge-sheet against three men trained in Pakistan to carry out attacks in India: Official||The NIA has filed a charge-sheet against three persons who allegedly underwent training in Pakistan to carry out terrorist attacks in India on the instructions of Pakistan-based terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), an official said. The charge-sheet against Muneeb Hameed Bhat, Junaid Ahmad Mattoo and Umer Rashid Wani, all residents of Jammu and Kashmir’s Kulgam district, was filed before a special NIA court in Jammu on Thursday. It was filed under sections of the Ranbir Penal Code and the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), the official said. Mattoo and Wani were killed in separate encounters in Jammu and Kashmir in 2017 and 2018, respectively, the NIA official said. The case relates to subversive activities of the LeT in Kulgam. It was motivating youths such as Bhat to join the terror group and organised their travel to Pakistan for terrorist training on the basis of valid travel documents following the recommendation of separatist leaders, the NIA official said. Investigations by the NIA, which took over the case on September 25, 2018, established that LeT terrorist Mattoo motivated Bhat to join the LeT and go to Pakistan for terrorist training, the NIA spokesperson said. He added that Wani, another LeT terrorist, gave him funds to meet the expenses of his visit to the neighbouring country. In July-August 2017, Bhat visited Pakistan on valid travel documents and was imparted training on using weapons and secret social media chat platforms, the official of the premier investigation agency said. After returning from Pakistan, he was in constant touch with LeT handlers in Pakistan and with active militants of Kulgam on secret messaging platforms to carry out subversive and terrorist activities in the Valley, the NIA spokesperson said. Bhat was working as a sleeper cell of the LeT and intended to join the banned terrorist organisation, the official said. From 2016-2018, many Kashmiri youths were sent by separatist leaders to Pakistan, he added. They were trained in the camps for five to 15 days. After returning, they were initially used as sleeper cells by militant organisations and subsequently recruited for active militancy, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-files-charge-sheet-against-three-men-trained-in-pakistan-to-carry-out-attacks-in-india-official-896274.html
02-10-2020||National||IIT Kharagpur launches telemedicine software||With the Covid-19 pandemic still raging, IIT Kharagpur on Friday launched a telemedicine software which facilitates critical health care support to patients at their doorsteps through remote consultation by a physician. The system iMediX which is accessible by any standard internet browser and also from a mobile device, has been developed by researchers at IIT Kharagpurs Department of Computer Science and Engineering, an institute spokesperson said. In this system, a patient signs up to get an account by providing his/her Email ID or mobile number. Then the patient can make a request for consultation by choosing a department of the hospital, entering his/her chief complaints and uploading necessary scanned medical records. The hospital administration processes the request and assigns a doctor. The doctor after logging in sets an appointment date and time for the patient and the system communicates the information to the patient by mail and SMS. On the day of visit, the doctor consults the patient using video conferencing and advises him/her by writing a prescription, which is sent by mail to the patient. The patient can also download the prescription from her account. Prof Jayanta Mukhopadhyay, the lead researcher said, "As the number of cases of home isolation and home quarantine are increasing, the system will cater to the needs of the present situation. It would be useful also to follow up and treat aged patients." iMedX is being adopted for public use right at its home, IIT Kharagpur on-campus healthcare system, he said. Director of IIT Kharagpur, Prof V K Tewari said "In April we had announced eight R&D projects for providing COVID healthcare services. This telemedicine project was key among these especially keeping in mind its effectiveness in our own community. "When our campus will start operating in full strength close to 30,000 people including students would be in need of healthcare services and this technology will reduce over- exposure of the healthcare staff while efficiently catering to the population. While we are promoting physical distancing, it seems only appropriate to introduce this digital platform to meet the healthcare needs of the campus community effectively." The institute is creating user accounts for its medical cardholders who can avail the consultation facility home through video conferencing. The software, launched on October 2 on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti, will be integrated at the Dr B C Roy Technology Hospital of the institute which provides emergency healthcare services for the campus residents and employees, confirmed the office of Principal Medical Officer Dr Samir Dasgupta. The researchers are already in touch with healthcare MSMEs for commercialisation of the copyright version of the technology, Tewari said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-kharagpur-launches-telemedicine-software-896283.html
02-10-2020||National||From Gandhi Katha to secularism, Gandhians are spreading his message in today's world||From holding Gandhi Katha to inculcating the principles of secularism and equality in society, people following Mahatma Gandhi's principles in their lives are continuing to spread his message of peace and harmony in today's world. On the occasion of 151st birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi on Friday, Shobhana Radhakrishna, an acclaimed speaker, has chalked out a novel way of spreading Gandhian messages by holding Gandhi Katha (a narrative of Gandhi's life) based on the popularity of the Indian oral tradition in different parts of the country and abroad. "Since Gandhi ji's philosophy is based on truth, non-violence, ethical leadership, moral and spiritual life, his unique practices of wellness of body, mind and soul and the environmental credo is a very important learning for people, I have been passing these on to people through my Gandhi Katha," she told PTI. The expert on Gandhian philosophy said Gandhi Katha has enabled people to put their hearts into understanding him and get inspired. "Gandhi Katha attempts to provide some principles, ideas and alternatives that can help us in our quest for greater substance in life; addresses the pressing challenges of our times and provides lessons for personal growth and transformation. It also gives an insight about Mahatma Gandhi's views relevant to the contemporary world," she said. The 65-year-old speaker grew up in Mahatma Gandhi's Sewagram Ashram in Wardha where she says she cultivated a strong ideological connect with Gandhi's ideals. Uttam Parmar, a 64-year-old activist, believes he has been born twice -- once was his biological birth and second time was when he learnt about Gandhi's principles and was born as an Indian citizen. "We have a culture of 5,000 years. Every human being should first become a citizen and should get his right as citizen of a country and the first person to say this was Gandhi. Others fought for Independence of the country but Gandhi was the first one to say that every human being should have rights as a citizen. "Gandhi ji fought against evils of the society by bringing in equality, secularism. These are the principles I follow in my daily life and teach people to follow them," a trustee of Gujarat Vidya Peeth said. Eighty years old academician Sudarshan Aiyengar not only adopted Gandhi's principles but also his lifestyle and he has been wearing Khadi for the past 60 years. "Gandhi ji's principle of cleanliness is important but his biggest contribution is towards the secular movement and I am trying to act on it. If you go by ritual, then for the past 60 years I have been using khadi in my clothing" he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-gandhi-katha-to-secularism-gandhians-are-spreading-his-message-in-todays-world-896284.html
02-10-2020||National||Over 10 crore people have participated in 'Fit India' campaign: Kiren Rijiju||More than 10 crore people have participated in the 'Fit India' campaign till now that aims to improve the physical and mental health of the citizens, Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju said on Friday. The minister was speaking while receiving a cycle rally of specially-abled CRPF troops who pedalled about 1,000 km in 16 days from Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad to Delhi. "I conducted a review of the 'Fit India' campaign that was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and I am happy to tell you that over 10 crore people have participated in it till now. "The campaign was launched with an aim to improve the physical and mental health of the citizens," Rijiju said while addressing the Central Reserve Police Force rally at Rajghat here. He said when "uniformed forces like the CRPF join such a mission or campaign, they motivate many people." This cycle rally of CRPF 'divyang yoddhas' (specially-abled warriors) carried the message of peace, determination and passion, he said. The minister said the Sports Ministry is leaving no stone unturned for providing facilities to the specially-abled sportspersons and athletes. "The government does not differentiate between athletes...there is no discrimination whether it is a regular athlete or para-athlete," he said. All the sportspersons, be it those who compete in regular Olympics or para-sports, are achievers and it is a matter of pride that they win medals for the country, Rijiju said. "We have given instructions in my ministry that no stadium or sporting facility will be considered complete till it has facilities for the specially-abled," he said. Much more needs to be done for the para-athletes, the minister added. CRPF Director General A P Maheshwari also lauded the participants of the rally and said the country's largest paramilitary force has "drawn a comprehensive policy to skill and re-skill the 'divyang' warriors of the force who suffered injuries while serving the nation". "This policy aims at first skilling the 'divyang' warriors in para-sports and later imparting them technology related skills that will enable them to serve the nation as cyber professionals," the DG said. The cycle rally was flagged off from Ahmedabad on September 17 and apart from six women personnel it had CRPF officer R K Singh as a participant. Singh, a second-in-command rank officer, has been decorated with the Shaurya Chakra for undertaking a daring operation in 2011 against Naxals in Jharkhand. The officer had to undergo amputation of his left leg after this anti-Maoist operation and he later donned a prosthetic one post surgery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-10-crore-people-have-participated-in-fit-india-campaign-kiren-rijiju-896290.html
02-10-2020||National||Drug peddler who once worked as Bollywood make-up artist, held||The crime branch of Mumbai Police has arrested two drug peddlers including a former Bollywood make-up artist and seized Mephedrone (MD) worth Rs 3.15 lakh from their possession, an official said on Friday. Unit-11 of the crime branch held Parvez alias Laddu Hanif Halai (30) and Niketan alias Nikhil Suresh Jadhav (30) from Rajendra Nagar in Borivali (West) on Thursday, he said. The duo were nabbed by a team led by senior inspector Sunil Mane during patrolling in the area. During the search, the police found 105 gm of narcotic drug MD, worth Rs 3.15 lakh in illicit trade, in their possession, the official said, adding that the two were arrested under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Jadhav and Halai had serious offenses including an attempt to murder, cheating and theft registered against them, he said. Jadhav told the police that he once worked as a make- up man and hairdressing artist for prominent film production houses and leading male and female actors and celebrities appearing in international reality shows, the official said. He came in contact with drug peddlers during this period and after realizing that huge amounts of money can be made by selling narcotics, he quit working as make-up artist in Bollywood. He was allegedly selling drugs for the last four years. The crime branch is investigating from where he procured drugs and whom did he supply them, the police official said. The accused ensured that WhatsApp chats with customers about drugs were deleted after reading, and the police will try to retrieve these deleted messages, he added. The arrest comes on the heels of Narcotic Control Bureau's high-profile investigation into alleged drug use in Bollywood.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drug-peddler-who-once-worked-as-bollywood-make-up-artist-held-896292.html
02-10-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Tesla to enter India in 2021; US President Donald Trump tests Covid-19 positive||In your evening news brief, From the Newsroom, US President Donald Trump and First lady Melania Trump tested positive for Covid-19; Tesla Inc chief executive Elon Musk indicated on Friday that the US electric carmaker will make a foray into India in 2021; A blast was reported at the Karnataka Power Corporation Limited (KPCL) plant in Yelahanka, Bengaluru.    Hi, this is Akash Sriram and you are listening to From The Newsroom, your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald. Here are the top stories of the day, October 2, 2020: US President Donald Trump and First lady Melania Trump tested positive for coronavirus after senior aide Hope Hicks tested positive for the disease. Hicks travels regularly with the President on Air Force One and recently, along with other senior aides, accompanied him to Ohio for the presidential debate on September 29 and to Minnesota for a campaign event the day after. President Trump and First Lady Melania Trump are now quarantined in the White House. Tesla Inc chief executive Elon Musk indicated on Friday that the US electric carmaker will make a foray into India in 2021. "Next year for sure," Musk said on Twitter in reply to a post with a photograph of a T-shirt with the message: "India wants Tesla". Tesla's entry could come at a time when Prime Minister Narendra Modi is increasingly becoming focussed on promoting the use and manufacture of electric vehicles. Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha leader Derek O'Brien was manhandled by joint magistrate Prem Prakash Meena and police in Uttar Pradesh when a party delegation went to Hathras to meet the family of a 19-year-old gang rape victim. O'Brien, two other MPs Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar and Pratima Mondal and former MP Mamata Thakur were stopped by police around 1.5 km from the victim's house. The delegation was headed to Boolgarhi village in Hathras to express solidarity with the grieving family of the victim and convey their condolences. A blast was reported at the Karnataka Power Corporation Limited (KPCL) plant in Yelahanka in the wee hours of Friday leaving 15 electrical engineers on the site with burn injuries. According to local residents of Puttenahalli, in Yelahanka limits, the blast reportedly occurred at 3:00 am on Friday and a series of ambulances were seen ferrying injured engineers to nearby hospitals. That is it today, From the Newsroom. Tune in tomorrow morning for our feature show, The Lead.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-tesla-to-enter-india-in-2021-us-president-donald-trump-tests-covid-19-positive-896294.html
02-10-2020||National||Covid-19 vaccine to be available by end of January 2021: Sharad Pawar||The Covid-19 vaccine being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) will be available by January-end next year, NCP supremo and Rajya Sabha member Sharad Pawar said. “The vaccine will come by January-end 2021,” said Pawar, a four-time Maharashtra Chief Minister and two-term Union Agriculture Minister, after visiting the SII facility in Pune on Friday. The 79-year-old leader also said that he got a BCG (Bacillus Calmette-Guerin) vaccine administered at the SII on Friday morning to increase immunity. “It increases immunity and I got it administered,” the NCP chief told reporters in Pune. It may be mentioned that Dr Cyrus S Poonawalla, the Chairman of SII and his son Adar Poonawala, the CEO of world's leading vaccine company, shares an excellent relationship with the Pawar family. This is Pawar’s second visit to the SII facility in Pune in recent times – the other being on 1 August.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-to-be-available-by-end-of-january-2021-sharad-pawar-896310.html
02-10-2020||National||Hathras case: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal joins protest at Jantar Mantar||Hundreds of protesters hit the streets on Friday demanding justice for the Hathras gang rape victim with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal leading a candlelight vigil at Jantar Mantar and Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra joining a prayer meeting at the Valmiki temple. Waving placards and raising slogans, supporters of AAP, Left parties, Bhim Army and students unions gathered at the Jantar Mantar demanding resignation of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, accusing him of coercing the family of gang rape victim and stopping the media and political leaders from meeting them. CPI(M) leaders Sitaram Yechury and Brinda Karat, CPI’s D Raja, Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad ‘Ravan’, Mahila Congress chief Sushmita Dev joined the protestors at Jantar Mantar, as parallels were drawn with the agitation against the Delhi gang rape case in 2012 that had put the then UPA-II government in the dock. “This is a fight for justice for the family of the victim. There should be no politics over this issue,” Kejriwal told reporters here. “The entire country wants that the culprits should be given stringent punishment. Some people feel that attempts are being made to save them. At this time, the victim’s family needs all the possible help,” the Delhi Chief Minister said. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra participated in a prayer meet for the Hathras gang rape victim at the Valmiki Temple at Panchkuia Road, where Mahatma Gandhi had stayed for 214 days during the freedom movement. “We will ensure that justice for our sister. We will not sit quiet till justice is done,” Priyanka said at the prayer meeting organised by the Valmiki community to which the victim belonged. “The family should never feel it is alone. We will put political pressure on the government. Each one of us should put moral pressure. The family was kept away from the last rites. It is not our tradition to perform last rites after sundown,” the AICC General Secretary said. Bhim Army chief Azad demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi break his silence on the issue. “The PM washes the feet of Dalits before elections but remains quiet when a Dalit daughter of Uttar Pradesh is brutally raped,” Azad said. AAP, JNU Students Union, Youth Congress, Bhim Army and some other outfits had given a call for protests at India Gate, but the venue was shifted to Jantar Mantar after police imposed prohibitory orders at India Gate. As crowds swelled at Jantar Mantar, Delhi Metro shut down the exit gates at Patel Chowk, Janpath and Rajiv Chowk metro stations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hathras-case-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-joins-protest-at-jantar-mantar-896312.html
02-10-2020||National||Yogi govt denting BJP's image; allow media, politicos to visit Hathras victim's family: Uma Bharti||Senior BJP leader Uma Bharti on Friday slammed the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh over its handling of the Hathras gang rape case, saying it had dented the image of the BJP as its set out to usher in ‘Ram Rajya’ in the country. Bharti’s stinging remarks came at the time when the Yogi government was embroiled in a controversy over the hurried cremation of the Hathras gang-rape victim and denial of entry into the village to the media and political leaders. Bharti, a former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister and BJP vice president, said she was certain the Adityanath was handling the situation deftly, but the manner in which the victim’s family was confined to their home-raised questions and apprehension. “She was a daughter of a dalit family. The police performed her last rites in a hurried manner and now has rounded up the family,” she said. “We have laid the foundation stone of the Ram Temple and made claims for ushering in Ram Rajya. But the suspicious actions of the police in this incident has dented the image of your government and the BJP,” said Bharti. She disapproved of the hurried cremation of the gang rape victim and confinement of the victim’s family in the village. “As per my understanding, there is no rule that stops the family members from meeting anyone while the SIT investigates the matter. Such action raises questions over the SIT investigation,” Bharti said. “You are an administrator with a clean image. I request you to allow media persons and leaders of political parties to meet the victim’s family,” the said. Bharti’s remarks came a day after Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra were stopped from visiting Hathras to meet the family of the victim. On Friday, a Trinamool Congress delegation, led by Derek O’Brien, was seen jostling with the police at Hathras.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yogi-govt-denting-bjps-image-allow-media-politicos-to-visit-hathras-victims-family-uma-bharti-896321.html
02-10-2020||National||BJP govt taking to brutality to cover up Hathras incident: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday accused the UP government of taking to brutality to hide the truth of the Hathras incident and alleged that the family members of the victim were being beaten up, a behaviour which no Indian can support. He took to Twitter to allege that neither any political party nor the media was allowed to meet the victims family in Hathras and they were also not allowed to come out. He shared a video of a small child in the victim's village telling the media that the woman's family members were being beaten up and threatened by the authorities, besides not being allowed to meet anyone. The child who claimed to be a relative of the victim alleged that the telephones of all family members had been taken away by police and their entire house and the neighbourhood was put under lockdown, with no one being allowed to enter or leave. "The UP government has taken to brutality cover up the truth. Neither us, nor the media is being allowed to meet the victim's family. Neither are they allowed to come out. On top of this, the family members of the victim are being beaten up and brutalised. No one in India will support such a behaviour," he said in a tweet in Hindi while sharing the video. This comes a day after the former Congress president and sister Priyanka Gandhi Vadra were detained by the police and sent back to Delhi, after they tried to reach Hathras to meet the family of the victim. Priyanka Gandhi also took a swipe the Uttar Pardesh government over the manner in which it was dealing with the public. Greeting people on former prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri's birth anniversary, she cited a quote by him that said, "Those who rule should see how people react to the administration. Ultimately the public is the leader." The 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly raped at a village in Hathras by four men on September 14. After her condition deteriorated, she was referred to the Delhi's Safdarjung hospital where she breathed her last on Tuesday. She was cremated in the early hours of Wednesday, with her family alleging the local police forced them to conduct the last rites in the dead of the night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-govt-taking-to-brutality-to-cover-up-hathras-incident-rahul-gandhi-896327.html
02-10-2020||National||Internal tussle in AIADMK continues; decision on CM nominee to be delayed?||AIADMK leaders are finding it difficult to resolve differences between Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam even as the self-imposed deadline of October 7 for announcing the chief ministerial face for the 2021 elections nears. Highly-placed sources in the party told Deccan Herald that no resolution has been reached between the two warring leaders as on Friday as both are “sticking to their known stands” even as they expressed fear whether the decision on CM’s candidate will have to be postponed yet again.  The sources said interlocutors are finding it difficult to resolve the differences between the two leaders as OPS is stubborn on his stand that a steering committee should be constituted, while EPS is vehemently opposed to such an idea. “We are trying for a resolution before October 7 so that the decision on the chief ministerial candidate can be announced on the said date as decided earlier this week. There is no sight of resolution as we speak, and the effort is to try, try and try till the last minute. We are hopeful, but we are not too sure,” a senior minister told Deccan Herald. Though Palaniswami and Panneerselvam participated in three events on Friday to commemorate the 151st birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and the 45th death anniversary of former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Kamaraj, they did not speak to each other. Hours after the event, the verified Twitter handle of the AIADMK put out a message announcing that all party legislators have been asked to be in Chennai on October 6, a day before the party’s scheduled date for announcing the CM nominee. However, the tweet was deleted within hours, even as a few ministers and MLAs whom DH contacted said they have not received any such invite or phone calls informing them about the meeting. Panneerselvam, who feels sidelined within the AIADMK and has expressed displeasure over the way Palaniswami and several ministers treat him in the party and government, continued to hold parleys with his supporters on Friday. Former Lok Sabha deputy speaker M Thambidurai also met Panneerselvam on Friday. “Panneerselvam wants the constitution of the steering committee with 11 members to run the party. He also wants a greater say for him in the AIADMK pointing out that he does not interfere much in the functioning of the government. OPS also feels the steering committee is necessary to prepare the party for the Assembly polls due next year,” a senior leader said. However, Palaniswami is opposed to the idea as he feels such a committee would only create more problems within the AIADMK and lead to the emergence of “another power centre.” “We are trying to reach an agreement,” the leader said, adding that OPS continues to question the need for announcing the CM nominee “at this point.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/internal-tussle-in-aiadmk-continues-decision-on-cm-nominee-to-be-delayed-896333.html
02-10-2020||National||Process to exhume, hand over bodies of 3 men killed in alleged fake encounter to be completed soon: J&K DGP||Jammu and Kashmir Police chief Dilbag Singh on Friday said that the legal process to exhume and hand over the bodies of three persons from Rajouri who were killed in an alleged fake encounter by the Army in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir in July would be completed soon. "The process is on. We have started whatever legal process has to be undertaken and this process will be completed soon," the Director-General of Police (DGP) told reporters when asked when the bodies would be handed over to their families. On September 30, Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said since the DNA samples matched with the families, the three bodies will be exhumed and handed over to families after due process of law. On July 18, the Army claimed three militants were killed in Amshipura village in the higher reaches of south Kashmir's Shopian district. However, the Army initiated an inquiry after social media reports indicated the three men were from Rajouri district in Jammu and had gone missing at Amshipura. The families of the three men from Rajouri who worked as laborers in Shopian had also filed a police complaint. The Army completed the probe in a record four weeks and on September 18, it said it has found "prima facie" evidence that its troops "exceeded" powers under the Armed Forces Special Powers Act during the encounter and has initiated disciplinary proceedings. The police also launched its investigations and collected the DNA samples of the families to match with the slain persons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/process-to-exhume-hand-over-bodies-of-3-men-killed-in-alleged-fake-encounter-to-be-completed-soon-jk-dgp-896334.html
02-10-2020||National||Hathras rape case: UP Police’ behaviour violates fundamental rights of victim, kin||The high-handedness shown by the Uttar Pradesh police in midnight cremation of the body of 19-year-old alleged gang rape victim in Hathras has evoked strong reactions. This has emerged as egregious violation of the recognition to fundamental right to dignified burial and cremation under Article 21 (right to life and liberty) of the Constitution. The UP police would rather find it hard to explain its conduct as the Allahabad High Court has sought explanation from them. Way back in 1995, the Supreme Court in Pt Parmanand Katara case held that the right to the dignity and fair treatment enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution is not only available to a living man but also to his body after the death. Here the petitioner has challenged the validity of jail manual in case of condemned prisoner which required for suspending the dead body for half an hour after it fell from scaffolds. The court then directed that jail authorities should not keep the body of condemned prisoner suspended after the medical officer declared the person to be dead. During the time of Covid-19 pandemic, high courts across the country have intervened to ensure decent burial and cremation to the victims of the disease, in recognition to the right to dignity in death, following reports of undignified manner of handling of dead bodies. The Bombay High Court in the case of Pradeep Ghandy rejected his plea against municipal corporation's decision to designate 20 burial grounds and cemeteries for disposing of bodies of those who died of Covid-19. It has said the right to decent burial, commensurate with the dignity of the individual is recognised as a facet of the right to life guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. In April, the Madras High Court took strong view of the opposition made against burial of the body of a neuro surgeon at Kilpauk, saying the fundamental right to life guaranteed under the Constitution included the right to decent burial or cremation. In June, the Supreme Court took Suo Motu cognisance of the media reports showing patients and corpses were lying in wards of Delhi's LNJP hospital and registered a case as 'the proper treatment of Covid-19 patients and dignified handling of dead bodies in the hospitals etc'. It subsequently issued a slew of directions for proper care and treatment of Covid-19 patients and keeping their family members informed about the status. In the case of Hathras victim, the issue was not only of cremation of the body without consent of the family, it also involved the rights available to the deceased victim and the family members under Article 25 (right to practice one's religion), as, last rites were to be performed as per religious traditions followed by the family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hathras-rape-case-up-police-behaviour-violates-fundamental-rights-of-victim-kin-896338.html
02-10-2020||National||Indian ambassador to China pays tributes to Mahatma Gandhi||Indian Ambassador to China Vikram Misri on Friday paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi on the 151st birth anniversary of the father of the nation. Misri garlanded Gandhi's statue at a popular park in Beijing on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti. The statue of Gandhi was carved by China's acclaimed sculptor and artist Yuan Xikun and installed at the park in 2005. Misiri later addressed a meeting at the Indian embassy to mark the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-ambassador-to-china-pays-tributes-to-mahatma-gandhi-896348.html
02-10-2020||National||IIT Delhi startups launch Covid-19 protection lotion, antiviral T-shirts||Two startups incubated at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) here have together launched antiviral T-shirts and a Covid-19 protection lotion at affordable prices, according to officials. The products, which are part of an antiviral kit, were unveiled by institute Director V Ramgopal Rao on Friday. The two startups are---E-TEX and Clensta. The kit consists of a novel Clensta protection lotion, hand sanitiser, E-TEX Kawach Antiviral T-Shirt and Kawach Mask. The products have been backed by experts from Chemical and Textile department of IIT, Delhi. According to officials, the antiviral fabric designed by startup--E-TEX, has been designed using advanced technology which reduces the likelihood and speed of contaminations and transmissions by destroying micro-organisms on contact. The antimicrobial property of the garment remains effective even after 30 washes at mild condition. The finishing is done on cellulosic fibres, which is safe for human contact and on the environment. "The Covid-19 pandemic is pushing for an all-time-high demand of multi-functional anti-viral and microbial apparels. Developing cost-effective bio-clothing with antiviral and antimicrobial functionalities through local resources and resilient manufacturing can deactivate the viral threats, can efficiently stop or slow the spread of the virus. "Further, this will boost the local economy for textile and garment sectors," said Bipin Kumar, Department of Textile and Fibre Engineering, IIT Delhi. Kumar explained that the Covid-19 Protection Lotion launched by the start up named "Clensta" offers 99.9 per cent virus protection with antiviral and antiseptic properties for up to 24 hours. "The product is a breakthrough advancement in the formulation of engineering chemistry with first of its kind PAP Technology (Prolonged Antiviral Technology) to prevent bacterial, viral, and fungal infections without harming the environment and human health and advanced hand sanitiser is formulated with increased alcohol retention time to be effective prevention against multiple viruses," he said.  "The product can be used over any exposed part of the body including face and hands. The application of the product keeps users safe from viruses by disrupting it for almost 24 hours and reduces the extended use of alcohol-based sanitizers and washing hands multiple times a day," he added. India's Covid-19 caseload inched closer to 64 lakh-mark with 81,484 infections reported in a day, while the number of people who recuperated from the disease crossed 53 lakh pushing the recovery rate to 83.70 per cent, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. The total number of coronavirus cases in the country mounted to 63,94,068, while the death toll climbed to 99,773 with the infection claiming 1,095 lives in a span of 24 hours, according to the ministry data updated at 8 am on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-delhi-startups-launch-covid-19-protection-lotion-antiviral-t-shirts-896349.html
02-10-2020||National||India's Covid-19 death toll crosses 1-lakh mark; experts say national peak was seen in September||India’s Covid-19 death toll on Friday crossed the 1,00,000 mark, making it the third country in the world to climb such a peak of ignominy. More than 33,000 of these deaths – or one-third of the total Covid-19 deaths - occurred in September, making it the deadliest month since the first Covid-19 infection was reported in a Kerala student on the last day of January. Barring a lone exception, the epidemic killed more than 1,000 Indians on each day of September. The month also recorded in excess of 26 lakh infections, accounting for 41% of 64 lakh Covid-19 cases. But in what may be a silver lining, several experts pointed out that India might have witnessed its first national-level peak around September 14-16, following which epidemic curve moved south. The declining trajectory is seen in the charts available on the website of the National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai – one of the ICMR laboratories. The seven-day average of daily cases detected has fallen from the highest-yet of 93,199 on September 16 to 82,214 on October 1, a decline not observed since the epidemic’s beginning. “Our country level epidemic has already peaked in the third week of September. The stage of the healthcare system getting overwhelmed is over,” T Jacob John, an eminent virologist and former professor at the Christian Medical College, Vellore told DH. “However, hidden within the country-level epidemic curve are many many epidemics in local areas where the peak may not have been reached,” he cautioned. A downward movement in the epidemic curve does not mean an end to the cases and deaths, which will continue to pile up. USA and Brazil are the only two nations with a toll higher than India even though the Asian giant has overtaken the Latin American nation in the total cases and the gap between India and USA is narrowing with each passing day. “Each death is unfortunate and has a devastating effect on families. Majority of the deaths have occurred in the period when the country witnessed a surge in cases. Some of these deaths were preventable in which early care couldn’t be provided due to issues with access to health facilities and delayed identification,” said Giridhar R Babu, an epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India. While going by the case fatality rate, India’s has one of the world’s lowest death rate, the numbers are sobering in absolute terms. “The increase in deaths in recent months also indicates that while the case fatality ratio remains low, individuals are still at risk of death as an outcome. Doing everything possible to stay safe is important,” said Oommen John, a public health specialist at the George Institute for Global Health, Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-death-toll-crosses-1-lakh-mark-experts-say-national-peak-was-seen-in-september-896352.html
02-10-2020||National||Nitin Gadkari distributes mobile khadi selling units to divyang on Gandhi Jayanti||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday distributed mobile khadi selling units in his parliamentary constituency of Nagpur on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti via video conferencing, an official statement said.  The minister for MSME and road transport and highways distributed the e-rickshaws to five divyang (differently-abled) beneficiaries. These beneficiaries will be able to sell various khadi products like khadi fabric, readymade clothes, food items, spices and other locally made products in nearby villages. Five more mobile khadi selling units will be distributed in the next few days, the statement added. Gadkari lauded the initiative of the Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC), saying this would empower the divyang by creating sustainable livelihood opportunities. At the same time, he said, this will increase the sale of khadi and thus prompt higher production by artisans. Gadkari said efforts will be made to distribute at least 500 such mobile selling units to divyang beneficiaries in every district of India. "With these mobile selling units, our Divyang brothers will be able to earn a respectable and sustainable livelihood. As they go to different villages selling Khadi products, it will also increase the reach of Khadi to a larger population," the minister said. Besides, KVIC rolled out various employment generation activities in Jammu and Kashmir to celebrate the 151st birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi on Friday.  Under its Kumhar Sashaktikaran Yojana, KVIC Chairman Vinai Kumar Saxena distributed electric potter wheels to 100 potter families in Baramulla. He also inaugurated the training of artisans in crewel embroidery and Sozni embroidery in Ganderbal and Pulwama districts.  KVIC also installed a 3.5 feet steel charkha at its Mumbai office premises.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nitin-gadkari-distributes-mobile-khadi-selling-units-to-divyang-on-gandhi-jayanti-896358.html
02-10-2020||National||UP cops didn't push Rahul Gandhi, he fell down due to crowd: Raosaheb Danve||Union minister Raosaheb Danve on Friday said it was not true that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi was pushed by the police in Uttar Pradesh when he was on his way to meet the family of Hathras victim as he fell down due to the jostling crowd. The BJP leader was speaking to reporters outside his residence here. "It is not true that the police pushed the Congress leader. He fell down due to the jostling mob," Danve said. "Visuals on television and social media showed that Gandhi must have fallen down due to themob not because of the police," the Minister of State for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution added. Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra were on Thursday detained by the Uttar Pradesh police after they were stopped on the Yamuna Expressway in Greater Noida while walking towards Hathras to meet the victim's family. Rahul Gandhi fell down in the scuffle after police tried to stop him and his supporters from proceeding on the Yamuna Expressway. Pictures of the incident were shared by the party, which accused the police of manhandling the leader. The Shiv Sena and the NCP, which share power with the Congress in Maharashtra, also criticised the UP police over the alleged manhandling. Replying to a question on Maratha quota, Danve said the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government failed in effectively defending the Maratha reservation before the Supreme Court. "They made head of cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation Ashok Chavan a scapegoat over the issue," he alleged. "If TamilNadu can breach the 50 per cent ceiling on reservation, why can't Maharashtra? Reservation in Tamil Nadu is 69 per cent, while Maharashtra got a stay over it," he said. Maratha Kranti Morcha, which is spearheading the movement for quota to the community, staged a protest outside Danve's residence on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-cops-didnt-push-rahul-gandhi-he-fell-down-due-to-crowd-raosaheb-danve-896360.html
02-10-2020||National||Gujarat bags first prize under campaign to construct and maintain community toilets||Gujarat has won the first prize in the state category of a six-month-long campaign that aimed at mobilising resources to construct and maintain community toilets, the Jal Shakti Ministry said Friday. The Swachh Sundar Samudayik Shauchalaya campaign was launched on November 1, 2019, and continued till April 30, 2020. The central government campaign aimed at mobilising districts, blocks and villages to build, paint and maintain their community toilets. "Top awards were conferred upon Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and others," the ministry said in a statement. Gujarat was felicitated with the first prize in the state category; Tirunelveli, Tamil Nadu, as best district; Khachrod, Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh, as best block; and Chinnaur, (Salem) as the best gram panchayat under the campaign, it said. Under the week-long Gandagi Se Mukt campaign launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 8, Telangana received the top award for maximum Shramdaan participation, while Haryana was felicitated with the top award for declaring maximum open defecation-free plus villages. Moga district in Punjab received the top award for maximum information, education and communication messages through wall paintings, the ministry added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-bags-first-prize-under-campaign-to-construct-and-maintain-community-toilets-896363.html
02-10-2020||National||Navies of India, Bangladesh to hold 3-day mega military exercise from October 3||The Indian and Bangladeshi navies will hold a mega military exercise in the Bay of Bengal on Saturday which will be followed by a two-day joint maritime patrolling in the region to further expand operational coordination between the two forces, officials said. A wide spectrum of maritime drills and operations will be conducted as part of the annual 'Bongosagar' exercise whose first edition was held in October last year, they said. "It is aimed at developing inter-operability and joint operational skills through conduct of a wide spectrum of maritime exercises and operations. Ships from both navies will participate in surface warfare drills, seamanship evolutions and helicopter operations," an Indian Navy spokesperson said. He said the exercise will be followed by the third edition of Coordinated Patrol (CORPAT) in Northern Bay of Bengal on October 4 and 5 under which both navies will undertake joint patrolling in the region. "Conduct of CORPAT has strengthened understanding between both the navies and instituted measures to stop conduct of unlawful activities," he said. The Indian Navy will deploy anti-submarine warfare corvette Kiltan and guided-missile corvette Khukri in the 'Bongosagar' exercise. The Bangladeshi navy will be represented by guided-missile frigate Abu Bakr and guided-missile corvette Prottoy, the officials said. In addition to ships, maritime patrol aircraft as well as a number of helicopters from both navies would also be participating in the exercise, they said. "India and Bangladesh have a close, long-standing relationship covering a wide spectrum of activities and interactions, which has strengthened over the years," the Indian Navy spokesperson said. The Indian Navy has participated in a number of joint maritime exercises in the last few weeks including a three-day drill with Japanese navy from September 26-28. Last month, Indian Navy also carried out a two-day mega exercise in the Indian Ocean Region with the Australian Navy that featured a range of complex naval manoeuvres, anti-aircraft drills and helicopter operations. In July, the Indian Navy carried out a military exercise with a US Navy carrier strike group led by the nuclear-powered aircraft carrier USS Nimitz off the coast of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The USS Nimitz is the world's largest warship. India has significantly expanded its deployment in the Indian Ocean Region with a plethora of warships and submarines following its border row with China in eastern Ladakh, ostensibly to send across a message to Beijing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/navies-of-india-bangladesh-to-hold-3-day-mega-military-exercise-from-october-3-896367.html
02-10-2020||National||Supplied 9,000 tonnes of steel for Atal Tunnel: SAIL||State-owned SAIL on Friday said it has supplied over 9,000 tonnes of steel for the all-weather Atal Tunnel which reduces the distance between Manali and Leh by 46 kms and travel time by four to five hours.        Atal Tunnel is the longest highway tunnel in the world. The 9.02 km long tunnel connects Manali to Lahaul-Spiti valley, ensuring connectivity throughout the year. The valley was earlier cut off for about six months every year due to heavy snowfall.        Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the tunnel on Saturday along with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh.       In a statement, the Steel Authority of India Ltd (SAIL) said it has contributed to the mega project by supplying more than 9,000 tonnes of steel. Two-thirds of the total 15,000 tonnes of steel used in the project has been supplied by SAIL, it said.         Out of the 9,000 tonnes, 6,500 tonnes was TMT, 1,500 tonnes structurals and 1,000 tonnes plates for fabricating beams, besides a small quantity of GP/GC sheets for constructing stations and control rooms.       "The tunnel will be of great significance to the locals as well as for strategic movements. It will boost connectivity of the Spiti Valley. This is an achievement considering the very challenging conditions of the construction site and weather," Steel Minister Dharmendra Pradhan was quoted as saying in the statement.          SAIL Chairman Anil Kumar Chaudhary said, "It is a proud moment for the company to have partnered in such an important project for strengthening India. As India moves forward in becoming Atmanirbhar, SAIL will participate in producing the strong steel needed to fuel every infrastructural need of the nation."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supplied-9000-tonnes-of-steel-for-atal-tunnel-sail-896369.html
02-10-2020||National||Yogi Adityanath govt unfit to govern; President should dismiss it: M Veerappa Moily||Former law minister and senior Congress leader M Veerappa Moily on Friday urged President Ram Nath Kovind to dismiss the Yogi Adityanath government, alleging that atrocities on women have become the order of the day in the state. Moily hit out at the UP government over the police's alleged misbehavior with opposition leaders Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi and Derek O’brien, and for stopping them from visiting the family of the Hathras gang-rape victim. "Attack on leaders like Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi, Derek O’brien and many other Members of Parliament using brutal police force reflects British brutality of pre-independent India," he said in a statement. The instances of murder, rape and atrocities on women belonging to schedule caste and other vulnerable sections of the society have become "the order of the day" in Uttar Pradesh, Moily alleged. "Rajdharma has been set to flames to advance the call of greedy politics. Adityanath and members of his cabinet are unfit to govern the state," he claimed. "The President of India should immediately step in to dismiss the government..to uphold the highest tradition of democracy," he said. His attack on the government comes a day after Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi were detained by the police and sent back to Delhi, after they tried to reach Hathras to meet the family of the victim. The Trinamool Congress on Friday alleged that its woman MP Pratima Mandal was manhandled and pushed by a senior district official when she was on her way to Hathras in Uttar Pradesh. The party also shared a number of short video clips which showed its leader in Rajya Sabha Derek O'Brien being pushed to ground by police personnel and Mandal being manhandled. The 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly raped at a village in Hathras by four men on September 14. After her condition deteriorated, she was referred to the Delhi's Safdarjung hospital where she breathed her last on Tuesday. She was cremated in the early hours of Wednesday, with her family alleging the local police forced them to conduct the last rites in the dead of the night. Local police officers, however, had said the cremation was carried out "as per the wishes of the family".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yogi-adityanath-govt-unfit-to-govern-president-should-dismiss-it-m-veerappa-moily-896371.html
02-10-2020||National||Atmanirbhar Bharat plan includes vision for global welfare: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday reached out to scientists of Indian origin across the globe with an appeal to explore opportunities for growth in India as it eyes self-reliance in diverse fields. “India's clarion call of an 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' (Self-Reliant India) includes a vision of global welfare. To realise this dream, I invite you all and seek your support,” Modi said at the inauguration of the Vaishvik Bhartiya Vaigyanik (VAIBHAV) Summit, a global virtual summit of overseas and resident Indian researchers and academicians. He also underlined the need to amplify the rich history of Indian science and said many historical questions have been solved with the help of science over the last century. “Recently India introduced pioneering space reforms. These reforms provide opportunities for both industry and the academia,” Modi said. Modi said the VAIBHAV summit has brought together eminent people from India as well as from abroad, making it a confluence of great minds from across the world. “You have also made some good suggestions for improving the research ecosystem in India. I hope this summit is going to be very productive,” he said. The aim of the summit is to bring scientists of Indian origin across the world and their resident counterparts on a single platform to debate upon collaboration mechanisms to strengthen academic and science and technology base in India for global development. The initiative involves multiple levels of interactions among overseas experts and Indian counterparts over a month-long series of webinars and video conferences, among other activities. More than 3,000 overseas Indian origin academicians and scientists from 55 countries and more than 10,000 resident academicians and scientists are taking part in the summit. About 200 academic institutes and S&T departments, led by Principal Scientific Advisor, are organising the summit running through October. Over 1,500 panelists from 40 countries, 200 leading Indian R&D and academic institutions are virtually deliberating in 18 different areas and 80 topics in more than 200 deliberation sessions. The concluding session is planned on October 31, the birth anniversary of Sardar Patel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/atmanirbhar-bharat-plan-includes-vision-for-global-welfare-pm-narendra-modi-896377.html
02-10-2020||National||Crisis in Bihar NDA will be defused, asserts Ravi Shankar Prasad||BJP president Jagat Prakash Nadda has authorized "three-four people" to intervene and defuse the crisis in the NDA in Bihar ahead of the Assembly polls, senior party leader and Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said here on Friday. Prasad, who represents Bihar's Patna Sahib constituency in the Lok Sabha, did not disclose whom the BJP chief has assigned that task, but asserted that everything will be settled amicably and the NDA will win a two-thirds majority in the Assembly polls. Prasad was replying to questions from journalists here about the belligerent stance adopted by Chirag Paswan-led Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), which seems adamant on contesting over 100 of the total 243 seats, and fielding candidates against the ruling JD(U) and a recent entrant in the coalition, the Hindustani Awam Morcha of ex-CM Jitan Ram Manjhi. According to LJP leaders here, the party has convened a meeting of its parliamentary board for "final discussions on 143 candidates" which the party proposes to field, much to the chagrin of NDA constituents that have sought the BJPs intervention in the matter. Opening a front against the JD(U) of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, LJP spokesman Ashraf Ansari also issued a statement saying, "The next government must implement our Bihar First Bihari First vision document (of Chirag Paswan). We do not accept the saat nishchay (seven resolves of Nitish Kumar)". The turmoil within the NDA has caused the grouping to lose much of its surefootedness though the ruling coalition seems assured of an electoral victory with its main challenger, the RJD-helmed Grand Alliance, doddering under the weight of internal contradictions. Founded and headed by jailed Lalu Prasad, the RJD is engaged in a tussle with its principal ally, the Congress, on the twin issues of how many seats which constituent should get and Tejashwi Yadav's projection as the face of the opposition coalition. The Grand Alliance, which comprised five parties till a few months ago, has in the recent past lost Manjhi to the NDA while RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha has formed a parallel front with Mayawati's BSP. Moreover, its plans to forge an alliance with the Left parties also seem to have run into rough weather with the CPI (ML), which has the strongest presence in Bihar among all communist parties, coming out with a list of 30 seats it proposes to contest and accusing the RJD of making an offer that was not respectable". The notification for the first of the three phases of Assembly polls was issued on Thursday and the filing of nominations for it comes to a close on October 8.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crisis-in-bihar-nda-will-be-defused-asserts-ravi-shankar-prasad-896385.html
02-10-2020||National||Hathras gang-rape case: Indian Youth Congress takes out candlelight vigil||Activists of the Indian Youth Congress (IYC) took out a candlelight vigil on Friday to pay homage to the woman who was allegedly gang-raped in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras and demanded justice for her. The march led by IYC president Srinivas BV started from the organisation's headquarters on Raisina Road and culminated at Jantar Mantar. Some of the IYC activists took part in the march dressed like Mahatma Gandhi. "Yogi Adityanath government in UP is doing injustice to the Hathras victim and her family but we will fight against all kinds of injustice and will not remain silent till justice is done," Srinivas said. The IYC activists also observed silence to pay homage to the 19-year-old dalit woman who died at a Delhi hospital last Tuesday, about a fortnight after being brutally raped by four men in Hathras.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hathras-gang-rape-case-indian-youth-congress-takes-out-candlelight-vigil-896388.html
02-10-2020||National||'Gandhi' film's link with Patna Collectorate should be celebrated, not severed, say Mahatma's followers||From running a thematic light and sound show on the walls of Patna Collectorate to bringing out touristic souvenirs, Mahatma Gandhi's admirers appealed to the Bihar government on his birth anniversary on Friday to "celebrate and not sever Bapu's link" with the historic landmark. Some of the key scenes in multiple Oscar-winning biopic 'Gandhi', starring Ben Kingsley and featuring many local artists, were shot at the Dutch-era Record Room and British-era DM Office building of the over 250-year-old Patna Collectorate complex, whose fate currently hangs in the balance. Ahead of the Bihar elections, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar had on September 16 laid the foundation stone of the new complex to be built after razing the old one, but two days later, the Supreme Court put a stay on its demolition after hearing a plea by heritage body INTACH. "We thought we had almost lost it. And, with Collectorate's demolition, Patna's link with Oscar-winning 'Gandhi' would also have been lost. This was no ordinary film, but an institution in itself, and it immortalised both Bapu and Patna in the cinematic realm. And, we don't see it as a reason to celebrate our city landmark, instead our state government is adamant on knocking it down," said Rajiv Soni, a Patna native, now based in Kolkata. Forty years ago, when Richard Attenborough and his crew flew down from London to shoot the film, Soni, had literally tailed them to catch a glimpse of the shoot that had also attracted local people. "The government is lowering the historical and architectural value of the Collectorate, with the whole opium godown narrative, and they are even downplaying the Oscar connection now, just to justify demolition decision. It is not fair. On Gandhi's 151st birth anniversary, I can only say, 'Raghupati Raghav Raja Ram, Sabko Sanmati De Bhagwan'," said Soni, an avid follower of Gandhian values. A retired marketing professional and passionate photographer and traveller, he suggested hosting Gandhi-themed light and sound show on his birth and death anniversaries in the Collectorate complex and use the walls of the buildings shown in the film to celebrate the legacy of the Father of the Nation and the globally acclaimed movie. Delhi-based N Radhakrishnan, chairman of the Gandhi Peace Mission, said it was "contemptible" in the first place that a heritage building is facing the axe. "We should preserve our built heritage for the current and the coming generations, as these buildings tell the story of the city where we came from and our urban evolution. Even if a roof or a part of it is damaged, we have the skills now to report it. Restoration and not demolition is the answer. I hope the government will see the wisdom in it now that the apex court has put a stay," he said. Radhakrishnan, an avowed Gandhian, asserted that Oscar-winning film 'Gandhi' is a "priceless heritage" for the Mahatma's followers. "We feel proud of this biopic on Gandhi, and Patna Collectorate's heritage buildings become even more special due to its link to that film, and therefore that connection should be celebrated and not severed by an act of demolition. I appeal to the government to not destroy the heritage and appreciate the cinematic legacy too" he said. Nitish Kumar, after laying of the foundation stone of the new complex of the Collectorate and a slew of other projects, had asked how could a building that "stored opium and saltpetre" in the past be considered heritage. His views have been countered by noted historians and heritage experts. The Bihar chief minister, during the event, had also pooh-poohed the connection of the film 'Gandhi' to the Collectorate complex, suggesting it did not grant any special value to the centuries-old landmark. Mumbai-based documentary filmmaker Raviraj Patel lamented that the government took such a "dim view" of built heritage. "This film is not just a film anymore. It is part of the legends. While receiving the Oscar, both Kingsley and Attenborough had spoken effusively about the values Gandhiji stood for. Had any other city had this enviable Gandhi-Oscar connect, they would have marketed and branded the heritage buildings and the city," he said. Patel, who hails from Bihar, and has researched on the film, said he has a few photographs from the early 1980s of the movie being shot at the Patna Collectorate. "So many local artists, including Noor Fatima, had worked in it. We should proudly showcase it. Instead of running a wrecking ball through it, we should have created souvenir shops and merchandise themed on its Patna connection, and the government would have earned revenues. Demolishing it would be myopic and criminal," he said. In the iconic film, the Dutch-era Record Room was dressed up as a Motihari prison, while the British-period DM Office was used for depicting the famous court room scene, a moment that turned Gandhi into Mahatma. "We should appreciate that they came all the way from London to shoot. There was no Gandhi Setu then to cross the river. Carrying huge cameras and travelling with a crew would have been a logistical nightmare. Attenborough could have created the sets of Bihar in London, but they came here and the backdrop has real buildings from the colonial-era, as Gandhi would have seen in 1917," Soni said. "Attenborough immortalised Patna Collectorate too which is now battling to stay alive, ironically," he said. Patna Collectorate is one of the last surviving specimens of Dutch architecture in the city. Lending a strong voice to the growing chorus for its preservation, the London-based Gandhi Foundation had in 2016 appealed to the chief minister to not dismantle the Patna Collectorate and instead, celebrate the historic building's link with the Oscar-winning biopic on the Mahatma. Gandhi first came to Patna on April 10, 1917 on his way to Champaran district, where he crusaded for peasants against forced indigo farming. The Foundation had suggested linking the Patna Collectorate to the Gandhi circuit of tourism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gandhi-films-link-with-patna-collectorate-should-be-celebrated-not-severed-say-mahatmas-followers-896392.html
02-10-2020||National||Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry celebrates 6 years of Swachh Bharat Mission||The Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry celebrated the achievements under the Swachh Bharat Mission in the past six years on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti on Friday. Speaking at a webinar titled 'Swachhata Ke 6 Saal, Bemisaal', Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri said, "When SBM-U was launched in 2014 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, it was with the vision of achieving 'Clean India' by October 2, 2019, the 150th birth anniversary of the Father of the Nation." "Today, I feel immensely proud, as well as humbled, to see how every citizen of urban India has come together to make that dream a tangible reality. "This spirit of Jan Andolan and Jan Bhagidari – the power of collective action and leveraging a healthy spirit of competition – is exemplified by the Swachh Survekshan, the annual cleanliness survey of MoHUA," the Housing and Urban Affairs minister said in a statement. The minister said that in Swachh Survekdhan 2020, over 12 crore citizens have participated. "We will need to focus on enhancing our processing capabilities along with efficiently managing our construction and demolition waste, and bio-remediating all our legacy dumpsites," Puri said. On his part, Secretary, MoHUA, Durga Shanker Mishra said 99 per cent of the cities in the country have so far become open defecation-free (ODF). "We intend to continue our efforts and ensure that these numbers see substantial improvement in the next few years." he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/housing-and-urban-affairs-ministry-celebrates-6-years-of-swachh-bharat-mission-896396.html
02-10-2020||National||Police stop Bengal BJP chief's rally in Kolkata||The BJP's West Bengal unit on Friday organised rallies in favor of the recently passed farm laws at different places in the state, while the police stopped one led by its president Dilip Ghosh in Kolkata. The police put up a barricade and stopped a motorbike rally led by Ghosh at the Beleghata area in the eastern part of the city saying that it did not have permission. A section of the participants, however, managed to bypass the police blockade and went ahead with the rally with Ghosh. "The police in West Bengal are putting everything at stake to stop the BJP. But they were not seen when Covid-19 lockdown was being violated in certain places," Ghosh claimed. As a political party, the party has democratic rights and it will go ahead with its programme, he said. Processions were also organised in various districts such as Purulia, North 24 Parganas, West Bardhaman and West Midnapore. BJP Lok Sabha MPs Locket Chatterjee, Soumitra Khan, and other leaders like Bharati Ghosh led those rallies. Parliament recently passed the Farmers'' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020. President Ram Nath Kovind on September 27 gave assent to these bills. Opposition parties have been protesting against the three laws enacted by the Narendra Modi government, alleging that the legislation will destroy the agriculture sector. The government has, however, asserted that the laws will free farmers from the clutches of middlemen and allow them to sell their products anywhere they want at a remunerative price.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/police-stop-bengal-bjp-chiefs-rally-in-kolkata-896398.html
02-10-2020||National||Union minister refuses to speak on Hathras victim's cremation||Union minister Thawar Chand Gehlot on Friday refused to comment on the alleged forced cremation of a 19-year-old Dalit woman of Uttar Pradesh's Hathras, who died after being allegedly gang-raped and assaulted. The woman was allegedly raped at a village in Hathras by four men on September 14. After her condition deteriorated, she was referred to the Delhi's Safdarjung hospital where she breathed her last on Tuesday. She was cremated early on Wednesday, with her family alleging the local police forced them to conduct the last rites in the dead of the night. When asked about it, Gehlot told reporters, "I don't want to say anything about in which circumstances such incidents are taking place, in which circumstances (the media) is being stopped and in which circumstances the last rites were performed." The Social Justice and Empowerment Minister, however, said that the Uttar Pradesh government has taken a serious cognisance of the incident and has decided to ensure that the accused are punished severely by the court. "The law is taking its course. The Uttar Pradesh government has formed a special investigation team (SIT), which is investigating," he added. When asked about the rising cases of rape in the country, he said, "Such incidents are taking places in many states. Rajasthan (ruled by the Congress) has witnessed more such cases than Uttar Pradesh." Replying to a query over the alleged gang-rape in Khargone district of Madhya Pradesh recently, the minister, who hails from the state, said he did not have information about it. "You (mediapersons) are telling me. I am going to gather information about it," he said. He also said the three farm laws were in the interest of farmers. "But some political parties are opposing it as part of a conspiracy," he alleged. Responding to a question about the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) pulling out of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), he said it would not impact the ruling dispensation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-minister-refuses-to-speak-on-hathras-victims-cremation-896401.html
02-10-2020||National||Seven Indians abducted by terrorists in Libya: Claims relative of one kidnapped NRI||Seven Indians have been kidnapped by terrorists in Libya including one Munna Chauhan of Kushinagar district and the kidnappers are demanding $20,000 ransom from the company in Libya they were working for, Munna’s relative Lallan Prasad told PTI. Munna Chauhan, a resident of Garhiya Basantpur village under Nebua Naurangia police station limit in Kushinagar district, went in September 2019 to Delhi through a Delhi-based company ND enterprises Travel agency as argon welder. "His Visa was ended on September 13, 2020," Lallan said. “On September 13 he talked to his family in Kushinagar on phone and he will take flight from Libya for Delhi on September 17 and after that, he didn’t talk to them and the family was not able to contact him on phone. On September 27, I went to Delhi and talked to the travel agency which sent him to Libya, they told me that they are kidnapped by terrorists in Libya.” Lallan said. “They also told me that the company has agreed to pay the terrorists.” Lallan filed an online FIR with Delhi’s Prasadpur police station and appealed to the External Affairs Ministry to take safe steps for the release of Munna Chauhan and other six workers. Munna is the only working member of his family which includes his old mother Chandrawati, wife Sanju, 13 years old daughter Rani, 8 years old son Vishwajeet aka Karan and four years old Sarvesh. His father Ram Bachan died 10 years ago. “The kidnapping of one a man in Kushinagar in Libya has come into our cognizance. Police are in contact with the family.” SP Kushinagar Vinod Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/seven-indians-abducted-by-terrorists-in-libya-claims-relative-of-one-kidnapped-nri-896416.html
02-10-2020||National||Quad nations to discuss secure digital connectivity in Indo-Pacific region||Notwithstanding its dilemma over keeping Huawei Technologies Company and ZTE Corporation of China away from the 5G telecom network in India, New Delhi may next week join the United States, Japan and Australia to call for secure digital connectivity in the Indo-Pacific region. The need to ensure the security of the digital connectivity network is going to be on the agenda of the meeting of the foreign ministers of the ‘Quad’, an informal coalition of India, Japan, Australia and the US, in Tokyo on Tuesday. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will represent New Delhi in the meeting with the US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, and Foreign Ministers of Japan and Australia, Toshimitsu Motegi and Maris Payne. The US is keen to use the meeting to call for building secure networks to enhance digital connectivity in the Indo-Pacific without the involvement of Chinese telecom companies. In the wake of the stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, New Delhi had banned the use of several apps linked to companies based in the communist country. But the Narendra Modi government last month informed Parliament that it had no plans to keep Huawei and ZTE Corporation out of the 5G rollout in India. “We are mostly focused on the overall principle of establishing and protecting a strong digital economy worldwide and that can benefit from the promise of 5G, but I guess that the protection of 2G and 3G legacy systems would also be consistent with that,” a senior official of the US State Department said, ahead of the second ministerial meeting of the Quad. The official said the countries needed to be able to trust that the equipment and software used in the telecom networks would not pose any threat to national security, economic security, the privacy of citizens, intellectual property and human rights. “And when you look at companies like Huawei and ZTE, People’s Republic of China (PRC) companies where PRC laws can force these companies to grant the Government of China the ability to disrupt critical infrastructure or to intercept secure transmissions or to acquire sensitive technology data, that’s a real national security vulnerability,” said the US official, adding, “It is a vulnerability for populations, for economies, and national security.” Notwithstanding pressure from the US to exclude the companies based in China, the Modi government had on December 30 last year announced its decision to let all network equipment makers, including Huawei Technologies Co Ltd., to participate in the 5G trial. “So we’ve been working with India and everybody but especially India – to adopt a risk-based security framework for – both for the construction of new 5G networks, and I guess to protect legacy systems as well, in order to keep those untrusted vendors out of their networks,” said the US official. President Donald Trump’s administration in August 2018 banned Huawei’s products in the United States market citing security concerns, particularly the possibility of China using its telecom equipment company for surveillance and espionage activities in America. So did the two other Quad members, Japan and Australia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/quad-nations-to-discuss-secure-digital-connectivity-in-indo-pacific-region-896424.html
02-10-2020||National||Mamata Banerjee to lead protest march against Hathras rape October 3||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee will lead a protest march in the city on Saturday to protest against the alleged gang rape and death of the 19-year-old woman at Hathras in Uttar Pradesh, TMC sources said. TMC sources said the decision was taken after a delegation of the party was stopped from meeting the family members of the rape victim. This will be the first time in six months since the Covid-19 induced nationwide lockdown in March that the TMC supremo will hit the streets. The rally will start at 4 pm on Saturday and the participants will walk from Birla Planetarium to Mahatma Gandhi's statue in central Kolkata, they said. Banerjee had on Thursday likened the cremation of the woman at night to the 'Agni Pariksha' of Goddess Sita in the Ramayana. The Trinamool Congress on Friday alleged that its woman MP Pratima Mandal was manhandled and pushed by a senior district official when she was on her way to Hathras to meet the family of the alleged rape victim. The party also shared several video clips showing its leader in Rajya Sabha, Derek O'Brien being pushed to the ground by police personnel a few kms away from the victim's house and Mandal being manhandled by the administrative official on the road. The TMC delegation comprised MPs O'Brien, Mandal, Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar and former parliamentarian Mamata Thakur. ''The BJP is always quick to point fingers at opposition-ruled states. But now everybody has gone silent all of a sudden. The BJP government in Uttar Pradesh is busy with stopping the opposition leaders from meeting the victim's family, rather than ensuring justice to them,'' TMC MP Saugata Roy said. The BJP unit of West Bengal asked the TMC to stop ''politicising the death'' and take a look at its track record when it came to tackling crimes against women. ''The TMC should stop this drama. What is its track record in dealing with crimes against women? How many rallies has TMC held when women are raped in Bengal? The UP government has taken action to deal with the situation,'' BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said. The 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly raped by four upper caste men in Hathras on September 14. She was referred to the Safdarjung hospital in Delhi on Monday with spinal cord injuries, paralysis and cuts in her tongue. She died around 3 am on Tuesday. Her subsequent cremation in the dead of night at Hathras, allegedly under police pressure, has led to an outrage across the country over the law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-banerjee-to-lead-protest-march-against-hathras-rape-october-3-896425.html
02-10-2020||National||Home secretary had warned that UP govt won't keep promise, says NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Babri case||NCP chief Shard Pawar said on Friday that the then Union home secretary had warned before the demolition of the Babri mosque that the Uttar Pradesh government would not keep its promise to protect it. Pawar, who was in prime minister P V Narasimha Rao's cabinet when the mosque at Ayodhya was demolished by Kar Sevaks in December 1992, was speaking to reporters here. A CBI court earlier this week acquitted 32 people including senior BJP leader L K Advani in the Babri Masjid demolition case. Asked about the verdict, Pawar said then Union home secretary Madhav Godbole had informed that Kalyan Singh-led UP government would not keep its promise of protecting the disputed structure. "But prime minister P V Narasimha Rao was of the opinion that the Centre should trust the chief of the state. Unfortunately, Godbole's opinion was not considered and what he anticipated took place," Pawar claimed. He also said that demands for construction of temples at similarly disputed sites in Kashi and Mathura were worrisome from the viewpoint of social harmony.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/home-secretary-had-warned-that-up-govt-wont-keep-promise-says-ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-on-babri-case-896444.html
02-10-2020||National||Hathras rape victim's family say they are under a lot of pressure and fear: Report||According to the report, the family has claimed that the Hathras district administration has been meeting the kin of the accused and assuring them that 'their sons will be saved'. The outrage against the Hathras rape has reached all corners of the country, with citizens, activists and political leaders lashing out at the UP administration, and some are demanding that Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath step down from his post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hathras-rape-victims-family-say-they-are-under-a-lot-of-pressure-and-fear-report-896450.html
02-10-2020||National Politics||Won't bow down to injustice: Rahul on Gandhi Jayanti||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday quoted Mahatma Gandhi on his birth anniversary and said that he won't bow down to anyone's injustice. His remark comes a day after he was briefly detained while marching to Uttar Pradesh's Hathras. "I will not fear anyone in the world ... I will not bow down to anyone's injustice, I will win the untruth with the truth and I can bear all the sufferings while opposing the untruth," he said in a tweet, wishing people on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti. ‘मैं दुनिया में किसी से नहीं डरूंगा... मैं किसी के अन्याय के समक्ष झुकूं नहीं, मैं असत्य को सत्य से जीतूं और असत्य का विरोध करते हुए मैं सभी कष्टों को सह सकूं।’ On Thursday, around 200 Congress workers, including senior leaders of the party, had started a march on the expressways in Greater Noida after their convoy was stopped near Pari Chowk. The two Gandhi siblings and around 150 party workers were briefly detained by the police and later released on personal bond, a senior officer told PTI. The police in Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar on Thursday said it has lodged an FIR against Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and around 200 other party workers under The Epidemic Diseases Act for not maintaining social distancing and not wearing face masks. The party workers were en route to Hathras to meet the family of the 19-year-old Dalit woman, who had died in a Delhi hospital on Tuesday, a fortnight after she was allegedly gang-raped near her village in western UP.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/wont-bow-down-to-injustice-rahul-on-gandhi-jayanti-896064.html
02-10-2020||National Politics||Modi doing grave injustice to farmers: Sonia Gandhi||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Friday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of doing ‘grave injustice’ to farmers by implementing agri-reforms without consulting them. Gandhi expressed the resolve to fight the farm sector reforms in a similar way the Congress had led the agitation against the land acquisition laws, which the Modi government had tried to push through the Ordinance route in 2015. “Who will protect crores of small farmers when grain markets will cease to exist, hoarders will get a free hand to stock food grains and farmers’ land will be handed over to capitalists for cultivation,” the Congress President said in a statement here. Congress is observing Gandhi Jayanti as ‘Kisan-Mazdoor Bacho Diwas’ by organising protests against the farm sector reforms across all assembly constituencies. “The future of farm labourers and tenancy farmers is linked to that of farmers. What will happen to small shopkeepers and workers in wholesale markets? Who will protect their rights? Has Modi government thought about this,” Gandhi asked. She said the “black laws” were enacted without any consultations with the farmers and ignoring their interests completely. “The anti-farmer black laws have been enacted after talking to select friends,” the Congress President said. Congress has already asked state government, particularly those led by the party, to explore legal options to override the central laws. The main opposition party has also circulated model draft legislation among chief ministers of Congress-ruled states which could be enacted to override the central laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-doing-grave-injustice-to-farmers-sonia-gandhi-896107.html
02-10-2020||National Politics||PM Modi wishes US President Trump quick recovery from Covid-19||Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi wished Donald Trump a quick recovery on Friday after the US president revealed he has tested positive for the novel coronavirus. "Wishing my friend @POTUS @realDonaldTrump and @FLOTUS a quick recovery and good health," Modi said on Twitter. Trump, 74, first announced on Twitter that he and First Lady Melania Trump, 50, had tested positive for the virus. "We will get through this TOGETHER!" Trump wrote. The Indian and US leaders appear to enjoy warm relations, with Modi hosting Trump at a huge US-style rally in his home state of Gujarat in February. In September 2019 Trump and the Indian premier attended a similar event in Houston, Texas dubbed 'Howdy Modi' in front of a huge crowd of Indian Americans.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-wishes-us-president-trump-quick-recovery-from-covid-19-896134.html
02-10-2020||National Politics||NCP stand on Maratha quota clear, clarifies Ajit Pawar||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Friday said his party NCP has already made its stand clear on the Maratha quota and parried questions on tweets by his son on the politically sensitive issue. Ajit Pawar, talking to reporters here, said every community deserving reservation in jobs and education should get it. In a series of tweets on Wednesday night, Parth Pawar, NCP chief Sharad Pawar's grandnephew, said he will file an intervention application before the Supreme Court over the Maratha quota issue. Asked about his reaction to his son Parth Pawar's tweets on the Maratha reservation issue, Ajit Pawar said, "My sister Supriya Sule (who is also an MP) has already said clearly about it and we have also cleared that this is not the NCP's stand." "Every time, there is a tweet, questions are asked to me, but that is not my only business (to answer questions). I have several other responsibilities in the state," Ajit Pawar shot back when repeatedly asked about Parth Pawar's tweets. He said everyone is free to think what they want and tweet on any subject. "My sister Supriya Sule has already made our stand clear and that is NCP's stand also. Be it Maratha, Dhangar, or any other community, everyone should get their rightful reservation," he said. Terming the suicide of a Maratha youth from Maharashtra's Beed as "tragic", Parth Pawar had tweeted he will file an intervention application before the SC over the quota issue. Parth Pawar had said he was devastated to hear about the "tragic death" of the youth and urged leaders of the Maratha community to wake up and fight for the quota cause before a chain reaction of such "unfortunate" incidents starts. The Supreme Court had last month stayed implementation of the Maratha quota in jobs and education, as it referred the case to a larger bench. The Maharashtra government, in which the NCP is a key partner, on September 21 said it had filed an application before the apex court, seeking vacation of the stay. Ajit Pawar, who paid floral tributes to Mahatma Gandhi on his birth anniversary, condemned the alleged gang- rape and death of a Dalit woman in Hathras, Uttar Pradesh. "Such incidents should not take place in any state and there should be stringent laws to curb such incidents. The Centre should look into the issue and bring more stringent laws," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ncp-stand-on-maratha-quota-clear-clarifies-ajit-pawar-896140.html
02-10-2020||National Politics||Yogi Adityanath govt suppressing voice of Opposition: Sachin Pilot on detaining Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Sachin Pilot on Friday condemned the behaviour of Uttar Pradesh police and the administration towards party leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi, saying the Yogi Adityanath government was trying to "suppress the voice of opposition". The two leaders were detained by UP police in Greater Noida on Thursday, when they insisted on marching to Hathras to meet the family of a Dalit gang-rape victim, whose death followed by a hurried cremation triggered nationwide outrage. "Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and the entire administration have left no stone unturned to suppress the voice of the opposition. The treatment given to Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi yesterday was indecent. It is condemnable. Rights of humanity, constitution and law were torn apart," Pilot told reporters on Friday. "There is an outrage in the entire country today that the Uttar Pradesh government is trying to save the perpetrators of this disgusting crime," he said.    The 19-year-old woman succumbed to the severe injuries she suffered when she was allegedly assaulted by four upper-caste men – later arrested -- in the fields at her village in Hathras district on September 14. She was cremated in Hathras in the dead of the night with family members saying they were not allowed to bring the body home one last time. But police claimed they had the family’s consent for the cremation. Pilot alleged that evidence in the case was being destroyed. "... those who commit heinous acts like rape, in any corner of the country, should get death penalty. But for the first time, the police, administration and the government deliberately tried to erase the evidence and the district collector tried to threaten the family of the victim," the Congress leader claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/yogi-adityanath-govt-suppressing-voice-of-opposition-sachin-pilot-on-detaining-rahul-gandhi-896148.html
02-10-2020||National Politics||Opposition-led states gear up to question Centre's GST borrowing options||Opposition-led states are all set to question the Centre’s two borrowing options on the Goods and Services Tax (GST) shortfall compensation, ahead of the Council meeting on October 5. States like Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Kerala, Delhi, Maharashtra, Puducherry and Telangana may take a collective decision during the informal meeting, which will be held on October 3. The agenda is to likely reject the borrowing options and ask the Centre to activate the grievance redressal mechanism.  “Our stance is what it was. The Centre should not take a majoritarian view but develop a consensus. This has been the spirit of the GST Council. There are a few states who do not understand why they should take responsibility for a shortfall. First, you took away our taxation rights and then you want us to take a loan to make good the GST compensation?” said Chhattisgarh commercial tax (GST) Minister TS Singhdeo to The Economic Times. The implementation of the GST has been criticised by the Opposition, and a recent controversy erupted due to the GST revenue shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore for the states. As per the GST Act, the Centre has to compensate for any GST losses.  However, a discrepancy arises as the Centre’s calculation of Rs 97,000 crore is on account of GST implementation and Rs 1.38 lakh crore is the impact of Covid-19 on state revenues, the report added.  Manpreet Badal, Punjab’s Finance Minister said, “It cannot be my word against theirs. There is a dispute resolution mechanism under the law. Why has the Centre been unwilling to activate it for three and a half years? This sets a wrong precedent for India,” to the news organisation.  Badal said that Punjab would reject the borrowing options, “We do not know the math used by the finance ministry to reach these gures of Rs 97,000 crore and Rs 1.38 lakh crore. For us, this is a constitutional violation,”(sic) he said.  West Bengal and Jharkhand too have rejected the options and the Opposition is looking towards Tamil Nadu and Telangana as well for support.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-led-states-gear-up-to-question-centres-gst-borrowing-options-896152.html
02-10-2020||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi welcomes Allahabad HC's summoning of top officials in Hathras rape case||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday welcomed the Allahabad High Court summoning top Uttar Pradesh officials to appear before it in connection with the alleged gang-rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras district, and said it is a ray of hope for the affected family. "A strong and encouraging order from the Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court. The entire nation is demanding justice for the Hathras rape victim. The HC order shines a ray of hope amidst the dark, inhuman and unjust treatment meted out to her family by the UP Government," she said on Twitter. A senior Uttar Pradesh Police officer has said that the forensic examination on the woman who died at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on Tuesday did not indicate rape. Expressing shock at the alleged rape and murder of the woman and her forcible cremation subsequently, the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court on Thursday summoned top government officials to the court. A division bench of justices Rajan Roy and Jaspreet Singh ordered the Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary, state police chief and an additional director general of police to appear before it on October 12 to explain the incident. Taking suo moto cognisance of the case, which has triggered widespread outrage, the bench also ordered Hathras district magistrate and superintendent of police to appear with to apprise the court of various aspects of the case, including the ongoing probe into it. "The incidents which took place after the death of the victim on September 29, 2020 leading up to her cremation, as alleged, have shocked our conscience. Therefore, we are taking suo moto cognizance of the same," the bench said in its order. The bench also asked the late teen's parents to come to the court to apprise it of their versions of the incident and ordered the Hathras district administration to arrange for their travel to the court and facilitate their appearance before it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-welcomes-allahabad-hcs-summoning-of-top-officials-in-hathras-rape-case-896168.html
02-10-2020||National Politics||Gang-rape of democracy: Sanjay Raut slams UP police for manhandling Rahul Gandhi||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Friday condemned the treatment meted out by Uttar Pradesh police to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi when he was on his way to meet Hathras victim's family, and termed it as "gang-rape of democracy". Talking to reporters, Raut said that Gandhi was a leader of a prominent political party and nobody would support the way he was "manhandled" by the police. "We may have differences with the Congress party. He (Rahul Gandhi) can be stopped from going to Hathras citing imposition of section 144, but the way police behaved with him holding the collar...the way he was pushed and then thrown on the ground was highly condemnable," he said. "This is gangrape of democracy and the incident should be probed. Is this the way opposition leaders should be treated so that nobody asks questions? You can ridicule him politically as is always being done. But the way police manhandled him is an act nobody will support," he said. Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, and several Congress workers were briefly detained in Greater Noida on Thursday for alleged violation of prohibitory orders while walking towards Hathras to meet the family of the 19-year-old Dalit woman, who died on Tuesday, a fortnight after she was allegedly gang-raped near her village in western UP. Rahul Gandhi also fell down in the scuffle after police tried to stop him and his supporters from proceeding on the Yamuna Expressway. Raut also questioned the silence of those who targeted the Maharashtra government "as if heavens had fallen" when the illegal construction of an actress was demolished. He was referring to Kangana Ranaut, whose bungalow in suburban Bandra was partially pulled down by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) recently following her war of words with the ruling Shiv Sena over her remarks on Mumbai. When asked about reports that the Hathras victim was not raped as claimed by the UP police, Raut asked if the victim had lied in her dying declaration. The Sena MP also said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should break his silence over the Hathras incident. He also criticised the curbs on media reportage of the incident. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena workers held a protest outside the Churchgate railway station in south Mumbai demanding justice for Hathras victim. They waved black flags and held placards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/gang-rape-of-democracy-sanjay-raut-slams-up-police-for-manhandling-rahul-gandhi-896195.html
02-10-2020||National Politics||BJP leader Anupam Hazra, who threatened to give Mamata Banerjee 'Covid hug' tests positive for infection||In a rather bizarre coincidence BJP leader Anupam Hazra who earlier threatened to hug West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee if he contracted Covid-19 tested positive for the disease. Hazra on Friday said in a Facebook post that he was “Covid-19 positive.” According to sources in the Health Department, the BJP leader was admitted to a private hospital in Kolkata during the day. They also said that Hazra’s condition was stable. For the last few days Hazra, who recently became BJP national secretary, took part in several BJP rallies and came into contact with scores of people. One such rally was held at Baruipur in South 24 Paraganas district where several district-level BJP leaders were present. BJP sources said that was the reason why Hazra got his samples tested and the report was positive. However, BJP leadership is yet to make any announcement whether those leaders and workers will go into quarantine. Recently Hazra launched a tirade against the Chief Minister saying that BJP workers were fighting a far more dangerous adversary than Covid-19 as they were battling against Mamata Banerjee. “I have decided that if I get infected by Covid-19 I will hug Mamata Banerjee,” said Hazra. He also accused the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government of treating the bodies of Covid-19 patients in a pathetic manner adding that sometimes they were even burnt with kerosene. TMC had lodged a police complaint against Hazra following his remark.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-leader-anupam-hazra-who-threatened-to-give-mamata-banerjee-covid-hug-tests-positive-for-infection-896206.html
02-10-2020||National Politics||Bihar Assembly Elections: Rahul, Priyanka intervene to save Mahagathbandhan from collapse||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi reportedly stepped in and played the role of peace-maker in the last 20 hours to save the Mahagathbandhan which was almost on the verge of disintegration. Well-placed sources in New Delhi confirmed it to Deccan Herald on Friday that the top leadership of the Congress and the RJD sorted out the seat-sharing formula, in which both the parties scaled down their demands and also made room for the new partners from the Left: the CPI-ML, CPI and the CPM, besides the existing ally VIP. As per the fresh agreement, the RJD will get a lion’s share and contest 136 seats out of the 243 constituencies. Of the remaining 107 seats, the Congress will field its candidates on 68 seats, a climbdown from its original demand of 75. The CPI-ML will get 19 seats while the CPI and the CPM combine will jointly get altogether ten seats to contest. The remaining ten seats have been left for the Vikas-sheel Insaan Party (VIP) headed by self-styled leader of Nishads (boatmen) Mukesh Sahni. “The RJD, from its quota of seats, will adjust the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) which wants to contest on a couple of seats bordering Jharkhand. Similarly, the Congress, if required, will adjust NCP from its quota of seats,” said the senior Congress functionary, aware of the talks going on in the national capital. Having resolved the knotty issue of seat-sharing, the formal announcement by Mahagathbandhan leaders is likely to be made on Saturday. Bihar is the first state which will have an Assembly election in the Covid-19 era. The notification has already been issued for the first phase of polling on October 28. Besides, two more rounds of voting will take place on November 3 and 7 respectively. Counting of votes for the 243-member House is slated for November 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bihar-assembly-elections-rahul-priyanka-intervene-to-save-mahagathbandhan-from-collapse-896219.html
02-10-2020||National Politics||Delhi Speaker Ram Niwas Goel, CM Arvind Kejriwal pay tributes to Mahatma Gandhi||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Speaker Ram Niwas Goel paid floral tributes to Mahatma Gandhi at the Delhi Assembly on Friday on his 151st birth anniversary. They also paid floral tributes to former prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri on his birth anniversary. Speaking on the occasion, Goel said Gandhi's belief in a simple life had been a beacon of hope for the marginalised people. "Mahatma Gandhi was the primary leader of India's independence movement. Achievements of his life are unique in political history," the Speaker said. Deputy Speaker Rakhi Bidlan, minister Rajendra Pal Gautam and others also paid tributes on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/delhi-speaker-ram-niwas-goel-cm-arvind-kejriwal-pay-tributes-to-mahatma-gandhi-896227.html
02-10-2020||National Politics||Gujarat Congress chief, party workers detained for protests||Around 30 Gujarat Congress workers along with state party chief Amit Chavda were detained here on Friday for holding a protest without permission over various issues, including the new farm laws, police said. The protest, led by Chavda, was held outside the district collectorate against the BJP governments at the Centre and the state. Apart from opposing the newly-enacted farm laws, the protesters also sought complete fee waiver for all school and college students in the state in view of the pandemic. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Zone 2) Vijay Patel said, "We detained around 30 Congress workers and Chavda for holding the protest without permission. They did not even maintain social distancing during the protest. They will be released later." Before his detention, Chavda accused the Gujarat government of suppressing people's voice. "Since schools and colleges are shut, we want the government to waive 100 per cent fees of all the students. We are also protesting peacefully against the anti-farmer laws enacted by the Parliament," he told reporters. "But the BJP government is acting like the erstwhile British rulers by not allowing us to raise issues concerning farmers and middle class people," he added. The state government has recently asked the private schools to take a 25 per cent cut in the annual fees. The Congress, however, wants 100 per cent waiver in school fees this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/gujarat-congress-chief-party-workers-detained-for-protests-896234.html
02-10-2020||National Politics||Hathras gang-rape: Arvind Kejriwal raps UP govt for cremating teen's body at night against Hindu customs||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday criticised the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh for the manner in which it treated the Hathras gang-rape victim and cremated her mortal remains in the night against Hindu religious customs. Kejriwal said the victim was not only inhumanly treated, raped and killed by the savages, she and her family were also "wrongly" treated by the ruling dispensation in UP. "The way in which the ruling dispensation (BJP government in UP) treated the girl and her family...Hindu religion cremation is not done at night but she was cremated at the night against our religious customs. Her family was not even allowed to have a last glimpse (darshan) of her," Kejriwal said. "On one hand, she was raped by the savages, on the other, the way in which the ruling dispensation treated her, it is not a good thing. We live in a democracy and those in power should not forget that they are not owners but Sevak (one who serves)" he said. The body of the 19-year-old Dalit woman, who died in Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital, a fortnight after she was gang-raped, was cremated in Hathras in the early hours of Wednesday, with her family alleging that the local police forced them to conduct the last rites in the dead of the night. Local police officers, however, had told said the cremation was carried out "as per the wishes of the family". Earlier, Kejriwal had termed the death of the 19-year-old-victim as a matter of shame for the whole society, country and all the governments, and had demanded death punishment for the culprits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/hathras-gang-rape-arvind-kejriwal-raps-up-govt-for-cremating-teens-body-at-night-against-hindu-customs-896239.html
02-10-2020||National Politics||Mahatma Gandhi would have been 'very happy' with passage of Farm Bills: MoS Jitendra Singh||Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Friday said Mahatma Gandhi would have been "very happy" today with the passage of the farm reform Bills, as the welfare of farmers was close to his heart. Addressing a programme on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti, the minister said the Centre is committed to ensuring the welfare of farmers and the decision regarding the farm bills has been well received at the grassroots level. The three Bills recently passed by Parliament are the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020. Singh said the "welfare of farmers was very close to Mahatma Gandhi's heart, and he would have been very happy today with the clearing of the farmers' Bills", according to a release issued by the organisers of the programme. The Union Minister of State for Prime Minister's Office and Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions added that the government is committed to the welfare of farmers and at the grassroots, this decision has been well received. Besides, Singh said the government's clarion call for Swachhata backed by its efforts have made cleanliness a mass movement, in line with the timeless teachings of Gandhi. He was speaking at the programme, titled 'Mahatma Gandhi's Experiments with Swachhata: Key to Prosperity', to commemorate the birth anniversary of Gandhi, organised by Kendriya Bhandar along with the Centre for Strategy and Leadership. The minister appreciated that during the coronavirus-induced lockdown, cooperatives like Kendriya Bhandar worked tirelessly to ensure that dietary items and hygiene kits were made available to the needy, free of cost. Centre for Strategy and Leadership CEO Vikas Sharma said Gandhi was a firm believer in the proverb "Cleanliness is next to Godliness". He was aware that lack of hygiene and sanitation was a menace which is not only responsible for various diseases and epidemics but also gave rise to social evils such as untouchability and discrimination, Sharma added. Doordarshan Director General Mayank Kumar Agarwal said Gandhi's teachings on Swachhata (cleanliness) and Prime Minister Narendra Modi's commitment to the same have saved India from a big disaster. "Had the prime minister not started the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, the nation today would have faced a bigger challenge in the face of Covid-19."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mahatma-gandhi-would-have-been-very-happy-with-passage-of-farm-bills-mos-jitendra-singh-896281.html
02-10-2020||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi running his govt in atmosphere of fear: Sonia Gandhi||Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi on Friday attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, alleging he is running his government in an atmosphere of "fear". On Gandhi Jayanti, she also invoked the Father of the Nation, to assail the government which, she claimed, swears by his name but demolishes his ideals through its actions. The Congress leader also accused the Centre of having weakened laws like MNREGA and Right to Information (RTI) Act which her party's government had enacted to protect the interests of common people. "Some people swear by Gandhi jis name but demolish his ideals and principles through their actions. Anarchy, atrocity and mistreatment prevail everywhere. An environment of discrimination has been created in the society where atrocities are being inflicted on innocent people," she said. She was virtually addressing a 'Gandhi Chetna Rally' at Congress party office in Motihari, the headquarters of East Champaran district in Bihar, to mark the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. It was in Champaran where Gandhi had experimented with 'Satyagraha' for the first time in India. It would later become his most potent weapon in the fight against British rule. "Enough is enough. I would like to say that some people are running the government by creating an atmosphere of emotion, confusion and fear (bhavna, bhram aur bhay). You (people) need to remain alert and cautious and take the right decisions, she said. "We have to fight it out together and that will be our real tribute to Gandhi ji." The Congress leader also unveiled a life-size statue of the Mahatma and asserted his ideals are the "soul and spirit" of her party. In her speech, which many saw as the launch of her party's campaign for the Bihar elections, the process of which has already started, Sonia Gandhi said the common man was always at the centre of Congress's welfare programmes. "But whenever the Congress tries to work for the development of the poor, certain forces stand up against the party for their vested interest," she alleged. She said the Modi government first ridiculed the MNREGA, the UPA government's rural livelihood scheme, but later continued with it. "Just imagine what could have happened if there was no MNREGA during the COVID pandemic? People in large numbers would have starved," she asserted. She also drew a parallel between the times when Mahatma Gandhi launched Champaran Satyagraha for the farmers, who were being forced by the British to grow indigo, and now when agriculturists were up in arms against the new farm laws. "A handful of people are getting richer, while millions are losing their livelihood," she said. The Congress leader said lakhs of youth were losing jobs as small industries were closing down and big public sector undertakings being privatised. The RTI Act introduced by the previous Congress government for bringing in greater transparency in governance has been diluted, she alleged. "You keep asking questions through RTI but will not get suitable replies," she said. She said several laws enacted by the UPA governments for the welfare of women, workers, the health and education sectors, have been "weakened". "The weakening of these laws has deprived people of their rights," she asserted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-running-his-govt-in-atmosphere-of-fear-sonia-gandhi-896331.html
02-10-2020||National Politics||Is Bihar politics up for another turn?||In line with intriguing twists and turns in NDA Bihar, Ram Vilas Paswan’s LJP on Friday slammed Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s key plank of “Saat Nischay” programme as the den of corruption and expressed confidence that the next government of Bihar will implement LJP’s ‘Bihar First, Bihari First Vision Document’. The categorical assertion by the LJP that it does not approve of the “Saat Nischay" (Seven Decisions) plank of Kumar and the claim that Bihar has hopes from Chirag Paswan's vision, comes a day after the later had a meeting with BJP chief JP Nadda and Home Minister Amit Shah after which the BJP said that there is no difference between the two parties and LJP flagged its “strained” relationship with JDU. With Ram Vilas Paswan in hospital, his son Chirag is taking all decisions related to Bihar polls and has been repeatedly asserting that his party would contest on 143 of 243 seats. A final call on this will be taken in a meeting of the party tomorrow. The sudden display of strain in last few months is not in sync with the bonhomie shown by Paswan to Nitish Kumar at the time of 2019 Lok Sabha polls that had created a buzz of both regional leaders cosying up to create a pressure group within the Bihar NDA to checkmate the BJP in seat sharing and in other matters as well when at some state BJP leaders had gone aggressive on hard-line Hindutva. This sudden sullenness of LJP towards JDU also forced Nitish Kumar to woo back former Bihar Chief Minister Jitan Ram Manjhi into NDA from the Opposition alliance, who later trained guns on LJP for targeting Kumar The fight between the two allies has given the BJP an opportunity to play a truce-maker but political watchers see a larger pattern behind the whole row. BJP, despite being the bigger party of the alliance had allowed Nitish Kumar to become Chief Minister. BJP is fed up of playing the second fiddle to Kumar for the last 15 years since they formed government in October 2005. There is a growing demand within the BJP to have its own Chief Minister in the state, which has kept rising from time to time. For now, the BJP realising that time is not ripe for it to go to polls without JDU in Bihar has declared that Kumar will be the face of the alliance.  But this election BJP has not banked solely on Nitish's persona and is centring the election campaign around the theme of development and highlighting the persona of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Earlier there was an attempt to sew an umbrella alliance of JDU, RJD and Congress in a replay of 2015 assembly polls but that flopped as Tejashwi Yadav of RJD was opposed to repeating arrangement of Nitish Kumar leading such an alliance. Many, however, believe that politics in Bihar this time is more about post-poll than pre-poll and could see many turn arounds. Former Union Minister Upendra Kushwaha who after walking out of NDA was cosying up with the RJD-led Opposition, has to finally form a new alliance with BSP after being snubbed by both the Opposition and NDA alliances. He has now been projecting both Nitish Kumar and Lalu Prasad as two sides of the same coin but has warmed up to LJP. He may make another somersault after the polls. In the midst of such conflicting interests, Bihar polls promise to be one of the most dramatic events as the campaign picks up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/is-bihar-politics-up-for-another-turn-896350.html
02-10-2020||National Politics||Rahul, Priyanka indulging in political hypocrisy over Hathras rape case: Prasad||Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Friday lashed out at Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra for displaying political hypocrisy over the horrific alleged rape and killing of a Dalit girl in Hathras district of Uttar Pradesh. Addressing a press conference here, Prasad, who is also a senior BJP leader, questioned the brother-sister duos silence over similar horrific crimes in Congress-ruled Rajasthan while kicking up a storm over the incident in UP where the saffron party is in power. He also scoffed at a question about Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot's reported statement that he would not stop BJP leaders from visiting his state unlike in UP, where the Yogi Adityanath administration thwarted the tour of the former Congress president and the AICC general secretary. I do not attach much importance to Ashok Gehlot. But I want to ask Priyanka Gandhi you indulge in the rhetoric of 18 saal ki beti (18-year-old daughter) getting raped in UP. Why were you and your brother silent about Rajasthan? The rape victims there too were somebody's daughters. This is political hypocrisy, Prasad said. To a question about restrictions on journalists access to the site of the crime at Hathras allegedly being reminiscent of Emergency, Prasad shot back The country has a disposition wherein all those holding high offices, be it the president, the prime minister, or yours truly - the law minister have gone to jails fighting the Emergency. He responded with a smirk when asked about the suggestion of a Shiv Sena MLA of Maharashtra that a case be lodged in connection with the Hathras incident in that state and a Mumbai Police team be sent to the UP town for investigation, citing the example of actor Sushant Singh Rajputs death by suicide. "Sushant Singh Rajput was a Patna-born. His father had lodged an FIR here because he resides here and he was not satisfied with the probe conducted by the police in Mumbai where his son had died. I am bemused at the strange parallel being drawn by the Shiv Sena, said Prasad, who represents Patna Sahib in the Lok Sabha. Earlier, the union minister came down heavily on the opposition for being antagonistic to the recently introduced agriculture bills, alleging They are in fact in cahoots with farmers exploiters. And to protect their own vested interests they have gone into the agitation mode. It is totally false to say that the new bills intend to scrap MSP. The minimum support price is there to stay. The new farm only aims at providing cultivators with more bargaining power to get a better price for their produce, he claimed. Prasad asked Why did so many Congress-ruled states introduce contract farming if they are so opposed to the very concept. The Narendra Modi is committed to the interests of the country's farmers but is distressed over the misinformation campaign. All members of the union council of ministers have been directed to dispel the misgivings and I am glad that I have been asked to do the same in Patna, my home town and parliamentary constituency, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-priyanka-indulging-in-political-hypocrisy-over-hathras-rape-case-prasad-896378.html
02-10-2020||North and Central||Section 144 imposed around India Gate, no gatherings allowed: Delhi police||Delhi police on Thursday said that no gathering is allowed around India Gate due to imposition of Section 144 CrPC. They also said that gathering of up to 100 people is permissible at Jantar Mantar and that too with prior permission of the competent authority. "The general public is hereby informed that in view of DDMA order dated 03.09.2020 a total gathering up to 100 persons is permissible at the designated place i.e. Jantar Mantar and that too with prior permission of the competent authority. "No gathering is permissible around India Gate due to imposition of Section 144 CrPC," New Delhi DCP Eish Singhal tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/section-144-imposed-around-india-gate-no-gatherings-allowed-delhi-police-895991.html
02-10-2020||North and Central||Hathras gang rape: Lawyers demand President's Rule in Uttar Pradesh||Amid the widespread outrage over the alleged gang-rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras and her forcible cremation subsequently, scores of Ghaziabad lawyers on Thursday demanded imposition of President's Rule in Uttar Pradesh. The lawyers demanded the dismissal of the Yogi Adityanath government and imposition of President's Rule, saying that the gang-rape of a Dalit woman and her brutalisation amid a spate of crime against women in Uttar Pradesh has tarnished the image of the country and would flatten its progress graph. The lawyers sought imposition of President's Rule in a memorandum addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind that they gave to District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey. The agitating lawyers reached the district collectorate in a march from Civil Court under the banner of Adhivakta Sangharsh Samiti. During the march, the lawyers raised anti-government slogans and burnt effigies of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, accusing him of having failed in controlling the “soaring” crime graph against women in the state. Addressing reporters after leading the lawyers’ march, the advocates' body convener Nahar Singh Yadav said the Yogi government has “totally failed in controlling the crime in the state, more so against women”. “And the police, in turn, try to eliminate evidence in haste to hide the soaring crime graph as happened in the case of the gang-rape of the Dalit woman in Hathras who was forcibly cremated overnight by police,” said Yadav. “The gang-rape of the Dalit woman and her brutalisation amid a spate of crime against women in Uttar Pradesh has tarnished the image of the country and would flatten its progress graph,” he added. The advocates’ body also Samiti demanded an impartial probe in the case under the supervision of a retired judge of the high court or the Supreme Court. “The case should be transferred in the fast track court of any other state,” said Yadav, adding the government must provide protection to the rape victim's family. The lawyers’ body also demanded a government job, a house in Delhi and a compensation of Rs 2 crore for the Hathras gang-rape victim's family. In addition to the demonstration by lawyers, a Balmiki Samaj outfit held a protest march from Balmiki Park of Navyug Market to the collectorate and raised slogans against the Yogi government and blocked the traffic at many crucial traffic junctions. They condemned the alleged forcible funeral of the rape victim by the Hathras police without her parents’ consent and demanded the termination of the Hathras police officials responsible for this. The Balmiki Samaj also called for the suspension of the sanitisation and cleaning work in Ghaziabad on October 3, city president of Balmiki outfit, Anil Kalyani said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hathras-gang-rape-lawyers-demand-presidents-rule-in-uttar-pradesh-896015.html
02-10-2020||North and Central||Media will be gone, we will remain: DM tells Hathras rape victim's family||In a recently released video regarding the Hathras gang-rape case, the District Magistrate can be heard mounting pressure on the 19-year-old victim’s family.   In the video, which went viral minutes after it emerged online, Hathras DM Praveen Laxkar can be heard saying, “Don’t ruin your credibility. These media people will leave in a couple of days. Half have already left, the rest will leave in 2-3 days. We are the ones standing with you. Now it depends on you if you want to keep changing your testimony….” The DM’s next sentence is cut off as the video ends here.  In another video, widely circulated, the victim’s sister-in-law alleged that they have been facing pressure from the administration.  “They are asking, ‘Would you get compensation had the girl died of corona?...They claim they could dispose of the case on the basis of my mother-in-law’s first statement (which doesn’t mention rape), when she was not even in a condition to say anything. They will not let us live here,” the sister-in-law is heard saying on the video.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/media-will-be-gone-we-will-remain-dm-tells-hathras-rape-victims-family-896149.html
02-10-2020||North and Central||Mahatma Gandhi advocated Panchayati raj, decentralised form of govt: J&K Lt Guv Manoj Sinha||Commencing of the third phase of the 'Back to Village' programme across Jammu and Kashmir is a perfect way to honour Mahatma Gandhi on his birth anniversary, Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha said on the occasion on Friday. An apostle of peace and social service, Gandhi's contributions to the freedom struggle, and promoting the rights and welfare of the oppressed sections of the society have unending imprints on the world history and would continue to inspire the generations to come, Sinha said. Everyone must follow the path of non-violence, social justice, equality, upliftment of the underprivileged sections of the society, secular traditions and brotherhood shown by the father of the nation for bringing an era of peace and development in the world, he said. Mahatma Gandhi advocated Panchayati raj, a decentralised form of government, the lieutenant governor said. Following the Gandhian ideas of 'gram swaraj' and Panchayati raj system, the administration is making "untiring efforts to reach out to the people and including all the stakeholders in the process of decision-making and public policy formulation to bring a positive social and political change in J&K," he added. Back to Village is a unique and ambitious exercise by the administration to reach the doorsteps of the people with responsive, accountable and equitable governance is in its own way promoting values, ideology and philosophy of Gandhi, according to Sinha. The programme, which started on Friday, is also seen as a unique effort to strengthen the newly-constituted panchayats, the Lt governor said. "This practice is the first such attempt at a concentrated and determined developmental push." Sinha said the endeavour was as challenging as ambitious -- it involved the visit of over 4,000 gazetted officers of the Union territory to each and every panchayat so that they can be well-versed with the local issues and developmental needs. It also aims at ensuring that beneficiary-oriented schemes actually reach the last person in the queue, he added. "It is my advice to every single officer on the ground to work as a changemaker to ensure benefits of governance reach the last man in the queue, so that the desired results, which we are aiming at i.e. development of villages and strengthening of panchayats must be achieved," Sinha said. 'Back to village' is a novel initiative launched in Jammu and Kashmir to take the governance to grassroots level. The senior officials are deputed to village level for a few days where they get first-hand account of development needs of these areas so that projects and plans can be formulated for easing the hardships of the people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mahatma-gandhi-advocated-panchayati-raj-decentralised-form-of-govt-jk-lt-guv-manoj-sinha-896179.html
02-10-2020||North and Central||Two boys drown in Rajasthan's Dholpur||Two boys drowned in a pond in Rajasthan's Dholpur district on Friday when they had gone to take a bath, police said. The incident occurred in Basedi police station area where Ajmeri (12) and Akram (13) slipped into deep water and drowned, Sub-Inspector Gajanand Chaudhary said. The body of Ajmeri was handed over to the family members after post-mortem. The family of Akram gave a written request to the authorities not to conduct the post-mortem, police said. A case has been registered under the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) Section 174 (unnatural death), they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-boys-drown-in-rajasthans-dholpur-896187.html
02-10-2020||North and Central||Work on Smart City project continues in Srinagar amid Covid-19 pandemic||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Srinagar administration has not lost its sight of the Smart City Project and the work on refurbishing buildings of historic importance and conservation of shrines of all faiths continue at a stable pace. In the middle of managing the pandemic and other important matters of the city, Deputy Commissioner of Srinagar Shahid Iqbal Choudhary does not fail to hold a regular meeting on the restoration of shrines, temples and churches of historic importance. Quoting American conservationist Mollie H Beattie -- "what a country chooses to save is what a country chooses to say about itself", 39-year-old Choudhary says, "We owe this to our future generations. You see militancy of nearly three decades has drifted the attention towards law and order. But at the end, the guns will fall silent and the historical heritage will speak for the city." As a pilot project, Choudhary and his team took over renovation of a 19th-century church located at the foothills of Shankaracharya and the famous Raghunath Temple located on the banks of the river Jhelum in downtown Srinagar city. Restoration of shrines like Khanqah-e-Moula and Khanqah Naqshband Saheb has been taken up under a conservation and heritage revitalisation programme. "Even parts of Hazratbal Shrine approach has also been developed under conservation and beautification plan besides improving façade around the historic Jamia Masjid which is nearing completion," he said. He said there were many requests for including Raghunath Temple and it was taken on a priority basis. Located on the banks of the Jhelum in the downtown city of Fathekadal, around 10 km from city centre Lal Chowk, the temple was constructed by first Dogra ruler Maharaja Gulab Singh in 1835. The historic Raghunath Temple has remained abandoned for last more than three decades and was taken by Choudhury, who is also CEO of Smart City project, for restoration as a part of the heritage revitalisation project. "The work was started a month ago and likely to be completed by December end," Choudhary, an IAS officer of 2008 batch, said. Dedicated to Lord Rama, the temple, which was upgraded in 1875 by Maharaja Ranbir Singh, is also known as Ranbir Swami Temple. A look at the ongoing work would reveal that it was continuing steadily even during the pandemic. "The restoration work includes dismantling of unsafe parts, scaffolding externally, roofing, planks, lime surkhi (burnt clay), plastering, deodar (finest wood) based ornamental eves boarding, devri stone flooring and footpath, lighting," he said. The abandoned Saint Luke's Church on the foothills of Shankaracharya hillock, which was established in 1896 by two eminent doctors Dr Earnest and Dr Arthur Neve, is also being restored. The church has remained abandoned for several decades now and the damage to the structure in past many decades has been enormous, Choudhary said and added that it was a painstaking exercise by planners to work on the conservation and restoration plan. "The roof and ceiling of church are traditional Khatamband (a ceiling made of the woodwork in a geometric pattern) , which had decayed due to weathering as the church remained abandoned, was being restored," he said. Going deep into the downtown area, the city administration has also initiated a plan for the conservation of Imam bara in Hassanabad area, 11 km from Lal Chowk. The area, known as Bagh-e-Hassan, named after Baba Hassan, a prominent saint of 16th century. In 1764, it was rebuilt by Mughal Governor Fazil Khan in an Indo-Iranian type style. "Under the project improvement and conservation, work of Imam bara has been taken up," he said. Choudhary included Gurudwara Dumdama Saheb on Srinagar-Baramulla road, which was dismantled with the consent of Sikh community last year to pave the way for the widening of national highway connecting to the northernmost part of the country -- Kupwara. Sikhs had agreed to shift the 72-year-old gurudwara to make way for the national highway connecting Srinagar with Baramulla ending a 13-year old legal process after consultation with the Deputy Commissioner. Established in 1947, Gurudwara Damdama Sahib had served the migrant families from Pakistan. "The board of Smart City has approved the reconstruction of Gurudwara Damdama Sahib which was demolished to pave way for the highway. A pre-fabricated gurudwara was constructed before dismantling and now a heritage building, using the material and artefacts of dismantled gurudwara is being constructed near the old location," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/work-on-smart-city-project-continues-in-srinagar-amid-covid-19-pandemic-896192.html
02-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court slams SDMC over flooded basements in Greater Kailash-II||The Delhi High Court has slammed the South Delhi Municipal Corporation over inadequate measures to remove water from flooded basements in Greater Kailash-II here, saying steps taken by it do not inspire confidence. The High Court said the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) is the main body to look into the issue, with problem of drainage being their liability and they cannot pass buck on any other body. Justice Najmi Waziri directed the Public Works Department of the Delhi government along with three members of resident welfare association to clean storm water drains and conduct video recording of the proceedings. The High Court also directed to use drone photography and work along with corporation to clean the storm water drainage.  Rapping the corporation, the High Court observed, ”The measures taken by SDMC to drain out the water is completely inadequate. Pathetic and rudimentary level of work has been done.”   It said the houses in the area have become inhabitable due to inundation by water causing inconvenience to people. “Steps taken by SDMC do not inspire confidence. It has not done anything except increasing capacity of water pumps for taking out excess water,” the High Court said while posting the matter for December 2. It also directed SDMC to visit the houses of the petitioners and the persons who have annexed photographs of inundated basements in the petition, and come out with a system in place within 10 days. Advocate Puja Kalra, appearing for the civic body, told the court that water pumps have been installed to pump 600 litres of water per minute and it is coordinating with several agencies, including the Central Ground Water Board. Advocates Tushar Gupta and Shaan Mohan contended that the situation at ground remained the same and the corporation had done nothing except wasting time. Taking note of flooding of basements in Greater Kailash-II, the High Court had earlier directed the SDMC to find an immediate solution keeping in mind the need to prevent the outbreak of waterborne diseases. It had said that a solution has to be found right away especially, "keeping mind the need to prevent the outbreak of waterborne diseases, in the already fearful atmosphere of the dreadful pandemic". The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation had earlier opposed the submission and said there was no ongoing construction and the Metro-line commissioned way back in 2018, and that in any case, metro construction was roughly 15 metres deep from the surface level.   The High Court was hearing a plea by residents Sadhana Mohan and others aggrieved by water accumulating in the basements of their properties and in the neighbourhood due to lack of drainage through the system installed. In their plea, the residents said the water level rose from about 1.5 feet to 4 feet, rendering the properties unusable, damaging them extensively and causing immense difficulties to the occupants/owners of the buildings. It also poses threat to the life and limb of the occupants, as it may cause electrical short-circuit because of extensive water seepage in the walls, the plea added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-slams-sdmc-over-flooded-basements-in-greater-kailash-ii-896204.html
02-10-2020||North and Central||Congress holds day-long protest against farm laws across Haryana||Haryana's main opposition Congress on Friday began its day-long protest against the agriculture-related new laws in all the 90 assembly constituencies and district headquarters across the state. The Congress workers sat on dharnas at various places after which they are scheduled to take out 'tractor rallies' and protest marches.        On the 'Kisan-Mazdoor Bachao Divas' (save farmers and labourers) party workers demanded that the "black laws", which are "anti-farmers", be withdrawn. Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja is leading a protest dharna in Mahendergarh.      The state unit of the Congress is simultaneously protesting against the alleged gangrape and death of a Dalit woman in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras.      Haryana Congress had on September 28 held a protest here against the agriculture-related new laws and later submitted a memorandum on the issue to the Governor which was addressed to the President.        The state unit leaders have said the central government's "three black laws", will "ruin" the lives of farmers, commission agents and labourers and demanded their rollback.     A state-level farmers' conference has also been scheduled later this month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-holds-day-long-protest-against-farm-laws-across-haryana-896213.html
02-10-2020||North and Central||Uttarakhand CM pays tributes to statehood activists killed in 1994 police firing||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday paid tributes to the six activists from the hill state who died in the Rampur Tiraha firing episode in 1994, when the statehood movement was at its peak. Speaking at a programme held at Rampur Tiraha in Muzaffarnagar district of Uttar Pradesh where the incident took place on October 2, 1994, Rawat termed it as a "blot" on the history of undivided Uttar Pradesh and said that his government was working to turn Uttarakhand of the agitationists' dreams into a reality. Part of an agitation demanding a separate state of Uttarakhand, the activists were going to Delhi to stage a dharna, when police opened fire at them. Some protestors alleged that women activists were also molested by the police. "October 2 is a date we remember for different reasons. Besides celebrating it as the birth anniversary of two great leaders like Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri we also remember it for Rampur Tiraha firing incident which is a blot on the history of both undivided UP and Uttarakhand," Rawat said. Calling October 2 as a “black day” for every individual hailing from Uttarakhand, Rawat said the state government is doing all it can to turn the vision of a prosperous Uttarakhand into a reality. Several political leaders from Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh were present at the Shaheed Sthal at Rampur Tiraha along with Rawat. Uttarakhand, which used to be a part of Uttar Pradesh, came into being on November 9, 2000 through the Uttar Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2000. Crediting the then BJP governments at the Centre and in Uttar Pradesh for the creation of Uttarakhand, Rawat said the state has progressed by leaps and bounds in terms of per capita income, educational facilities and infrastructure. “Uttarakhand is a state which has 575 kilometres of international borders. We have built roads upto the China border today," Rawat said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-cm-pays-tributes-to-statehood-activists-killed-in-1994-police-firing-896215.html
02-10-2020||North and Central||NIA files chargesheet naxals for killing of Chhattisgarh MLA Mandavi, four CAF personnel in naxal attack||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has filed its charge-sheet in the killing of a BJP MLA and four policemen in a Naxal attack last year in Dantewada district of Chhattisgarh, in a special court in Jagdalpur, officials said on Friday. The charge-sheet, which names 33 accused, out of which six have been arrested and five others have died, was filed before the NIA court in Jagdalpur, the headquarters of Bastar district on Thursday, a statement issued by the NIA said. District and Sessions Judge Suman Ekka is presiding over the special court.   On April 9 last year, Bheema Mandavi, then the sitting BJP MLA from Dantewada, and four personnel of the Chhattisgarh Armed Force (CAF) were killed after Maoists blew up their vehicle with an IED near Shyamgiri village under the Kuakonda police station area of Dantewada, it said. The arms and ammunition of the slain security personnel were also looted by the Naxals, the central agency added. A case under relevant sections of the IPC, the Arms Act, the Explosive Substances Act and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, was registered at the Kuakonda police station and subsequently, the NIA re-registered the case on May 17 last year after taking over the probe, the release said. However, the actual investigation of the case could be taken over only on March 17 this year due to certain legal issues raised by Chhattisgarh Government, it said. "With no clues available initially, a breakthrough was achieved in the case after examining several witnesses, surrendered Naxals and rigorous technical analysis, an official said. During the investigation, the NIA arrested six accused Madka Ram Tati, Bhima Ram Tati, Linge Tati, Laxman Jaiswal, Ramesh Kumar Kashyap and Haripal Singh Chauhan, all residents of Dantewada district, who had allegedly provided shelter, food, logistic support, electric wires and steel containers to the Naxalites involved in the attack, he said. While 22 accused are still at large, five others have already died, it said. Investigation established that the decision to kill Mandavi was taken at Maoists Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee (DKSZC) level meeting held in December 2018 in West Bastar. "Later, another meeting, at the Darbha Division Committee level, was held in the end of February 2019 in the Gonderas Forest area of Dantewada, which was chaired by Giri Reddy alias Shyam alias Chaitu, a DKSZC member and In-charge of Darbha Division, the statement said. During the meeting, as part of Tactical Counter Offensive Campaign (TCOC- being run by Maoist in summer), it was decided to kill Mandavi, along with other political leaders, police personnel and disrupt the election process, it said. Chhattisgarh assembly polls were held in end-2018. Bada Deva alias Barse Sukka, Secretary of Darbha Division Committee, was made overall In-charge to carry out the objectives of TCOC. "Under the leadership of Deva, cadres of outlawed CPI (Maoist) were mobilised and an IED on the Nakulnar- Bacheli road was placed near Shyamgiri village where the annual fair was being organised. The place was pre-decided because the Maoist leaders believed that prominent political leaders, including Mandavi would attend the annual fair scheduled on April 9 last year, it said. The NIA investigation also established that top leadership of CPI (Maoist), namely Nambala Keshava Rao alias Gaganna alias Basavraj (general secretary of the CPI(Maoist) and secretary of the Central Committee), was actively involved in the conspiracy along with senior Maoist figures, the release said. Further investigation in the case is underway, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nia-files-chargesheet-naxals-for-killing-of-chhattisgarh-mla-mandavi-four-caf-personnel-in-naxal-attack-896216.html
02-10-2020||North and Central||Balrampur rape: UP govt to give residential plot, job to family member of victim||The Uttar Pradesh government will provide a residential plot and job to a family member of the 22-year-old Balrampur woman who died after she was allegedly raped by two men, according to local BJP MLA Palturam. The state government will also give Rs 2 lakh more as financial assistance, the Balrampur MLA who met the victim’s family said on Friday. "Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has taken note of the incident. The government will provide a residential plot and job to a member of the family," he said, adding that those involved in the act will be given strict punishment. "The family has been given financial assistance of Rs 6,18,750. They will be given Rs 2 lakh more," he added. The Dalit woman had died on Tuesday after she was allegedly raped by two men here. Both accused have been arrested, police had said. Talking to reporters in Balrampur on Wednesday night, the victim's mother had claimed that the accused broke the legs and back of her daughter, a charge denied by police. "My daughter had gone to take admission to a college on Tuesday. On her way back, three-four persons abducted her, took her to their room, gave her an injection and raped her,” she alleged. “They later sent her back on an e-rickshaw, which dumped her outside our house. They broke her legs and back. She could not stand or talk," the victim's mother had said. Quoting the victim's family members, Balrampur Superintendent of Police (SP) Dev Ranjan Verma said the woman, who worked in a private firm, returned home in a serious condition on Tuesday. She looked dazed and had an intravascular cannula, medically known as Vigo, and used for administering an injection or other fluids in the body, inserted in her hands. She was rushed to a nearby hospital, but died on the way, the SP said. When the matter was reported to police by the hospital, her parents alleged that she was gang-raped, he added. Acting on her parent's complaint, police identified the accused as Shahid and Sahil and arrested them, the SP had said. About the reports that the victim's legs and back were broken, he said, "It was not confirmed in the post-mortem. We contradict this news." The victim was cremated on Wednesday after the post-mortem in the presence of her family members, police had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/balrampur-rape-up-govt-to-give-residential-plot-job-to-family-member-of-victim-896217.html
02-10-2020||North and Central||58 people booked after clash with police in Uttar Pradesh||An FIR has been registered against 58 people for allegedly attacking a police team and injuring four officials during a protest against power cut in Hamzapur village in Nigohi area here, police said on Friday. "The incident took place on Thursday night. People had gathered at Nihogi power substation to protest against power outage and had a fight with the substation employees. They later reached the Nigohi Police Station to file a complaint in the matter and created traffic jam," ASP (City) Sanjay Kumar said.    When a police team reached there, the accused snatched the mobile phone of Nigohi SHO, Govind Singh. They then clashed with the police, injuring four policemen. Kumar said additional security force was sent to the clash site to control the situation. A case was registered in this connection against 58 people, including 50 unidentified persons, the ASP said. No arrests have so far been made in the matter, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/58-people-booked-after-clash-with-police-in-uttar-pradesh-896220.html
02-10-2020||North and Central||Rahul Gandhi to now hold tractor rallies in Punjab, Haryana from October 4 to 6||In a slight change in his programme, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will now hold tractor rallies in Punjab and Haryana from October 4-6 to protest against the contentious new farm laws. Earlier, Gandhi was scheduled to hold tractor rallies from October 3-5, the party had said. However, the rest of his itinerary will remain the same. "Change in @Rahul Gandhi tractor rallies programme; rescheduled to October 4, 5, 6. Rest (itinerary) remains the same," Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh's media advisor, Raveen Thukral, tweeted. Singh, state Congress president Sunil Jakhar, party's Punjab in-charge Harish Rawat, and all state ministers and party MLAs will join the protests, "to give voice to the angst and pain of the farmers, whose livelihood and future has been put at stake by the central legislations". A spokesperson of Punjab Congress had said on Thursday that the tractor rallies were expected to be supported by farmers' organisations and will cover more than 50 km over three days.    The rallies are scheduled to begin around 11 am on each of the three days and will be conducted amid strict Covid-19 protocols, the spokesperson had said. Gandhi is likely to address rallies at Kaithal and Pipli in Kurukshetra district of Haryana on October 6 instead of October 5, following which he will return to Delhi. Farmers have expressed apprehension that the Centre's farm reforms would pave a way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big companies. Parliament had last week passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020; the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; and the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rahul-gandhi-to-now-hold-tractor-rallies-in-punjab-haryana-from-october-4-to-6-896233.html
02-10-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan government fulfilled more than half of manifesto promises: Govind Singh Dotasara||Rajasthan Congress president Govind Singh Dotasara claimed on Friday that the Rajasthan government led by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot had fulfilled more than half of the promises made in the party's election manifesto in the first 21 months of its tenure. Dotasara was addressing an event where a report card on the fulfilment of Congress' election manifesto promises was released. He said the Congress had made 501 promises in its election manifesto, out of which 252 promises had been fulfilled. "Apart from this, 173 promises are under process. In this way, 85 per cent of the promises have been completed or are underway," Dotasara said. Notably, a report card has been issued by the state Congress committee on the functioning of the ruling dispensation on behalf of the government. Gehlot could not attend the event due to sudden illness. Congress general secretary and state incharge Ajay Maken, who attended the event through video conference, said the Rajasthan government made the party's manifesto a policy document. There can be no better way than this in any democracy, Maken said. Praising the performance of Gehlot and his government, Maken said he did not see work progress "at such a fast pace anywhere".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-government-fulfilled-more-than-half-of-manifesto-promises-govind-singh-dotasara-896248.html
02-10-2020||North and Central||Hathras gangrape: Protesting Samajwadi Party workers lathicharged by UP Police in Lucknow||Samajwadi Party workers were on Friday lathi charged by the police in Hazratganj area here while they were taking out a protest march against the Hathras gangrape and farm laws. The march which started from the party office was supposed to end at the Gandhi statue in the city where the MLAs and senior party leaders were scheduled to begin a 'maun vrat' (vow of silence). However, the protesters were stopped at Hazratganj crossing, where police had put up barricades. As the SP workers insisted on being allowed to move ahead, a heated argument ensued between the two sides following which police personnel resorted to lathi charge to disperse the crowd. "Today, by arresting party MLAs and senior leaders, going to sit on 'Maun Vrat" and dharna for 'Hathras ki beti', government suppressed the voice of truth in a violent way on the birth anniversaries of Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri. This is condemnable," the party's national president Akhliesh Yadav said. We demand an FIR against the District Magistrate and Superintendent of Police of Hathras, he said. "Stopping of peaceful foot march of SP MLAs and leaders on the directives of the chief minister is murder of democracy," the party said. However, the state police said that the action was taken to maintain the state's law and order. "We have detained SP workers including some MLAs. They have been taken away from the spot (Hazratganj)," a senior police officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hathras-gangrape-protesting-samajwadi-party-workers-lathicharged-by-up-police-in-lucknow-896251.html
02-10-2020||North and Central||Woman held for defrauding investors on high return promise||The Delhi Police has arrested a woman from Gujarat for allegedly duping around 200 people to the tune of over Rs 2 crore by luring them to invest in various schemes on the promise of high returns, officials said on Friday. The 40-year-old woman and her friend Parveen Kumar Singh were operating a society named Jai Maa Laxmi Cooperative Thrift and Credit Society Ltd and running a clothing store at Mandawali in East Delhi, they said. They lured the shop visitors into investing in several schemes, including those promising high-interest rates, loan, flat booking and lucky draw, a senior police officer said. "During the investigation, it came to notice that neither any society in the name of ‘Jai Maa Laxmi Co-operative Thrift and Credit Society’ was registered with RBI as NBFC nor any Parveen Kumar Singh and his woman friend registered with RBI," said O P Mishra, Joint Commissioner of Police, Economic Offences Wing (EOW). They were not authorised to collect the money from the public directly in any scheme, police said. The accused were absconding. The woman was traced in Surat in Gujrat through social media. A police team reached Gujarat on Thursday and apprehended the woman, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-held-for-defrauding-investors-on-high-return-promise-896253.html
02-10-2020||North and Central||Punjab: BJP's Tarun Chugh faces farmers' protest, seeks to explain benefits of farm laws to them||A group of agitating farmers stopped the vehicle of BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh in Punjab's Amritsar on Friday and confronted him over the recently enacted farm laws, but the leader sat down with the protesters and sought to explain the benefits of the legislations. Kirti Kisan Union activists stopped Chug's vehicle when he was on his way to address a farmers' rally at Harsha Chinna village near Ajnala in Amritsar district. Punjab has been witnessing protests over the three farm laws with farmers blocking rail tracks and staging demonstrations in some parts of the state. The agitators demand rollback of the legislations which, they claimed, will benefit the corporate sector and harm peasants. BJP leader Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina, who accompanied Chug in Amritsar, said the agitating farmers sought a meeting with the prime minister and the Union agriculture minister. Chugh explained to the agitators that the laws would benefit them and assured them that a meeting with the top brass of the BJP would be arranged soon, Chhina said. Chugh later told reporters that these farm laws will bring big change in the lives of farmers and make them prosperous. He said that they will approach every single farmer and inform them about the “benefits” of these “pro-farmer” laws. Chugh alleged that the Congress was misguiding the farmers, while the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), which quit the NDA over the farm laws, was spreading falsehood. “We are firmly saying that MSP (minimum support price) will continue like it is now. Likewise, mandis will also continue in the same manner,” the BJP leader said. When contacted, Kirti Kisan Union leader Jatinderpal Singh Chhina, however, said Chugh had to cut short his meeting with the farmers and return due to the protest. He said the farmers' bodies have already given a call to stage sit-ins in front of the residences of several BJP leaders and to register their protest if they come to meet them. Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal said farmers had on Thursday staged a sit-in outside the residences of several BJP leaders, including former Punjab BJP chief Shwait Malik, in Amritsar. In other parts of the state, farmers squatted on railway tracks and raised slogans against the central government as part of an indefinite protest call given by several outfits. A total of 31 farmers' bodies have joined hands to intensify the agitation and announced an “rail roko” agitation from October 1. Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal said that farmers, who put up blockades on rail tracks at 30 places, will continue the stir to press the Centre to revoke the new farm laws. ‘Rail roko’ agitation took place in Dhablan (Patiala), Sunam (Sangrur), Budhlada (Mansa) and Gidderbaha (Muktsar) under the banner of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta). Some other farmers' unions blocked rail tracks in Barnala, Bathinda, Faridkot, Gurdaspur, Rupnagar, Phillaur, Moga, among others. Farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee have been squatting on rail tracks in Amritsar and Ferozepur since September 24. The agitating farmers have given a call to boycott some corporate houses and their products in the state. According to them, the Centre wanted to "benefit" a few corporate houses with these "black laws". The agitating farmers said they would continue their agitation till their demand for rollback of the laws was met. Earlier this week, President Ram Nath Kovind assented to the three bills -- the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-bjps-tarun-chugh-faces-farmers-protest-seeks-to-explain-benefits-of-farm-laws-to-them-896263.html
02-10-2020||North and Central||Transgender candidate in Madhya Pradesh bypolls confident of winning this time||Neha (29), a transgender person contesting an Assembly byelecion in Madhya Pradesh's Morena district, kicked off her campaigning on Friday. Byelections to 28 Assembly seats in the state will be held on November 3. Neha, popularly known as Neha Kinnar, is standing for election as an independent from Ambah, a seat reserved for scheduled castes. She belongs to the local Bedia community. Before embarking on electioneering, she offered prayers at the famous Nagaji Temple at Porsa. She would win the election, Neha said, adding that her poll plank was social justice. "I mean everybody should get justice. I want to empower the weak and ensure that they also reap the benefits of welfare schemes meant for them," she told PTI. "The weak and the poor are exploited in the entire Morena district. I want to end this in Ambah after winning," she added. "Last time I gave Congress candidate Kamlesh Jatav a run for his money. I lost to him by a slender margin," Neha said. She had lost to Jatav by 7,547 votes in 2018. "This time around, I am going to win," she said. Madhya Pradesh saw emergence of members of the transgender community in politics with Shabnam Mausi getting elected to the Assembly in 1998 from ShahdolAnuppur. Kamla Jaan became the Mayor of Katni in 2000, while Hira Bai, another member of the community, was elected as a corporator. The byelections were necessitated by the resignations of 22 Congress MLAs from Jyotiraditya Scindia's camp who crossed over to the BJP and brought down the Kamal Nath government in the state in March. Three more MLAs resigned later. Three seats fell vacant due to the death of sitting MLAs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/transgender-candidate-in-madhya-pradesh-bypolls-confident-of-winning-this-time-896265.html
02-10-2020||North and Central||Cops seize phones of Hathras victim's family; village turned into fortress, entry of media banned||As if forcible midnight cremation of the alleged Hathras gang rape victim was not enough, the police on Friday sealed the village and barred entry of the media and opposition politicians, besides seizing the cell phones of the victim's family members in a bid to prevent them from interacting with the media. The village was turned into a fortress with the residents being confined to their houses and hundreds of police personnel, including the PAC, surrounding it from every side. A member of the victim's family alleged that their cell phones had been taken by the cops and that they were not being allowed to speak or meet even their relatives. "We are not being allowed to go out....our phones have been taken by the cops....they also assaulted my uncle...the cops have surrounded our house," a cousin of the victim, who somehow managed to go out of the village, told reporters. He said that cops were deployed on the rooftops also to keep an eye on the people. The family members alleged that the district magistrate of Hathras had threatened them with serious consequences unless they 'cooperated'. The entry of the media and opposition leaders was also banned by the police, which erected barricades on all entry points into the village. A few media persons, who tried to enter the village, were allegedly manhandled. Members of the media also embarked on a 'dharna' in Hathras to protest the ban on their entry into the village. Sources said that the media would be allowed in the village only after the SIT, formed to investigate the incident, took the statement of the victim's family. A senior BJP leader here said that the media was showing the truth. A delegation of the Trinamool Congress MPs, led by Derek O'Brien, was allegedly roughed by a trainee IAS officer, when it tried to proceed toward the house of the victim to meet her family members. A video of the incident showed Brien falling on the ground allegedly after being pushed by an official. Some TMC women MPs also alleged that they were manhandled. The victim, who hailed from SC community, had been brutally assaulted by four youths and died in the hospital. The family members alleged that she was gangraped. The police, however, denied that she had been raped.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cops-seize-phones-of-hathras-victims-family-village-turned-into-fortress-entry-of-media-banned-896266.html
02-10-2020||North and Central||Every woman needs to question govt to seek justice for Hathras victim, says Congress' Priyanka Gandhi Vadra||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday said every woman in this country needs to raise her voice and question the government to seek justice for the daughter of Hathras. Addressing a prayer meeting in memory of the Dalit rape victim, she said her party will continue to exert pressure on the government till justice is delivered in the case. The prayer meeting was organised by Valmiki community at the Prachin Bhagwan Valmiki Mandir at Panchkuian road in central Delhi. "I request everyone to raise their voice and every woman needs to question the government to seek justice for the daughter of Hathras," she told the gathering. "Each and every woman of this country should raise her voice against what has happened to the woman in Hathras," she also said. The 19-year-old woman was allegedly raped at a village in Hathras by four men on September 14. After her condition deteriorated, she was referred to the Delhi's Safdarjung hospital where she breathed her last on Tuesday. She was cremated in the early hours of Wednesday, with her family alleging the local police forced them to conduct the last rites in the dead of the night. Gandhi who has been at the forefront of the attack on the Uttar Pradesh government over the incident said cremation is not done after sunset. "It was wrong to do so without the consent of the family. We need to put pressure on the government to ensure justice for the young Dalit woman," she said. "Our country does not have a tradition where the father, brother and the family of the victim are not allowed to light the pyre," Priyanka Gandhi said. She also paid obeisance at the temple of Lord Valmiki. The temple hosted Mahatma Gandhi for 214 days between April 1946 and June 1947. "Whatever has happened with the woman, her family faced it alone as they did not get any support from the government. Her family felt like they were alone. I came here to express solidarity with you and her family so that you all don't feel you are alone," Priyanka Gandhi said. She urged the gathering to raise their voice against the incident. "What has happened with you all we will fight against it. I urge you all to raise your voice and we will put political pressure on the government," the Congress leader said. Every woman of the country should exert moral pressure on the government to get justice for their sister, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/every-woman-needs-to-question-govt-to-seek-justice-for-hathras-victim-says-congress-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-896315.html
02-10-2020||North and Central||Garbage dumped in front of Hathras DM's Jaipur home||Some unidentified people dumped a pile of garbage in front of Hathras district magistrate's Jaipur home on Friday, police said. Deputy Superintendent of Police Raisingh Beniwal said information was being gathered about the incident and efforts were made to identify the miscreants. It is not known who was present at Hathras District Magistrate Praveen Kumar's home in Vaishali Nagar area here, police said. The incident comes amid protests over the alleged gang-rape and death of a woman at a village in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras. The 19-year-old was allegedly raped by four men on September 14. After her condition deteriorated, she was referred to Delhi's Safdarjung hospital where she breathed her last on Tuesday. She was cremated in the early hours of Wednesday, with her family alleging that the local police forced them to conduct the last rites in the dead of the night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/garbage-dumped-in-front-of-hathras-dms-jaipur-home-896336.html
02-10-2020||North and Central||UP govt allows religious events outside containment zones from October 15||With the UP government allowing programmes in the open outside containment zones in the next phase of coronavirus lockdown, decks have been cleared for holding Durga Puja and other religious events in the upcoming festival season. Additional Chief Secretary (Information) Navneet Sehgal said the district administrations will permit such programmes with necessary availability of face masks, thermal scanners, hand sanitisers and social distancing. The new guidelines will come into effect from October 15 while the festival season will kick off with Navratris from October 17. The new guidelines have been issued under which the lockdown will be effective only in containment zones, which have been converted into micro containment areas, he said. Sehgal said in closed halls, permission will be given with 50 per cent capacity but a maximum of 200 people. Earlier this week, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had said all precautions must be taken during upcoming festivals in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. When asked to comment on reports that Durga Puja events will not be allowed this year, an Uttar Pradesh government official had told PTI that no advisory had been issued so far. "Public programmes, where there is a possibility of crowding, will not be permitted. There will be puja," he had said without elaborating on it but added that an advisory on “dos and don'ts” will be issued.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-allows-religious-events-outside-containment-zones-from-october-15-896344.html
02-10-2020||North and Central||Punjab CM digitally launches construction of 750 rural stadiums||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday digitally launched the construction of 750 rural stadiums and playgrounds in the state. The 750 stadiums are being built at a cost of Rs105 crore in rural areas under the state government's rural transformation strategy and 'Tandarust Punjab Mission, an official statement said. The government has set a target of minimum five stadiums per block to be completed in 2020-21, it added. These stadiums will help youths channelize their energy in a constructive manner, the statement quoted Chief Minster Singh as saying. Amarinder Singh said the new village stadiums should be named after eminent sports persons so as to inspire youths to excel in sports at national and international levels. Sports and Youth Affairs Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi said the stadiums would help strengthen the state's sports infrastructure. The initiative is part of the Smart Village Campaign launched in 2019, under which 19,132 projects with a total cost of Rs 835 crores were taken up in its Phase-I stage for 2019-20. The projects under the campaign include renovation of ponds, street lights, parks, gymnasiums, community halls, drinking water supply, model Anganwadi centers, smart schools and solid waste management systems are the integral part of the campaign. The chief minister also said that to commemorate the 550th birth anniversary celebrations of Sikhism's founder Guru Nanak Dev, as many as 72 lakh saplings were planted across the state since last year, thereby increasing the overall green cover of the state. Meanwhile, while digitally flagging off four ambulances each for Ludhiana, Patiala and Jalandhar, the chief minister thanked a leading media group for donating these ambulances, which, he said, would augment the health infrastructure of the state, especially amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said these ambulances would help augment the existing fleet of 400 ambulances currently available with the government hospitals. Meanwhile, an MoU was inked digitally between the Local Government Department, Punjab, and the Centre for Policy Research (CPR), Odisha, in the presence of the chief minister, which, as per the official statement, will help push the implementation of the Punjab Slum Dwellers Proprietary Act, framed in April, 2020. The MoU was signed by the Principal Secretary (Local Government) Ajoy Kumar Sinha and CPR president Yamini Aiyyer. The chief minister said it would help bestow ownership rights on the people belonging to the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) on the land they live. It will also ensure various amenities, such as sewerage, clean drinking water, electricity, drainage and road connectivity, to 14 lakh slum dwellers of the urban areas in the state through technical knowhow by the CPR. The ownership certificates would help the slum dwellers in procuring bank loans and would also serve as address proof, said the chief minister. Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra assured the Centre for Policy Research that the state government would render all necessary assistance and cooperation for effective implementation of the MoU.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-digitally-launches-construction-of-750-rural-stadiums-896365.html
02-10-2020||North and Central||Hathras gang rape a small issue, victim was not raped: UP minister Ajit Singh Pal||Uttar Pradesh minister Ajit Singh Pal on Friday described the alleged gang-rape of a 19-year-old Hathras woman and her subsequent death a fortnight later as a “small issue”, asserting that the Dalit teen was not raped at all. “Doctors have already made it clear that the Hathras woman was not raped,” Pal, the UP minister of state for Electronics and Information Technology said in a statement which is set to further aggravate the controversy. The minister also described the incident as a “small issue”, asserting that the law is taking its course in the case. “We can do nothing if the Opposition is attacking (the government). They have no issue and are raking up such small issues intermittently. They are just raising issues and doing nothing in the public interest,” the minister told reporters when asked about the Oppositions’ attack against the government over the issue. On being countered by media persons if the Hathras gang-rape case was a “small issue” according to him, he hastened to add, “I am saying the matter is being investigated. Doctors have said nothing of this kind happened. Whatever is found in the investigation would be made public.” UP’s Additional Director General (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar too had on Thursday said that the forensic examination on the woman did not indicate rape. "The report of the FSL has also come. It says clearly that samples did not contain sperm. It makes clear that there was no rape or gang-rape," Kumar had said on Thursday in Lucknow. But legal experts debunked the theory, telling PTI that the presence of sperm on the victim’s body cannot be an essential ingredient to prove the crime. In a replication of the December 2012 Nirbhaya case horrors, the Dalit teen was allegedly sexually assaulted by four men on September 14 in a Hathras village and admitted to the AMU's Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital in Aligarh in a critical condition. She was on September 28 referred to Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital in an extremely critical condition with spinal injuries, paralysis and cuts in her tongue and died a day later on early hours, triggering widespread outrage, protests and calls for justice. The Hathras police, however, took her body to her native district and allegedly cremated her overnight without her parent’s consent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hathras-gang-rape-a-small-issue-victim-was-not-raped-up-minister-ajit-singh-pal-896368.html
02-10-2020||North and Central||Senior naxal leader killed by colleagues in Chhattisgar: Police||A top Maoist leader who was behind several killings in Bijapur district of Chhattisgarh has been killed by his juniors, the police claimed on Friday. Modiyam Vijja, a "Divisional Committee Member-rank" Naxal leader who was in charge of the rebels' Gangaloor Area Committee, was shot dead in a forest near Chitavar in the district, the police said. Inspector-General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P told PTI that a clash reportedly took place between Vijja and his subordinate Dinesh Modiyam, secretary of the Naxals' Gangaloor Area committee, over the recent killings of innocent tribals in Bijapur. Vijja was killed during the confrontation, after which the Naxals handed over his body to his family in Mankeli village for cremation, the IG added. "Vijja, who was carrying a reward of Rs 8 lakh on his head, was behind most of the civilian killings as well as rallies organised in Gangaloor area in the recent past," he said. Terming the development as crucial, the IG said security forces were keeping a close tab on happenings within the Naxal organisation and "taking strategic action accordingly". "It appears there is a lot of tension between senior naxal cadres and lower-rung cadres and the latter are in confrontation mode over violence against innocent tribals by senior leaders," he added. Maoists have killed 12 people including three police personnel and a forest official in the district in the last one month. There were also reports of killings of several villagers in the interiors of Pamed and Gangaloor areas of the district but these reports were yet to be confirmed, said a senior official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/senior-naxal-leader-killed-by-colleagues-in-chhattisgar-police-896370.html
02-10-2020||North and Central||Rajnath visits Atal tunnel in Rohtang day before its inauguration||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday visited the Atal tunnel in Rohtang, a day before its inauguration by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The 9.02-km-long tunnel that goes under the Rohtang Pass in the eastern Pir Panjal range at an altitude of 3,000 metres on the Leh-Manali highway is being considered as strategically important. The historic decision to construct the tunnel was taken in 2000 when Atal Bihari Vajpayee was the prime minister. Singh visited the tunnel along with Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jairam Thakur and reviewed the preparations for Saturday's event where Modi will dedicate it to the nation, the defence minister's office said in a series of tweets. It said Singh also interacted with personnel of the Border Roads Organisation (BRO), which implemented the project. "Visited the 'Atal Tunnel, Rohtang' to review the preparations for the inaugural ceremony to be held tomorrow. PM Shri @narendramodi will dedicate the Tunnel to the nation. This 9.02 Km long 'Engineering Marvel' will connect Manali to Lahaul-Spiti valley throughout the year," Singh said in a tweet. He also visited the Snow and Avalanche Study Establishment (SASE) of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) in Manali. The defence minister also performed 'Bhoomi poojan' for the construction of a new 'Calibration Lab' at the SASE, his office said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajnath-visits-atal-tunnel-in-rohtang-day-before-its-inauguration-896372.html
02-10-2020||North and Central||Jantar Mantar buzzes with activity as protesters gather to seek justice for Hathras gang rape victim||Jantar Mantar in central Delhi buzzed with activity on Friday as the venue witnessed perhaps its first biggest protest ever since the Covid-19 pandemic began, with hundreds of protesters gathering there to demand justice for the Hathras gang-rape and murder victim. Social distancing norms and the wearing of masks went for a toss as many of the protesters raised slogans without wearing masks. A sea of people from different walks of life -- students, activists, citizens and political leaders -- attended the protest which was initially supposed to be held at India Gate but was shifted to Jantar Mantar owing to the prohibitory orders in place around the Rajpath area. "They are silencing the family but they would not be able to silence the people. I am scared due to the Covid-19 pandemic but raising my voice to demand justice for the Hathras victim is more important. That is what forced me to step out at this time," said Neha Dwivedi, one of the protesters. People also held a candlelight vigil for the Hathras gang-rape victim as slogans demanding the resignation of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanth and seeking justice for the victim rent the air. Left-leaning student activists carrying 'dhaplis' also raised slogans against the UP government. The police had said the gathering of up to 100 people is permissible at Jantar Mantar and that too with the prior permission of the competent authority. However, the number of protesters were more than 100 at the protest site.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jantar-mantar-buzzes-with-activity-as-protesters-gather-to-seek-justice-for-hathras-gang-rape-victim-896374.html
02-10-2020||North and Central||Is 'jungle raj' prevailing in Haryana, asks Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||A day after Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s tractor rally won’t be allowed to enter the state, Punjab CM Amarinder Singh on Friday hit back, asking if a "jungle raj" is prevailing there. Reacting sharply to the home minister's remarks, Amarinder Singh said it is a “futile move” to stifle the voice of an angry nation. He warned that such dictatorial steps would only strengthen the resolve of the Congress to fight for the rights of farmers. “Is there a jungle raj in Haryana that you can stop anyone, least of all a duly elected leader of a national political party, from entering the state or from raising his voice against the injustice being meted out to farmers,” the chief minister asked the Haryana government in a statement. “Coming on the heels of the assault and cases registered by the UP Police against Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and seen in the context of the earlier lathicharge by the Haryana Police against agitating farmers, it is clear that BJP governments were bent on suppressing the voice of the opposition in total violation of the democratic rights enshrined in the Constitution,” he said. The Punjab CM said the Congress will not be cowed down by such “autocratic and undemocratic actions of the BJP-led governments, either at the Centre or in the states”. “If they think they can break the will of the Congress leadership or quell all opposition with such high-handedness, they are living in a fool's paradise,” the Punjab CM said. History stands testimony to the fact that the voice of the people only gets stronger if it is sought to be crushed by force, he warned. Vij had on Thursday had said Rahul Gandhi's proposed tractor rally won't be allowed to enter Haryana. "They will not be allowed to disturb Haryana's atmosphere. Earlier, two Congress-sponsored rallies were stopped from entering the state. Likewise, we will stop his rally and won't allow him enter Haryana," Vij had told reporters. Rahul Gandhi will hold tractor rallies in Punjab and Haryana from October 4-6 to protest against the contentious farm laws. "Rahul will start his Kisan Mazdoor Yatra on October 4 from Punjab's Moga. On October 6, this yatra will enter Haryana from the Pehowa border," Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said in Kaithal on Friday. He said if the BJP-JJP government tried to stop him from entering Haryana, Congress workers will court arrest. Meanwhile, Amarinder Singh flayed the “obnoxious manner” in which the BJP had been trying to “browbeat the opposition and muffle its voice, first in Parliament over the farm bills and then on Thursday in UP where the Gandhis were forcibly stopped from meeting the distressed family of the victim of the shocking Hathras incident”. “Vij's statement showed that these acts were not arbitrary but a part of a grand design by the BJP to destroy all Opposition,” the CM said. “But the BJP will not succeed. The people of India will not let them get away with this. They will once again be reduced to the two-odd seats in Parliament from where they had started their political journey,” Amarinder Singh warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/is-jungle-raj-prevailing-in-haryana-asks-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-896381.html
02-10-2020||North and Central||Hathras gang rape case: UP govt cracks whip; suspends Hathras SP, four others||Four days after the brutal killing of a Dalit girl after being allegedly gang-raped in Hathras district in the state, the Uttar Pradesh government on Friday suspended the district police chief and four other cops on charges of laxity and ordered their narco test along with the family members of the victim. According to the official sources here, Hathras superintendent of police Vikrant Veer, deputy SP Ram Shabad, station house in-charge Dinesh Kumar Verma and two other cops were suspended. Sources said that Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath also directed a thorough probe into the allegations of negligence and laxity against the suspended cops. The decision to suspend these cops was taken on the basis of the preliminary findings of the special investigation team (SIT), which was handed over the probe of the incident. The role of the local police came under the scanner after the family members of the victim alleged that the cops did not take any action against the culprits, when she was allegedly gang raped and brutalised by four youths, who hailed from the same village. It was also alleged that there was an attempt to coerce the family to agree to the cremation of the victim after she died at a Delhi hospital on Tuesday. The police allegedly held the family members hostage in their house in the village and forcibly cremated the body at midnight, despite strong protests by the family. The high-handedness of the police drew flak from different quarters and there were demands for strong action against them. The opposition parties have termed the suspensions as a "damage control exercise". "The action is too little and too late.....the guilty cops must be put behind the bars and prosecuted for murder," said a senior UP Congress leader here. Sources said that some more district officials could be acted against in the days to come.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hathras-gang-rape-case-up-govt-cracks-whip-suspends-hathras-sp-four-others-896411.html
02-10-2020||North and Central||UP: Dalit girl with stab wounds was strangled to death, says police||The14-year-old Dalit girl whose body bearing stab wounds was found in the Gopiganj area here was strangled to death, police said on Friday. The girl was strangled to death and later she was stabbed with a sharp-edged weapon on the face and body, Superintendent of Police Ram Badan Singh said on Friday, citing the post-mortem report of the victim. The report has ruled out rape, he added. The girl had stepped outside her house in Tiwaripur village under Gopiganj police station limits on Thursday afternoon and when she did not return, her brother went looking for her and found her body in an agriculture field, Singh said. Police have already arrested three members of a family on the complaint of the victim’s father, he said. The body bore stab injuries on the face and other parts and was also been battered with bricks, Singh had said on Thursday, adding the incident was a fallout of enmity between neighbours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-dalit-girl-with-stab-wounds-was-strangled-to-death-says-police-896427.html
02-10-2020||North and Central||Hathras protest: Entry, exit gates of some Delhi metro stations closed; reopened after 1 hr||In view of the protest at Jantar Mantar over the Hathras gang rape and murder case, the Delhi Metro closed the entry and exit gates of a few stations for an hour on Friday, officials said. "Entry & exit gate for Janpath is closed. Trains will not be halting at this station. Exit gates for Rajiv Chowk and Patel Chowk are closed," the DMRC tweeted. All three stations fall in the vicinity of the protest venue in central Delhi. The protest was initially supposed to be held at India Gate but was later shifted to Jantar Mantar owing to the prohibitory orders in place in the Rajpath area. The DMRC tweeted an hour later that all closed entry and exit gates at these stations have been opened again.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hathras-protest-entry-exit-gates-of-some-delhi-metro-stations-closed-reopened-after-1-hr-896457.html
02-10-2020||Opinion||Hong Kong is China, like it or not||No amount of outcry, condemnation or sanctions over the Chinese government’s purported encroachment in Hong Kong’s affairs will alter the fact that Hong Kong is part of China and that its destiny is intertwined with the mainland’s. Hong Kong has been rocked by a series of crises after the eruption of protests last year over a proposed bill (long since withdrawn) that would have allowed the extradition of some suspects in criminal cases to mainland China. Hong Kongers who wanted the city promptly to return to peace thought the authorities’ handling of the situation, which dragged on for months and grew more and more violent, was incompetent. For other locals, many outsiders and apparently much of the global media, a people’s legitimate quest for more democracy was being suppressed. Something had to be done, and the Chinese authorities did it. The scale and frequency of antigovernment protests has now subsided — thanks to a national security law for Hong Kong promulgated in Beijing on June 30. Several prominent democracy advocates have since announced their retirement from politics,disbanded their parties or fled the city. The West tends to glorify these people as defenders of Hong Kong’s freedoms, but they have done great harm to the city by going against its constitutional order and stirring up chaos and disaffection toward our motherland. Last year’s prolonged unrest dented Hong Kong’s reputation as one of the best places in the world in which to do business. In March, the Heritage Foundation downgraded the city to second place in its Economic Freedom Index for 2020, citing “ongoing political and social turmoil”; Hong Kong had ranked first since 1995. And the Trump administration hasimposed sanctions on the city’s chief executive, Carrie Lam, and other senior officials here and on the mainland, and it has revoked Hong Kong’s special trade status with the United States. Some pundits have already declared the death of “one country, two systems,” the formal arrangement under which Hong Kong is governed by Beijing, though with “a high degree of autonomy” and a commitment to civil rights not available on the mainland. At the same time, the democratic movement in Hong Kong is in great danger of being hijacked by its more radical faction. In mid-July, ahead of the election for the Legislative Council (LegCo) scheduled for early September, the pro-democracy camp held an informal primary to gauge the public’s support for its various candidates. The ones who advocated uncompromising positions or blanket opposition to the government scored well. At the end of July, in the midst of an upsurge of coronavirus infections, Mrs. Lam announced that the LegCo election would be postponed for a year because it couldn’t safely be held during the pandemic. The Hong Kong Bar Association immediately issued a statement challenging the basis, in fact and in law, for the government’s decision, also chiding the administration for inviting Beijing to weigh in, in violation of Hong Kong’s Basic Law, the city’s mini-constitution. The authorities in Beijing then signaled, by way of a laconic decision of the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress, that sitting legislators could simply continue doing their work. But this announcement, too, has proved controversial. At least two of the 24 pro-democracy legislators in LegCo announced this week that they would quit, on grounds that a term extension would breach the Basic Law. Nearly all of the others appear to be keeping their posts, after respondents in an opinion poll favored, by a thin margin, the legislators’ staying over their leaving. Yet deferring the election, and for a full year, simply was a sound decision. Another wave of coronavirus infections (which would be Hong Kong’s fourth) could strike later this fall or in the winter, and, say, a six-month deferral might have required another six months’ delay — a move that would confuse the public and no doubt be decried as a lack of foresight on the Hong Kong government’s part. Some have asked why special arrangements couldn’t be made to hold the election on schedule, when at just the time that the voting was supposed to take place, the government managed to conduct a citywide coronavirus-testing program. The plain answer is that the Electoral Affairs Commission, an independent body, made no recommendations for minimising health risks to the nearly 4.5 million voters expected to cast ballots on a single day, despite various suggestions from pro-establishment parties to allow for early voting, mail-in voting and voting outside Hong Kong, and to extend voting hours. Then the coronavirus-detection program itself came under attack. By the end of the two-week testing drive, on Sept. 14, 1.78 million residents had been screened, about 24 percent of the city’s population. Was this a high level of participation? Or was it low — as some critics claimed, citing that as yet more proof of the community’s lack of trust in the authorities? Mass testing was the responsible thing to do. Hong Kong, despite being densely populated and an international business and travel hub, has managed relatively well in fighting Covid-19, without ever mandating a complete lockdown. As of Oct. 1, a total of 5,088 confirmed or probable cases of infection and 105 deaths had been reported, in a city of 7.5 million people. Yet pro-democracy activists seized on the testing program, too, claiming that the privacy of test-takers’ DNA was at risk, especially since some medical teams administering or analysing the tests were brought in from the mainland. The Hong Kong government has not been able to resolve in recent years any of the city’s main challenges, let alone restore public trust or win back hearts and minds. But these problems are not entirely the doing of Mrs. Lam’s government: Previous administrations failed to deal with them in any meaningful way. This wariness is one reason that the doubts and fears being expressed today about the impact of China’s recent national security law in Hong Kong can only diminish over time, as the new law is tested in court. For now, despite all the jitters, about 28 people have been arrested under the law. And only one person has been charged — for secession and terrorism: a 23-year-old man accused of driving a motorbike into police officers and displaying a banner that read “Liberate Hong Kong, Revolution of Our Times.” His case is being dealt with in accordance with due process and our criminal laws. Another story that has garnered much worried attention recently concerns a group of 12 people from Hong Kong who in late August were intercepted by marine police from mainland China for illegally crossing the border while they appeared to be fleeing the city on a speedboat in the direction of Taiwan. At least one of them had been arrested in Hong Kong under the national security law. All have been in detention on the mainland since — raising concerns among human rights defenders and democracy activists that the fugitives are being held without charge, have been denied bail and refused access to lawyers, and are about to be subjected to the mainland’s legal system, which has fewer protections for defendants than does Hong Kong’s. But the Hong Kong government has no power to ask any other jurisdiction not to deal with Hong Kong residents in accordance with its own laws simply because those people are from Hong Kong. To some, the new national security law is especially chilling because it seems simultaneously vague and very severe. But many laws are vague, constructively so. And this one only seems severe precisely because it fills longstanding loopholes — about subversion, secession, local terrorism, collusion with external forces. One person’s “severe” is someone else’s intended effect. I see little chance of any compromise being reached between the authorities in Beijing and the democratic camp in Hong Kong, be it about the right to elect directly the chief executive or any other major matter. From Beijing’s point of view, democratic development in Hong Kong has brought about nothing but chaos, polarisation and anti-China sentiment. What’s more, Beijing isn’t actually encroaching on Hong Kong’s semi-autonomy by taking measures to proscribe subversive activities in the city. Bear in mind that back in the late 1970s, China’s leader, Deng Xiaoping, put forward the “one country, two systems” formula with a view to bringing Hong Kong, Macau and eventually Taiwan back into the fold. National unity has always been the ultimate objective. Under the Basic Law, Hong Kong is a special administrative region that enjoys a “high degree of autonomy” — which, by definition, means not complete autonomy, a point I labor to explain to foreign officials and politicians. Any attempt to alter Hong Kong’s formal political status and turn the city into a de facto independent political entity, or to otherwise free it of Beijing’s control, is a fundamental challenge to China’s sovereignty. Can a few young people clamoring that Hong Kong is its own “nation” really do that much harm? Does simply chanting some feisty slogans or waving a banner that says “independence” — or holding up a blank sheet of paper in its place — really threaten China’s national unity? Maybe, if those statements and gestures indicate a broader engagement in the organising, planning, participating or committing of actual separatism. Such activities and situations tend to be dynamic, and their effects can quickly metastasise. Like it or not, Hong Kong is part of China. And given the two’s vast disparity in size and Hong Kong’s growing economic dependence on the mainland, the city’s progressive integration with China is unavoidable. A realistic goal for Hong Kong ought to be remaining the freest and most international city in China and retaining its unique international status, thanks to the city’s many bilateral agreements with foreign countries and its membership in numerous international organisations. Foreign governments should not benchmark what happens in Hong Kong against standards that prevail in Western countries; those are governed by a political system entirely different from China’s. Instead, they should benchmark Hong Kong against the rest of China, and measure how the city can maintain its unique characteristics — openness, a commitment to personal rights and freedoms, respect for the rule of law and the ability to reinvent itself economically. Beijing’s national security law is saving “one country, two systems” by ensuring that Hong Kong does not become a danger to China.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/hong-kong-is-china-like-it-or-not-895993.html
02-10-2020||Opinion||India heads down right path at wrong speed||By Mihir Sharma However you look at it, these moves take India in the right direction. They don’t go far enough, are badly planned and have been poorly communicated —nevertheless, they are grounds for optimism. Cautious optimism, however, because the take-no-prisoners political style of India’s ruling party threatens to undermine the impact of its own reforms. The government completely undercut Parliament in its effort to ram through the legislative changes. Little or no effort was made to get other political parties on board. And India’s states can justifiably complain that issues on which they have traditionally set policy (and gained revenue) are being appropriated by the federal government. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is unwisely ignoring the central difficulty of reform in India: While you can’t wait for everyone to agree before you make changes, you can’t impose them with zero agreement, either. It’s hard to overstate how different Modi’s approach is from the one that India has traditionally taken to economic reform. One of the strengths of the Indian system is that the state has prized consensus-building. That’s why there has never really been a sustained political or popular backlash to past reforms. It would not have been hard to take a similar approach in this case, too. Modi himself has demonstrated how it can be done in the past: A couple of years ago, the effort to overhaul India’s indirect tax regime represented a joint, all-party, state-and-Union effort. That moment seems to belong in the past now. In recent years, even the nationwide goods-and-services tax — one of Indian federalism’s proudest achievements — has become a cause of conflict. Partly, the pandemic is responsible: The finance ministry in New Delhi told its counterparts in the states that it simply would not be able to live up to the promises it had made as part of the grand bargain of tax reform, blaming an “act of God.” Not an act of God, but an act of fraud, insisted the finance minister of West Bengal. The new reforms must contend with this charged atmosphere. In agriculture, the government decided to “bypass” the states’ rights and powers over agricultural marketing and open up trade outside previously existing, state-controlled wholesale yards. States will lose the revenue they’d received from taxing transactions at these “mandis,” as they were called. Already, opposition-ruled states are refusing to implement the new laws. This will severely undercut Modi’s stated ambition of a single national market for agricultural produce. The simple fact is that, in India’s complex federal system, it’s up to the central government to ensure political buy-in at every level for big reforms. Yes, that takes time, costs political capital and requires compromise. But without the effort, the reforms just won’t work. Modi himself — who as a state chief minister in Gujarat excelled in extracting concessions from New Delhi — surely knows this better than anyone else. The costs of railroading through changes without concern for what state governments think will be paid not now, not next year, but over the decades to come as India turns fractious. One former federal finance minister issued a stark warning: “One Nation, One Everything will eventually destroy One Nation.” There’s a similar problem with the new labour reforms. As with agricultural reorganization, new codes governing the hiring and firing of workers have been long overdue. In the interim, the government has allowed states to develop a patchwork of different regulations that employers find excessively confusing. The federal government, which has the constitutional right to legislate alongside states on labour issues, needed to get all the states — and, by extension, various opposition parties — on board with employment reform in order to enact a single, simple set of labour regulations across the country. Instead, the government chose not to send its latest amendments to the parliamentary committees where the hard work of hammering out compromise is done. Modi’s party has won two general elections easily. There’s every reason to suppose it would win again if voting were to take place tomorrow. But the Indian system is not set up to be winner-takes-all. It requires cooperation between the central government and states, between multiple centres of power. Modi has the political capital to further that cooperation and make those compromises. The reforms he wants to push have the enormous momentum of ideas that have long been argued for. So there’s very little excuse for ramming them through without a proper effort to build consensus — especially when the effort risks turning them into mere words on paper.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/india-heads-down-right-path-at-wrong-speed-896189.html
02-10-2020||Opinion||How the office will change when everyone’s back||By Justin Fox, I’m writing these words at my desk in a large open-plan office in midtown Manhattan. Bold, no? OK, not that bold. The office is mostly empty, and I can get here easily by bike. Plus, hardly anybody in New York City has Covid-19 right now. That may be changing, but for the moment the risks of going in to work seem quite low. As for the rewards, well, on my three days in the office over the past couple of weeks I’ve gotten to see a few familiar faces, albeit mostly covered by masks. I’ve had not one but two in-person conversations with my boss. I’ve enjoyed the free snacks and lunch that my employer provides. (As internal Facebook communications recently leaked to the Verge reveal, I am not the only person in corporate America who has been missing them.) I have also appreciated sitting at a nice big desk staring at two nice big computer screens and using an in-house chart-making app that doesn’t work quite so seamlessly from home (I really like to make charts). The change of scenery is worth something, too. I don’t think that overall I’m more productive at the office than at home (note: I do not have small children), but switching to one location after a long time at the other does seem to have a positive effect. Getting home from work in the evenings feels surprisingly rewarding, too. Then again, I am writing these words in my home office, which is equipped with an adjustable desk and a big computer screen (although not two) that I did not possess in March. Before then I worked from home an average of a little under one day a week. Post-pandemic I’m guessing two days a week will be my norm (and I’m not the only one). The office is great for some things, but the saved commuting time and ability to focus at home are worth a lot. I also have a big home library that I often consult for work, and there’s a far bigger library a few blocks away that is currently off limits but presumably won’t be forever. These are of course the considerations of someone whose employer allows him the flexibility to work at home. But all indications are that far more American white-collar workers will be given such choices post-pandemic than were before — and given the estimated 60 million commuting hours a day they have been saving by not going in, a lot more will take advantage of them. The potential consequences of this shift have of course been discussed for months now, but my return-to-the-office experiences have gotten me thinking a little harder about how things might play out. Right now, midtown-Manhattan offices are pretty great for hunkering down and getting stuff done — focus — but that’s partly because nobody else is there. Going into an office does help a lot in delineating between work and personal life, but the advantages of big modern open-plan offices over home in enabling focused work can seem pretty modest (and depend a lot on one’s home circumstances). Then again, focused work is hard everywhere these days: I am reminded of a years-ago interview with technology researcher Clay Shirky in which he described staying on a New York City subway train through 32 stops in order to finish a project without distraction. The other three work modes all require connection with other people. A lot of collaboration in large organizations was already occurring across cities and continents before the pandemic, and the past six months have made clear that almost all such work can be accomplished virtually, at least for a while. Socialization and learning, though, are much harder to do all-online. In-person seems clearly better for training new employees, building and maintaining a corporate culture, and just having colleagues get to know one another well enough to be able to work together effectively. Yes, there are companies that have managed to do all these things for years in entirely dispersed fashion, and I imagine there will be more of them in the future. But I don’t think most organizations are ready for this, meaning that they’ll still need spaces where employees congregate regularly — aka offices. Still, if lots more employees are working from home or some other remote location two or more days a week, some things about these offices will have to change. One possibility is that employers will try to shrink their real estate footprints by turning to hot-desking, a practice already established at consulting firms and some other big companies in which one has no permanent personal workspace and just takes whatever desk is available. My London-based Bloomberg Opinion colleague Chris Hughes argues that in most cases this is a false economy that will cost more in lost worker morale than it gains in rent savings, but as someone who has effectively hot-desked his way around Bloomberg offices in multiple cities in the US and abroad and gotten a lot of it, I do think there are ways to structure the practice that aren’t so alienating (but also less likely to result in big space savings). Another challenge will be how to maximize the opportunities for in-office socialization, learning and collaboration when much of your workforce is only intermittently there. Do you have everybody come in on certain days? Impose a rotating schedule for different divisions and teams? Have lots and lots of offsites? Or just rent a big meeting space every couple of weeks? Offices aren’t going away, and they shouldn’t. But they are going to face more competition than they used to, and employers will need to think harder about the purposes they serve.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-the-office-will-change-when-everyone-s-back-896198.html
02-10-2020||Opinion||Donald Trump failed to protect America, and himself||By Timothy L. O'Brien “We have it totally under control. ... It’s going to be just fine.” — Donald Trump, Jan. 22 The consequences of Donald Trump’s hubris and apathy, for him and about 7.3 million other Americans who’ve been infected, have been dire. Lives have been upended and 208,000 of them were lost. A nation sitting atop what appeared to be a sophisticated public health apparatus and economic juggernaut has been unspooled. Social and political divisions have come to a boil. Racism’s stranglehold on the American experiment has become more overt. And the man who most embodies the conflicts and otherworldliness of 2020 now watches his political future, his personal well-being, and his monarchical sense of entitlement circumscribed by a virus wearing a crown. “It's going to disappear one day. It’s like a miracle — it will disappear.” — Trump, Feb. 27 One of the many ironies of Trump’s tenure in the Covid-era is that he’s a self-described germaphobe. He avoids shaking hands and is easily alarmed — and often disgusted — by anyone showing the slightest symptoms of common colds. He steered clear of his son Barron when he was a toddler for fear of catching one of his illnesses. Long before Covid-19 began accompanying him on the global stage, he routinely invited aides to squirt shots of sanitizer into his palms. Hope Hicks, a White House aide, was often in charge of Trump’s Purell bottle when they traveled together. “This is a very contagious virus. It’s incredible. But it’s something that we have tremendous control over.” — Trump, March 15 “I see the disinfectant, where it knocks it out in a minute, one minute, and is there a way we can do something like that by injection inside, or almost a cleaning? Because you see it gets in the lungs and it does a tremendous number on the lungs, so it’d be interesting to check that.” — Trump, April 23 The military and federal law enforcement are among many institutions Trump has regularly belittled or savaged during his presidency, animated, as he has been for most of his 74 years, by a surefire belief in his own expertise and a nagging grab bag of insecurities. The courts, media, Congress, and a host of other entities big and small have also been punching bags. As the pandemic gained momentum, Trump began bullying federal health and research institutes such as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Institutes of Health, and the Food and Drug Administration. Battered and bruised, they offered inconsistent or incorrect advice to the public and became part of a larger push by Trump to dismiss the severity of the pandemic, which severely hobbled the federal response to the crisis. “I wore one (a mask) in the back area. I didn’t want to give the press the pleasure of seeing it.” — Trump, May 21 With public health experts pushed back on their heels, Trump also waged war against the most common-sense tools the public could use to combat the virus, such as masks. In short order, thin strips of cloth became, for broad swaths of the country, don’t-tread-on-me symbols of resistance to an overweening federal government intent on pickpocketing people’s liberty. “Here’s the bad part, when you test the, when you do testing to that extent, you're going to find more people, you're going to find more cases. So I said to my people, Slow the testing down, please!”  — Trump, June 21 As the pandemic has continued to follow its own path, Trump, who wanted to keep escalating Covid-19 metrics under wraps, came up with the novel and incorrect theory that it’s better to test less while mired in an epic public health crisis. “We're asking everybody that when you are not able to socially distance, wear a mask, get a mask. Whether you like the mask or not, they have an impact, they’ll have an effect and we need everything we can get. ... I will use it, gladly. ... Anything that potentially can help ... is a good thing.” — Trump, July 21 After a resurgent virus lit up a number of states last summer — including Florida, Texas, Arizona and California — with spiking positivity rates, Trump had a change of heart on masks. It didn’t last long. “This thing’s going away. It will go away like things go away.” — Trump, Aug. 5 When Trump hosted the Republican National Convention on the White House lawn in August, neither he nor most of those in attendance wore masks. Attendees were packed together in lawn chairs, including senior members of Trump’s cabinet, maskless, cheering and not socially distanced. It had all the trappings of what pandemic experts refer to as a super-spreader event. “We do them outside, we have tremendous crowds, as you see. … We had no negative, no negative effect. We’ve had no negative effect, and we’ve had, 35, 40,000 people at some of these rallies.” — Trump, Sept. 29 Trump is older and obese, two factors that make him more vulnerable to Covid-19. Rather than take all of the precautions someone in his situation should have, he continued to stage tightly packed rallies on the campaign trail — and defended that practice when questioned about it during the presidential debate this week. He also used the debate as an opportunity to belittle Biden for wearing “the biggest mask I’ve ever seen.” Shortly after lockdowns began in response to the coronavirus, Trump told reporters that he took no responsibility for the failed federal response to the outbreak. That remained a through-line in the months that followed. But the virus now has the president in its grip. Overseas financial markets were rattled by the news that Trump and his wife, Melania, were infected, and US stock futures plunged. Hearings for a new Supreme Court justice may be delayed, and there are new uncertainties about negotiations for a federal virus relief package. Trump’s presidential campaign was thrown into further disarray and the possibility that the president may be quarantined or briefly incapacitated gave rise to some ticklish succession issues. Vice President Mike Pence, who hasn’t reported being infected, would take the reins if Trump is unable to function. If Pence becomes ill, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi could possibly assume the presidency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/donald-trump-failed-to-protect-america-and-himself-896357.html
02-10-2020||South||Telangana logs 10 more Covid-19 deaths, 2,009 new cases||Telangana clocked 2,009 fresh coronavirus cases, pushing the tally of infections to 1.95 lakh, while the toll rose to 1,145 with 10 more fatalities. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) recorded 293 fresh cases, followed by Medchal Malkajgiri 173, Rangareddy 171, Karimnagar 114, Nalgonda 109, Khammam 104 and other districts, a state government bulletin said on Friday, providing data as of 8 PM on October 1. The bulletin said 54,098 samples were tested on October 1. Cumulatively, the number of samples tested was 31.04 lakh. The samples tested per million population was 83,410, it said. The number of people who recovered from the infectious disease on October 1 was 2,437, which is more than the number of fresh cases reported (2,009). The cumulative recovered cases stood at 1.65 lakh, while 28,620 were under treatment. The recovery rate in the state rose further to 84.78 per cent, while it was 83.5 per cent in the country, it said.   The case fatality rate in the state was 0.58 per cent, while it was 1.6 per cent at the national level.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-logs-10-more-covid-19-deaths-2009-new-cases-896112.html
02-10-2020||South||Consider contention of mother whose daughter ended life alleging sexual harassment: SC to Telangana police||The Supreme Court has asked Telangana police to consider in its probe, contentions of the mother of a woman finance officer who ended her life allegedly due to repeated sexual harassment at her workplace at BHEL Hyderabad office. A three-judge bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar said the petitioner should give in writing her contentions to the Investigating Officer within one week, highlighting the points urged in this petition.  "That will have to be considered and taken to its logical end by the Investigating Officer before filing the final report in the concerned court," the bench, also comprising Justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari, said. The court decided to put the matter for consideration after eight weeks, awaiting the steps taken by the Investigating Officer in light of the representation to be made by the petitioner. Advocate Alakh Alok Shrivastava, appearing for petitioner-woman said her daughter was a bright, young and intelligent finance professional, having other qualifications. She had joined BHEL in 2009, at a young age of 23 years and served BHEL till her last breath i.e. till October 17, 2019.  "The suicide note of the deceased and her last telephonic conversation with her sister, categorically established that her own supervisor and office colleagues subjected her to extreme level of sexual, physical and mental harassment and attempted to rape her, due to which she was forced to commit suicide," the petition claimed.  The Telangana police, however, had illegally given clean chit to the accused persons, in their latest report of June 02, 2020, filed before the National Commission of Women (NCW), the petition claimed and sought a CBI enquiry into the entire case to unravel the truth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/consider-contention-of-mother-whose-daughter-ended-life-alleging-sexual-harassment-sc-to-telangana-police-896159.html
02-10-2020||South||Tamil Nadu CM, Deputy CM attend events together for the first time days after standoff||Chief Minister K Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam together took part in public events here on Friday for the first time days after they crossed swords over who should be the ruling AIADMK's chief ministerial candidate for 2021 assembly elections. The twin events of Gandhi Jayanathi and the death anniversary of former Tamil Nadu chief minister K Kamaraj brought the two leaders together as they took part in the official functions paying tributes to the late leaders. It assumed significance since Panneerselvam, the AIADMK coordinator, had kept himself away from some official events chaired by Palainiswami amid reports of a rift between them on the leadership issue. Panneerselvam did not take part in a Covid-19 review meeting of District collectors on Tuesday while he was not invited to a project launch event here on September 30, both presided over by the chief minister. Also, the deputy CM did not attend the "One Nation, One Ration Card" scheme launch by Palaniswami at the Secretariat on Thursday and in the evening he visited temples in nearby Tiruvallur district. Panneerselvam had also been holding discussions with his loyalists besides other leaders. On September 28, both Panneerselvam and Palaniswami had a heated debate at the AIADMK Executive Committee meeting here on the issue of chief ministerial candidate for the next year's assembly elections. Following the discussions, the party said the two would annnounce on October 7 the chief ministerial nominee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-deputy-cm-attend-events-together-for-the-first-time-days-after-standoff-896202.html
02-10-2020||South||Karnataka Governor, CM B S Yediyurappa pay tributes to Mahatma Gandhi, Lal Bahadur Shastri||Karnataka Governor Vajubhai Vala and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa paid glowing tributes to Mahatma Gandhi, father of the nation, on his 151st birth anniversary here on Friday. They also paid their respects to former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri on his birth anniversary. Congress leader Siddaramaiah and JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy too paid homage to the Mahatma and Shastri. The governor garlanded the statue of Mahatma Gandhi inside the Raj Bhavan. Offering his tribute to Gandhiji, Chief Minister said, "Let us pay our unending respects to Mahatma Gandhi on his birth anniversary who marched on the path of Satyagraha in the glow of truth and non-violence and gifted us freedom." A programme has been organised at the Congress Bhavan to pay respects to Gandhiji and Shastri, where former union minister and Rajya Sabha member Mallikarjun Kharge, former union minister K H Muniyappa and MLA Ramalinga Reddy were present. The BJP and the JD(S) have also organised events to pay their tribute to the two stalwarts, who shaped India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karnataka-governor-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-pay-tributes-to-mahatma-gandhi-lal-bahadur-shastri-896223.html
02-10-2020||South||Kerala Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala faces allegations of receiving kickbacks in housing scheme||Congress-led United Democratic Front in Kerala, which has been strongly attacking the Left Front government in the state over kickbacks and irregularities involved in an UAE-agency funded housing scheme, suffered an embarrassment with allegations that a costly mobile phone purchased using the commission amount of the housing project was presented to leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala. Chennithala, however, denied the allegation and said that he would initiate legal action for raising such baseless allegation against him. Santosh Eapen, owner of Unitac, the firm carrying out the UAE-agency funded housing project form Kerala government's LIFE Mission project, said in an anticipatory bail petition at the Kerala High Court that UAE consulate former employee Swapna Suresh wanted him to buy five costly mobile phones and one of the phones was for gifting to Chennithala as part of UAE national day celebration in Kerala in December 2019. Chennithala denied the allegation, maintaining that he did not accept any such gifts. He also added that gifts were distributed through luck-dip at the UAE national day celebration and he only presented the gift to winner. He said that he would move legally for raising such baseless allegation. Close on the heels of the allegations surfacing, CPM leaders and activists launched a campaign against Chennithala in this regard. A bill of six mobile phones with costs ranging from Rs 49,000 to Rs 1,13,900 purchased in the name of Unitac was also being widely circulated. The fresh developments are a sequel to the CBI registering a case into the alleged FCRA violation in the housing scheme with Rs 20 crore funding of UAE-based Emirates Red Crescent, and the Kerala government moving High Court urging that the CBI's FIR should be quashed as there were no FCRA violation. The CBI registered the case on the basis of a complaint given by Congress MLA Anil Akkara, and even Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan may come under the probe as he is LIFE Mission's chairman and the UAE agency's funding offer came after a visit of delegations led by the Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan seeking support for post-flood rebuilding of Kerala. The housing project at Thrissur district is for providing houses to 140-odd families who lost houses in the 2018 floods.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-congress-leader-ramesh-chennithala-faces-allegations-of-receiving-kickbacks-in-housing-scheme-896260.html
02-10-2020||South||Kerala Covid-19 patient getting infested with maggots sparks row||A Covid-19 patient at Thiruvananthapuram government medical college hospital was found infested with maggots, and the suspension of a doctor and two nurses in connection with the case has triggered a stir by doctors and nurses. Thiruvananthapuram native Anil Kumar, 55, was found to have maggot-infected sores on his body after he was discharged. A preliminary probe into the incident found lapses on the part of a doctor and two head nurses in giving him proper care and hence the three were placed under suspension on Friday and a detailed probe ordered. But the action did not go down well with the doctors and nurses who have been relentlessly fighting Covid-19 over the past several months. The doctors and nurses staged a demonstration on Friday and threatened to go on indefinite stir until the actions against the doctor and nurses were withdrawn. Kumar was hospitalised on August 21 after he suffered serious injuries from a fall. He was tested positive for Covid-19 while in the hospital and hence shifted to a Covid ward. Owing to injuries caused by the fall, he could move only with support. But no bystanders were allowed at the Covid ward. He was discharged on September 27 and afterwards only the family noticed the maggot-infested sores on the body. Kumar's condition again worsened and was again hospitalised and is still under treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-covid-19-patient-getting-infested-with-maggots-sparks-row-896271.html
02-10-2020||South||DMK holds 'people's sabha' meetings in Tamil Nadu; Stalin, others booked for violation of Covid-19 norms||The DMK on Friday held "People's Sabha" meetings across Tamil Nadu in place of the customary "Gram Sabha", cancelled by the state government due to Covid- 19 situation, and resolutions were adopted against three farm legislations of the Centre at the gatherings. Cases were registered against party chief M K Stalin and others for holding the meetings despite the government barring such eventsand for violating curbs imposed in view of the coronavirus pandemic, police said. The state government on Thursday night announced the cancellation of the meetings of the gram sabha, the grass root level democratic institution in each village panchayat, citing the pandemic situation. The meetings are held at least four times in a year on January 26, May 1, August 15 and October 2. Though the DMK chose to describe the meetings as "Makkal Sabai Koottam" (Meet of People's Sabha), the banners with "government emblem", that formed the backdrop of such meetings, in several places announced the gathering as that of "Gram Sabha." Presiding over a meeting at a village under the Poonamalle Panchayat Union in nearby Tiruvallur district, Stalin said: "Resolutions condemning the Centre's three farm legislations and seeking its withdrawal are passed. We are holding this meeting to safeguard agriculture, which is the backbone of villages." A senior Tiruvallur district police officer told PTI that a case has been registered against about 100 people, including Stalin, for holding the meet andviolating Covid-19 curbs, based on a complaint from revenue department officials. Questioning the government decision to cancel the Gram Sabha, the DMK president said the AIADMK Executive Committee meeting was convened days ago and Chief Minister K Palaniswami had been going on a tour of the state. "But Gram Sabha meetings must not be held? DMK should not do anything?" he asked. "The Chief Minister is afraid of the DMK rather than the coronavirus. We are fighting for the people and not for personal problems," Stalin said. He alleged the authorities barred the meetings since itwas apprehended that resolutions would be passed against the government over the contentious farm legislations. The meetings were presided over by DMK leaders, party's elected representatives in their respective regions and in Tiruchirappalli, and Dindigul, former Ministers, K N Nehru and I Periyasamy participated respectively. Near Uthiramerur in Kancheepuram district, DMK workers led by the local party MLA staged a protestdemonstration in farm fields against the farm laws. The party has moved the Supreme Court challenging the three legislations passed in recent Parliament session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-holds-peoples-sabha-meetings-in-tamil-nadu-stalin-others-booked-for-violation-of-covid-19-norms-896306.html
02-10-2020||South||DMK holds people’s meet on Gandhi Jayanti, opposes farm laws||Tamil Nadu’s principal opposition party Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam on Friday held “people’s sabha” meetings across the state, where leaders vowed to oppose the farm laws passed by the Parliament after the state government cancelled gram sabha meetings in the last minute. Gram sabha meetings are usually held on October 2 on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti. But the state government on Friday cancelled the meetings citing Covid-19 scare. The government’s announcement came after DMK President M K Stalin appealed to party cadres to pass resolutions against the farm laws during gram sabha meetings. However, the DMK promptly converted gram sabha meetings into people’s sabha” meetings. Stalin himself led the cadres in conducting “people’s sabha” by participating at an event in neighbouring Tiruvallur district, even as such meetings were conducted across the state. Several leaders, MLAs and party functionaries posted pictures of “people’s sabha” meetings held in their locality on social media platforms. The DMK and its alliance partners are opposed to three farm bills passed in Parliament maintaining that they are against the interests of the farmers across the country.  “Last night, the government made an announcement that all gram sabha meetings will be cancelled just like the Tughlaq Darbar. The reason cited for cancellation is Covid-19. But the truth is the Edappadi K Palaniswami government fears DMK more than the novel coronavirus,” Stalin told a meeting in Tiruvallur district. During his speech, Stalin tore into the AIADMK government on various issues and accused it of letting down farmers in the state. He also sought to know whether Coronavirus would not spread when the chief minister conducts review meetings in districts and why such a reason was given for cancelling gram sabha meetings. “Will Corona not spread in such districts? Will Corona not spread in AIADMK meetings, where more than 100 people assemble in a hall? The chief minister says Coronavirus spread has been brought under control in Tamil Nadu. If that is true, why is gram sabha meetings being postponed citing Covid-19 spread as a reason,” he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-holds-people-s-meet-on-gandhi-jayanti-opposes-farm-laws-896316.html
02-10-2020||South||Restriction on gatherings of more than five persons in Kerala sparks political row||While the Kerala government's decision to impose a ban on gatherings of more than five persons has triggered allegations of political motives, the state government clarified that the restrictions would be imposed only after assessing the situations in each district. By Friday evening restrictions on gatherings were imposed in Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam districts by the respective district collectors. BJP and a section of leaders of the Congress alleged that the government decision to enforce section 144 of the CrPC was aimed at suppressing the stirs against the government. Hence the opposition political parties would be forced to break such restrictions imposed with political intentions, they said. Meanwhile, Kerala revenue minister E Chandrasekharan said that the district collectors would be issuing region-specific orders on imposing the restrictions. Kerala Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta on Thursday issued the order stating that gatherings of more than five people at a time will be banned in the state from October 3 to 31 in view of the surge in Covid-19 by invoking CrPC section 144. BJP state president K Surendran said that the government was fearing of the mounting protests of people against it. Hence the restriction on gatherings was being imposed with the intention of suppressing stirs. The Congress was quite divided on the matter. While Kerala PCC president Mullappally Ramachandran maintained that the government's instructions to curb Covid need to be followed by all, senior leader and Lok Sabha MP K Muraleedharan said that the government's intention was to suppress stir by using the cover of Covid. Meanwhile, the daily fresh Covid cases in Kerala crossed the 9,000 mark on Friday as 9,258 fresh cases were reported, taking the total number of infected to 2,13,299. The number of active cases reached 77,482.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/restriction-on-gatherings-of-more-than-five-persons-in-kerala-sparks-political-row-896322.html
02-10-2020||South||Kerala: Doctor ends life, medical fraternity blames 'social media trial'||The medical fraternity in Kerala blames it on the 'social media trial' for a doctor ending life, suspected to be due to the mental stress caused after the death of a seven-year-old patient during surgery. Dr Anoop Krishna, a 35-year-old orthopedic surgeon in Kollam, was found hanging with the vein of his arm severed in his house on Thursday. Police sources said that prima facia it seems that the doctor took the extreme step following the mental stress caused by the death of a child under treatment at the private clinic run by Dr Krishna in Kollam city. Seven-year-old Abhiyalekshmi, hailing from Kollam, died on September 23. She was undergoing surgery for a leg correction. The hospital authorities told her relatives that she suffered a cardiac arrest during the surgery and was rushed to another hospital, but died. But her relatives alleged of medical negligence and lodged a petition against Dr Krishna. The hospital authorities and Dr Krishna's family members said that he was found to be under severe mental stress following the incident. Meanwhile, IMA Kerala chapter vice-president Dr Sulphi N alleged that social media trial was the key reason for Dr Krishna to take the extreme step. He also said that the unfortunate incident of the child suffering cardiac arrest during surgery happens very rarely owing to anesthesia. But Dr Krishna was accused of killing the child on social media. Such negative news was spread by some portals just for sake of gaining from the number of hits and views. He also sought action against those who carried out a baseless media trial. A police probe was progressing both into the death of the child and the doctor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-doctor-ends-life-medical-fraternity-blames-social-media-trial-896326.html
02-10-2020||South||Telangana hospital worker sacked after allegation of misbehaviour with woman Covid-19 patient||An employee in the state-run Gandhi hospital here was removed from service and a police complaint has been lodged against him following allegations that he misbehaved with a woman Covid-19 patient. A hospital official said the Class IV employee was removed and a police complaint has been lodged after the matter came to his notice on Thursday. Police said the alleged incident happened on September 27 and a case on charges of sexual harassment has been registered against the man. The Gandhi hospital is the premier Covid-19 care centre in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-hospital-worker-sacked-after-allegation-of-misbehaviour-with-woman-covid-19-patient-896351.html
02-10-2020||South||Less than 9% of temples in Andhra Pradesh have CCTV surveillance||An audit by the Andhra Pradesh police has revealed that only about 9% of the temples in the state have CCTV surveillance. Data accessed by DH shows 2,676 temple premises out of 30,415 identified by the state police as covered by CCTV cameras. The lack of CCTV monitoring, especially at Antarvedi, has made the detection of the offenders difficult. The probe was subsequently handed over to the CBI. While a series of vandal incidents at various temples in the past nine months have uneased the common public, the Antarvedi and Vijayawada episodes —both occurring in September— have resulted in widespread protests led by the TDP, BJP, JanaSena and several Hindu organisations. The opposition parties have been accusing the Jaganmohan Reddy government of disregarding the preservation of Hindu temples and traditions and even called for the sacking of the Endowments Minister Vellampalli Srinivasa Rao. While appealing to the citizens “to not get carried away by such incidents and reports", AP’s Director General of Police Gautam Sawang detailed the preventative measures initiated by the police department to ensure the safety of religious places and structures. “Out of 50,958 places of worship, we have mapped, 30,415 are temples. We found that less than 10 per cent of these structures were equipped with CCTV cameras,” Sawang told DH. Notices were issued to the temples' management to ensure suitable security with CCTV installations, enhanced lighting on the premises. A comprehensive social audit of the identified temple structures was completed last month. As part of a drive initiated by the state police department, with the support of all stakeholders and civil society, CCTVs are being mounted at temples, mosques, and churches. Over 1,200 such new surveillance cameras were fitted last month, about 900 of them in temples. “We have also 'bound over' 8,204 persons with a history, modus operandi of committing offences at temples, to rein in such crimes,” Sawang said. The police chief said till September this year, 228 miscreant incidents were recorded at various temples. The number of such offences is revealed as higher during the previous TDP rule — 322 in 2016, 318 in 2017. And in 2019, the year Reddy assumed power, there were 305 such incidents. Meanwhile, the YSRCP ministers are countering the opposition's onslaught by accusing that the TDP men were involved in temple vandalism to discredit chief minister Reddy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/less-than-9-of-temples-in-andhra-pradesh-have-cctv-surveillance-896364.html
02-10-2020||South||One year of Grama Sachivalayams: AP CM Jagan thanks village secretariats, volunteers for Covid-19 services||Andhra Pradesh’s village-ward secretariat and volunteer system, which immensely aided the state in the ongoing fight with the Covid-19 pandemic, completed one year on Friday. The Grama Sachivalayams were envisaged by Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy after he assumed power in May last year, to act as the nerve centers for effective implementation of all welfare and development activities at the ground level. Beginning 2 October 2019, the YSRCP government set up 11,152 village and 3,913 ward secretariats for every 2,000 population in the rural and 4,000 in urban areas. With the common service secretariats - necessary staff recruitment and infrastructure in place - assisted by a legion of village volunteers, the idea is to make people avail services like pensions at their doorstep and not step out of their village for any other government service. Volunteers who are paid a monthly honorarium of Rs 5,000 are given the charge of 50 households in rural and 100 in urban areas. They are required to directly hand citizens government welfare like pensions, spread awareness about various programs, involve in beneficiary identification, engage in swift redressal of public grievances by following up with higher officials and also collect the public feedback. The organisation of the village volunteers as part of the village secretariats has come in handy for the Reddy government during the Covid-19 pandemic. According to CM Reddy, a total 2.16 lakh volunteers are assisting the ANMs, ASHA workers and other health workers on the Covid-19 duty. Five rounds of house to house surveys were conducted across the entire state with the help of the ward and village volunteers to assess Covid-19 prevalence and identify susceptible persons of old age, with comorbid conditions. During a virtual conference on the pandemic with the chief ministers last month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi reportedly appreciated the village-ward secretariat and volunteer system and opined that other states could emulate the model. To commemorate the anniversary on Friday, CM Reddy, accompanied by his cabinet colleagues and senior officials at his Tadepalli camp office, applauded the secretariat and volunteer services with claps at 7 PM. “Braving through harsh weather conditions & a pandemic that shook the world, our Grama Sachivalayam functionaries have been at the frontline, ensuring last-mile delivery of services. My heartfelt gratitude to each & every one of you for being the extended arms of our government,” Reddy said on twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/one-year-of-grama-sachivalayams-ap-cm-jagan-thanks-village-secretariats-volunteers-for-covid-19-services-896419.html
02-10-2020||State||Special train on Hubballi-Bengaluru route for UPSC exam candidates||The South Western Railway will run special train between Hubballi and Bengaluru to help candidates writing the civil service exams being conducted by the UPSC. Hubballi – Yesvantpur UPSC Examination Special Express (Train No. 07391) will depart from Hubballi at 5 pm on Saturday and arrive Yesvantpur at 6.45 am on the next day. In the return direction the Yesvantpur – Hubballi UPSC Examination Special Express (Train No. 07392) will depart from Yesvantpur at 8 pm on Sunday and arrive in Hubballi at 8.45 am on the next day. The train will have a composition of 17 coaches: one AC 3- Tier Coach, 10 Second Class Sleeper Coaches, four General Coaches and two luggage-cum-brake vans.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/special-train-on-hubballi-bengaluru-route-for-upsc-exam-candidates-896020.html
02-10-2020||State||Somashekar defends DC transfer, says it's adminstrative matter||District in-charge Minister S T Somashekar on Friday defended the change of deputy commissioner within 29 days. Somashekar, speaking to reporters, said newly posted Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri is an efficient officer and her posting is an administrative matter. IAS officer B Sharat was transferred within in a month of his appointment as DC. He was posted on August 28 and in a sudden development he was transferred on September 28. Commenting on MLA Sa Ra Mahesh's comment that the government promoting an Andhra Pradesh woman IAS officer by sidelining Dalits, Kannadigas, Somashekar said one should not differentiate among the officials. When asked about B Form to Munirathna to contest from Rajarajeshwari Nagar (Bengaluru) assembly segment by-polls, Somashekar said,  the party high command will decide on it. "We have requested the high command to finalise Munirathna's name," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/somashekar-defends-dc-transfer-says-its-adminstrative-matter-896087.html
02-10-2020||State||Yogi is nalayak, has no right to continue as CM after Hathras, Gandhi incident: Siddharamaiah||Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly, Siddharamaiah, said that incident of roughing up of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on the way to console the family of gang-rape victim has once again proved that there is 'jungle raj' in Uttar Pradesh under the rule of Chief Minister Yogi Aditynath. "Yogi does not have right to continue as CM," he said. Speaking to reporters at the airport here on Friday, Siddharamaiah said, Yogi government has destroyed law and order and the state appears to have jungle raj. Conduct of the police against Rahul Gandhi displays autocratic rule of police and raises doubt on whether there was any democracy left. Police conduct against Rahul Gandhi was on the instructions of the chief minister, he alleged. Siddharamaiah reiterated that gang-rape of women and girls in Uttar Pradesh shows that there was no protection for them and there was no right for the chief minister to continue in office. "We do not know if he is Yogi or bhogi, but is not fit to be in power. He is nalayak", he said. Regarding victims of floods in 2019 too not getting compensation, he said, "The issue was raised during the legislature session but government did not reply. This year too not a rupee has been spent. It's an anti-people government with corruption being at peak." "During the month of July, we unveiled the truth od the purchase of medical equipment at much higher prices, but it was denied by stating that Rs 370 crore had been spent, but legislature was informed by Medical Education Minister Dr Sudhakar that Rs 4,300 crore have been spent," he said. Covid-19 protocol have led to us being unable to protest demanding aid for the flood affected, he expressed. Regarding the statement made by BJP State President Nalin Kumar Kateel against him, Siddharamaiah said Kateel's statement was made for political gain as he was not aware of facts."During my tenure as chief minister, not a single cheque bounced, but this government does not have money to pay salaries of government employees," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/yogi-is-nalayak-has-no-right-to-continue-as-cm-after-hathras-gandhi-incident-siddharamaiah-896093.html
02-10-2020||State||Farmers in Karnataka to launch brand 'Namdu' today||Various farmers outfits in the region, including Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, Hasiru Sene, Amruthabhoomi International Sustainable Development Centre of Chamarajanagar, Nisarga Trust in Mysuru and others have created a brand "Namdu" for the welfare of the farmers and will be launching it on the Gandhi Jayanti day today. The main objective of developing the brand is to deliver agricultural products, cultivated using natural and organic farming methods, directly to the consumers. "Amruthabhoomi Executive Trustee Chukki Nanjundaswamy said, with the governments bringing anti-farmer laws and amendments to the Land Reforms and APMC Act, it is not enough to just oppose them by protests and revolution. It is time to think and find alternative solutions. 'Namdu' is one such attempt for farmers empowerment," she opined. "Farmers groups from around 15 districts, who have involved in natural farming are a part of this effort. Some farmers adopting organic farming methods too have joined hands. It is a state-level platform and is being launched in Chamarajanagar. It would be extended to other districts in phases," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/farmers-in-karnataka-to-launch-brand-namdu-today-896142.html
02-10-2020||State||Karnataka to triple Covid-19 testing; Labs to be set up in PPP model||Keen to scale up testing infrastructure for Covid-19, the Karnataka government has decided to establish RT-PCR labs in Public-Private Partnership (PPP) model and the tender process for it would be taken up soon, Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said on Friday. Following the directions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, measures were being taken to increase the testing by three times, he said. To support this further, a tender will be floated soon by the Health and Medical Education departments to set up labs for carrying out RT-PCR tests, Sudhakar was quoted as saying by his office in a release. The state has achieved a new milestone by conducting 50 lakhs Covid-19 tests so far and the government was aiming to increase the number of daily tests from the present around one lakh to 1.5 lakhs, he added. The Minister on Thursday inaugurated the new Covid-19 testing lab by Eurofins Clinical Genetics India (ECGI) in Whitefield, and it was expected to conduct up to 5,000 tests per day. He said 144 labs have been inaugurated in the state in the last six months. Despite creating awareness about the spread of coronavirus, the positive cases were increasing in the state, and hence, the government has taken strict action by hiking the penalty to Rs 1,000 for not wearing masks at public places, he said. Though positive cases were high in the state, the death rate is under control, at 1.52 per cent, he said. The tally of Covid-19 cases in the state stood at 6.11 lakh while the toll was 8,994 as of Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-to-triple-covid-19-testing-labs-to-be-set-up-in-ppp-model-896222.html
02-10-2020||State||Key revenue sources to fall short by 34%: Karnataka govt data||The key revenue generating sources for the government, save Excise Department, are projected to fall woefully short of their targets this fiscal. According to the state government, Commercial Tax, Transport, and Stamps and Registration Departments will fall short of the targets set in the budget by 30% or more. Grant-in-aid by the Centre will also be 45% less. The Centre will release Rs 17,372 crore against a budgetary estimate of Rs 31,570 crore. In the difficult months ahead, which include revenue losses caused by GST compensation from Centre - both during this fiscal and in the coming years - the government has decided to rely on its own sources of revenue. Of the 2020-21 budget estimate of Rs 1,11,991 crore, revised projections by the Finance Department show that the government will shore up only Rs 78,299 crore on its own. The worst affected in terms of percentage is the Transport Department, which is projected to collect Rs 3,460 crore against a target of Rs 7,115 crore - only 48% of its target. Revenue from Commercial Tax department will be Rs 21,094 crore less than the Rs 66,327 crore estimated for the fiscal. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s reply to former Congress minister Krishna Byre Gowda’s question in the Legislative Assembly also quantified the extent of revenue loss for state’s non-tax revenue. Against a projection of Rs 7,767 crore, the state will raise only Rs 3,969 crore - 51% of the target. Karnataka will receive around half the GST compensation announced in the budget, which is about Rs 15,017 crore against a projection of Rs 28,591 crore. Yediyurappa said that the state government will rely on its own sources of revenue to make up for the loss of GST compensation that may stop in two years. “The government will have to increase its own SGST, excise, stamps and registration, motor vehicle tax and other non-tax revenue collections to balance the financial condition,” he said in reply to another question by senior Congress leader R V Deshpande.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/key-revenue-sources-to-fall-short-by-34-karnataka-govt-data-896443.html
02-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Decision to reopen schools after October 15: Karnataka govt||The state government on Thursday said it will decide on reopening schools in a graded manner after October 15, and that students will be allowed to attend only with the written consent of parents. In its Unlock 5.0 guidelines, in tune with the one issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, the state government said the decision to reopen schools will be taken in consultation with school managements based on their assessment of the situation and will be subject to some conditions. "Attendance must not be enforced and must depend entirely on parental consent," Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar said in the guidelines. Various stakeholders, including school managements and elected representatives, have communicated to the government that they are not willing to reopen schools considering the safety of children. Shivamogga MP B Y Raghavendra and minister for large and medium scale industries Jagdish Shettar said it is not a "good idea" to reopen for the current academic year "considering the spread of the pandemic and safety of children". The two were responding to the letter written by state primary education minister S Suresh Kumar, who sought suggestions from elected representatives on reopening schools. Several parents ruled out sending their kids to schools until there is some solution for Covid-19. "Most of the parents have got a work-from-home option till January 30. I feel it is better to continue with online classes until there is some solution for the pandemic," said Shruti Nandan, a parent. Private school managements are also not keen on regular classes. D Shashi Kumar, general secretary, associated management of primary and secondary schools in Karnataka, said a "majority of schools are not in a mood to reopen as it will be risky and also expensive for schools". "What we are thinking is to allow children between class 9 to 12 only for consultation and not for regular classes. In case a few parents demand physical classes, then we have to conduct classes for them and live-stream the same to others who wish to attend online," said Shashi Kumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/decision-to-reopen-schools-after-october-15-karnataka-govt-895998.html
02-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||After unlock, dentists bear brunt of Covid-19||Dentists are increasingly facing the risk of Covid-19 as many of them are trying restart their practices after Unlock 3.0 on August 1. In Karnataka, at least 66 doctors and dentists have officially died of Covid-19 so far, even as the state chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) warned that growing fatalities and exhaustion among medicos could impact healthcare in the near future. President of the Karnataka State Dental Council (KSDC) Dr V Ranganath said fear is widespread among dentists as they have to work closely with patients who could potentially have the disease. “The result has been hundreds of infections among dentists across the state, plus about 15 recorded deaths,” he said. Dr Ranganth said younger doctors who made huge investments in setting up equipment, have suffered the most economically. He said many were forced to reopen, which has exposed them to the disease. KSDC said nearly all of the dentists who have died were aged 40 or under. “In about six to seven cases, we do not even know how they died. All of them are developing post-Covid complications like Multi Inflammatory Syndrome,” Dr Ranganath added. Some dentists were infected despite wearing top-of-the-line face shields and personal protection equipment (PPEs). “The lack of operating guidelines was a hindrance before,” the KSDC president said. The 35,000-strong dental community is said to have lost about 60% of its clientele. Infections are not limited to dentists. According to Dr Srininvas S, secretary of the Indian Medical Association (Karnataka), at least 51 doctors in the state have died so far.  Dr Nagendra Swamy S C, past president of the Private Hospitals and Nursing Home Association, said, “Private doctors are working without government insurance while government doctors have not had leave for seven months."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/after-unlock-dentists-bear-brunt-of-covid-19-896001.html
02-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Angadi's last rites could have been held in Belagavi, says D K Shivakumar||KPCC President D K Shivakumar said that that BJP rules both in the state and Centre and last rites of late Union Minister of State Suresh Angadi could have been held in his constituency here by bringing the mortal remains with utmost care as per protocol. "Last rites not being held here shows that BJP could not provide justice to the late minister," he said. Speaking to reporters at the airport here on Friday, Shivakumar said that statements by relatives of Angadi later have shed enough light on why he could not get justice even after death. "BJP government did not give respect to its own minister. We can think of what kind of treatment could have been given to Angadi at the hospital in New Delhi, he said. Chief Minister Yogi Aditynath government in Uttar Pradesh has come as black spot on democracy,"(sic) he said. Regarding those affected by flood in the district not getting compensation, he said voters will give the BJP govt a reply.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/angadis-last-rites-could-have-been-held-in-belagavi-says-d-k-shivakumar-896101.html
02-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Hair follicle drug test conducted on those arrested in Bengaluru drug case||As part of its ongoing probe into celebrity drug racket here, the city police for the first time has subjected those arrested, including Kannada film actors, to hair follicle test to check whether they had consumed narcotic substances, a senior official said. Besides gathering other evidence, the police this time resorted to the hair test to strengthen the case in which actors, rave party organisers, realtors and African drug peddlers have been arrested since August after the Narcotic Control Bureau (NCB) first unearthed a racket. Later, the Central Crime Branch police launched its own crackdown into drug abuse and has arrested at least 15 people so far. "This is the first time that a hair sample test is being done to get additional evidence though we already have evidence in the form of technical data, eye witnesses, mobile phone analysis, seizures," Bengaluru Joint Commissioner of Police Sandeep Patil said. The investigation was on the right track, he said, adding the hair sample test was only to get additional evidence as the case would not stand only on hair evidence. The hair follicle drug test is conducted on a person who is suspected of drug abuse to confirm it, said a police officer. The Narcotics, Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act requires elaborate investigation backed by adequate evidence, without which the accused would be acquitted, and hence the police were extra cautious this time and wanted to strengthen the case of prosecution, another officer said. T Those arrested by the CCB included actors Ragini Dwivedi, Sanjjanaa Galrani, their associates B K Ravishankar, realtor Rahul Thonse and a few Nigerians, who were drug peddlers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hair-follicle-drug-test-conducted-on-those-arrested-in-bengaluru-drug-case-896286.html
02-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Dharwad FMCG cluster to create five lakh jobs: Jagadish Shettar||The proposed FMCG cluster in Dharwad is expected to generate five lakh jobs with a turnover of over Rs 25,000 crore, Karnataka Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said Friday, adding that the government would “actively” pursue this.  Shettar was speaking after receiving the ‘Transform Hubbali-Dharwad: Vision 2020-2025’ document prepared by the government’s FMCG vision group headed by Jyothy Labs joint managing director Ullas Kamath.  The government, in its 2020-21 budget, announced a “home and personal care consumer goods manufacturing” cluster in Dharwad. “We set up an FMCG vision group to explore the opportunities and come out with a document, which we will study and discuss with various stakeholders,” Shettar told reporters. “We’re actively pursuing the FMCG cluster to attract investments and generate large-scale employment to north Karnataka,” he said, adding that Hubballi-Dharwad would be the FMCB hub in south India.  According to Kamath of Jyothy Labs, the development of the FMCG cluster will have three phases, with each one comprising investment of Rs 2,500 crore from 50 FMCG companies. “Each phase will generate 50,000 jobs, with 80% of them reserved for locals and half of them being women. Each phase is expected to occupy an area of around 500 acres,” Kamath said.  Besides creating five lakh jobs, the cluster targets aims to achieve 35% economic growth of the Hubballi-Dharwad region by over the next five years, the government said.  The Hubballi-Dharwad region was identified for the FMCG cluster because of its connectivity with the consumer markets of Bengaluru, Belagavi, Hyderabad, Pune and Mumbai, Shettar said.  Recently, Karnataka unveiled its new industrial policy (2020-2025) that aims to generate Rs 5 lakh crore investment and create 20 lakh jobs by offering a slew of incentives and concessions. Under the policy, Dharwad will be the first special investment region (SIR) encompassing Dharwad, Gadag, Haveri and Belagavi districts. Shettar, a former chief minister, represents the Hubli-Dharwad Central assembly constituency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dharwad-fmcg-cluster-to-create-five-lakh-jobs-jagadish-shettar-896300.html
02-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||NABARD selects 100 villages in Karnataka under the WASH programme||The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) on Friday said it has selected 100 villages in Karnataka to finance the Water, Sanitisation and Hygiene "WASH" programme under the pan-India Sanitary Literacy Campaign (SLC). In the initial phase, the campaign will take off in the selected villages located in Shivamogga, Tumakuru, Uttara Kannada, Hassan and Kalaburagi. It will be taken up in other districts in a phased manner before January 26 next, the NABARD added. Additional Chief Secretary of the Department of Health and Family Welfare Javaid Akhtar launched the programme, the NABARD said in a statement. Speaking on the occasion Niraj Kumar Verma, Chief General Manager, NABARD Karnataka Regional Office, said the need for good hygiene and sanitation, both at community and individual level has been further necessitated due to the present Covid-19 situation. The NABARD had on Thursday announced earmarking Rs 800 crore for the financial year 2020-21 for special refinance facility to support the WASH programme across the country. It had stated further that it will provide concessional refinance to all eligible financial institutions, including commercial banks, regional rural banks and cooperative banks, with a repayment period of up to 36 months to all the states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nabard-selects-100-villages-in-karnataka-under-the-wash-programme-896341.html
02-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM's son B Y Vijayendra tests positive for Covid-19||Karnataka BJP vice-president B Y Vijayendra said Friday he tested positive for Covid-19.  “During a routine check-up, I tested positive for Covid-19. I am doing fine, asymptomatic, and have isolated myself,” Vijayendra, the son of Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa, said in a tweet. He requested everyone who came in contact with him recently to “take precautions and stay safe.” During a routine check-up, I tested positive for Covid-19. I am doing fine, asymptomatic, and have isolated myself. Request everyone who has come in contact with me recently to take precautions and stay safe. Vijayendra was involved in the BJP’s campaign for the November 3 Sira bypoll.  On Thursday, Vijayendra was with Yediyurappa when Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya called on them after being appointed as the party’s Yuva Morcha national president.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cms-son-b-y-vijayendra-tests-positive-for-covid-19-896359.html
02-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 8,793 cases, 125 Covid-19 deaths||Karnataka reports 8,793 cases and 125 Covid deaths taking the active case tally to 1,11,986 and death toll to 9,119. Nineteen people died due to non-Covid causes.  7,094 patients were discharged taking the total number of recoveries to 4,99,506. The total number of positive cases are 6,20,630. The total number of patients admitted in the ICU are 827. Bengaluru accounts for 285 of these cases. 92,059 tests were conducted on Friday, including 44,046 rapid antigentests.  Bengaluru Urban reported 4,259 cases followed by 405 in Tumakuru, 315 in Hassan, 307 in Shivamogga and Bengaluru Rural 298. Bengaluru now has 51,389 active cases and the death toll in the state capital has now reached3,025.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-8793-cases-125-covid-19-deaths-896432.html
02-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Railways cancels trains to Mangaluru, Mysuru temporarily||The Railways will temporarily cancel the trains to Mangaluru and Mysuru citing low ridership, withdrawing a service that was resumed in the wake of Unlock guidelines. The South Western Railway didn't provide the details of the ridership but said the decision has been taken due to "poor patronisation." The KSR Bengaluru–Mangaluru Central – KSR Bengaluru Express Special (06515/06516) used to connect the coast to the capital with four services in a week. The cancellation will come into effect from October 7 from KSR Bengaluru and from October 11 from Mangaluru. The KSR Bengaluru–Mysuru–KSR Bengaluru Express Special (06539/06540), which used to run 6 days in a week, will be cancelled from both sides from October 7. Revision of other trains Due to temporary cancellation of above trains, the days of service of Train No. 06517/06518 KSR Bengaluru–Mangaluru Central–KSR Bengaluru Tri-weekly Express via Mysuru will be revised as under:- 1. Train No. 06517 KSR Bengaluru–Mangaluru Central Tri-weekly Express will run from KSR Bengaluru on Wednesday, Friday and Sunday instead of Sunday, Monday and Tuesday with effect from 07.10.2020. 2. Train No. 06518KSR Mangaluru Central–KSR Bengaluru Tri-weekly Express will run from Mangaluru Central on Thursday, Saturday and Monday instead of Thursday, Friday and Saturday with effect from 08.10.2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/railways-cancels-trains-to-mangaluru-mysuru-temporarily-896439.html
02-10-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Karnataka textiles minister Shrimant Patil tests positive for Covid-19||Textiles Minister Shrimant Patil tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. In a tweet late on Thursday Patil announced that he had tested positive for Covid-19 and was asymptomatic and has been availing treatment as suggested by doctors. He has asked those who have come in contact with him to get themselves tested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/karnataka-textiles-minister-shrimant-patil-tests-positive-for-covid-19-896110.html
02-10-2020||West||Second sero survey indicates 12% drop in Covid-19 infections in Mumbai slums||The presence of Covid-19 antibodies in samples from slums in the city was found to have decreased by 12 per cent in the second sero survey, the Mumbai civic body has said. It indicates that the infection spread in slums in the city may have come down, said the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in a release here on Thursday night. Presence of anti-bodies in the blood indicates that the person has been exposed to an infection - in this case coronavirus. The latest survey disclosed that sero-prevalence of Covid-19 infection in slums is 45 per cent, compared to 57 per cent in the first sero-survey in the city (in July), the release said. The sero-prevalence in buildings was around 18 per cent against 16 per cent in the first survey, it added. The latest survey was carried out in wards R-north (Borivali), M-West (Mankhurd and Govandi) and F-North (Worli and Lower Parel) in the second half of August. "Sero-positivity from the second round, taken together with the current number of reported cases from slum areas in these wards, indicates there could be a reduction in the spread of infection in slum areas," said the BMC. The sero-prevalence of Covid-19 infection in women was marginally higher than men in both the rounds, it said. In the second survey, sero-prevalence in the age group above 40 was slightly higher. "Emerging scientific evidence hints at fall of antibody levels in recovered patients/asymptomatic patients over a period of time and this might have contributed to the trend between two rounds of sero-survey. "The impact of this on immunity, if any, is still unknown," the release said.  Sero-prevalence among health care workers in both the rounds was approximately 27 per cent. The survey had been commissioned by the BMC, NITI Aayog and the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR). Kasturba Molecular Diagnostic Laboratory, Translational Health Science and Technology Institute (THSTI), ATE Chandra Foundation and IDFC Institute had also partnered in the survey. Mumbai is one of the worst-affected Covid-19 hotspots in the country with over two lakh cases and nearly 9,000 deaths so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/second-sero-survey-indicates-12-drop-in-covid-19-infections-in-mumbai-slums-896095.html
02-10-2020||West||Sabarmati Ashram holds all-religion prayer meet on Gandhi Jayanti||An all-religion prayer meet was organised at the Sabarmati Ashram here on Friday morning on the occasion of 151st birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi with only a handful of people attending the event due to the coronavirus outbreak. In view of the pandemic, only a limited number of Ashram residents attended the prayer meet held in premises of the Sabarmati Ashram, also called the Gandhi Ashram, said its director Atul Pandya. The Ashram, currently closed for visitors due to the pandemic, was the home of Mahatma Gandhi between 1917 and 1930 and closely linked with India's freedom struggle. It is managed by the Sabarmati Ashram Preservation and Memorial Trust. "We have an old tradition of organising an all-religion prayer meet on Gandhi Jayanti. Normally, citizens and students are invited to attend it. "But this time, due to coronavirus, only a few Ashram residents were allowed to attend the prayer meet," said Pandya. He said all Covid-19-related protocols and social distancing norms were followed at the prayer meet and no other event was scheduled at the Ashram on Friday. The trust website telecast the prayer meet live so that others could attend it virtually, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sabarmati-ashram-holds-all-religion-prayer-meet-on-gandhi-jayanti-896108.html
02-10-2020||West||27% Mumbai health workers have Covid-19 antibodies||The second sero-survey of SARS- CoV2 in Mumbai has found that only 27 per cent of health workers have developed antibodies despite being in constant contact with Covid-19 patients, the city civic body said on Friday. According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), in the first and as well as in the second round of sero-survey, approximately 27 per cent health workers, who are more exposed to the virus than ordinary citizens, were found to have developed antibodies against the infection. Presence of anti-bodies in the blood indicates that the person has been exposed to an infection - in this case coronavirus. The BMC had conducted the second round of sero-survey along with other organisations in the second half of August, while the first one was done in June. Civic officials said the sero-survey has important lessons for citizens, who are not following Covid-19 safety protocols of wearing face masks, maintaining social distance and hand hygiene. "TIFR (Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) has pointed out that health care workers have developed less antibodies though they are more exposed to the coronavirus. "It is because they took adequate precautions like wearing masks and PPE kits, maintaining social distance and sanitising themselves properly," Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of BMC, told PTI. Kakani appealed to citizens to earnestly follow Covid-19 safety protocols to curb spread of the virus in the city and keep themselves protected from the infection. The survey had been commissioned by the BMC, NITI Aayog and TIFR.   Kasturba Molecular Diagnostic Laboratory, Translational Health Science and Technology Institute (THSTI), A.T.E. Chandra Foundation and IDFC Institute had also partnered in the survey. Mumbai is one of the worst-affected Covid-19 hotspots in the country with over two lakh cases and nearly 9,000 deaths so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/27-mumbai-health-workers-have-covid-19-antibodies-896118.html
02-10-2020||West||Six shops gutted in Thane fire, none hurt||A major fire destroyed at least half a dozen shops in a commercial complex on Friday morning here in Maharashtra, but no casualty was reported, civic officials said. The shopping complex is part of a sprawling housing colony and located on the GB Road. The fire broke out in the complex around 6 am, said Santosh Kadam, chief of the Thane Municipal Corporation's Regional Disaster Management Cell (RDMC). A dozen fire engines and RDMC personnel are engaged in dousing the flames, he said. He said the cause of the blaze was not yet known, but no one was injured in the incident. It is a big blaze which destroyed at least half a dozen shops selling medicines, sweets, liquor and hardware, among other items, Kadam said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/six-shops-gutted-in-thane-fire-none-hurt-896135.html
02-10-2020||West||Maharashtra Governor, CM pay tributes to Mahatma Gandhi, Lal Bahadur Shastri||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi and former prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri on their birth anniversaries. The governor offered floral tributes at the bust of Mahatma Gandhi on his 151st birth anniversary at Raj Bhavan. He also paid homage to Shastri on his 116th birth anniversary. Thackeray garlanded the portraits of the two leaders and offered floral tributes at 'Matoshree', his personal residence here. The chief minister said Gandhiji was the architect of the Indian freedom struggle, who showed the world path of 'satyagraha' and preached truth, non violence and humanity to the world. Shastri taught patriotism, simple living and rich thoughts. He implemented his slogan 'Jai Jawan-Jai Kisan' through his actions, Thackeray said. "Both sons of the soil made exemplary contribution towards nation building," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-governor-cm-pay-tributes-to-mahatma-gandhi-lal-bahadur-shastri-896232.html
02-10-2020||West||Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani hails Gandhi's 'Ram Rajya', Modi's Ram Mandir||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Friday said Mahatma Gandhi dreamt of a 'Ram Rajya' (an ideal society) in the country and Prime Minister Narendra Modi is trying to turn the Father of the Nation's vision into reality. Speaking on the occasion of Mahatma Gandhi's birth anniversary, Rupani termed the under-construction a Ram Mandir in Ayodhya as the "manifestation of Ram Rajya" as envisioned by the Father of the Nation. "Gandhiji believed in Lord Ram. Ram Rajya was Gandhiji's idea. Even his last words were 'Hey Ram'. "Lord Ram had all the qualities of a perfect ruler. He was pro-people and loved his citizens. That is why Lord Ram's rule was considered as ideal and that is why Gandhiji dreamed of Ram Rajya," said Rupani. He was addressing a small gathering at Kirti Mandir, a memorial house, in Porbandar via video conferencing from Gandhinagar. The memorial is built close to Mahatma Gandhi's ancestral house where he was born. "But unfortunately, some people attached Lord Ram with only one religion and created unnecessary controversies, which was driving us away from Ram Rajya. "But, I am glad that the Ram Mandir (in Ayodhya) is now emerging as a manifestation of Ram Rajya and our PM is trying to make India as envisioned by Gandhiji," the BJP leader said. He added that Modi's vision of "Aatmanirbhar Bharat" is part of Gandhi's ideology of self-reliance. Ahead of his speech, which was telecast live at Kirti Mandir, Rupani paid tributes to the Father of the Nation and rued not personally attending a prayer meet at the memorial organised to mark the birth anniversary. In view of the coronavirus outbreak, the prayer meet was a low-key affair with only a limited number of persons allowed to attend the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-cm-vijay-rupani-hails-gandhis-ram-rajya-modis-ram-mandir-896235.html
02-10-2020||West||Sevagram Ashram must be designated World Heritage Site: Maharashtra CM||As Maharashtra joined the nation in celebrating the 151st birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray appealed to declare the Sevagram Ashram as a World Heritage Site. Sevagram is located in the Wardha district of Vidarbha region of Maharashtra. “Mahatma Gandhi is an idea and we cannot move ahead in time without remembering it. Gandhiji’s thoughts are a guiding force to implement his idea of freedom. The Sevagram Ashram needs to get a status of World Heritage Site,” Thackeray said. He added that Mahatma Gandhi had shown the world that a war can be won without weapons. “Only a Mahatma can convert a freedom struggle into a mass movement despite restrictions and nonavailability of campaign and awareness resources,” he said. The Bapu Kutir - the small hut in Mahatma Gandhi used to stay in Sevagram in Wardha district of Vidarbha region of Maharashtra is the centre of attraction and is visited by students,  educationists, researchers, tourists, and Gandhians.  The Father of the Nation had spent nearly 10 years of his life in Sevagram. The Sevagram spread over 400 acres is run by five institutions - Sevagram Ashram, Nai Talim Samiti, Mahatma Gandhi Seva Sangh Akhil Bharatiya Seva Sangh and Kasturba Health Society.  Amongst the most important items here, there is a small statue of three monkeys made of china clay - one covering eyes, one mouth and another, ears. When Gandhi started his padayatra in 1930 from Sabarmati Ashram to Dandi for the Salt Satyagraha, he had decided not to return to Sabarmati till Independence for India was attained. For the Satyagraha, he was jailed for more than two years. On his release, he spent some time travelling and then decided to make a village in central India his headquarters. He came to Wardha in 1934, at the invitation of Jamnalal Bajaj. In April 1936, Gandhiji established his residence in the village Shegaon which he renamed as Sevagram, which means 'village of service'. Gandhiji was 67 years old when he came to Sevagram. From then on, Sevagram has become an inspiring place. Many decisions on important national matters and movements were taken at Sevagram. It became the central place for a number of institutions for the nation-building activities devised by Gandhiji to suit the inherent strength of this country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sevagram-ashram-must-be-designated-world-heritage-site-maharashtra-cm-896269.html
02-10-2020||West||Suicide no solution, government taking steps on Maratha quota: Sharad Pawar||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Friday appealed to the Maratha youths, saying that suicide was not a solution to the issue of reservation, and assured that the state government was taking steps to get vacated the Supreme Court's interim order staying implementation of quota granted to the community. He was talking to reporters at Vasantdada Sugar Institute (VSI) in Pune. "I would like to appeal to the young generation that suicide is not the way. The stand of the state government is 100 per cent in favour of reservation and it is taking all the efforts to get vacated the Supreme Court's order that stayed implementation of Maratha quota," Pawar said. He said he has been holding talks with noted lawyer Kapil Sibal over the issue. "We are trying to present the state government's stand over the Maratha quota in the apex court to help remove anxiety from people's mind," he added. When asked about his grandnephew Parth Pawar's stand on the issue, he said anybody can approach the court. "Even if 10 people go to court, it will help the state government's case. Ultimately our aim is to get the stay lifted," he said. Terming the suicide of a Maratha youth from Maharashtra's Beed as "tragic", Parth Pawar had said on Twitter that he would file an intervention application before the Supreme Court over the Maratha quota issue. The NCP chief further said, "Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar told me that he and CM Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting on the issue." "The state government has already approached the court against the stay and it is insisting on appointment of a separate bench," said Pawar. The Supreme Court had last month stayed the implementation of 2018 Maharashtra law granting reservation to Marathas in education and jobs and referred the case to a larger bench. The Maharashtra government had on September 21 said it had filed an application before the apex court, seeking vacation of the stay. Meanwhile, before attending a meeting at the VSI, Pawar visited the Serum Institute of India (SII). The 79-year-old leader said that he got a BCG (bacille Calmette-Gurin) vaccine administered at the SII on Friday morning to increase immunity. Pawar also said that the vaccine against COVID-19, manufactured by the SII, will arrive by January next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/suicide-no-solution-government-taking-steps-on-maratha-quota-sharad-pawar-896307.html
02-10-2020||West||Mahindra FES rolls out Krish-e centres in Maharashtra||Mahindra and Mahindra's Farm Equipment Sector (FES), a part of the USD 19.4 billion Mahindra Group, on Friday said it has rolled out Krish-e centres in Maharashtra under its new 'Farming as a Service' business. Krish-e is a business vertical which will provide technology-driven services which are progressive, affordable and accessible to farmers and aims to increase farmer income through digitally-enabled services across the complete crop cycle, Mahindra said in a statement. The company opened its first Krish-e centres in Aurangabad and Baramati, and later at six other locations across Maharashtra in Jalna, Wardha, Nanded, Pune, Daund and Solapur. Krish-e centres will soon roll out across other states in a phased manner, it said. These centres have an omnichannel approach where the farmer can avail personalised services through the Krish-e suite of digital apps and also reach out to Krish-e Sahayaks through its call centre. "Although investments and technological innovations in agriculture have improved output levels in India, productivity and farm incomes have great scope for further improvement. "We want to do our part by making a difference in the way farming is done. With an increase in farmers' incomes as the core focus, our vision is to provide technology at competitive costs to Indian farmers and thereby enable them to rise," M&M Farm Equipment Sector (FES) President Hemant Sikka said. Through Krish-e, the company has already impacted over 1 lakh farmers with solutions tailored to demonstrate impact on cultivation costs, crop health and productivity, M&M FES Strategy and FaaS Senior Vice President Ramesh Ramachandran said. "Krish-e currently has approximately 1,000 demo plots, where we work alongside farmers to showcase visible impact through a combination of agronomy inputs and advanced mechanisation solutions," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mahindra-fes-rolls-out-krish-e-centres-in-maharashtra-896308.html
02-10-2020||West||Chennai techie 'working from home' in Goa beach village booked for marijuana possession||A software engineer employed by a Chennai-based tech firm who was 'working from home' out of a picturesque Goa beach village, was arrested on Friday, for possession of 60 grams of marijuana, a Goa Police spokesperson said. The accused 26-year-old Ashish Sharma, a native of Uttar Pradesh, was caught in Goa when the Covid-19 lockdown was announced by the central government in March this year, but had chosen to stay put. According to the police, Sharma works for a Chennai-based tech firm and was 'working from home' from the picturesque beach village of Palolem in South Goa, which is known for its stunning beaches and rurales. "The accused was working in software company at Chennai. Further, he is in Goa since March 1, 2020. Due to the lockdown, he stayed on in Goa and as per company directions was working online from Goa," a Goa Police spokesperson said. 60 grams of ganja (marijuana) worth Rs 12,000 was seized from Sharma's possession by officials of the Canacona police station in a raid on Friday. The accused has been booked under relevant sections of the Narcotics, Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/chennai-techie-working-from-home-in-goa-beach-village-booked-for-marijuana-possession-896317.html
02-10-2020||West||Gandhi Jayanti: Gujarat's Sabarmati jail inmates get 'Radio Prison'||Some 3,000 inmates of Gujarat's Sabarmati Central Jail got a Gandhi Jayanti gift on Friday with authorities starting a dedicated radio station for them. 'Radio Prison', operating from the premises of the jail to provide information and entertainment to inmates, was inaugurated by Additional Director General of Police (Prisons), KLN Rao. "Along with entertainment, story-telling and cultural programmes, Radio Prison will provide information on legal aid, psychological counseling and training on different subjects. We will also transmit birthday wishes of inmates. Ten inmates have been chosen as radio jockeys to operate the initiative," Rao said. Due to security reasons, the broadcast will be done through fibre network connected with speakers installed in every barrack, said DV Rana, Sabarmati Jail PRO. Like any other professional radio station, Radio Prison, which will be on air from 8 am to 12 noon and 4 pm to 6 pm every day, will play movie songs etc, he said. "Selected inmates will be given a month's training as RJs by professionals," Rana added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gandhi-jayanti-gujarats-sabarmati-jail-inmates-get-radio-prison-896342.html
02-10-2020||West||Notify Western Ghats' eco-sensitive zone by December 31: NGT tells MoEF||Expressing unhappiness over delay in the notification of the eco-sensitive zone in the Western Ghats, the National Green Tribunal on Friday directed the Ministry of Environment and Forests to finalise the notification by December 31, 2020. The NGT bench headed by Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said that if the ministry failed to notify the same before the December 31 deadline, direction to stop the salary of the Advisor, ESZ Division of the MoEF will be operative. "A compliance report may be filed to this Tribunal before the next date by e-mail,” the green bench said. The Tribunal passed this order after hearing a plea alleging that the notification of the eco-sensitive zone in the Western Ghats has not been finalised despite the NGT's direction to complete the exercise within six months. Looking at the issue that has been pending for the last eight years, the bench said, "There  is no justification for continued delay merely because the states have sought exclusion of area from the eco-sensitive zone." It said there was a demand for more and more exclusion of eco-sensitive areas by those who claim the need for 'development' while the need for 'environment protection' does not allow acceptance of such demands. Noting that the ecology of the Western Ghats was under "serious stress", the NGT had earlier restrained six states -- Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Goa -- falling in the region from giving environmental clearance to activities which may adversely affect the eco-sensitive areas. The draft notification issued by the MoEF had identified an area of 56,825 square kilometres spread across six states as ecologically sensitive area (ESA). Following protests by various groups and political parties against its recommendations, the government constituted the K Kasturirangan committee to examine the Western Ghats Ecology Expert Panel report. Instead of the total area, only 37% (i.e. 60,000 sq km) of the Western Ghats be brought under the ESA, the Kasturirangan committee had recommended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/notify-western-ghats-eco-sensitive-zone-by-december-31-ngt-tells-moef-896355.html
