07-10-2020||Davangere||Three cops suspended over custodial death in Davangere||Superintendent of Police Hanumantaraya has suspended Mayakonda police station sub-inspector Prakash, head constable Nagaraj and police constable Sheikh Ali in connection with a custodial death. Speaking to DH, Superintendent of Police Hanumantaraya said Marulasiddappa, (46), resident of Vitalapura near Mayakonda, Davangere taluk, who was brought to the station for interrogation in connection with a family dispute case, died in police custody. An investigation is on and a case has been registered against cops. Eastern Range IGP S Ravi told DH that this is custodial death case and justice would be given to the kin of the deceased. "We will take steps towards providing compensation to the kin of the deceased through social welfare department." Vrindamma, wife of the deceased, had lodged a complaint with Mayakonda police station alleging that her husband had eloped with another girl. Following the complaint, police brought him to the station from nearby village Huchchavanahalli for interrogation on the night of October 5. Police had asked family members to resolve the issue amicably. But the woman and her family members told police that they would visit the station on October 6 to resolve the issue. But the body of the man was found near the railway station which is at a distance of 100 metres from Mayakonda police station on Tuesday. This had led to suspicion that he was killed by police. However, earlier, police, had stated that they had left him free after he complained of chest pain. He died of cardiac arrest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/davangere/three-cops-suspended-over-custodial-death-in-davangere-898442.html
07-10-2020||First Edit||LJP opens up new possibilities in Bihar||The Lok Janshakti Party’s new posture in Bihar is likely to have an impact on the electoral scene in the state, its outcome, and perhaps on the government that may be formed after the elections. The LJP is now led by Chirag Paswan, son of Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, who is in hospital. Though the BJP, the Nitish Kumar-led JD(U) and the LJP are part of the NDA, Chirag Paswan has announced that the party would field candidates against the JD(U). But it would continue in the NDA and would not contest against BJP candidates. The BJP and the JD(U) have reached an electoral understanding, but the calculations may go awry, and positions may change if there are open contests between the JD(U) and the LJP. The split in the NDA will affect the JD(U)’s prospects but the BJP will be unscathed. The LJP’s move is clearly meant to hurt Nitish Kumar and is the culmination of a series of spats the LJP has been having with the JD(U). The LJP, which has only two seats in the outgoing Assembly and has a limited caste-based following, does not have much to lose in the state. But by taking an independent stance vis-a-vis the JD(U), it can assert its position in the state, without losing its links with the BJP at the Centre. Nitish Kumar’s position has weakened in the state and there is an anti-incumbency sentiment. The LJP will not be affected by that after its distancing from the JD(U). If the LJP sticks to its stand, the outcome in many seats will be uncertain and can go against the JD(U) if the opposition alliance of the RJD, Congress and the Left parities also tailors its strategy accordingly. The situation works to the advantage of the BJP and therefore there are even doubts whether the LJP is acting at its behest. The BJP has, for the record, accepted Nitish’s leadership during the elections in the state and has announced that he will remain the chief ministerial candidate of the alliance. But it is no secret that the party wants to lead the alliance in the state and the government. It will be in a position to claim the chief ministership if it wins more seats than the JD(U) in the elections. The present alignments of parties can undergo changes if the election throws up unexpected results. The LJP’s stance may have opened up the situation and may lead to new possibilities after the election. At another level, it may impact the NDA, which has seen desertions in the recent past.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/ljp-opens-up-new-possibilities-in-bihar-898806.html
07-10-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||Budding techies develop automated trolley for KIMS Covid-19 hospital||To eliminate the risk of hospital staff getting infected with Covid-19 while supplying food to patients at the Covid ward, a team of young techies including fresh graduates and BE students has developed an automatic guided vehicle (AGV) for the Covid-19 hospital of the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Hubballi. 'Innovative Techies' team comprising 10 students and fresh graduates from KLE Technological University (KLETU) and KLE Institute of Technology (KLEIT) on Wednesday handed over 'Pradhaaya' AGV to the KIMS. In a period of two-and-a-half months, they have designed and developed this AGV which moves on designated track, and stops at designated places near beds, for contactless delivery of food to Covid-19 patients. "With an intention to make the work of frontline staff in COVID ward bit easy, we have come up with this device. It can carry 10 kg of food or medicine, and its battery charge lasts for one full day. It can be operated both automatically and manually. Tracks are being marked at the Covid-19 wards for the movement of this machine, which also has an obstacle detection sensor which makes its movement safer," said Madan Yaragatti, a robotics engineering student of the KLETU. Kiran K, Pranav Kulkarni, Rahul Patil, Abhilash G, Karthik R, K Abhishek, Abhishek S, and Vinayak H are also the members of the team which has developed this machine.This was a multi-disciplinary project executed under the guidance of Dr Ravi Guttal of KLETU, Dr S C Sajjan of KLEIT, and others. The same team had developed a contactless sanitiser dispensing machine for the KIMS earlier. Swarna Group managing director V S V Prasad, who has sponsored the AGV project, stated that nearly Rs 2.50 lakh is spent for designing and developing this unique device, and he is ready to sponsor more such projects which would be helpful for the society. District In-charge and Large & Medium Scale Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar unveiled the AGV, and observed its functioning style. "It works like a robot," he said, lauding the youth who developed it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/budding-techies-develop-automated-trolley-for-kims-covid-19-hospital-898698.html
07-10-2020||In Perspective||‘…True faith and allegiance to the Constitution of India…’||I, Narendra Damodardas Modi, do swear in the name of God that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of India as by law established, that I will uphold the sovereignty and integrity of India, that I will faithfully and conscientiously discharge my duties as Prime Minister of the Union and that I will do right to all manner of people in accordance with the Constitution and the law, without fear or favour, affection or ill-will.” This is the oath Modi took when he assumed office, the first time on May 26, 2014, and again on May 30, 2019. It doesn’t seem like a difficult oath to keep, for it makes no demands on personal honesty or integrity, transparency, probity or even truthfulness. Yet, there are disturbing signs that people close to him are preventing him from keeping his solemn pledge to the nation. Two events of the recent past raise fundamental questions on the nature of our Republic and the direction in which it is headed. Some facts are clear: ‘Rule of law’ is under serious threat from the very agencies that are meant to uphold the law and enforce order. The police force in some states have become vigilante forces of the ruling party. And finally, Muslims and Dalits are no longer regarded as equal citizens of our Republic. Now for the details. The Special CBI Court judge on the criminal conspiracy behind the destruction of the Babri Masjid, who wrote the 2,300-page judgement, found that there was neither a ‘planned conspiracy’ nor was anyone responsible for demolishing the mosque. It flies in the face of the Supreme Court’s observation that the destruction of the mosque was “an egregious violation of the rule of law.” The Babri Masjid demolition case verdict puts a lid on any hope of ‘rule of law’. But the judge’s inability to convict anyone was due to the result of an utterly incompetent investigation by the CBI or the lack of adequate evidence presented by them. It should be a matter of serious concern to the Prime Minister and the nation that our premier investigative agency is so lacking in competence and merit. The second is the incident of gang-rape and heinous murder of a Dalit girl in Hathras, Uttar Pradesh. Tragically, rapes seem commonplace in our country -- 87 girls are raped every day on average in India. What is shocking in Uttar Pradesh is the State support to criminals, with the police themselves destroying all evidence of the crime. The subsequent efforts to forcibly keep the family of the victim away from the media and the curfew imposed on Hathras have raised questions on the police’s complicity in, at the very least, suppressing the voice of the family. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has decided to hand over the investigation to the CBI, the agency that has now become infamous for its media trials rather than for successfully pursuing its cases in the courts, where it has a dismal record. Further, going after the victims of crimes as perpetrators of a crime themselves is a new weapon of statecraft practiced by BJP governments at the Centre and in the states since the days of mob lynching of Muslims in the name of cow protection, and now perfected with the anti-CAA riots case. Over 1,500 students and ordinary citizens, along with a few prominent ones, have been booked for protesting against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and dozens have been detained under the draconian UAPA (Unlawful Activities Prevention Act) wherein no bail can be granted. What is worse, the Delhi Police have linked the protesters to the East Delhi riots in late February 2020, while brazenly ignoring the open calls to violence made by Union ministers and leaders of the BJP. Almost all the accused belong to the very community that suffered the maximum casualties in the violence. The hostility of the police is not reserved for Muslims alone. The Dalits, too, have borne the brunt of their attacks, from as early as January 2018 as evidenced in the Bhima-Koregaon protests in Maharashtra. The Mahars had gathered under the banner of Elgar Parishad to celebrate the 200th anniversary of the Mahar Regiment’s victory against Peshwa Baji Rao II. When a group of upper caste Hindus attacked the peaceful gathering, there was widespread violence in the state. Instead of arresting the culprits, several prominent social activists such as Varvara Rao, Sudha Bhardwaj, Gautam Navlakha and Prof Anand Teltumbde were arrested under the UAP Act. “I will do right to all manner of people in accordance with the Constitution and the law, without fear or favour, affection or ill-will” is the oath the Prime Minister has sworn by the Constitution. The responsibility of the Prime Minister in both cases is direct as the CBI functions under him and the Uttar Pradesh government is headed by his trusted lieutenant. To be true to his oath, the Prime Minister must sack the entire team that investigated the Babri Masjid case and order the CBI to go on appeal against the special court verdict. Further, he should ask UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to crack the whip and sack the police officials complicit in destroying the evidence in the Hathras gang-rape and murder case. That again is not much to ask, for what is at stake is the sanctity of the oath of office. Surely, this affects his reputation and image, though one is not clear which comes first for him. Yet, it is early days in his second term and much good can still come out of it if the Prime Minister keeps his pledge to the nation. (The writer, a former Cabinet Secretariat official, is Visiting Fellow, ORF, New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/true-faith-and-allegiance-to-the-constitution-of-india-898812.html
07-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: Dasara festival likely to be confined to Mysuru Palace and Chamundi Hills||As part of checking the spread of Covid-19, Karnataka Health Minister B Sriramulu said on Wednesday there is a general view that the Dasara festival should be confined to the Mysuru Palace and Chamundi Hills this year. "We have discussed the safety measures that should be taken to prevent the spread of coronavirus infection during the Dasara festival in Mysuru. There is a general view in the meeting that the Dasara should be confined to the Mysuru Palace and the Chamundi Hills," Sriramulu tweeted after a meeting with the Mysuru district authorities. According to him, a panel of technical experts will formulate the action plan on behalf of the district administration for the 'State festival'. The action plan will be finalised after discussing with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, he said. Every year thousands of people throng Mysuru from all over the globe to witness the 10-day Dasara festival during Navaratri, marked with regality when the ritualistic private military along with the caparisoned elephants march before the titular Maharaja and gives him gun salute. However, the abnormal situation caused by the coronavirus has cast its shadow on the festivities as well. Karnataka Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar too had maintained that the Dasara this year will be a low-key affair. After chairing a meeting with the district authorities a couple of days ago, Sudhakar had said Karnataka will not commit the mistake Kerala did during the Onam festival by easing all restrictions, which resulted in the spurt in coronavirus cases there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-dasara-festival-likely-to-be-confined-to-mysuru-palace-and-chamundi-hills-898607.html
07-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Congress to organise signature nation-wide campaign against farm laws: Priyank Kharge||MLA Priyank Kharge said on Wednesday said the Congress will organise a signature campaign across the nation against the implementation of three farm laws. Speaking at a press meet here, he stated the signature campaign will be kick-started from Mandya on October 10 in the state. AICC state In-charge Randeep Singh Surjewal, Opposition Leader Siddaramaiah, KPCC president D K Shivakumar and other leaders will take part in it. As part of the campaign, more than 10 crore signature will be collected across the nation and a delegation of the Congress leaders will meet President of India Ram Nath Kovind on November 14 to urge him to roll back the amendments, the ex-minister informed. Amendment to the acts will not only affect the peasants but also the agriculture sector. It will also be detrimental to the APMC system, he opined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/congress-to-organise-signature-nation-wide-campaign-against-farm-laws-priyank-kharge-898625.html
07-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Belagavi Police collect Rs 60,300 fine from people for not wearing masks||Belagavi City Police collected Rs 60,300 fine from 365 persons in its jurisdiction on Wednesday for violating the rule of wearing masks for preventing the spread of Covid-19 on Wednesday. City Police had announced that as per the guidelines it will commence penalising people for not wearing masks to prevent the spread of the pandemic from Wednesday. Drive to penalise people not wearing masks was conducted in jurisdiction of all the police stations in urban and rural areas. Fine Rs 200 was levied in urban areas and Rs 100 in rural areas. A total of 365 persons were booked and fine Rs 60,300 was collected on the first day.  No cases were filed for violating social distance norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/belagavi-police-collect-rs-60300-fine-from-people-for-not-wearing-masks-898725.html
07-10-2020||Karnataka Politics||CM B S Yediyurappa arrives in Belagavi to visit Suresh Angadi's family||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa arrived in the city on Wednesday to console the family members of Union Minister Suresh Angadi who passed away recently due to Covid-19 pandemic. Yediyurappa said that suggestions have been received to establish a memorial for Angadi at Dwarka in New Delhi wherein his last rites were held. State officials in New Delhi have been asked to take necessary measures in this regard. He said that Angadi as four-time MP and minister of state for railways gave his own contribution for the development of railway infrastructure and facilities to the state. After Jaffer Sharif, it was Angadi who brought railway projects for the state, he added. It's difficult to believe that Angadi was not with and him falling prey to the pandemic. Angadi ignored his health initially and travelled to New Delhi and believed that nothing will happen to him, he said. Yediyurappa said that he could not visit the Angadi family earlier to pay homage and console them due to ill health and doctors advising against travel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cm-b-s-yediyurappa-arrives-in-belagavi-to-visit-suresh-angadis-family-898464.html
07-10-2020||Karnataka Politics||D K Shivakumar must come clean like Sita: Eshwarappa||Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa has on Wednesday advised KPCC president D K Shivakumar to come clean like Sita in the probe by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into his disproportionate asset case if he has not amassed anything illegally. Speaking to reporters here, he said "Those who eat salt should drink water. Similarly, punishment should be awarded to those who commit the mistake. The probe by the national agency was also ordered against B S Yediyurappa when the UPA government was in power." "The BJP didn't term it as politically-motivated. Yediyurappa has come clean after facing the enquiry. Hence, Shivakumar should also prove that he is not guilty," Eshwarappa told. Taking a pot shot at Opposition Leader Siddaramaiah for derogatory remarks against Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and MP Tejaswi Surya, the minister said his remarks show the culture. It doesn't suit the stature of a person enjoying the position of the opposition leader. Congress has witnessed a downfall. Siddaramaiah who has defeated from Chamundeshwari assembly segment in the last assembly polls should learn a lesson even now. Congress will sink further if he continues to exhibit such an attitude, he told. Eshwarappa exuded confidence that the BJP will win all four seats in the on-going polls to Legislative Council and the party candidates will also win the bypolls to Sira and Rajarajeshwari Nagar assembly segments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/d-k-shivakumar-must-come-clean-like-sita-eshwarappa-898594.html
07-10-2020||Karnataka Politics||It's official: Kusuma from Congress in Rajarajeshwari Nagar||The Congress top brass on Wednesday approved the candidature of late IAS officer D K Ravi's wife Kusuma H for Rajarajeshwari Nagar constituency and former minister T B Jayachandra for Sira constituency, which are going to the bypolls on November 3. The bypoll to Sira in Tumakuru district was necessitated due to the death of JD(S) MLA B Sathyanarayana, whereas Rajarajeshwarinagar in Bengaluru will vote again as its MLA Munirathna was disqualified, following his defection to the BJP last year. The Congress also announced the candidature of Ramesh Babu for election to the South East Graduates' constituency of the Legislative Council.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/its-official-kusuma-from-congress-in-rajarajeshwari-nagar-898643.html
07-10-2020||Main Article||Amnesty, for chilling effect||Amnesty International’s decision to suspend its operations in India after its bank accounts were frozen last month is perhaps the result of yet another step of the Indian government’s methodical silencing of critics and human rights groups. Equally, it appears, the move is to harass and stop organisations such as the Nobel Prize-winning Amnesty International (AI) from carrying on its humanitarian work in India. The Enforcement Directorate has alleged money laundering and frozen AI’s bank accounts in India. On September 29, AI announced it was shutting its offices in India, letting go of some 150 employees, and pausing all its campaign and research work. This is the latest in the incessant witch-hunt of human rights organisations by the government over unfounded and motivated allegations, Amnesty International India said in a statement on its website. “Treating human rights organisations like criminal enterprises and dissenting individuals as criminals without any credible evidence is a deliberate attempt by the Enforcement Directorate and Government of India to stoke a climate of fear and dismantle the critical voices in India,” it said. The Union Home Ministry, in a statement, dismissed the allegation of a witch-hunt and said that successive governments had rejected Amnesty’s repeated applications for permission to receive foreign funds. “As the human rights reporting of Amnesty India and worldwide is based on hard evidence, the regime is not able to find any way of countering that. Their only way out is to fabricate financial allegations,” said Salil Shetty, who was secretary-general of AI from 2009 to 2018. Amnesty in India and the world over has external auditors and rigorous internal procedures to ensure financial probity. It is a Nobel Prize-winning people’s movement that has earned the highest regard for its work and is unusual in the sense that the vast majority of its funding is from millions of ordinary people making small donations. This includes tens of thousands of Indians. A couple of weeks before their accounts were frozen, AI had come out with two reports — one to mark the first anniversary of the change in status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, and another on the Delhi riots in February. Both were critical of the central government, with the report on the riots also alleging human rights violations by Delhi Police, which reports to the Union Home Ministry. “The current so-called ‘Hindu’ fundamentalist regime is particularly angry that Amnesty India has uncovered its massive human rights violations in Kashmir. Most recently, Amnesty India’s brilliant expose of the abuse of state machinery in the Delhi riots pained the BJP government at the Centre,” said Shetty. Amnesty is also a strategic choice, to create a chilling effect to silence other less powerful and smaller organisations and individuals to not fight for human rights issues and hold this regime accountable, he added. India is ranked 129 on the Human Development Index, along with some of the poorest countries in the world; it is also the twelfth most unequal country in the world. At the bottom of the Indian societal pyramid are the Dalits, Adivasis, backward castes and minorities, particularly women. In the last few years, there has been a systematic campaign to attack minorities in order to unite the otherwise caste-divided Hindu vote. Amnesty is a powerful voice against these human rights violations. On every single global index for democracy, whether it is V-Dem, Reporters Without Borders, Freedom House, or Economist Intelligence Unit, etc., India is seeing a shocking backsliding. “Amidst this pervasive culture of fear, silence and permanent propaganda-mongering, the role of Amnesty as an independent voice to fight for democracy and rights is crucial at this juncture,” emphasizes Shetty. The fact that Amnesty has huge influence on the international stage (at the UN and other world bodies) and in the West -- with governments, with the media and the populations at large -- is a real bugbear for India’s hyper-sensitive regime that has so much to hide. Particularly when it is continuing to peddle the country’s democratic credentials on the world stage to contrast it from China and would like to become a permanent member of the Security Council. The US State Department has said that the matter has been discussed at the highest levels both in the administration and in the US Congress and that they are very concerned. The European Union has already raised its concern through diplomatic channels, the New York Times has published a long piece on the shocking behaviour of this regime, and this is just the beginning. Using the provisions of the Foreign Contributions Regulation Act, scores of organisations have been de-licensed or put on watch lists. Greenpeace was brought to its knees, with its accounts also frozen (again unfrozen by the courts), and other large organisations have been intimidated and shut down. People’s Watch and Henri Tiphagne have been hounded, as has activist Teesta Setalvad and her organisation. But it is the smaller ones that are unsung and unheard. Paradoxically, while AI has functioned for over 15 years under authoritarian regimes, such as in Russia (AI finally suspended its operations there in 2016), operating in India, which claims to be a democracy, has been a perennial struggle. Amnesty is a people’s movement with membership of millions of people, operating in over 70 countries. Successive heads of AI have tried their best to establish a strong Amnesty with membership in the global south and started (or boosted) chapters in, apart from India, Indonesia, Nigeria, Brazil, South Africa, Mexico and Kenya. None of the others have been shut down. With Amnesty India challenging the freezing of its accounts in the courts, it remains to be seen how long it will take for the human rights watchdog to resume operations and continue to raise its voice against injustice. (The writer is a senior journalist based in Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/amnesty-for-chilling-effect-898808.html
07-10-2020||Mysuru||Free rapid antigen Covid-19 tests for roadside Mysuru vendors begins||The Mysuru City Corporation started giving free rapid antigen tests for roadside vendors and traders in the city, on Wednesday.  The tests were conducted by the Health Department personnel near Devaraja market from the morning. The vendors were seen lining up to undergo tests. They should undergo rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests twice a month.  The spurt in Covid-19 cases in Mysuru district has called for the emergent steps for the health of the citizens and the traders.  The Corporation has identified more than 20 centres in Mysuru city, where the tests would be conducted free of cost for the citizens and traders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/free-rapid-antigen-covid-19-tests-for-roadside-mysuru-vendors-begins-898475.html
07-10-2020||National||Who will verify if farmers have indulged in stubble burning, asks SC||Who would verify whether a farmer has indulged in stubble burning, the Supreme Court asked on Tuesday after a suggestion was put forth before it that full minimum support price (MSP) should be paid only after ascertaining that farmer has not burnt crop residue which is a key contributor in rising pollution in Delhi-NCR. The Centre also opposed the suggestion and said that “tinkering” with MSP might not be in the interest of farmers. "Who is going to supervise and verify if a farmer has indulged in stubble burning," a bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, asked. The bench agreed to the submission of a lawyer appearing in the matter that withholding of MSP for such verification would create more problem and might increase corruption. The apex court was hearing the pollution matter in which it is dealing with several aspects, including that of stubble burning which is a source of pollution in the Delhi-national capital region (NCR) and neighbouring areas. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta opposed the suggestion given by senior advocate Shyam Divan, who was appearing for one of the intervenors in the matter, and sought time to file an “elaborate reply” on the issue. “Our suggestion is that, instead of paying the MSP in one go to farmers. This should be paid after the verification that such and such farmers have not burnt the stubble,” Divan told the bench, adding that some amount of MSP could be withheld and it be released later after the verification. He said it was also suggested that farmers, who have not indulged in stubble burning, may be given Rs 100 over and above the MSP. The bench said it would issue notice on the application argued by Divan. Divan said that the solicitor general and senior lawyer Aparajita Singh, who is assisting the court as an amicus curiae in the pollution matter, should consider the suggestion and respond to them. “We will file our reply,” Mehta said. At the outset, Singh told the bench that governments of Haryana and Punjab had earlier assured that there would be no stubble burning this year. One of the lawyers appearing in the matter claimed that nothing has been done in last two years to stop stubble burning in these two states despite the assurances given to the apex court. “Mr Tushar Mehta, does anybody know that there is an authority under the law to deal with this stubble burning aspect,” the bench asked. “We will ask the SG (solicitor general) to tell us by next week as to whether there is an authority or officer under the Environment protection act. He will be dealing with this issue,” the bench said. During the arguments, Divan referred to action plan with regard to forest fire and said this technology could be used for cases of stubble burning as well. He said as per the forest fire technology, the moment forest fire is detected, an SMS alert is sent and efforts are started to douse it. Divan said this technology could be used to prevent instances of stubble burning. The bench, which posted the pollution matter for further hearing next week, asked the chief secretaries of Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana and Punjab to be present before the court on the next date of hearing. Earlier, the apex court had asked governments of Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan about the arrangements made by them for preventing stubble burning. It had also asked the states concerned to apprise it about the instances of stubble burning in previous year, its locations and also how many farmers were responsible so that "special arrangements" could be made in advance for those areas. In November last year, the apex court had expressed serious displeasure over the failure of state machinery in preventing stubble burning and said that citizens of Delhi-national capital region (NCR) were "suffocat||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-will-verify-if-farmers-have-indulged-in-stubble-burning-asks-sc-898322.html
07-10-2020||National||SSR case: Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh cites AIIMS report to seek apology; BJP slams him||Latching on to the AIIMS report that ruled out the murder angle in actor Sushant Singh Rajputs death, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday demanded apology from those who defamed Maharashtra over the episode. Speaking to reporters here, Deshmukh cited an American university study in connection with the actor's death case and added that its report reveals BJP's hand in hyping the conspiracy theory. BJP leader Pravin Darekar hit back at Deshmukh over his remarks on the Sushant case, and sought to know why is the NCP minister rushing to react when the CBI has not yet stated anything on the AIIMS report. The medical board of the Delhi-based All India Institute of Medical Sciences' (AIIMS) last week ruled out murder in Rajput's death, and termed it "a case of hanging and death by suicide". Deshmukh also asked BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis, who is the Bihar poll in-charge, whether he will campaign for former Bihar director general of police Gupteshwar Pandey who had defamed Maharashtra and Mumbai Police over the Sushant episode. Pandey joined the JD(U) after taking voluntary retirement last month. It is being speculated that he will contest the October-November Bihar Assembly polls. Pandey had called for a CBI probe into the actors death when the matter was being investigated by the Mumbai Police. It has come to the fore through the media that the AIIMS and (Mumbai-based) Cooper Hospitals reports have said that there was no trace of poison in Rajputs viscera, Deshmukh said. The home minister requested the CBI to disclose its findings into the death case. Meanwhile, the Michigan University had reviewed this entire Sushant Singh episode and published its report. "It has said in the report that the review of the case over the three-four months reveals BJP hand in hyping the conspiracy theory, Deshmukh alleged. Deshmukh said a political party tried to give the episode a certain direction and defamed the Maharashtra of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. We have seen which party took the 'supari' (contract) for defaming Maharashtra, he said, without naming any outfit. The minister said it was sad to see former Maharashtra Chief Minister Fadnavis, who had also held the home portfolio between 2014 and 2019, claim that the Mumbai Police did not probe the Sushant matter properly. Entire Maharashtra was battling COVID-19. At such a time, a conspiracy was hatched against Maharashtra. Maharashtra was defamed. Going further, the party also made dance to its tune a puppet who is living in Maharashtra, but is from another state originally, Deshmukh said. The minister smiled cryptically when asked who he meant by puppet. It is believed he was referring to Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut, who hails from Himachal Pradesh. ...some parties defamed Maharashtra and Mumbai Police. They should apologise to Maharashtra or else the people of Maharashtra will not forgive them, he added. The minister further said that the Maharashtra Cyber department will now probe who defamed the state in connection with the case on social media. Talking to reporters in Pune, Darekar said, The AIIMS has already stated that the CBI should be referred the details of the report prepared by the institute. "Despite this, Deshmukh has hurriedly reacted over it. Why is he in so much hurry? "While probing the actor's death, central agencies such as the NCB and the CBI are also trying to find out if any (drug) racket exists (in film industry). "Is Deshmukh trying to protect some drugs mafia? He should first answer this question before raising questions over Fadnavis (campaigning in Bihar), said the Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Council.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ssr-case-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-cites-aiims-report-to-seek-apology-bjp-slams-him-898323.html
07-10-2020||National||India to operate two more Vande Bharat flights to China||India plans to operate two Vande Bharat flights from Delhi and the Chinese city of Guangzhou on October 23 and 30 to facilitate the travel of Indians stranded due to the Covid-19 lockdowns. Air India is planning to operate two flights on Guangzhou-Delhi Sector on 23rd and 30th October, 2020. Passage on these flights would be made available on payment basis as per fares to be decided by the airline, an Indian Embassy press release here said on Tuesday. The flights facilitate the travel of Indians with valid work visas to return to China and take back those Indians wanting to return home. India has so far operated five Vande Bharat flights to China. The previous five flights flew to Shanghai, Guangzhou and Ningbo. India also operated three special flights to Wuhan to airlift Indians stranded in the city when the virus was at its peak there in February this year. The journey would be subject to an undertaking to be provided by individual passengers to abide by all protocols framed by the Government of India, which include a mandatory institutional quarantine of 7 days on payment basis and home quarantine of 7 days following arrival in Delhi, the release said. Indian nationals and eligible OCI card holders, who wish to travel on one of these flights, must register at the Embassy/Consulates as per jurisdiction by furnishing detail information about them. Those, who had registered earlier for repatriation, but could not travel by previous Vande Bharat flights, are requested to re-register themselves by sending detail information about them, it said. For any information/assistance, the Embassy in Beijing and CGI offices in Shanghai and Guangzhou may be contacted by email. The Indian government has also decided to facilitate persons, who are stranded in India and desirous to travel abroad urgently for various purposes. Indian citizen desirous to travel back to mainland China via special flights due to various reasons, may like to convey their willingness to Embassy’s email id (helpdesk.beijing@mea.gov.in), it said. Those returning to China need to go through 14-day quarantine in officially designated hotels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-operate-two-more-vande-bharat-flights-to-china-898331.html
07-10-2020||National||VVIP plane acquisition process began under UPA, Modi govt brought it to conclusion: Govt sources||The process for procuring two VVIP aircraft, over whose acquisition Congress leader Rahul Gandhi attacked the Modi government on Tuesday, had begun under the UPA government, and the current dispensation has only brought it to a logical conclusion, government sources said. They noted that the exercise had begun in 2011 and an Inter-Ministerial Group submitted its recommendations in 2012 after meeting for 10 times. Taking a swipe at Gandhi, they said like most other initiatives of the Congress-led UPA government, he perhaps wants to "disown" this procurement too. During his campaign in Punjab against the farm reform laws, the Congress leader accused the prime minister of "wasting" thousands of crores of rupees on the aircraft. When he was asked about the BJP's criticism of him for using a cushion to sit in a tractor, he said the prime minister's 'Air India One' did not just have a cushion but a whole lot of luxury beds for his comfort. "Why don't you question them about this," Gandhi asked the media. In a swipe at the Congress leader, the government sources said he is entitled to his "disregard" for the UPA government but not entitled to his own facts. They added the two aircraft are not the prime minister's aircraft as Gandhi dubbed them and but they will be used for other VVIPs. These aircraft belong to the Indian Air Force and not the prime minister, the sources said. Sharing the chronology of the process of their acquisition, a Committee of Secretaries (CoS) which met on the direction of Group of Ministers (GOM) in 2011, had decided that an Inter-Ministerial Group (IMG) would examine the available options for long term arrangement of VVIP aircraft. The IMG recommended two options: convert an existing B777 ER, or use one of the new ones that were ordered by Air India but yet to be delivered, the sources said. The Cabinet Secretariat also recommended transfer of the aircraft to the Indian Air Force in August, 2013. The Modi government has only brought that process to its logical conclusion, they added. They noted that the aircraft used for the VVIP travel till now, the famed Air India jumbo jets, are more than 25 years old. Not only are they incapable of long, trans-Atlantic flights, forcing halt enroute for refuelling and replenishment purposes, they are also fuel guzzlers of "epic proportions", they said. A custom-made B777 aircraft, which will be used to fly the president, vice president and prime minister, arrived in Delhi from the US on last week. Another custom-made B777 plane for the travel of VVIPs is likely to be received from Boeing during a later date. Officials said the total cost of purchase and retrofitting the two planes has been estimated to be around Rs 8,400 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vvip-plane-acquisition-process-began-under-upa-modi-govt-brought-it-to-conclusion-govt-sources-898342.html
07-10-2020||National||Attacks on flag-bearers of democracy will not be tolerated: J&K L-G||In a stern warning to terrorists, Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Manoj Sinha on Tuesday said any attack on flag-bearers of democracy would not be tolerated. Sinha made the remarks as he visited the family of Block Development Council (BDC) Chairman Bhupinder Singh, who was killed by terrorists at his village in Budgam district of central Kashmir last month, an official spokesman said. The Lt Governor expressed grief and solidarity with the family members of the deceased, the spokesperson said. “Such attacks on flag-bearers of democracy in Kashmir would not be tolerated and the perpetrators would be dealt with by appropriate agencies,” Sinha said. He assured the family all support of the administration and reaffirmed the government's resolve to bring normalcy to life in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/attacks-on-flag-bearers-of-democracy-will-not-be-tolerated-jk-l-g-898345.html
07-10-2020||National||MSPs on crops progressively raised by Modi govt in 6 yrs: Union Minister Jitendra Singh||Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Tuesday said the minimum support prices (MSPs) on crops were progressively raised by the Modi government in the last six years, according to an official statement. Interacting with farmers, sarpanches (village heads), panches and local activists of Nagri block in Jammu and Kashmir's Kathua district, he said the opposition has no facts or figures to prove their criticism of the government and is indulging in a purely political rhetoric to denigrate the path-breaking decisions taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "It is, therefore, incumbent on us to fight out this motivated campaign at the public level and reach out to farmers and the common people in general with facts and figures, which can be verified by anybody," the minister of state for personnel said. He said the leadership of the previous governments should first explain why the procurement was less during the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) regime as compared to the present National Democratic Alliance (NDA) rule. Citing an instance, Singh said while the wheat procurement from 2009 to 2014 under the UPA was 1,395 lakh metric ton, during the subsequent NDA-1 rule from 2014-19, it increased to 1,457 lakh metric ton, according to the statement issued by the personnel ministry. "The truth is on our side and we must confront the opposition design with full confidence and moral strength," he added. In a forceful counter to the opposition charge that the prime minister wants to put an end to the provision of minimum support price (MSP) on crops, Singh cited figures and evidence to assert that contrary to what is being said, over the last six years, the MSPs on crops were progressively raised by the government. Substantiating his point, he said for example, the per quintal MSP for paddy was Rs 1,410 in 2015-16, which was raised to Rs 1,470 in 2016-17, Rs 1,550 in 2017-18, Rs 1,750 in 2018-19, Rs 1,815 in 2019-20 and further to Rs 1,868 in 2020-21. Similarly, Singh said the per quintal MSP on wheat was Rs 1,525 in 2015-16, Rs 1,625 in 2015-16, Rs 1,735 in 2017-18, Rs 1,840 in 2018-19 and Rs 1,925 in 2019-20. The per quintal MSP on peanut was Rs 4,030 in 2015-16, Rs 4,220 in 2016-17, Rs 4,450 in 2017-18, Rs 4,890 in 2018-19, Rs 5,090 in 2019-20 and Rs 5,275 in the current year of 2020-21, the statement said. The minister said the list is long but a similar phenomenon can also be noted in case of other items like soya bean, grams etc.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/msps-on-crops-progressively-raised-by-modi-govt-in-6-yrs-union-minister-jitendra-singh-898350.html
07-10-2020||National||Centre formed opinion to file appeal against acquittals in 2G scam cases: CBI to Delhi HC||The CBI Tuesday told the Delhi High Court that the trial court verdict acquitting all accused including former telecom minister A Raja in the 2G spectrum allocation cases was decided to be challenged as an opinion was received that “it is a fit case to prefer an appeal”. The agency said that the opinion was received from the Ministry of Law and Justice which examined the proposal of the probe agency to file a criminal appeal. The CBI said that it was apprised through a letter by the Department of Personnel and Training in January 2018 that the law and justice ministry opined that “it is a fit case to prefer an appeal”. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Sanjay Jain, appearing for the CBI and ED, submitted before Justice Brijesh Sethi that this letter was sent as a direction to the CBI to go and file an appeal. “In this case, an opinion was formed by the Central government and the appeal was filed,” Jain said. The relevant documents were showed to the judge who was hearing the matter through video conferencing. The documents were showed and submissions were made by the ASG in response to the application by Kusegaon Fruits and Vegetables Pvt Ltd promoter Asif Balwa seeking a copy of the sanction letter of the central government to the CBI to file an appeal against the acquittal of the accused in the case. Advocates Vijay Aggarwal, Mudit Jain and Ashul Aggarwal, representing Asif, said they will examine the documents given by the CBI and respond. Besides this, Aggarwal has earlier argued that the CBI has not placed on record the mandatory authority under the provisions of the CrPC and added that the appeal was filed under the signatures of advocate Sanjeev Bhandari with a stamp of SPP (Special Public Prosecutor). “In 2G cases, the SPP is appointed by way of a specific notification. An earlier notification was issued for the trial, which was superseded by a February 2018 notification appointing Tushar Mehta (now Solicitor General) to act as SPP. The notification was specific to the 2G cases and therefore, the appeal filed itself was without any authority and the CBI ought to clarify the same before the court,” he had contended. Responding to this, on Tuesday the ASG showed documents to the court relating to appointment of Bhandari as SPP in Delhi High Court for conducting prosecution, appeals, revision of other matters arising out of cases invested by the CBI. He also referred to the February 2018 notification by which the then ASG Tushar Mehta was appointed as SPP for conducting appeals, revisions and other proceedings before the high court and Supreme Court in the cases relating to 2G spectrum. Jain further showed to the court the administrative order by which he was appointed as SPP to conduct the prosecution, appeals and revisions arising out of the cases related to 2G spectrum. “Although Solicitor General Tushar Mehta was appointed as SPP, it does not mean only he will come and file the appeal. As per rules, there are some restrictions on a designated senior advocate who shall not file a vakalatnama or act in any court or tribunal…. “Merely because solicitor general Mehta was designated as SPP does not mean that he can do something that he, in his capacity as a senior advocate, cannot do,” the ASG contended. He said the CBI got the draft vetted from Mehta and Bhandari filed the appeal before the high court. He further said when Justice U U Lalit was SPP in the 2G case, some pleadings were filed by him and it was his discretion and he was a special appointee of the Supreme Court. “The Supreme Court did not appoint Mehta. He was appointed by the government, so it is for him to decide whether he wants to do filing himself or through someone else. In this case, he decided Bhandari to do so,” Jain submitted. The high court asked Jain to place these documents on record and listed the matter for further hearing on Wednesday. The high court on Monday had asked Jain to clarify whether there was any notification issued by the government appointing him as a prosecutor to argue the CBI and ED appeals in the 2G case. The high court has commenced day-to-day hearing on CBI’s ‘leave to appeal’ against the acquittal of all the individuals and firms. After finishing submissions in the CBI case, the high court will take up the ED’s money laundering case in which also all the accused were acquitted by the special court. Leave to appeal is a formal permission granted by a court to a party to challenge a decision in a higher court. A special court had on December 21, 2017 acquitted Raja, DMK MP Kanimozhi and others in the CBI and the ED cases related to the scam. Besides Raja and Kanimozhi, the special court had acquitted former telecom secretary Siddharth Behura; Raja's erstwhile private secretary R K Chandolia; Unitech Ltd MD Sanjay Chandra and three top executives of Reliance Anil Dhirubhai Ambani Group (RADAG) -- Gautam Doshi, Surendra Pipara and Hari Nair, in the 2G case filed by the CBI. Swan Telecom promoters Shahid Balwa and Vinod Goenka and directors of Kusegaon Fruits and Vegetables Pvt Ltd Asif Balwa and Rajiv Agarwal were also acquitted in the CBI case. The special court had also acquitted Swan Telecom (P) Ltd; Unitech Wireless (Tamil Nadu) Ltd; Reliance Telecom Ltd; film producer Karim Morani and Director of Kalaignar TV Sharad Kumar in the CBI case. In March 2018, the ED and CBI had approached the high court challenging the special court's order acquitting all the accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-formed-opinion-to-file-appeal-against-acquittals-in-2g-scam-cases-cbi-to-delhi-hc-898356.html
07-10-2020||National||No stand-off between Executive and Judiciary over appointment of HC judges, Prasad tells DMK MP||There is no stand-off between the Executive and the Judiciary over appointment of high court judges and whenever there is a difference of opinion on the issue, it is mutually reconciled by the two to ensure only suitable persons are appointed, Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has said. He also said while every effort is made to fill up existing vacancies expeditiously, they do keep arising due to retirement, resignation or elevation of judges. Prasad made these observations in a letter to DMK Rajya Sabha member P Wilson. The law minister was responding to Wilson's Zero Hour reference in February this year during the Budget session on shortage of judges in the high courts. Wilson shared Prasad's letter on Twitter on October 5. The minister's office confirmed that such a letter was written. The RS MP also shared a clip of his speech in the Upper House on the issue in which he said it was time that Parliament resolved the stand-off between the Executive and the Judiciary over appointment of HC judges. Wilson, a former additional solicitor general, claimed the government was "sitting" on nearly 230 names recommended by the collegium for appointment of judges. The Law Minister observed in his letter dated September 28 that as per the existing Memorandum of Procedure (MoP) for appointment of judges, the initiation of proposal for appointment of judges in the high courts vests with the chief justice of the high court. As on September 1, there are 398 vacancies in the high courts, he pointed out. "While every effort is made to fill up the existing vacancies expeditiously, vacancies do keep on arising on account of retirement, resignation or elevation of judges," Prasad said. He also pointed out that as per the MoP, the chief justice of the high court is required to initiate the proposal for filling up of vacancies of judges in the HC six months prior to the occurrence of vacancies "but this timeline is rarely adhered to". "There is no stand-off between the Executive and the Judiciary. Filling up vacancies of Judges in the high courts is continuous collaborative process between the Executive and Judiciary as it requires consultation and approval of various constitutional authorities. "Differences of opinion, if any, are mutually reconciled by the Executive and the Judiciary to ensure that only apposite person is appointed as High Court Judge," he asserted. The government, the Union minister said, is committed to fill up the vacancies in the high courts expeditiously. As on September 1, 48 new judges in various HCs have been appointed, he said. There are 25 high courts in the country with a combined sanctioned strength of 1,079 judges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-stand-off-between-executive-and-judiciary-over-appointment-of-hc-judges-prasad-tells-dmk-mp-898362.html
07-10-2020||National||Insurance scheme for frontline Covid-19 health workers: Govt says payment made in 95 cases||Under its Rs 50 lakh insurance scheme for frontline healthcare providers engaged in Covid-19 duty, payment has been made in 95 cases of death of such workers while 176 claims are being processed, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday.   "Further, 176 claims are being processed by the New India Assurance Company Limited, which is the nodal company for settling these claims. In addition to these, there are 79 claims that are yet to be received from states," Union Health Ministry Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said at a press briefing. He said payment has been made in 95 cases of deaths of frontline healthcare workers engaged in Covid-19 duty under the insurance scheme. The Rs 50-lakh insurance cover 'Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package Insurance Scheme for Health Workers Fighting Covid-19' was announced on March 30 for a period of 90 days. It was extended for a further period of 90 days i.e. up to September 25. The scheme was further extended for another 180 days i.e. six months, the ministry had said on September 15. This central sector scheme provides an insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh to healthcare providers, including community health workers, who may have to be in direct contact and care of Covid-19 patients and therefore at a risk of being infected.  It also includes accidental loss of life on account of contracting Covid-19, the ministry said. The scheme also covers private hospital staff/retired/volunteer/ local urban bodies/contract/daily wage/ ad-hoc/outsourced staff requisitioned by states/central hospitals/autonomous hospitals of central/states/union territories, AIIMS and INIs/hospitals of central ministries drafted for Covid-19 related responsibilities. The insurance provided under this scheme is over and above any other insurance cover being availed of by the beneficiary. There is no age limit for this scheme and individual enrolment is not required, the ministry said. The entire amount of premium for this scheme is being borne by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, government of India. The benefit/claim under this policy is in addition to the amount payable under any other policies. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has collaborated with the New India Assurance (NIA) Company Limited for providing the insurance amount based on the guidelines prepared for the scheme, the ministry had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/insurance-scheme-for-frontline-covid-19-health-workers-govt-says-payment-made-in-95-cases-898371.html
07-10-2020||National||Stubble burning: Punjab waives farm machinery rental for small, marginal farmers||The Punjab government has told a Supreme Court-mandated pollution control authority that custom hiring centres (CHCs) in the state will not charge any rental from small and marginal farmers for machinery to manage stubble. Farmers who cannot afford expensive machinery for in-situ management of crop residue hire farm equipment from CHCs. The Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority had earlier asked Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh not to charge rentals from small and marginal farmers. "The CHCs will charge no rentals for providing machines to small and marginal farmers," Chief Secretary, Punjab, Vini Mahajan wrote in a letter to EPCA head Bhure Lal. Marginal farmers are those who cultivate (as owner or tenant or sharecropper) agricultural land up to 1 hectare, while small farmers are those who cultivate agricultural land more than 1 hectare and up to 2 hectares. The EPCA had also asked the states to specify rental charges for machinery to avoid any ambiguity. Acting on its directions, the Punjab government has fixed the hiring rates for machines too. Rental charge for most of the machines, including happy seeder, rotavator, straw chopper and zero till drill, is between Rs 100 and Rs 200. Last year, Punjab produced around 20 million tonnes paddy residue. Farmers burnt 9.8 million tonnes of it. Farmers in Haryana burnt nearly 1.23 million tonnes out of seven million tonnes of paddy residue produced. Despite a ban on stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana, farmers continue to defy it as there is a short window between harvesting of paddy and sowing of wheat. The high cost of manual or mechanical management of straw is a major reason why farmers choose to burn it. State governments are providing 50 to 80 per cent subsidy to farmers and cooperative societies to buy modern farm equipment for in-situ management of paddy straw, installing paddy straw-based power plants and running a massive awareness campaign against stubble burning. But these measures are yet to make any significant impact on the ground.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stubble-burning-punjab-waives-farm-machinery-rental-for-small-marginal-farmers-898373.html
07-10-2020||National||48% of total Covid-19 deaths concentrated in 25 districts of 8 states: Health Ministry||About 48 per cent of total Covid-19 deaths in the country are concentrated in 25 districts of 8 states, out of which 15 districts are in Maharastra alone, the Health Ministry said on Tuesday. Addressing a press briefing, Union Health Ministry Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said India has recorded the highest number of recoveries from Covid-19 at over 56 lakh and India has also conducted the second-highest number of tests in the world at 8.10 crore. "New recoveries have been more than new cases over the last two weeks. New cases being reported in last 14 days are below previous highs of 90,000 cases per day," Bhushan said. Giving figures on Covid deaths, Bhushan said about 48 per cent of total Covid-19 deaths in the country are concentrated in 25 districts of 8 states. "Out of these 25 districts, 15 districts are in one state alone that is Maharashtra. Two districts each are in Karnataka, West Bengal and Gujarat and one each in Tamil Nadu, Punjab, UP and Andhra Pradesh," Bhushan said. He further said that the average daily Covid-19 positivity rate has declined from 9.21 per cent recorded between September 16-22 to 6.82 per cent registered from September 30 to October 6. "Average daily new cases of Covid-19 have declined from 84,179 registered from September 2 to September 8 to 77,113 recorded between September 30 to October 6," he said. "Ten states including Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh account for 77 per cent of the active cases in the country," he added. Under the Rs 50 lakh insurance scheme for frontline healthcare workers engaged in Covid-19 duty, Bhushan said payments have been made in 95 cases, while 176 claims are under process. "In 95 cases of death of frontline healthcare workers engaged in Covid-19 duty, insurance claim of Rs 50 lakh has been paid and 176 claims are being processed. In addition, 79 claims are yet to be received from different states," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/48-of-total-covid-19-deaths-concentrated-in-25-districts-of-8-states-health-ministry-898374.html
07-10-2020||National||Pakistan to challenge India's application for exclusive GI tag for Basmati rice in EU||Pakistan has decided to file its opposition in the European Union in response to India's application for an exclusive Geographical Indications (GI) tag to Basmati rice in the 27-member bloc, a media report said on Tuesday. This was decided during a meeting chaired by Adviser to the Prime Minister on Commerce Razak Dawood on Monday. The meeting was attended by Secretary Commerce, Chairman, Intellectual Pro­perty Organisation (IPO-Pakistan), representatives of Rice Exporters Asso­ciation of Pakistan (REAP), and the legal fraternity, the Dawn newspaper reported. During the meeting, REAP representatives were of the view that Pakistan was a major grower and producer of Basmati rice and India's application for exclusivity is unjustified, it said. India has said that it is an Indian-origin product in its application, published in the EU's official journal on September 11. Dawood said that Pakistan will vehemently oppose India's application in the European Union and restrain New Delhi from obtaining an exclusive GI tag of Basmati rice. He supported the concerns of REAP and relevant stakeholders and ensured that their claim for Basmati rice as GI will be protected, the report said. Pakistan enacted the Geographical Indications (Registration and Protection) Act in March this year, which gives it the right to oppose Indian application for registration of Basmati rice's exclusive rights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-to-challenge-indias-application-for-exclusive-gi-tag-for-basmati-rice-in-eu-898380.html
07-10-2020||National||Farmers welcome farm laws during meeting with Rajnath||Senior BJP leader and Union Minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday reached out to farmers, mostly from protest-hit Punjab and Haryana, and met them at his residence here to discuss about the new farm laws. The meeting with the farmers came in the backdrop of protests against the laws by opposition parties, including the Congress. Singh along with Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar sat with the farmers for more than an hour and discussed at length all issues related to farming sector, including the farm laws. After the meeting both the ministers and the farmers, many of whom are Padma Shri recipients, applauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP-led government at the Centre for bringing these legislations. They said that these laws will open more avenues for farmers to sell their produce and were needed to reform the farm sector. Kanwal Singh Chauhan, a farmer from Haryana, claimed that attempts are being made to create misunderstandings about these legislations. "Farmers and their organisations were demanding reforms in the agriculture sector and with these three bills, the Modi government has brought much-needed reforms, and we welcome this," Chauhan said. When asked why some farmers are protesting against these legislations, Chauhan claimed that they are not aware about these laws and misunderstanding has been created among them by some elements. The government has already made it clear that the Minimum Support Price system will stay so now there should not be any fear and concern among farmers, he said. Echoing similar sentiments about the farm bills, Bijendra Singh Dalal, president, Haryana Farmers Self-Help Group, said there is a need to create awareness about these farm bills among farmers. These legislations will be beneficial to farmers in the long run, he said. Last week, Singh had assured farmers that the Minimum Support Price will stay and it will continue to rise. He had also said that he will talk to farmers to clear all their apprehensions about these three farm related bills. Besides farmers, MJ Khan, Chairman of Indian Chamber of Food and Agriculture, was also present in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-welcome-farm-laws-during-meeting-with-rajnath-898382.html
07-10-2020||National||Telangana agrees to withdraw case filed in SC related to sharing of Krishna & Godavari waters||Telangana has agreed to withdraw the case it filed in the Supreme Court about the sharing of waters of Krishna and Godavari rivers, enabling the Centre to go ahead with referring the issue to a tribunal, said Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat Tuesday. After the second Apex Council meeting with the chief ministers of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, Shekhawat told reporters that it was also agreed to shift the Kaveri River Management Board (KRMB) to Andhra Pradesh. Under the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2014, an apex council was formed with the Union Jal Shakti minister as the chairman and the chief ministers of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana as its members. The first apex council meeting was held in 2016. Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Reddy came to Delhi to attend the meeting, while his Telangana counterpart K Chandrashekhar Rao was present virtually. Shekhawat said the meeting turned out to be "very productive". "With regards to sharing of water of Godavari and Krishna between the two states, the chief minister of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh agreed to withdraw the case the state has filed in the Supreme Court to enable the Centre to move forward on referring the water sharing issues to the tribunal under the Inter-state River Water Dispute Act 1956 after taking due legal opinion," Shekhawat said. Deliberation on deciding the jurisdiction of both Godavari and Krishna Management Boards was on the agenda of Tuesday's meeting. Even after six years after the bifurcation of the state, their jurisdiction is still notified. "The Centre will go ahead with notifying the jurisdiction of both KRMB and GRMB. The Telangana chief minister dissented on this but as the per the APRA-2014, no consensus is needed and hence the Centre will notify it," Shekhawat said. The agenda also deliberated upon the submissions of Detailed Project Report (DPR) of new projects taken by both the states on Krishna and Godavari. As per the Act, both the KRMB and GRMB should technically appraise and clear them. Shekhawat said both the chief ministers agreed to submit the DPRs of all the projects taken up by their respective states. He also assured them that the technical appraisal of the all the projects will be done at the shortest possible time. The apex council is mandated to approve new projects planned by both the states on Godavari and Krishna rivers, supervise the functioning of the Godavari and Krishna Management Boards and to resolve any dispute arising out of sharing of river waters between both the states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/telangana-agrees-to-withdraw-case-filed-in-sc-related-to-sharing-of-krishna-godavari-waters-898385.html
07-10-2020||National||Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan refutes reports claiming he offered personal cognisance of Sushant Singh Rajput's death case||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday took to Twitter to refute media reports that he has offered to take personal cognisance of actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death. Terming such claims made in certain sections of the media as "fake news", Vardhan urged people to refrain from believing any unverified statements.  "An INCORRECT claim is being made in a section of the media that I have offered to take personal cognisance of actor Sushant Singh Rajput death case. I've NOT spoken to anyone nor offered to examine any case. Pls refrain from believing any unverified statements," he said a tweet. An INCORRECT claim is being made in a section of the media that I have offered to take personal cognisance of Sushant death case. The AIIMS on Monday said the medical board has submitted its report in connection with the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput to the CBI and any inputs on the report submitted by the panel would have to be obtained from the central probe agency. The AIIMS' medical board has ruled out murder as the cause of Rajput's death, terming it "a case of hanging and death by suicide," the premier institute's forensic chief Dr Sudhir Gupta had said late last week. In its conclusive medico-legal opinion to the CBI, the six-member team dismissed the claims of "poisoning and strangling", with Dr Gupta saying the panel did not find any trace of poison and drugs in the viscera.   "The Medical Board has submitted the report directly to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) as required. Being a legal matter, any inputs on the report submitted by the Medical Board would have to be obtained from the CBI," the AIIMS said in a statement. The statement follows certain media reports questioning the outcome of the medical board's examination and Gupta's comments ruling out murder. "It is a case of hanging and death by suicide. We have submitted our conclusive report to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI)," Dr Gupta, who is also the chairman of the forensic medical board had said on Saturday. There was no injury on the body other than that of hanging. Also, there was no mark of struggle and scuffle. The ligature mark on the neck was consistent with hanging, he said. The doctors' panel did not find any trace of poison and drugs in the viscera, Dr Gupta had told PTI, but refused to divulge any further details stating the case is subjudice. Rajput, 34, who made his silver screen debut in the critically acclaimed 'Kai Po Che' seven years ago, was found dead in his apartment in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14. The CBI had taken over the probe from Bihar Police into the alleged abetment to suicide case filed by the actor's father K K Singh in Patna against Rajput's girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and her family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-minister-dr-harsh-vardhan-refutes-reports-claiming-he-offered-personal-cognisance-of-sushant-singh-rajputs-death-case-898386.html
07-10-2020||National||SC reserves verdict on journalist Vinod Dua’s plea for quashing of FIR||The Supreme Court Tuesday reserved verdict on a plea of senior journalist Vinod Dua seeking quashing of FIR lodged against him for sedition and other offences by a local BJP leader in Himachal Pradesh over his YouTube show. A bench of Justices U U Lalit and Vineet Saran, after hearing arguments for Dua, Himachal Pradesh government and the complainant in the case, asked the parties to file written submissions in the matter within three days. On July 20, the top court had extended till further orders the protection granted to Dua from any coercive action in the case. The top court had said that Dua need not answer any other supplementary questions asked by Himachal Pradesh police in connection with the case. On July 7, the top court had extended the protection to Dua from any coercive action and sought a report in a sealed cover on the probe conducted so far by the state police. An FIR against Dua under provisions of Indian Penal Code for offences of sedition, public nuisance, printing defamatory materials and public mischief was lodged by BJP leader Shyam at Kumarsain police station in Shimla district on May 6 and the journalist was asked to join the probe. Shyam has alleged that Dua, in his YouTube show, accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of using "deaths and terror attacks" to get votes. Earlier, in an unprecedented hearing conducted on a Sunday on June 14, the top court had granted protection from arrest to Dua till further orders. However, it had refused to stay the ongoing probe against him. It had asked Dua will have to join the investigation “through video-conferencing or online mode” as offered by him in his response to the summons issued by the police seeking his personal appearance. Besides seeking quashing of the FIR, Dua, in the plea, has sought "exemplary damages" for "harassment". He has also sought direction from the apex court that "henceforth FIRs against persons belonging to the media with at least 10 years standing be not registered unless cleared by a committee to be constituted by every state government, the composition of which should comprise of the Chief Justice of the High Court or a Judge designated by him, the leader of the Opposition and the Home Minister of the State." Dua has said freedom of the press is a fundamental right guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. The plea said the top court has been "emphasizing for distancing the police from the ruling party in the state" but "none of the major political parties which are in power in various states are ready to give up their control over the police". "There is a recent trend against the media where state governments which do not find a particular telecast to be in sync with their political ideologies register FIRs against persons of the media primarily to harass them and to intimidate them so that they succumb to the line of the state or else face the music at the hands of the police," the plea claimed. Lodging of FIR and coercive steps against Dua amounted to "direct and brazen violation" of his fundamental rights, the plea said. The plea claimed there is a concerted approach of authorities "to silence the media which is not palatable to them". It alleged that the FIR registered against Dua is "politically motivated" and is "purely to settle scores for critically evaluating the functioning of the central government at the present time of COVID". "The restriction imposed against free speech refers to issues which are a threat to public order, decency, morality, and the security of the state. In the case of the petitioner (Dua) facts which are publicly verifiable and are true have been treated as a ground for sedition and other serious offences which are far from the truth," it said. The plea said Dua is a senior citizen with co-morbidities, including hypertension and diabetes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-reserves-verdict-on-journalist-vinod-dua-s-plea-for-quashing-of-fir-898391.html
07-10-2020||National||Delhi court awards death penalty to man for 'cruel and gruesome' murder of 11-year-old boy||A Delhi court on Tuesday awarded death penalty to a 32-year man for killing an 11-year-old child after kidnapping him in 2009, saying the act was “cruel and gruesome" and did not deserve leniency. The court awarded the punishment to Jeevak Nagpal who was the victim's neighbour in Rohini in the national capital. “For such an act, the convict does not deserve any leniency and the life imprisonment is highly inadequate and there is no alternative but to impose death sentence,” Additional Sessions Judge Shivaji Anand said, terming the case "rarest of rare". “Upon consideration of the facts and circumstances of the present case, I am of the considered opinion that the act of convict was cruel and gruesome while committing the murder of an innocent child, who was hardly 12 years of age," the judge said. According to advocate Prashant Diwan, who appeared for the complainant, the convict had kidnapped the child on March 18, 2009 and sent several messages to his father demanding ransom. He also threatened that in case the ransom demand was not fulfilled, his son would be killed and his house destroyed. The convict thereafter murdered the child by causing him injuries with jack handle of his car and by smothering. After murdering the child, he threw the body in a dry drain. The court also imposed a fine of Rs 60,000 on the convict. Diwan told the court that an innocent child was kidnapped by the convict from the lawful guardianship of his parents, who were his neighbours, and breached their trust.  “Due to said act of the convict, the family of the victim child had to face trauma as the life of their son was at stake,” he said. The judge observed there was no doubt that the convict was in dominating position as the victim was an innocent child about to be 12 years only and the convict was well bodied boy. “The victim was therefore, hardly in a position to resist the sinister acts of the convict. Even after having committed the murder of the innocent child, the convict continued to send ransom messages to the family of the victim, which reflects depravity of his mind at the relevant time,” the judge noted. The convict was 21 years of age at the time of incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-court-awards-death-penalty-to-man-for-cruel-and-gruesome-murder-of-11-year-old-boy-898392.html
07-10-2020||National||NCERT textbooks to be available in Indian sign language||The National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) signed an MoU with the Indian Sign Language Research and Training Centre (ISLRTC) on Tuesday to make textbooks and other educational material accessible for deaf children in sign language. "The availability of NCERT textbooks in Indian Sign Language (ISL) will ensure that hearing-impaired children can also now access educational resources and it will be a useful and much-needed resource for teachers, teacher educators, parents and the hearing-impaired community," Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment Thawar Chand Gehlot said. According to officials of the ministry, the cognitive skills of children are developed in the childhood and it is necessary to provide them with educational material in accordance with their learning needs. "So far, hearing-impaired children used to study only through a verbal or written medium but after the signing of this MoU, they can study through a single Indian Sign Language also. It will not only enhance their vocabulary, but also enhance their capabilities to understand concepts," Secertary Shakuntala Gamlin said. The ISLRTC is an autonomous national institute of the social justice and empowerment ministry, which is dedicated to developing manpower for popularising the use of Indian Sign Language, teaching and conducting research. The memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed in the virtual presence of Gehlot and Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal "Nishank".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncert-textbooks-to-be-available-in-indian-sign-language-898393.html
07-10-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on October 7||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 67 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  84,62,838 as of October 7 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  125,923  No. of people discharged:  57,44,693      Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-october-7-898398.html
07-10-2020||National||DH Toon | SC seeks witness protection in 'shocking' Hathras rape case||The Supreme Court on Tuesday sought to know from the Uttar Pradesh government how it would ensure the protection of witnesses in the Hathras case related to the alleged gang-rape of a 19-year-old Dalit girl, as it termed the incident "shocking and horrible".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-sc-seeks-witness-protection-in-shocking-hathras-rape-case-898404.html
07-10-2020||National||Shaheen Bagh: SC to pronounce its judgment on right to protest||Supreme Court will pronounce its judgment on right to protest versus the right to way arising out of a PIL by advocate Amit Shahni against the Shaheen Bagh protest. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shaheen-bagh-sc-to-pronounce-its-judgment-on-right-to-protest-898448.html
07-10-2020||National||Shaheen Bagh verdict: Public places cannot be occupied indefinitely||The Supreme Court on Wednesday declared that public roads and spaces can't be occupied in an indefinite manner for protests, causing inconvenience to the people, as such demonstrations must be organised at designated places only. "Democracy and dissent go hand in hand, but then the demonstrations expressing dissent have to be in designated places alone," a three-judge bench presided over by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said in its judgement on Shaheen Bagh protests organised here against the Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019, blocking a prominent road connecting Delhi and Noida. The court reminded the protesters who occupied public places not only in Delhi but several prominent cities across the country that our constitutional scheme allowed the right to protest and express dissent, but with an obligation towards certain duties "What must be kept in mind, however, is that the erstwhile mode and manner of dissent against colonial rule cannot be equated with dissent in a self-ruled democracy," the bench said. The rights guaranteed by the Constitution enabled every citizen to assemble peacefully and protest against the actions or inactions of the State. This must be respected and encouraged for the strength of democracy, the court, however, added. The Shaheen Bagh predominantly by women and children started in December 2019 to oppose the CAA-NPR-NRC, was replicated across the country. The sit-in was lifted after about 100 days as "the hand of God subsequently intervened and overtook the situation" in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. The court noted that the protesters were aggrieved with the CAA whose validity of law was already pending, while the details of the National Register of Citizens were yet to be propounded.  "We have no hesitation in concluding that such kind of occupation of public ways, whether at the site in question or anywhere else for protests is not acceptable and the administration ought to take action to keep the areas clear of encroachments or obstructions," the bench said. The court rejected the contention of protesters that an indeterminable number of people can assemble whenever they choose to protest. The present case was not even one of the protests taking place in an undesignated area, but was a blockage of a public way which caused grave inconvenience to commuters, the court said. "While appreciating the existence of the right to peaceful protest, we have to make it unequivocally clear that public ways and public spaces cannot be occupied in such a manner and that too indefinitely," the bench, also comprising Justices Aniruddha Bose and Krishna Murari, said. In the instant case, the top court pointed out Delhi High Court should have monitored the matter, rather than asking the administration to take suitable action as per law. The bench also pulled up the administration, saying they should act as per their responsibility and should not hide behind the court orders or seek support for carrying out their functions. "The courts adjudicate the legality of the actions and are not meant to give a shoulder to the administration to fire their guns from. Unfortunately, despite a lapse of a considerable period of time, there was neither any negotiations nor any action by the administration, thus warranting our intervention," the court said. During the hearing, two interlocutors senior advocates Sanjay Hegde and Sadhana Ramachandran were appointed as an "out of the box solution" to talk to the protesters but "their efforts did not fructify into success".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shaheen-bagh-verdict-public-places-cannot-be-occupied-indefinitely-898452.html
07-10-2020||National||Nothing 'suspicious' in Rajput's finances that hints at Rhea's involvement: Report||The AIIMS report, which declared Rajput's death a "case of suicide", also went hand-in-hand with CBI's own findings after careful reconstruction of the incident. The CBI investigation found that of the over Rs 70 crore transactions from Rajput's bank accounts only Rs 55 lakh was associated with Rhea Chakraborty. Most of this expenditure included travel, gifts, and the spa, the report said.  The agency is now focusing on other concerns which may have led to Sushant taking his own life, including any role played by Chakraborty, the alleged nepotism in Bollywood, drug abuse and his own mental health issues.  “Chakraborty continues to be under scanner for abetment to suicide. But it is true CBI hasn’t yet found any motive for abetment. There was a forensic audit done of Rajput’s account. There is nothing concrete in the audit report to suggest that Chakraborty siphoned off funds and this led to the actor’s suicide. The expenses incurred by Rajput on her are comparatively small and can easily be explained as expenses on a friend. However, there are many angles to the suicide and our investigation is still on,” an official familiar with the matter said. However, the late actor's father K K Singh, in an FIR registered with the Bihar police, alleged that Rs 15 crore had been siphoned off Sushant's accounts and blamed Chakraborty for using the actor's money. But the CBI investigation confirms the AIIMS report and continues to reiterate that Rajput died by suicide. "“The crime scene recreation fit with the idea of suicide. There was no evidence of forced entry, no signs of struggle (during a scuffle) on the body and initial forensic reports did not suggest poisoning or sedation. The circumstances pointed towards suicide. But to be doubly sure, the matter was referred to a panel of doctors from AIIMS, which has now come to the same conclusion,” an official source told the publication. Rajput's expenses, the report said, included buying cars, bikes, and property. His expenses were also largely accounted for paying salaries for staff, PR agencies and taxes. The investigation agency is considering other reasons behind the incident, including professional rivalry and drug abuse. “We are also looking at drug consumption and the impact it may or may not have had on the actor’s mental health. Whether the consumption was voluntary or part of a design as alleged by the actor’s family is still under investigation,” the official said. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nothing-suspicious-in-rajputs-finances-that-hints-at-rheas-involvement-report-898461.html
07-10-2020||National||72,049 new Covid-19 cases take India's tally to 67.57 lakh||India's Covid-19 tally of cases climbed to 67.57 lakh with 72,049 new cases in a day, while 57,44,693 people have recuperated so far pushing the national recovery rate to 85.02 per cent on Wednesday, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 67,57,131, while the death toll climbed to 1,04,555 with the novel coronavirus virus claiming  986 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate has further declined to 1.55 per cent. There are 907883 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 13.44 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 8,22,71,654 samples have been tested up to October 6 with 11,99,857 samples being tested on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/72049-new-covid-19-cases-take-indias-tally-to-6757-lakh-898463.html
07-10-2020||National||M Venkaiah Naidu greets RAF personnel on force's 28th raising day||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday greeted personnel of the Rapid Action Force on the organisation's 28th raising day. The Rapid Action Force is part of the Central Reserve Police Force created specially to deal with riots and riot-like situations. It has 15 battalions. "I extend my best wishes to the brave hearts of Rapid Action Force on 28th RAF anniversary. The impeccable history of the force is laden with courage, excellence and devotion to duty," the Vice President Secretariat tweeted quoting Naidu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/m-venkaiah-naidu-greets-raf-personnel-on-forces-28th-raising-day-898483.html
07-10-2020||National||14-year-old Dalit girl killed by father, brother in Uttar Pradesh after she became pregnant||In a suspected case of honour killing, a 14-year old scheduled caste girl, who was pregnant, was 'beheaded' by her father and elder brother in Uttar Pradesh's Shahjahanpur district, about 175 kilometres from Lucknow. According to the police sources here, the body of the minor and the severed head were recovered from near a 'nullah' (drain), a few metres away from her native village of Dulhipur in the district on Tuesday. Police said that the minor had been having an affair with someone and was four months pregnant. She refused to reveal the name of the father of the unborn child despite being thrashed mercilessly by her father and brother. Around a fortnight back, the duo hit the minor with an axe severing her head. They then buried the body and the severed head in a field near the nullah. On Tuesday, some people saw a portion of the body protruding out of the soil and informed the cops. During interrogation, the father and brother of the girl allegedly admitted to killing the minor. ''She was pregnant though she was unmarried.. she also did not reveal the name of the father of the unborn child,'' her father Jagodhar told the cops. The SP said the accused wanted to marry his daughter to the man with whom she was in a relationship. The duo showed no remorse and said that they were left with no option but to kill the minor as the revelation that she was pregnant would have resulted in a social boycott of the family. "The girl's elder brother is also involved in the murder and we have booked both of them under IPC sections 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence)," a local police spokesman said. The police is also trying to identify the person responsible for the girl's pregnancy, he said, adding a probe is on in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/14-year-old-dalit-girl-killed-by-father-brother-in-uttar-pradesh-after-she-became-pregnant-898484.html
07-10-2020||National||Sushant Singh Rajput’s family writes to CBI Director over 'faulty forensic examination'||Late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s family has written to the CBI Director raising objections over forensic examination report submitted by AIIMS, calling it “faulty”.  The letter, sent through advocate Varun Singh, claimed that the leaked report, if correct, amounts to drawing a “biased and boastful” conclusion from insufficient evidence. Singh has requested that another forensic team be constituted by CBI so that a “fair and proper” assessment takes place with regard to the contents of post-mortem conducted by Cooper Hospital. Singh also claimed he has not received a copy of the AIIMS report in spite of repeatedly asking for it.  "I have been reading in the media about the report submitted by AIIMS to CBI with regard to the opinion expressed by CBI in the matter of the death of Sushant Singh Rajput on June 14, 2020. I have also seen some doctors who were part of the AIIMS Team come on TV and make statements with regard to the forensic examination done by the team," Varun said. The family has objected to the AIIMS report saying that Gupta-headed forensic team was not submitting a post-mortem report but was only to expressing its opinion on the findings of Cooper Hospital in Mumbai. "Gupta has been giving media interviews about the sensitive case right from day one, questioning the Doctors of Cooper Hospital for dubious autopsy and Maharashtra Police for hurried post-mortem and contamination and non-preservation of scene of crime," the letter said, adding that there were several infirmities in the post-mortem report done at the Cooper Hospital. Pointing infirmities, the letter said the post-mortem was done at night without there being any order of the Magistrate and the protocol was not followed as opined by several experts of forensic departments from all over the world. "The videography of the post-mortem was not done. Sufficient viscera was not retained for future examination. The time of the death was not mentioned in the post-mortem report. The injuries on the body were not specified and thus there was no opinion expressed of the cause of such injuries. "The leg which was fractured was not mentioned in the report. There were several other infirmities which could be pointed out by a genuine forensic examination but somehow the same have been left out by the AIIMS team as expressed by one of the doctors in his interview telecast by a TV channel," the letter alleged. It contended that Gupta recently got the incriminating content of the report, submitted to the CBI, leaked selectively to a couple of media houses, and irresponsibly commenting that the death of Sushant is “conclusively” a case of suicide and there is no foul play.  "Clearly the said leak is aimed at creating doubts in the mind of people, bailing out agencies who have not done their job as per rules and standard protocols, benefitting the culprits and derailing the course of ongoing investigation. "The conduct of Dr Sudhir Gupta is unethical, unprofessional, in contravention of government service conduct rules and MCI guidelines. This criminal misadventure on his part has undermined public trust in a premier institution like AIIMS. It has created doubts in the minds of millions of people about the fairness of investigation," the letter said. It said the forensic team of AIIMS has not given a categorical opinion on the flaws of the post-mortem done at the Cooper Hospital and have given a report which they were not supposed to do. Therefore, the matter needs to be referred to another forensic team to be constituted by CBI by picking up some of the best names in the field from the different hospital so that a fair and proper assessment takes place, the letter said. “The AIIMS report, if at all, could have only specified the cause of death i.e. by hanging and could not have gone to say that it is a case of suicide because that is something which only the CBI can decide after a complete investigation in the matter. The letter said that CBI may also inquire into the circumstances that led Gupta to indulge in such unprofessional conduct that threatens to jeopardise the course of an investigation and help wrong-doers escape the clutches of law. The AIIMS medical board has ruled out murder in the death of Rajput and termed it "a case of hanging and death by suicide," the premier institute's forensic chief Gupta said on Saturday. Rajput, 34, who made his silver screen debut in the critically acclaimed ''Kai Po Che'' seven years ago, was found dead in his apartment in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14. The CBI had taken over the probe from Bihar Police into the alleged abetment to suicide case filed by the actor's father K K Singh in Patna against Rajput's girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and her family. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushant-singh-rajput-s-family-writes-to-cbi-director-over-faulty-forensic-examination-898487.html
07-10-2020||National||IRCTC's Tejas 'corporate trains' to resume services from October 17||IRCTC, on Wednesday, said that it will restart operations of its two Tejas Express trains from October 17 between Lucknow-New Delhi and Ahmedabad-Mumbai. The services of these two trains were suspended on March 19 due to the coronavirus pandemic. "Use of face covers/masks will be mandatory for passengers and staff. All travelers will install the Arogya Setu app and the same shall be shown as and when demanded. Detailed instructions will be given to the passengers at the time of booking of tickets," IRCTC said, outlining the standard operating procedure (SOP) to be followed during the initial period because of the pandemic. It said that every alternate seat on the two trains would be kept vacant to ensure social distancing and passengers would be thermally screened before entering the coach and not allowed to exchange their seats once seated. It also added that passengers would be provided a "Covid-19 protection kit". It would contain a bottle of hand sanitisers, one mask, one face shield, and one pair of gloves. The coach, including the pantry areas and lavatories, will be disinfected at regular intervals. The luggage and baggage of the passengers would also be disinfected by a staff. The two Tejas Express services are the first set of trains run by a corporate entity, IRCTC, a subsidiary of the Indian Railways. The third IRCTC-operated train, the Kashi Mahakal Express between Indore and Varanasi will however not begin its services yet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/irctcs-tejas-corporate-trains-to-resume-services-from-october-17-898510.html
07-10-2020||National||HC seeks govt response on PIL against 30-day notice period under Special Marriage Act||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought response of the Centre and AAP government on an inter-faith couple's plea challenging the provision of issuing a public notice to invite objections to marriages under the Special Marriage Act (SMA). A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued notice to the Ministry of Law and Delhi government seeking their stand on the petition which contends that the 30-day notice period discourages inter-faith couples from getting married. Advocate Utkarsh Singh, appearing for the couple, said no such provision is there under the personal laws with regard to same-faith marriages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-seeks-govt-response-on-pil-against-30-day-notice-period-under-special-marriage-act-898512.html
07-10-2020||National||S Jaishankar holds talks with Australian counterpart Marise Payne in Tokyo||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Wednesday held bilateral talks with his Australian counterpart Marise Payne in Tokyo, covering a range of bilateral, regional and global issues. Jaishankar and Payne travelled to Tokyo to attend a ministerial meeting of the Quad or Quadrilateral coalition comprising India, the US, Australia and Japan. The 'Quad' foreign ministers' meeting took place on Tuesday. After his meeting with Payne, Jaishankar tweeted that the progress in bilateral ties following the virtual summit between prime ministers of the two countries was reviewed. "Warm meeting with my good friend FM @MarisePayne of Australia. Reviewed the progress in our bilateral ties after the Virtual Summit between our PMs. Discussed expanding our cooperation in global affairs & regional issues. Will work together more closely in multilateral forums," he said. The meeting took place in the backdrop of frosty relations of India and Australia with China. While India's ties with China nosedived over the five-month border standoff in eastern Ladakh, the relationship between Beijing and Canberra came under stress over trade related issues. It is understood that Jaishankar and Payne discussed key regional security challenges. The defence and security ties between India and Australia have been on an upswing in the last few years and both the countries even vowed to work together in the Indo-Pacific, a region that witnessed growing Chinese assertiveness. At an online summit on June 4 between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison, the two countries elevated their ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership and inked a landmark deal for reciprocal access to military bases for logistics support. The Mutual Logistics Support Agreement (MLSA) allows militaries of the two countries to use each other's bases for repair and replenishment of supplies besides facilitating scaling up of overall defence cooperation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/s-jaishankar-holds-talks-with-australian-counterpart-marise-payne-in-tokyo-898524.html
07-10-2020||National||Covid-19 recoveries exceeded active cases by over 48 lakh: Health Ministry||The number of people recovered from Covid-19 has exceeded those with active infection by more than 48 lakh as the recovery rate surpassed 85 per cent on Wednesday, the Union Health Ministry said. Nearly 57.50 lakh people have recovered so far, which is 6.32 times the active cases, it said, adding the sustained high levels of recoveries have widened the gap between active and recovered cases. "The national recovery rate has jumped past 85 per cent today with the continuous streak of high number of recovered cases being reported in the past few weeks. The recovered cases have exceeded the new confirmed again during the past 24 hours," the ministry said in a statement. As many as 82,203 recoveries have been registered in the last 24 hours and the total recovered cases have exceeded the active cases by more than 48 lakh, it said. The ministry said 75 per cent of the new recovered cases were reported from 10 states -- Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal and Delhi. "Maharashtra is topping the list with nearly 17,000 recoveries while Karnataka contribute more than 10,000 to the single-day recoveries," it said. The ministry also said 10 states and UTs account for 78 per cent of the new confirmed cases. "Maharashtra continues to lead this tally. It has contributed more than 12,000 followed by Karnataka with nearly 10,000 cases," it said. India's Covid-19 caseload climbed to 67.57 lakh and the death toll to 1,04,555. The fatality rate has however declined to 1.55 per cent, according to the health ministry data updated at 8am Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-recoveries-exceeded-active-cases-by-over-48-lakh-health-ministry-898528.html
07-10-2020||National||Facebook can't say no to summons of Delhi Assembly after appearing before Parliamentary panel: Official to SC||The Delhi Assembly Secretary told the Supreme Court that the Facebook official, having appeared before Parliamentary committee, cannot pick and choose and decline to depose as a witness before a panel on peace and harmony, examining the role of the social media giant in Delhi riots of February, 2020. In a response to a writ petition filed by Facebook India's Vice President Ajit Mohan against the panel's summons, the official, Sadanand Saha said, "It is the inherent right of the Legislature to examine matters of public importance and for that purpose to require the presence of persons who are performing a duty of public importance or who has expertise in the matter, before the Committee." In an affidavit, the official said Delhi Assembly is a privileged body and its members enjoy the freedom of speech in the House as well as the freedom to vote, and its members did have all the powers and privileges, which are enjoyed by the Members of Parliament. The reply said the committee on peace and harmony headed by MLA Raghav Chadha, was formed on March 2, 2020 following the Delhi Riots, as "serious questions have been raised on the role of Facebook as a platform to disseminate hate and divisiveness". The top court on September 23 issued notice to Delhi Assembly's Secretary on a petition by Mohan against summons by the committee. The petitioner led by senior advocate Harish Salve said the fundamental right to freedom of speech and expression included the right not to speak. He also pointed out that the public order and police were two subjects beyond the power and authority of Delhi Assembly. The Delhi Assembly's Secretary, in response, termed the plea as "premature and misconceived". He also clarified that the scope of the committee’s work was purely recommendatory including making positive recommendations to ensure peace and harmony in Delhi in the future. The Facebook official, as a witness, cannot claim his right to silence in response to the summons to depose before a lawful committee of an empowered legislature, he added. "Such a right is not a fundamental except when the person is an accused under Article 20 of the Constitution as was the case in Selvi v. State of Karnataka, (2010), a distinct case involving rights of accused in narco analysis and other techniques," the reply said. Maintaining that the right to remain silent is relevant only in a criminal investigation, the affidavit said the Facebook official was not an accused. It also pointed out the Facebook official has already deposed before the Parliament on some other issues and its representatives regularly deposed before legislatures across the world including in the USA. It further maintained, "No coercive action has been taken against the official and none was intended if he merely attended and participated in the proceedings as a witness." It claimed his claim for right to silence and violation of other fundamental rights was non-genuine and not in good faith.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/facebook-cant-say-no-to-summons-of-delhi-assembly-after-appearing-before-parliamentary-panel-official-to-sc-898542.html
07-10-2020||National||MP: Rs 50.90 lakh cash found in car in bypoll-bound Sanver||A static surveillance team (SST) deployed for the upcoming bypolls in Sanver Assembly constituency in Madhya Pradesh's Indore district recovered Rs 50.90 lakh cash from a car on Wednesday, police said. The by-elections for the 28 Assembly seats in the state will be held on November 3. Different teams have been deployed in Sanver, which has been declared as a sensitive area in view of the bypolls, to prevent illegal transportation and distribution of cash and liquor, an official from the district administration said. "The SST team found a bag containing Rs 50.90 lakh cash in a car on Indore-Ujjain Road in Sanver constituency," city superintendent of police (CSP) Nihit Upadhyaya said. The passenger of the car identified himself as Mohan Kumar Soni and claimed that he is an Itarsi-based bullion trader and was going to hand over the money to a person in connection with his business, the CSP said. Apart from the Election Commission, the Income Tax authorities were also informed about the recovery of cash and a team was interrogating the trader, he said, adding that the matter is being probed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mp-rs-5090-lakh-cash-found-in-car-in-bypoll-bound-sanver-898547.html
07-10-2020||National||NCW summons BJP leader Ranjeet Srivastava for offensive remarks against Hathras victim||The NCW on Wednesday summoned BJP leader Ranjeet Srivastava for reportedly making offensive remarks against a 19-year-old Dalit woman who died after allegedly being raped by four men in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras. The National Commission for Women said it has sent a notice to Srivastava, asking him to appear before it on October 26 at 11 am to give an explanation. The commission tweeted, "@NCWIndia strongly condemns the offensive and defamatory remarks made by political leader #RanjeetSrivastava regarding the #Hathras victim. The Commission has sent him a notice directing him to appear before NCW on October 26th at 11 AM to give an explanation." NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma said Srivastava is "not fit" to be called the leader of any party. "He is not fit to be called leader of any party. He is showing his primitive and sick mindset and I am going to send notice to him," Sharma earlier tweeted. According to media reports, Srivastava made offensive comments on the victim's character. The Dalit woman was allegedly raped in a Hathras village by four men on September 14. After her condition deteriorated, she was referred to Delhi's Safdarjung hospital where she succumbed to her injuries. She was cremated in early hours, with her family alleging the local police forced them to conduct the last rites in the dead of the night. Local police officers, however, had said the cremation was carried out "as per the wishes of the family". The incident led to protests across the country with people from different sectors demanding justice for the victim.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncw-summons-bjp-leader-ranjeet-srivastava-for-offensive-remarks-against-hathras-victim-898571.html
07-10-2020||National||POCSO Act has supremacy over Atrocities Act: Gujarat HC||The Gujarat High Court has held that the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act has supremacy over the Atrocities Act, as the caste of a child cannot override or prejudice his or her security and well-being. The court gave the ruling on Monday in a case of rape of a minor girl from a scheduled caste, when the Gujarat government objected to the bail plea of the accused not filed as per the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. In its order on maintanability of a bail plea of an accused held for raping a minor who is from a scheduled caste, Justice A S Supehia held that "the caste of a child cannot override or prejudice the security and well-being of a child". "Thus, a bare glance on the laudable objects of the POCSOAct will illuminate its supremacy on the Atrocity Act though both the Acts can be termed as Special Acts," the court said in its order. "The comparative analysis of provisions of both the Acts leads to sole conclusion, that the legislature in its wisdom has conferred precedence on the POCSO Act above the Atrocity Act," the HC said. The court's deliberation on the issue of whether the social status of the child eclipses his or her safety came up in the bail application of the accused, Vikram Maliwad, who has been booked under provisions of both the Acts. The accused,through his lawyer Rahil Jain, had filed a bail application under Section 439 of the CrPC (dealing with special powers of high court or sessions court regarding bail). The accused was arrested on May 22 this year and offences were registered at Lunawada police station in the state's Mahisagar district against him under Indian Penal Code sections for rape and disappearance of evidence, as well as provisions of the POCSO Act and the Atrocities Act. His bail plea was rejected by an additional sessions judge (Special Pocso and Special Atrocity Judge), following which he approached the high court. The state government opposed his bail on the grounds of maintainability, saying the plea should have been filed under the Atrocities Act Section 14-A(2) (regarding appeal for bail in the HC against an order of a special court granting or refusing bail), and not Section 439 of the CrPC. The lawyer of the accused argued that the above section will not apply in a case involving offences under both the POCSO and Atrocities Acts. In such a case, only the bail application under CrPC Section 439 would be maintainable, he said. He also held that the POCSO Act would prevail over the Atrocities Act, and hence the plea has been filed under Section 439 of the CrPC. Accepting his argument, the high court directed its registry to "register the bail application under Section 439 of the CrPC in case the same is filed pertaining to offences registered under both the POCSO Act and the Atrocity Act".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pocso-act-has-supremacy-over-atrocities-act-gujarat-hc-898603.html
07-10-2020||National||Delhi riots were 'big conspiracy' to disturb country, says MoS Nityanand Rai||The riots in Delhi this year were a "big conspiracy" to disturb the country but security forces like the Rapid Action Force (RAF) played an important role in "suppressing the elements that spread anarchy" during the time, Union minister Nityanand Rai said on Wednesday. The minister of state for home was addressing RAF troops on the occasion of the force's 28th anniversary, or raising day, at a Central Reserve Police Force camp here. The RAF is a special anti-riot wing of the CRPF and was raised in 1992. "A big conspiracy was deployed to disturb the country through the Delhi riots that took place this year. The RAF played an important role in suppressing the elements that spread anarchy and ensured peace," Rai said in his address to the troops. He added that RAF personnel had "completely defeated" the nefarious designs of the rioters. "You suffer damage and injury during riots and protests...but you use force only when violent groups start troubling the peace of society," the minister added. The RAF was deployed during the communal violence that broke out in northeast Delhi in February, killing 53 people and injuring about 200. Delhi Police has filed multiple chargesheets before a Delhi court in these cases. The RAF has 15 battalions (over 15,000 personnel) based in various parts of the country. Union Home Minister Amit Shah also greeted RAF personnel on the occasion. "Greetings to RAF personnel and their families on their 28th anniversary. RAF has distinguished itself in dealing with the challenges relating to law and order," the minister said on Twitter. "Time and again, their commitment in several humanitarian works and UN peacekeeping missions has made India proud," he added. Rai, who reviewed a parade of the RAF personnel at the CRPF academy here, said maintaining internal security and peace are "two very important" factors for the development of a country. He lauded CRPF personnel for killing top commanders of terror groups operating in the Kashmir valley and said the force has worked to defeat "Pakistan sponsored" terrorist activities in that region. "These are big achievements made by you," he said. CRPF Director General A P Maheshwari also addressed his troops and said security forces and special units like the RAF now have a new challenge in the form of fake and inciting messages spread through social media. "Earlier, the protests were supposed to be countered in the physical space but now we see radicalisation being spread through cyber space," Maheshwari said. He added that his force is prepared to tackle these new challenges. Maheshwari said the CRPF will undertake a mega awareness campaign on COVID-19 related protocols in the country. The aim, he added, is to reach about 12 crore citizens. "A meeting was held in the home ministry yesterday...it was decided that a campaign underlining three things, wearing a mask, washing hands and ensuring social or physical distancing, should be ensured by everyone to check the coronavirus spread." "All the security forces, including the CRPF, will undertake this campaign in their respective areas. We aim to get in touch with 12 crore people through our 1,600 bases in the country over the next 100 days," the DG said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-riots-were-big-conspiracy-to-disturb-country-says-mos-nityanand-rai-898608.html
07-10-2020||National||Over 1 crore children aged between 5 and 14 forced to work as coronavirus batters India||His hands caked with paint and dust, Aakash looks right at home working at an auto repair shop -- except that he is a minor, one of millions forced into the Indian labour market. AFP this week accompanied Bachpan Bachao Andolan (BBA), a children's rights group whose founder won the Nobel Peace Prize, as it conducted raids together with police in New Delhi. Early Tuesday, Syed Arshad Mehdi, a 20-year BBA veteran, walked into the auto shop and gently led Aakash (not his real name) out into the morning light. Aakash at first denied he worked at the garage, but Mehdi turned the teenager's hands around in his own, saying softly: "Look at your hands, they are full of paint and dust." He and 11 other boys, all believed to be aged below 18 and made to work 16-hour days for a pittance, were picked up in restaurants and a garage that night. They were taken to the district magistrate's office, where handwritten pieces of paper numbering from one to 12 were stapled on their T-shirts as face masks hid their expressions. Each boy was called up to a desk, where they were asked their name, age, the village and state where they had come from, how many hours they worked and what they were paid. After health checks, a Covid-19 test and help to reclaim their full wages, they will be sent back to their family homes -- often poor villages and towns across northern India. Employers can be charged with child labour, bonded labour and trafficking, but successful prosecutions are rare. Under the law, children under 14 are prohibited from working in most situations, while those between 14 and 18 are barred from being employed in hazardous occupations -- which includes some restaurant work. BBA has rescued 1,200 children since April, but more and more are being sent to work because of the epidemic, the organisation's Dhananjay Tingal told AFP. The months-long coronavirus lockdown has devastated Asia's third-largest economy and millions of Indians have lost their livelihoods. As a result, more poor children were being pushed to take up jobs to help support their families. Children were also seen by employers as willing to work extremely long hours for even lower pay than adults, making them open to exploitation and abuse, Tingal said. "The conditions in the villages... are very bad," Tingal said. "Families now need maximum hands at work to earn money. If we don't take corrective action right now, this will only worsen."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-1-crore-children-aged-between-5-and-14-forced-to-work-as-coronavirus-batters-india-898615.html
07-10-2020||National||India, Japan finalise pact for cooperation in 5G tech, AI and critical information infra||India is set to ink an agreement with Japan for cooperation in the 5G technology and the security of the critical information infrastructure – amid growing concern over snooping by the telecom companies of China. The text of the agreement was finalized as External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Japanese Foreign Minister Toshimitsu Motegi met in Tokyo on Wednesday. It was also discussed and approved for signing during a meeting of the Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi later on the day. The agreement is likely to be signed when Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his new counterpart in Japan, Yoshihide Suga, will hold a virtual summit. The pact will set the framework for India-Japan cooperation in capacity building, research and development, security and resilience in the areas of Critical Information Infrastructure, 5G, Internet of Things (IoT) and Artificial Intelligence (AI), according to a statement released by the Ministry of External Affairs in New Delhi. The move by New Delhi and Tokyo to step up bilateral cooperation in secure digital connectivity comes amid concerns over the snooping by the Huawei Technologies Company and the ZTE Corporation of China. Tokyo had in December 2018 banned use of the equipment made by the Huawei Technologies Company in rolling out the 5G technology in Japan, just months after President Donald Trump’s administration did so in the US. Japan’s telecom giants Rakuten Mobile Inc, NTT Docomo Inc., KDDI Corp. and SoftBank Corp. already launched 5G mobile internet service. Notwithstanding pressure from the US to exclude the companies based in China, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government had on December 30 last year announced its decision to let all network equipment makers, including the Huawei Technologies Co Ltd., to participate in the 5G trial in India. In the wake of the stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, New Delhi, however, earlier this year banned the use of several apps linked to the companies based in the communist country. But the Modi Government last month informed Parliament that it had no plan to keep the Huawei Technologies Company and the ZTE Corporation of China out of the 5G rollout in India. Jaishankar and Motegi on Wednesday agreed that “a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region must be premised on diversified and resilient supply chains”. India, Japan and Australia recently launched a supply chain resilience initiative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-japan-finalise-pact-for-cooperation-in-5g-tech-ai-and-critical-information-infra-898622.html
07-10-2020||National||Actor Payal Ghosh meets MoS Home after accusing filmmaker Anurag Kashyap of sexual assault||Bollywood actor Payal Ghosh on Wednesday met Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy and sought “speedy justice”, in the wake of her allegation of sexual misconduct against filmmaker Anurag Kashyap. “Met up with Shri G Krishan Reddy who is the MOS of @AmitShah ji at @HMOIndia and also the minister of state of home ministry and had a very fruitful and forwarded conversation on the issue. It's an issue faced by many and now is the time to act (sic),” she tweeted. The meeting came about a fortnight after the Mumbai Police registered an FIR against Kashyap following Ghosh's accusation that he had sexually assaulted her in 2013. The filmmaker has dismissed the allegations as “baseless”. Before meeting the union minister, Ghosh told reporters that she has come “to seek speedy justice”. “I will ask for intervention of the home ministry, if required. I have already met the NCW (National Commission for Women),” she said. Ghosh, however, did not speak to journalists after meeting the minister. She had also tweeted in the morning: “I am heading to @HMOIndia to meet the officials. It's a fight to the end and no fake agenda can deter me. Bring it on. #LetTruthComeOut”. The FIR was registered under the Indian Penal Code Sections 376 (I) (rape), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 342 (wrongful confinement), police had said. In her complaint, the actor had alleged that Kashyap had raped her at a place on Yari Road in Versova in 2013. Kashyap vehemently denied the actor's allegation and termed it as an attempt to “silence” him for his outspoken views. He has also said that at the time of the alleged incident, he was in Sri Lanka and that he was actively pursuing legal options. Kashyap's lawyer Priyanka Khimani said on October 2: "Mr Kashyap has categorically denied that any such alleged incident ever took place and has also denied all allegations levelled against him".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/actor-payal-ghosh-meets-mos-home-after-accusing-filmmaker-anurag-kashyap-of-sexual-assault-898628.html
07-10-2020||National||Govt allows gas marketing freedom||The government on Wednesday allowed complete marketing freedom for natural gas produced from non-regulated fields, including sale to affiliate companies. The Union Cabinet, headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, approved a standard e-bidding procedure to discover the price of gas. While producers will continue to be barred from participating in such auctions, affiliates would be allowed to bid, Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan told reporters here. However, the existing pricing mechanism for gas produced by state-owned ONGC and Oil India Ltd from fields given to them on a nomination basis would continue. The marketing reform would help add 40 metric million standard cubic metres per day (mmscmd) of production to the existing output of 84 mmscmd, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-allows-gas-marketing-freedom-898632.html
07-10-2020||National||Indian mom survives Covid-19, delivers baby in UAE||An Indian woman in the UAE gave birth to a baby after having contracted Covid-19 in the final trimester of her pregnancy that resulted in a near-death experience. Asfia Samreen delivered the baby boy in September after she contracted coronavirus in May, Gulf News reported on Tuesday. "Congratulations to Asfia Samreen, who after a long and difficult battle with Covid-19 in the final trimester of her pregnancy, delivered a healthy baby boy," the Abu Dhabi Health Services Company (SEHA) announced on its social media platforms on Wednesday. It was a miraculous escape for the Indian homemaker from a series of troubles started with her expired medical insurance, the much-needed protection during the pregnancy. Her husband, an electrical engineer, could not get his family's medical insurance renewed as his employer was going through a crisis, reported WAM, the official news agency of the UAE. "This was all possible thanks to Mrs Samreen’s perseverance, and the hard work, dedication and care of the medical teams at both Corniche Hospital and Sheikh Shakhbout Medical City (SSMC)," SEHA said. Samreen, who is from Hyderabad, was in the 24th week of her pregnancy when she tested positive on May 6. She was admitted to Cornich Hospital, the capital’s premier public maternity hospital, on May 7. "At one point, the doctors had thought of inducing an early delivery of the baby as they were not sure of saving my life,” Samreen said. "They told me that I was about to die so they wanted to save the baby, although I didn't know anything," she said, adding that her husband also tested positive for Covid-19. On 7th May, Samreen was suffering from multiple ailments and got admitted at the Corniche Hospital in Abu Dhabi. Although she did not have medical insurance, the hospital under SEHA offered her all the necessary treatments. After seven days, as her condition worsened, she was moved to the UAE's largest hospital for serious and complex care, under SEHA. She was unconscious for the next five days (May 13 to May 17) as her respiratory system and kidneys were dysfunctional.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-mom-survives-covid-19-delivers-baby-in-uae-898634.html
07-10-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Rhea Chakraborty gets bail; 2 women win Nobel prize for Chemistry||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Emmanuelle Charpentier of France and Jennifer Doudna of the United States won the Nobel Chemistry Prize; Rhea Chakraborty granted bail; Amazon has joined hands with IRCTC;  Chinese experimental coronavirus vaccine shown to be safe in an early-stage clinical trial; Dasara festival may be confined to the Mysuru Palace and Chamundi Hills this year and Greece's neo-Nazi party Golden Dawn was branded a criminal organisation.  Here are the top stories of October 7, 2020: Emmanuelle Charpentier of France and Jennifer Doudna of the United States on Wednesday won the Nobel Chemistry Prize for developing the gene-editing technique known as the CRISPR-Cas9 DNA snipping "scissors". Charpentier, 51, and Doudna, 56, are just the sixth and seventh women to receive the Nobel Prize in Chemistry. The CRISPR/Cas9 tool has already contributed to significant gains in crop resilience, altering their genetic code to better withstand drought and pests. The technology has also led to innovative cancer treatments, and many experts hope it could one day make inherited diseases curable through gene manipulation. The Bombay High Court on Wednesday granted bail to actor-model Rhea Chakraborty – the live-in partner of late Bollywood star Sushant Singh Rajput. The bail was granted to her on a personal bond of Rs 1 lakh. "Rhea should mark her presence for 10 days in a police station after release, deposit her passport, not travel abroad without court permission and inform investigating officer if she has to leave Greater Mumbai," the court said.  The bench has also allowed the bail applications of Sushant Singh Rajput's domestic helps Samuel Miranda and Dipesh Sawant. However, the bench has rejected the bail applications of Rhea's brother Showik Chakraborty and Abdel Basith Parihar. Amazon has joined hands with the state-run Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation’ (IRCTC) to offer the facility to book reserved train tickets to customers on its e-commerce mobile app. The new service is already live in India. Users can find the new 'trains' option in the Amazon Pay tab. As part of the launch offer, the company has waived off service and payment gateway transaction charges for a limited time. A Chinese experimental coronavirus vaccine being developed by the Institute of Medical Biology under the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences was shown to be safe in an early-stage clinical trial, researchers said. In a Phase 1 trial of 191 healthy participants aged between 18 and 59, vaccination with the group's experimental shot showed no severe adverse reactions, its researchers said on Tuesday in a paper posted on medRxiv preprint server ahead of peer review. The most common adverse reactions reported by the trial participants were mild pain, slight fatigue and redness, itching and swelling at the injection site. As part of checking the spread of COVID-19, Karnataka Health Minister B Sriramulu said on Wednesday there is a general view that the Dasara festival should be confined to the Mysuru Palace and Chamundi Hills this year. According to him, a panel of technical experts will formulate the action plan on behalf of the district administration for the 'State festival'. The action plan will be finalised after discussing with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, he said. Greece's neo-Nazi party Golden Dawn was branded a criminal organisation Wednesday, its leaders facing heavy sentences in one of the most important trials in the country's political history. The judgment came as police and anti-fascist demonstrators clashed outside the courthouse, on the sidelines of a large protest of some 15,000 people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-rhea-chakraborty-gets-bail-2-women-win-nobel-prize-for-chemistry-898635.html
07-10-2020||National||Former NCW chairperson, members come down heavily on NCW||A former chairperson and two ex-members of the National Commission for Women (NCW) on Wednesday came down heavily on the women's body for its handling of the Hathras gangrape case, claiming that it is speaking "measured words from the comfort of their official houses". The open letter by former NCW Chairperson Mohini Giri and former members Padma Seth and Syeda Hameed said the statutory bodies for women -- the NCW and the State Commissions for Women -- are maintaining a "studied silence" on issues related to women. They said NCW was a force to reckon with in the 1990s and its two-point agenda was to make systemic changes in laws and policies to empower women and to fight tooth and nail wherever women were violated, regardless of which political dispensation ruled the Centre or states. "Its eye was blind to imperatives of power," they said. "Today what we are seeing is the slow death of Women's Commissions, bodies which were created by hard work of mentors like Pramila Dandavate, Vimla Farooqui, Susheela Gopalan, Geeta Mukherjee, Margaret Alva...Recent role or non-role of NCW and SCW in the heinous Hathras incident proves the point," the letter said. The letter referred to the response of NCW Chairperson Rekha Sharma on BJP IT Cell Amit Malviya sharing a video of the victim in which she called it "unfortunate and illegal" while the SCW Chairperson described the incident "definitely objectionable". "While people from political parties and civil society groups went to condole and offer solidarity to the bereaved family, these apex bodies for women with statutory powers spoke measured words from the comfort of their official houses," it said. The letter also referred to incidents in which NCW took a strong stand, including acting on a complaint filed by BSP chief Mayawati in 1997 June against Samajwadi Party supremo Mulayam Singh Yadav, the then Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister, for using abusive language against her. Singh sent his aide Amar Singh to depose before the Commission and the latter apologised on behalf of the then Chief Minister. In 1998, the letter said, the NCW took cognizance of an attack on actresses Shabana Azmi and Nandita Das during the shooting of Deepa Mehta's Fire and summoned the attackers. In 1996 during a function attended by the then Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda, it said, the then NCW Chairperson expressed anguish at the interference of the central government and took out her resignation letter to announce that the entire Commission would resign unless it was given its due dignity as a statutory body. The then Minister of State B S Ramoowalia later apologised and assured that the NCW would be given its due dignity as a statutory body. Another incident cited in the letter was the summoning of the then Prasar Bharati Chairperson following complaints that women newsreaders in Doordarshan were discriminated against on account of their "looks and age". "Such anecdotes, numerous as they are, exist on record for anyone to examine," the letter added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-ncw-chairperson-members-come-down-heavily-on-ncw-898637.html
07-10-2020||National||Highway works worth Rs 11,000 cr underway for Tamil Nadu-Puducherry connectivity: Gadkari||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Wednesday said highway works worth Rs 11,000 crore were underway for Tamil Nadu-Puducherry connectivity. Dedicating to the nation Rs 35 crore road-over-bridge on NH 45-A at Puducherry, the minister said this will ease traffic congestion. Inaugurating the one-kilometre long Road-Over-Bridge across Railway Level Crossing on NH 45-A at Arumparthapuram, Puducherry, built at a cost of Rs 35 crore, the minister said the project is envisaged to bring relief to public from traffic jam resulting in saving of time and fuel, safe commutation, reduction in pollution, closure of level crossing, and unhindered passage of railway traffic. The Road Transport and Highways Minister said the work under progress is in an aggregate length of 287 km for an amount of about Rs 11,000 crore for Tamil Nadu - Puducherry Connectivity. The four-laning of NH-45 shall provide unhindered connectivity of Puducherry with Karaikal port as well as the road which is leading up to Kanyakumari. This will also give impetus to agriculture and fishing, he said. During the last six years, the minister said Rs 70 crore has been spent on national highway construction in Puducherry. These include the Mahabalipuram to Mugaiyur section of NH-332 A, Mugaiyur to Marakkanam section of NH -332 A, Viluppuram to Puducherry section of NH -45A, Puducherry to Poondiyankuppam section of NH -45A, Poondiyankuppam to Sattanathapuram section of NH-45A, and Sattanathapuram to Nagapattinam section of NH-45A. Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways V K Singh said the ministry is trying to provide full connectivity of Puducherry with Tamil Nadu and other regions of the country. He said the work on strengthening of 8 km long road from Madagadipet state border to Ariyur Village at an expenditure of Rs 9 crore is likely to be completed by the coming December. He further said detailed project report preparation is in progress for Marakkanam - Koonimedu Section of NH 332 A and Puducherry Bypass, construction of Grade separator at Rajiv Gandhi Square, and construction of Grade separator at Indira Gandhi Square, at a tentative cost of Rs 1,354 crore. Lt Governor of the UT of Puducherry Kiran Bedi complemented the central government for fulfilling the aspirations of the people of the UT. She cautioned against the cost over-run of delayed projects, as it causes further delay. She proposed conducting refresher courses for road construction engineers, including PWD officers. Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy and Minister for Public Works A Namassivayam also addressed the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/highway-works-worth-rs-11000-cr-underway-for-tamil-nadu-puducherry-connectivity-gadkari-898647.html
07-10-2020||National||She had affair with one of the accused, all 4 youths are innocent: BJP leader on Hathras rape victim||A senior BJP leader in the state shamed the Hathras gang-rape victim and expressed support for the accused persons. "Why are such girls found in cane, millet fields, gutters, bushes and forests and not rice or paddy fields? Why did she go there? She had an affair with one of the accused," BJP leader Ranjeet Bahadur Srivastava said. Srivastava claimed that she must have asked her 'lover' to meet her in the millet fields. "The family members of the girl must have caught her with the boy and killed her for the sake of honour," he added. "I can say with certainty that all the four accused youths are innocent... proper investigation will reveal their innocence... they must be released pending the investigation," he said. National Women Commission chairperson Rekha Sharma said that she would send a notice to Srivastava seeking an explanation from him. "He does not deserve to be called a leader," she said. Srivastava had earlier also made controversial remarks and faces dozens of cases, including one on trying to instigate communal violence. His wife was the chairperson of Barabanki Municipality in UP. A few days back, BJP legislator Surendra Singh had said that rapes could be prevented only by inculcating proper moral values in the people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/she-had-affair-with-one-of-the-accused-all-4-youths-are-innocent-bjp-leader-on-hathras-rape-victim-898660.html
07-10-2020||National||Union Cabinet approves MoU between Zoological Survey of India, Canada's iBOL||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a Memorandum of Understanding between India's Zoological Survey of India (ZSI) and Canada's not-for-profit organisation International Barcode of Life (iBOL). The Union Cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave its nod to the MoU, which was signed in June 2020 between ZSI, a subordinate organisation under Ministry of Environment, and iBOL, a statement said. ZSI and iBOL have come together to further efforts in DNA barcoding, a methodology for rapidly and accurately identifying species by sequencing a short segment of standardized gene regions and comparing individual sequences to a reference database, it said.    iBOL is a research alliance involving nations that have committed both human and financial resources to enable expansion of the global reference database, the development of informatics platforms, and/or the analytical protocols needed to use the reference library to inventory, assess, and describe biodiversity.   The MoU will enable ZSI to participate in global level programmes like Bioscan and Planetary Biodiversity Mission, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-cabinet-approves-mou-between-zoological-survey-of-india-canadas-ibol-898674.html
07-10-2020||National||M A Ganapathy is new DG of Bureau of Civil Aviation Security||Senior IPS officer M A Ganapathy has been appointed as the Director of the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security. Ganapathy, a 1986 batch officer of the Uttarakhand cadre, was the special director general of the Central Industrial Security Force, in-charge of the airport sector. The Cabinet Committee on Appointments, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, granted its approval to the proposal to appoint Ganapathy to the post, which he will hold till his retirement on February 29, 2024. Ganapathy succeeds Rakesh Asthana, who was appointed as the Director General of the Border Security Force in August. Asthana also holds the charge of the Director General of the Narcotics Control Bureau. Earlier, Ganapathy also served as Joint Secretary, in-charge of internal security, in the Union Home Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/m-a-ganapathy-is-new-dg-of-bureau-of-civil-aviation-security-898683.html
07-10-2020||National||Truck originating from other states potential carriers of coronavirus: Mamata||Expressing concern over the recent surge in Covid-19 cases in Bengal's Jhargram, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, during an administrative meeting in the district on Wednesday, said trucks and lorries originating from other states might be carriers of coronavirus. Banerjee also said that there was no clear idea yet over the modes of virus transmission, and it was necessary to conduct "forensic tests" on truck tyres to ensure they were not infected. "We should not forget that Jhargram shares border with Jharkhand. There are trucks from Mumbai, Chennai and other states passing through the district. We can conduct forensic tests on the tyres of a couple of lorries that pass through the toll plaza to see if the virus is spreading through these," she maintained. The chief minister further claimed that it cannot be said for sure if the virus spreads from the clothes people wear and the bags we carry. "I think this (Covid-19) is also air-borne. We actually do not have a clear idea of how it is spreading, if it can get transmitted from the bag we are using in the market or from the clothes... The only thing that we can do is take appropriate precautionary measures. And since cases are on the rise in Jhargram, we have to take measures in advance," Banerjee explained. She said that truck driver coming to the state from elsewhere should carry their own food. "People coming in lorries from other states, such as Delhi, Mumbai or Chennai, must carry their own food. The virus might be spreading when these people sit in dhabas to eat food. "If they want to eat in dhabas, proper sanitisation and health protocol should be followed there," she said asking the administration to chalk out a plan in this connection. Urging people to strictly follow safety guidelines, the chief minister said her government would distribute masks to the poor free of cost. "I saw people moving around without masks here. If needed, they should be given masks by the police during Durga Pujas through community development programmes," she said. Of the 79 gram panchayats in Jhargram, 10 has been affected by the disease, a senior official said. The district currently has 209 active cases, while 10 people have succumbed to the infection so far, according to the bulletin released by the state health department. The CM, during the meeting, also asked the district administration to identify a piece of land, where a press club could be constructed. She highlighted various welfare schemes initiated by her government, and enlisted policies beneficial for the scheduled caste and tribal population. Banerjee asked the district officials to ensure all beneficiaries receive their dues without any hassle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/truck-originating-from-other-states-potential-carriers-of-coronavirus-mamata-898699.html
07-10-2020||National||Ladakh to get more than 6th schedule benefits under Modi govt: Anurag Thakur||Allaying Ladakhis’ fear of losing jobs and land, Union minister Anurag Thakur on Wednesday asserted that the Centre would provide more than what was there in the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution, a demand which had gained momentum after the region was declared a separate Union territory last year. The Minister of State for Finance was in Leh to kick-start the official campaign of the BJP for the upcoming polls to the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC) Leh - the first democratic exercise in the Union territory. The 26 seats of LAHDC Leh are going to polls on October 22 and is likely to witness a keen battle between the BJP, Congress, and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) which is trying its luck for the first time in the region. None of the regional parties, including the National Conference and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has jumped into the fray. “You need not have even one per cent concern (about the protection of land and jobs)… you will get more than what is there in the sixth schedule under the leadership of Modi. Your land, culture, ethnic values and traditions will all get protected under our government,” Thakur told reporters here. The sixth schedule seeks to safeguard the rights of the tribal population through the formation of Autonomous District Councils (ADC). Responding to a question on the protection of Ladakhis’ land from outsiders, he said a deliberate campaign was launched to mislead the public and divert their attention from the Centre's wholehearted measures to develop Ladakh on the modern lines with special focus on its economy. “I am a fourth term MP from Himachal Pradesh and my father was a three-time MP and two-time chief minister. We are living in the land for generations, but we cannot buy land in tribal areas. The non-agriculturists cannot buy agricultural land in Himachal Pradesh because of Section 118 (of Himachal Pradesh Tenancy and Land Reforms Act, 1972) which protects the landholding for the locals and we do not have a sixth schedule in force there,” he said. The recently floated ‘Peoples Movement for Sixth Schedule for Ladakh’, a powerful platform having representatives from various political, religious, and social organisations, had last month withdrawn its poll boycott call after meeting Union Home Minister Amit Shah and highlighted its various demands including protection of land and jobs. “Today is a great day for Indian history as our prime minister completed 20 years of public service which is full of achievements and commitment to take India to the new heights of progress… PM Modi has fulfilled your long-cherished dream of getting Union territory (UT) status and opening the gates for massive development of the region,” Thakur underlined. Seeking votes for the party candidates, he said it was now the turn of the people of Leh to elect BJP representatives so that Modi at the Centre and the party’s local representatives join hands to achieve all-round development of the region. “… when you vote BJP leaders to power in LAHDC, no power on the earth can stop the development of Ladakh because there will be better coordination and understanding between New Delhi and Ladakh,” he added. On asked about certain party workers leaving BJP ahead of the elections, Ladakh BJP MP Jamyang Tsering Namgyal, who was also present at the press conference, said there was no rebellion but some people have left because they were denied the mandate by the party. “This house belongs to them and after election, they will return to the party fold,” he said, adding that the mandate was on the basis of inputs from the ground level. On LAHDC, Leh chairman reportedly staging a dharna in front of Lt Governor R K Mathur inside the Raj Bhavan, the MP said it was heartening to note that he took the step for the people of Ladakh. “The council Act remained unchanged even after the UT status as not a single word was deleted. He (LAHDC, Leh chairman) staged a sit-in because our people, including students, were stranded outside Ladakh due to COVID-19 and he wanted them back as soon as possible,” Namgyal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ladakh-to-get-more-than-6th-schedule-benefits-under-modi-govt-anurag-thakur-898702.html
07-10-2020||National||Union Minister Pralhad Joshi tests positive for Covid-19||Union Minister of Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi on Wednesday said he has tested positive for Covid-19 and was under home quarantine. "I have tested positive for #COVID19 . As I am asymptomatic, as per doctor's advice I am in home quarantine," he tweeted. Joshi, an MP from Dharwad Lok Sabha constituency, played a crucial role in the conduct of the recent Parliament session amid the pandemic in his capacity as the Parliamentary Affairs Minister.  Joshi is the latest addition to prominent politicians from the state who have tested positive for Covid-19. Most of them have either recovered or under recovery. They include Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, several Ministers in the state cabinet and a number of legislators. The state has also lost a few public representatives due to coronavirus like Belagavi BJP MP and former Union Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi, BJP Rajya Sabha member Ashok Gasti and Basavakalyan Congress MLA B Narayan Rao.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-minister-pralhad-joshi-tests-positive-for-covid-19-898704.html
07-10-2020||National||Former CBI director Ashwani Kumar dies by suicide||Former Governor and ex-CBI Director Ashwani Kumar on Wednesday died by suicide, officials said. Kumar (69) was found hanging in his house in Shimla. He was said to be under depression for some time. He was the Governor of Manipur from July 2013 to December 2014 before being transferred to Nagaland where he served till June 2014. He resigned from the post after Narendra Modi-led NDA government assumed power in May 2014. Kumar, a 1973-batch IPS officer, was appointed CBI Director on 2 August 2008 and retired on 30 November 2010. A former Director-General of Police of Himachal Pradesh, he had worked in positions in CBI and elite SPG. He was a PhD holder from Shimla University.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-cbi-director-ashwani-kumar-dies-by-suicide-898715.html
07-10-2020||National||Top firms in race to operate private trains in India||Several top firms including L&T Infrastructure Development Projects Limited, IRB Infrastructure and GMR group are in the race to operate private passenger trains in the country. Indian Railways has received a massive response from private companies for its plan to allow private players to operate passenger trains. The Railways on Wednesday opened bidding for private players for Request for Qualifications (RFQ) to operate passengers trains A total of 15 companies submitted 120 applications for 12 clusters to operate trains, the Railways said in a statement. The companies that sent in their applications were -- Megha Engineering and Infrastructures Limited, Sainath Sales and Services Pvt Ltd, IRB Infrastructure Developers Limited, Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC), GMR Highways Limited, Welspun Enterprises Limited, Gateway Rail Freight Limited, Cube Highways and Infrastructure III Pte Ltd, Malempati Power Private Limited, L&T Infrastructure Development Projects Limited, RK Associates and Hoteliers Pvt Ltd, Construcciones y Auxiliar de Ferrocarriles, S.A, PNC Infratech Ltd, Arvind Aviation and Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL). The Railways had earlier invited Request for Qualifications (RFQ) for private participation in the operation of passenger train services over 12 clusters comprising 140 Origin Destination pairs of routes through the introduction of 151 modern trains. The private entities would be selected through a transparent two-stage competitive bidding process comprising the Request for Qualification (RFQ) and the Request for Proposal (RFP). The RFP documents will be made available to the qualified applicants by November 2020. The Railways aimed at awarding all the clusters by February 2021. This is the first major initiative of attracting private investment for running passenger trains in the Indian railway network. The project is expected to entail private sector investment of about Rs 30,000 crore. As per the plan, the Railways will roll out out private trains by March 2023. These new trains will be over and above the existing ones operated by the Railways.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/top-firms-in-race-to-operate-private-trains-in-india-898729.html
07-10-2020||National||AIIMS forensic team report lacks credibility: Sushant Singh Rajput's family lawyer writes to CBI||Actor Sushant Singh Rajput's family lawyer Vikas Singh Wednesday claimed that the report submitted by the AIIMS forensic team "lacks credibility" and they have written to the CBI to constitute a fresh medical team to look into the case. Demanding that the CBI investigate the conduct of the AIIMS team and probe "who all they have met in recent time", the senior advocate said Rajput's family will approach the court if a new forensic panel is not formed. The lawyer said only the CBI can ascertain whether Rajput's death was a case of suicide and that AIIMS has "no right" to say if it was suicide or hanging. “We want to take all steps to ensure that a fair probe is conducted and we will even go to the court for formation of a new panel and get justice,” he said. Rajput's family wrote to the CBI on Wednesday alleging "unprofessional conduct" by AIIMS director Sudhir Gupta in leaking a forensic report of the late actor and sought a new panel for fair and proper assessment of his death. The letter, sent through advocate Varun Singh and settled by senior advocate Singh, claimed that the leaked report, if correct, amounts to drawing a “biased and boastful” conclusion from insufficient evidence. It stated that despite repeated efforts to get a copy of the report, there has been no response from Gupta. The family has objected to the AIIMS report saying Gupta-headed forensic team was not submitting a post-mortem report but was only to expressing its opinion on the findings of Cooper Hospital in Mumbai, where the actor's body was taken after he was found hanging. "Gupta has been giving media interviews about the sensitive case right from day one, questioning the Doctors of Cooper Hospital for dubious autopsy and Maharashtra Police for hurried post-mortem and contamination and non-preservation of scene of crime," the letter said, adding that there were several infirmities in the post-mortem report done at the Cooper Hospital. Pointing infirmities, the letter said the post-mortem was done at night without there being any order of the Magistrate and the protocol was not followed as opined by several experts of forensic departments from all over the world. "The videography of the post-mortem was not done. Sufficient viscera was not retained for future examination. The time of the death was not mentioned in the post-mortem report. The injuries on the body were not specified and thus there was no opinion expressed of the cause of such injuries. "The leg which was fractured was not mentioned in the report. There were several other infirmities which could be pointed out by a genuine forensic examination but somehow the same have been left out by the AIIMS team as expressed by one of the doctors in his interview telecast by a TV channel," the letter alleged. It contended that Gupta recently got the incriminating content of the report, submitted to the CBI, leaked selectively to a couple of media houses, and irresponsibly commenting that the Sushant's death is “conclusively” a case of suicide and there is no foul play. "Clearly the said leak is aimed at creating doubts in the mind of people, bailing out agencies who have not done their job as per rules and standard protocols, benefitting the culprits and derailing the course of ongoing investigation. "The conduct of Dr Sudhir Gupta is unethical, unprofessional, in contravention of government service conduct rules and MCI guidelines. This criminal misadventure on his part has undermined public trust in a premier institution like AIIMS. It has created doubts in the minds of millions of people about the fairness of investigation," the letter said. It said the forensic team of AIIMS has not given a categorical opinion on the flaws of the post-mortem done at the Cooper Hospital and have given a report which they were not supposed to do. Therefore, the matter needs to be referred to another forensic team to be constituted by CBI by picking up some of the best names in the field from different hospital so that a fair and proper assessment takes place, the letter said. “The AIIMS report, if at all, could have only specified the cause of death i.e. by hanging and could not have gone to say that it is a case of suicide because that is something which only the CBI can decide after a complete investigation in the matter. The letter said CBI may also inquire into the circumstances that led Gupta to indulge in such unprofessional conduct that threatens to jeopardise the course of investigation and help wrong-doers escape the clutches of law. The AIIMS medical board has ruled out murder in the case of Rajput's death and termed it "a case of hanging and death by suicide," the premier institute's forensic chief Gupta said on Saturday. At the press conference, Singh claimed Gupta had earlier told him that Rajput's death was "200 per cent a case of strangulation" after seeing the pictures of his body which his sister had clicked. Commenting on the bail granted to actress Rhea Chakraborty by the Bombay High Court, he told mediapersons bail has been given to her on the premise of a narcotics case against her, which is "very weak". “The real question is whether or not she administered the drugs to Sushant without his knowledge. Did she tell doctors, to whom she took him for treatment, about his usage," he said. Rajput, 34, who made his silver screen debut in the critically acclaimed ''Kai Po Che'' seven years ago, was found dead in his apartment in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aiims-forensic-team-report-lacks-credibility-sushant-singh-rajputs-family-lawyer-writes-to-cbi-898735.html
07-10-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi to launch 'Jan Andolan' on Covid-19-appropriate behaviour ahead of festival season||Keeping in mind the upcoming festival season, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be launching a 'Jan Andolan' (People's Movement) for Covid-19-appropriate behaviour—'wear mask, follow physical distancing, maintain hand hygiene'. Modi will launch the programme, which comes against the backdrop of festivals, winter season and opening up of the economy, through a tweet. The campaign aims to encourage people’s participation and it endeavours to be a low-cost, high-intensity campaign with the key messages of wearing masks and physical distancing among others. A Covid-19 pledge will be taken by all and a concerted action plan will be implemented by central government ministries, departments, state governments and Union Territories. The highlights of the campaign include region-specific targeted communication in high case-load districts, simple and easily understandable messages to reach every citizen, dissemination throughout the country using all media platforms, banners and posters at public places involving frontline workers and targeting beneficiaries of government schemes. It will also include hoardings, wall paintings and electronic display boards in government premises, the involvement of local and national influencers to drive home the message, running mobile vans for regular awareness generation, audio messages, pamphlets and brochures on awareness, seeking the support of local cable operators for running Covid-19 messages and coordinated media campaign across platforms for effective outreach and impact.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-to-launch-jan-andolan-on-covid-19-appropriate-behaviour-ahead-of-festival-season-898740.html
07-10-2020||National||42% recent travellers ready for a trip again: Survey||With movement is slowly becoming normal, the confidence in air travel has also grown as around 42 per cent of recent travellers said they had a comfortable in-flight experience and are ready to travel again, according to a survey. The survey, titled 'Travel Experience Survey 2020', was conducted by AI-based travel app ixigo among 5,000 users who were among the early travellers, a group of flyers who have travelled during July-September, and are ready to travel again in the next three months. As travellers return to the skies, the confidence in air travel has also gone up with 42 per cent of respondents who had flown recently in the past three months saying they are ready to travel again, according to the survey. It further showed that the respondents are likely to take another domestic trip during the next three months (42 per cent) compared to an earlier sentiment survey done in May (16 per cent). The survey also showed that queuing during check-in or security (64 per cent respondents were concerned about it) and in-flight social distancing (51 per cent) were among the top apprehensions of air passengers who have travelled recently. The travellers interviewed were also concerned about eating on the plane (9 per cent), cleanliness of common areas and washrooms (24 per cent) and arranging travel from the arrival airport (22 per cent), it added. With the current pandemic, there is an increase in anxiety among travellers with respect to planning their next trip, where 46 per cent respondents said fully refundable bookings for travel and accommodation will be the top priority for them while making bookings in the future. The trend report also revealed that with travel re-opening, work vacations aka workcations have become the biggest travel trend of the season. With a majority of Indian companies announcing 'work from home' till the end of the year, 30 per cent of the recent travellers interviewed said they have already been working remotely from a leisure destination of their choice. "Working from popular leisure destinations aka 'workcations' has emerged as the biggest travel trend of the season. We have seen a 27 per cent month-on month increase in search queries for popular destinations and getaways such as Goa, Jaipur, Shimla, Udaipur and Uttarakhand," ixigo co-founder and CEO Aloke Bajpai observed. He added that most of the travellers have opted for home rentals, service apartments and villas as their preferred choice of workation accommodation followed by resorts and eco-friendly properties with distant cottages. ixigo has also seen an increase in searches to travel within a week this year compared to last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/42-recent-travellers-ready-for-a-trip-again-survey-898771.html
07-10-2020||National||SC grants benefit of Juvenile law to man convicted of murder in 1981||The Supreme Court on Wednesday found a man, convicted of a murder committed 39-year ago, that he was juvenile at the time of offence and should be granted the benefit of the welfare law of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2000. A bench of Justices S Abdul Nazeer and Sanjiv Khanna upheld the conviction of Satya Deo but set aside the sentence of life imprisonment, awarded to him. The court remanded his case to the Juvenile Justice Board for passing appropriate orders on detention and custody against him. In his plea, Satya Deo alias Bhoore contended that he was a juvenile at the time of offence of murder on December 11, 1981, in Uttar Pradesh's Bahraich district. The court directed for an inquiry by the Additional District and Season's judge who found that Satya Deo was 16 years 7 months and 26 days of age when the incident had happened. The inquiry report, however, stated he was not a juvenile as per the Juvenile Justice Act, 1986, as he was more than 16 years of age.  According to the 1986 Act, a juvenile was one who was below 16 years in the case of a boy and below 18 years in case of a girl on the date, the boy or girl is brought for the first appearance before the court or the competent authority. However, the Juvenile Justice Act, 2000 does not distinguish between a boy or girl and a person under the age of eighteen years is treated as a juvenile.  In the instant case, the top court relied upon the Constitution Bench in the case of 'Pratap Singh vs the State of Jharkhand' (2005) where it was held the 2000 Act would be applicable in a pending proceeding, instituted under the 1986 Act in any court or authority, if the person had not completed 18 years of age as on April 1, 2001, when the 2000 Act came into force.  The Juvenile Justice Act underwent further changes subsequently in 2006 and 2015. The court noted, in light of Section 6 of the General Clauses Act, read with Section 25 of the 2015 Act, an accused cannot be denied his right to be treated as a juvenile when he was less than 18 years of age at the time of the commission of the offence, a right which he acquired and has fructified under the 2000 Act, even if the offence was committed prior to the enforcement of the 2000 Act on April 1, 2001.   The court, thus, decided to grant Satya Deo benefit of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2000 and overturned the sentence of life imprisonment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-grants-benefit-of-juvenile-law-to-man-convicted-of-murder-in-1981-898774.html
07-10-2020||National||Indian regulator rejects Sputnik V’s phase-3 trial request due to inadequate data||Rejecting a proposal to conduct a direct phase-3 clinical trial of the Russian Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine, Indian drug regulator has advised the promoters of the vaccine to carry out a phase-2 trial on Indian subjects first to check the vaccine’s immune response before going ahead with a larger phase-3 study. This is because the number of people, who had received the vaccine for an initial (phase-1/2) trial in Russia was too small, the Central Drug Standards Control Organisation informed pharmaceutical firm Dr Reddy’s Laboratory, which had tied up with the Russian authorities for clinical trial and subsequent distribution of the vaccine in India, if the trials succeeded. The CDSCO rejection may hamper the central government’s plan of a quick roll-out of a coronavirus vaccine with the Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan setting up a target of “receiving and utilising” 400-500 million doses to cover 20-25 crore people by July 2021. The company presented the phase-3 clinical trial protocol before the regulator along with overseas phase 1/2 clinical trial and non-clinical toxicity data. After perusing the data, the CDSCO panel concluded that the safety and immunogenicity data in overseas studies was small and there was no data available on Indian subjects. “After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended that the firm should follow the regulatory requirements and conduct Phase 2/3 clinical trials in the country with proper monitoring for humoral and cell-mediated immune response,” the regulator wrote in the minutes of the meeting that took place on October 5. Accordingly, DRL has been advised by the regulator to submit the protocol for consideration of the committee. The firm has also been asked to submit the stability data. Results from the early-phase trials of Sputnik V in a total of 76 people - published in the Lancet last month – demonstrated that two formulations of the two-part vaccine exhibited a good safety profile with no serious adverse events detected over 42 days, and induce antibody responses in all participants within 21 days. A larger trial with more participants has been approved in Russia. “The phase 3 clinical trial of our vaccine was approved on August 26, 2020. It is planned to include 40,000 volunteers from different age and risk groups, and will be undertaken with constant monitoring of volunteers through an online application," Alexander Gintsburg, lead researcher at the N F Gamaleya National Research Centre for Epidemiology and Microbiology, Russia, which developed the vaccine was quoted in a Lancet statement a month ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-regulator-rejects-sputnik-v-s-phase-3-trial-request-due-to-inadequate-data-898775.html
07-10-2020||National||China increasingly assessing India through prism of its worsening ties with US: Ex-FS Saran||Negative Chinese perceptions of India took hold during the British colonial period and currently, China is increasingly assessing India through the prism of its worsening relations with the US, former foreign secretary Shyam Saran said on Wednesday. The negative attitudes towards India and Indians persist and surface whenever relations start to worsen, Saran said delivering the VP Dutt Memorial Lecture on "India as Teacher by Negative Example: Chinese Perceptions of India During the British Colonial Period and Their Impact on Contemporary India-China Relations". "During the more positive phases, these attitudes are masked and the rhetoric harks back to the ancient period of civilisational engagement between the two countries. Though even in this case, the spread of Buddhism in China from India was regarded at least by some intellectuals as a baneful external influence which must be thoroughly exorcised to allow the true Chinese spirit to emerge," Saran said. "We see that a line runs through the negative and derogatory perceptions of India and Indians that took hold during the British colonial period, while India's past glory as a great civilisation was conceded, in contemporary times it became an example of a failed and fallen country in Chinese perceptions," he said in his online address. These impressions were also derived by translations into Chinese or Japanese of writings by British colonial authors who justified British colonial rule as a civilisational mission of redeeming a race that had lost any civilisational attributes it may have once had, Saran said. In dealing with the China challenge, India needs to understand these deeper strands of Chinese perceptions into India and the prism through which the Chinese mind interprets Indian foreign policy behaviour, he said. "Currently, we find that China is increasingly assessing India through the prism of its fraught and worsening relations with the US," Saran said. For the Chinese pessimists, the future could relive the past in which India became a platform for an assault on China and hence should be neutralised well in time, he said. Saran called for more intensive China studies in particular on its history, culture and society and the patterns of thought that are ingrained amongst its people. "This exercise has two advantages: 1. It points the way to slowly but steadily removing the sludge of prejudice which animates much of Chinese behavior towards India; 2. It opens the way for chipping away at our own uninformed notions about China and the Chinese people thereby making a more productive India-China engagement," he said. His remarks come at a time when India-China relations are under strain amid a standoff in eastern Ladakh. The situation in eastern Ladakh deteriorated following at least three attempts by the Chinese military to "intimidate" Indian troops along the northern and southern bank of Pangong lake area between August 29 and September 8 where even shots were fired in the air for the first time at the LAC in 45 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-increasingly-assessing-india-through-prism-of-its-worsening-ties-with-us-ex-fs-saran-898782.html
07-10-2020||National||DGCA issues detailed refund guidelines after SC verdict||The guidelines came six days after the Supreme Court directed that a full and immediate refund should be given to passengers for the air tickets cancelled between March 25 and May 24. No domestic passenger flights operated in the country in this period. The top court had, on October 1, also passed directions about the refund and credit shell formation for the bookings and cancellations done during the other time periods around the lockdown. Based on the court order, the DGCA categorised passengers in three categories -- those who booked tickets between March 25 and May 24 for travelling within the same period, those who booked tickets prior to March 25 but the travel period was till May 24, those who booked tickets anytime but for a journey post-May 24. The regulator said the passengers belonging to the first category must be given a full refund by the airline concerned for the tickets cancelled. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said the airlines should "make all endeavours" to refund the passengers belonging to the second category within 15 days. "If on account of financial stress, any airline/airlines are not able to do so, they shall provide a credit shell equal to the amount of fare collected (to the passenger)," it added The passengers can then use the credit shells to book any ticket by March 31, 2021, the DGCA noted. Those belonging to the third category will be given a refund in accordance with the existing DGCA rules. The Indian aviation industry has been hit hard due to the coronavirus pandemic and as a result, all airlines in the country have opted for cost-cutting measures such as layoffs, leave without pay for the employees etc. Scheduled domestic passenger flight services resumed in the country after a gap of two months on May 25. Currently, airlines are permitted to operate only up to 60 per cent of their pre-Covid-19 domestic flights. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in the country since March 23. However, special international passenger flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat mission since May and under air bubble arrangements formed with various countries since July.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dgca-issues-detailed-refund-guidelines-after-sc-verdict-898791.html
07-10-2020||National Politics||This is India's fight, not just for farmers, says Rahul attacking the Centre over farm laws||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday kept up the attack on the Centre over the new farm laws, saying the fight against these legislations was not just for farmers or labourers alone, but it was also "India's fight". If these measures are implemented, then farmers and labourers will become the "slaves" of a few corporates, he said while addressing a public rally at Francewala village near Sanaur in Punjab's Patiala district on the concluding day of his 'Kheti Bachao Yatra'. He had begun his yatra from Moga district on Sunday to protest against the laws. The Congress leader claimed at the rally, where a number of farmers had arrived on tractors, that in one or two years their land will be taken over by a few "chosen" corporates. "Whether you want to believe or not, but do remember that Rahul and (Punjab Chief Minister) Amarinder Singh had once told you that your land will be snatched," he told the gathering. "This is the time to take action. If you wait for six months or one year, then it will be of no use," Gandhi told them. He said that the loss is not just of farmers, farm labourers or small traders, but of the entire country. Gandhi said that if farmers are hit, which he claimed will become a reality with the implementation of the new laws, India's food security will be finished. "If this happens, the entire country will once again become a slave," he alleged. "This fight is not just of farmers and labourers, but this is India's fight," Gandhi said and told the farmers at the gathering that corporates will dictate terms and they will have to accept the price they want to give. "When your land goes, they will build malls and flats. We do not want such things to happen. The Congress will not allow this to happen, I can give you guarantee that we will not go back even by an inch and carry on this fight. When our government will be formed we will revoke these laws," he said. Gandhi attacked the Modi government, claiming that for the last six years, this government did nothing for the poor, weaker sections, farmers and small shopkeepers. "For six years, they did nothing for farmers. Whatever they did was for the rich class," he said, claiming that the Centre waived Rs 3.50 lakh crore worth of loans of rich industrialists, but not loans of farmers. He said in the middle of the coronavirus pandemic, this government brought the three farm laws. "What was the hurry, why not six months or one year later," Gandhi asked and claimed that it was done because the BJP-led central government thought that "during COVID, farmers of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan cannot stand and this is the right time to bring these measures". “But he (Prime Minister Narendra Modi) does not know that farmers are strong and will fight against these laws,” he said. Gandhi said that if these laws were in favour of farmers, why did the government not debate these in Parliament and why discussion was not held. The Minimum Support Price (MSP), the Food Corporation of India, the mandi (agricultural market) system are there to protect farmers, this entire structure helps give them security, but the Centre wants to break it, he claimed. The food distribution system and the mandi system, are like a fort which protects farmers, Gandhi said. The Congress leader said that he agrees that there are a few shortcomings in the present system and these needed to be corrected. But breaking the entire system, like the Centre is doing, is not the right way, he said. The three-day Punjab `Kheti Bachao Yatra' of Congress MP Rahul Gandhi culminated on Tuesday at the border along Haryana. Punjab Chief Minister Singh, in his address, said that the regions of Dakala and Sanaur have always stood by his family and the Congress, and the people of these areas were now standing rock solid behind the party on the issue of the “black” farm laws.  Attacking the BJP government at the Centre, he said farmers all over the country have risen up against the Modi regime.“These oppressors will be decimated in the next elections,” he said. Congress MP Partap Singh Bajwa was also present at the rally. Two months back, Punjab cabinet ministers had sought expulsion of Rajya Sabha MPs Partap Bajwa and Shamesher Singh Dullo from the Congress for their criticism of the state government over the hooch tragedy.     Prominent among others who were present on the occasion were AICC general secretary and incharge Punjab Affairs Harish Rawat, Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar, cabinet minister Brahm Mohindra and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, MPs Manish Tiwari, Jasbir Singh Dimpa, Chaudhary Santokh Singh, Gurjit Singh Aujala were also present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/this-is-indias-fight-not-just-for-farmers-says-rahul-attacking-the-centre-over-farm-laws-898333.html
07-10-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi taking out yatra in support of middlemen not farmers, says Smriti Irani||Attacking Congress leader Rahul Gandhi over his protest marches against the three recently passed farm laws, BJP leader and Union minister Smriti Irani Tuesday said he was taking out his yatras not for farmers but in support of "middlemen who looted the country". Hitting out at the Gandhi scion for his remarks that if his party is voted to power it would abolish the farm laws, Irani said, "I think Rahul Gandhi lives in a dream world where he thinks he is a king." When Gandhi opposes the farm laws, Irani asked, does he also oppose the proposition that farmer will be paid within three days of selling their produce, that they are free to sell them anywhere in the country and that their land cannot be used in the recovery process in any case. "The fact is Rahul Gandhi is on Congress yatra in support of middlemen not farmers and it doesn't astonish anyone in the country,” she told reporters here, adding the Gandhi family never stood for downtrodden but always for the “middlemen”. “His party’s and especially his family's politics was always dependent on the middlemen who looted the coffers of the country," she alleged. She categorically said procurements under the MSP regime are currently underway across the country. Comparing the procurements of paddy during the UPA and the NDA governments, she said that in 2013-14 -- when UPA was in power -- Rs 40,000 crore was spent on this, which jumped to Rs 1.4 lakh crore in 2019-20 (under NDA). She said there are many examples where the Congress has not only failed farmers, but the entire agriculture landscape of the country. Gandhi has been taking out protest marches over the last three days against the new farm laws. He had begun his ‘Kheti Bachao’ yatra from Moga district on Sunday. Capping his three days of protests, Gandhi on Tuesday said in Haryana and Punjab that his party will not allow the Centre to imperil India's food security. He reiterated that the farm laws will be abolished if his party comes to power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-taking-out-yatra-in-support-of-middlemen-not-farmers-says-smriti-irani-898411.html
07-10-2020||National Politics||Modi enters 20th year as elected govt head sans break||BJP leaders on Wednesday heaped praise on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his leadership as he entered his 20th year without a break as the head of an elected government, including close to 13 years as chief minister of Gujarat.    Party president J P Nadda said October 7, 2001, when Modi was sworn in as Gujarat chief minister for the first time, is a "milestone" in India's political history.    Modi has since been notching up bigger victories and his popularity has only gone up, Nadda said on Twitter.     The party also tweeted details of many of Modi's key schemes during his 19 years as the head of a government.    Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri lauded Modi for "20 years in service of humanity & Maa Bharati with dedication, vision & selflessness". "Heartiest congratulations to PM @narendramodi Ji for becoming the only democratically elected world leader to serve the people continuously for 20 years since 2001," Puri said.   Be it as chief minister of Gujarat or as prime minister of the world's largest democracy, Modi has always been a crusader for people's welfare, the party said.    "PM Sri @narendramodi Ji has completed 6941 successful days in total as CM of Gujarat & PM of India. One of the unblemished tenures ever seen. Kept public welfare as a priority and never worried about himself. Always kept sovereignty & pride of India intact," its spokesperson Sudhanshu Trivedi tweeted.  Modi, who turned 70 last month, started as an RSS volunteer and then served in the BJP's organisation for many years before the party leadership sent him to Gujarat, his home state, as its chief minister in 2001. Since then, he has never tasted electoral defeat and led the BJP to power in the state three straight times before steering the party to its biggest, until then, Lok Sabha poll win in 2014 and then scripting an even bigger win in the 2019 general elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-enters-20th-year-as-elected-govt-head-sans-break-898500.html
07-10-2020||National Politics||Shiv Sena slams Centre, asks how it can't have information on Mallya's extradition||The Shiv Sena on Wednesday slammed the Centre for telling the Supreme Court that it is unaware of 'secret' ongoing proceedings in the UK which are delaying fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya's extradition to India. Liquor baron Mallya, promoter of the defunct Kingfisher Airlines, is wanted in India over alleged fraud and money laundering charges amounting to around Rs 9,000 crore and is presently in the UK. The Centre on Monday told the court that Mallya cannot be extradited till a separate legal process in the UK, which is 'judicial and confidential in nature' is resolved. It also said it is not aware of the secret ongoing proceedings against Mallya as the Indian government is not party to the process. "The government says no data is available when the Opposition demands any information. Government lawyers say not aware when the court demands details. How many times and in how many cases is the government going to say 'don't know'," an editorial in the Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana said. "The government machinery claims to know each and every details of an actor's suicide, Bollywood's drugs connection and the alleged conspiracy behind the Hathras case, but claims it is not aware of action in case of Mallya, who has swindled India of thousands of crores of rupees," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shiv-sena-slams-centre-asks-how-it-cant-have-information-on-mallyas-extradition-898515.html
07-10-2020||National Politics||Denied ticket, top BJP rebels queue up before Chirag Paswan to join LJP||A day after the BJP snubbed the LJP and made it clear that it won’t join hands with those who question the NDA chief ministerial candidate Nitish Kumar, there was a mad scramble among the rebel BJP leaders to join the LJP. Two top BJP functionaries, in the last 24 hours, have quit the saffron camp and queued up before Chirag Paswan to join the LJP after being denied ticket by the BJP. One such leader is the Bihar BJP vice-president Rajendra Singh, who, during the 2015 Assembly poll, was also considered to be one of the probable chief ministerial faces of the saffron camp. This election, he has been denied a ticket from his fiefdom: Dinara. The seat has gone to JD (U) where Nitish has fielded his minister Jai Kumar Singh from the constituency. After resigning from the BJP, Rajendra Singh met Chirag and was soon declared the LJP candidate from Dinara. Similar is the case of senior BJP leader Usha Vidyarthi, a former party MLA from Paliganj. Usha is currently a member of the Bihar Women Commission and, therefore, enjoys the ministerial rank. She was lobbying for the BJP ticket from Paliganj but the constituency was ‘usurped’ by the JD (U). On Wednesday, Usha met Chirag Paswan after dumping the BJP. The LJP chief was quick to announce her as the party nominee from Paliganj. Deccan Herald had yesterday reported “How BJP has trapped Nitish in his fiefdom” wherein it dwelt at length that though the BJP was officially contesting on 121 seats as against the JD (U)’s 122, but for all practical purposes, the saffron party was actually contesting on all the 243 seats in Bihar through its proxy - the LJP. On Wednesday, the ‘behind-the-curtains’ drama came to the fore when top BJP rebels like Rajendra Singh and Usha Vidyarathi became LJP nominees in no time. Deccan Herald has reliably learned that there are 11 more such BJP leaders who, in the next few days, would join the LJP and contest the Assembly poll as Chirag Paswan’s nominees. These leaders belong to Sasaram, Nokha, Suryagarha, Bhojpur, Khagaria, Gaya, and Jehanabad. “What’s wrong if someone is joining the LJP,” wondered senior LJP leader Sanjay Saraf.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/denied-ticket-top-bjp-rebels-queue-up-before-chirag-paswan-to-join-ljp-898614.html
07-10-2020||National Politics||JD(U) issues list of candidates; Lalu's samdhi to contest from Nitish's party||RJD president Lalu Prasad's 'samdhi' Chandrika Roy has been nominated by the JD(U) from his traditional Parsa assembly seat, but the name of the former DGP Gupteshwar Pandey is missing from the list of 115 candidates released by the party on Wednesday. The JD(U) released a list of the candidates at a press conference addressed by state president Basistha Narayan Singh, party leader in Rajya Sabha RCP Singh, and its state working president Ashok Choudhary. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar headed party has already allocated seven seats out of its quota of 122 seats in the 243-member assembly to its associate partner Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) of former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi. Roy, the father of Tej Pratap Yadav's estranged wife Aishwarya, had recently switched over to the JD(U) from RJD. Roy, son of former chief minister Daroga Prasad Rai and a minister in the RJD government in the past as well in the 2015 Grand Alliance ministry, will be in the fray from Parsa constituency in Saran district which he has represented six times in the past. The name of the former state police chief Gupteshwar Pandey, who took VRS last month and later was given the membership of the JD(U) by the chief minister himself, is missing from the list of nominees made public during the day. Buxar, the hometown of Pandey and Shahpur constituency from where it was speculated in the media that he might contest the state polls have gone to the BJP under the seat-sharing formula. The JD(U) got two seats in the Buxar district- Dumraon and Rajpur (reserved SC)-where it named Anjum Ara and state minister Santosh Kumar Nirala respectively. Kumar's party has yet not named anybody for the Valmiki Nagar Lok Sabha seat which will see by-election on November 7. The by-poll has been necessitated due to the death of JD(U0 sitting MP Baidyanath Mahto. There were hectic speculations in the media about the chance of the former DGP being fielded from there. Pandey, who had hit the national headlines in the death case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, hopes now rest on Valmiki Nagar bypolls or a berth in the legislative council in the future. Though Pandey could not find a place in the JD(U)'s list, his former police colleague Sunil Kumar, who retired as Director General (Home Guards) recently has been nominated by the JD(U) from Bhore (reserved seat) in Gopalganj district. The majority of the ministers and turncoats have been given tickets by the JD(U). Speaker of the outgoing assembly Vijay Kumar Chaudhary will contest from his traditional seat Saraiganj in Samastipur district. Ministers- Bijendra Prasad Yadav, Ram Sevak Singh, Shrawan Kumar, Jai Kumar Singh, Bima Bharti, Madan Sahni, Khursheed Firoz Ahmad, Shailesh Kumar and Krishnandan Prasad Varma have been repeated from their old constituencies. Jai Vardhan Singh Yadav, grandson of former Bihar minister and a powerful yadav leader Ramlakhan Singh Yadav has been given ticket from his old seat Paliganj while Faraz Fatmi has been named from Darbhanga rural seat. Both had left RJD and joined JD(U) recently. The two RLSP MLAs-Lallan Paswan and Sudhansu Sekhar- who had crossed over to Kumar's party have also been renominated. HAM has already named its seven candidates. Jitan Ram Manjhi filed his nomination Wednesday from Imamganj (reserved SC) seat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jdu-issues-list-of-candidates-lalus-samdhi-to-contest-from-nitishs-party-898746.html
07-10-2020||National Politics||Rajnath Singh's emergence as BJP's chief troubleshooter||In June 2019 Union Minister Rajnath Singh, whose portfolio was changed from Home Ministry to Defence Ministry in Modi 2.0 government, was reportedly sullen when his name was dropped from four key Cabinet Committees, a decision which was reversed by the evening with an amended list of new committees in next one year. A year later, Singh has emerged as the chief troubleshooter—all the more during this Monsoon Session during which he ably anchored the floor strategy of Parliament to Opposition to backing the government over the contentious farm laws. The protests over farm laws from Parliament to the streets has seen the emergence of senior BJP leader Rajnath Singh in the forefront with the Modi government pitching him to counter the ‘anti-farmer’ campaign against the government launched by the Opposition ever since the Bills were passed by Parliament on September 20. Earlier too when the government sought to reach out to Opposition parties on September 19 to muster support for the contentious Bills, Singh was roped in along with three more to speak to Opposition parties like NCP, Shiv Sena and BJD besides ally AIADMK. Singh also called Opposition leaders like Derek O’ Brien, Ghulam Nabi Azad and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury to reason with them as to why Question Hour should be done away with this in this session as scheduling it in the middle of Covid-19 pandemic would be difficult. One of the reasons for the responsibility falling back on Singh’s soldiers was also because Amit Shah was hospitalised for Covid-19 treatment during the session days. Rajya Sabha MP from BSP in Uttar Pradesh Danish Ali says “Rajnath Singh hails from a farmer family. He is also considered a moderate face. On the Farm Bill issue, the government, not only ignored consensus but even did not allow a proper discussion and that has deepened doubts of farmers regarding the initiative. Singh with a rural background fits in as the face of the government to counter this impression.” After the passage of Bills amid acrimonious scenes in Rajya Sabha, Singh addressed a hurriedly called press conference with five other Union Ministers, asserting “I am the son of a farmer” as he sought to assure the farmers that Modi government will do nothing which is detrimental to the farmers’ interest. Days before Rahul Gandhi began his tractor yatra against farm lawa, Singh, on October 1, announced that not only the MSP (minimum support price) will stay, but it will also be continuously increased in coming years. Chowdhary Pushpendra Singh, President of Kisan Sangh, who along with farmer leaders including six Padma Shri awardee farmers met Rajanth Singh and Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar at the Defence Minister’s official residence on October 6 to discuss their views regarding the laws, said, “Rajnath Singh had been Agriculture Minister in past. He has the image of a farmer leader.” Not only the ‘son of a farmer’ image but Singh’s persuasive skills have also won him many friends within the Opposition itself. After the demise of Sushma Swaraj and Arun Jaitley in August 2019, BJP’s communication with other parties took a hit. Hence, Singh, with a wide experience in government affairs and well versed with politics of Hindi belt has become the natural choice to deal with leaders in the Opposition spectrum, many of whom are junior to Singh in political life. Political analyst Rasheed Kidwai says, “Singh does not have a hawkish leader’s image which some others have. So Rajnath Singh’s sobriety in public dealing comes handy to the government when it has to deal with contentious scenarios. “And mind it after the demise of Jaswant Singh and many old veterans in the shadow, Rajnath Singh is the last veterans from the Atal Bihari Vajpayee era.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajnath-singhs-emergence-as-bjps-chief-troubleshooter-898769.html
07-10-2020||North and Central||Over 65% of beds for Covid-19 patients vacant at Delhi hospitals||With coronavirus cases here witnessing a decline in the last few days, over 65 per cent of beds for Covid-19 patients in the city hospitals are vacant, data on Delhi Corona app showed. However, the bed occupancy is higher in private hospitals as compared to government-run facilities. At the LNJP Hospital, which is the Delhi government's biggest Covid-19 facility, 1545 of 2000 beds are vacant, while the GTB Hospital has a vacancy of 1321 beds against its strength of 1500, according to Delhi Corona app. Indraprastha Apollo Hospital has 110 out of 300 beds vacant, while only 53 out of 250 beds are unoccupied in Max Smart Saket. At Sir Gangaram Hospital, 60 beds are vacant out of 200 beds earmarked for coronavirus patients. Out of the total 15,822 beds for Covid-19 patients in Delhi, only 5,402 are occupied, according to the Corona app, which provides the latest details about the availability of beds and ventilators in the city hospitals. Also, 561 of 1,321 Covid-19 ICU beds with ventilators are occupied, accounting for over 42 per cent of vacant status, data on the app showed. Delhi recorded 32 Covid-19 fatalities on Monday, taking the death toll to 5,542, while 1,947 fresh cases took the tally to over 2.92 lakh. The city reported 1,947 new cases on Monday, 2,683 on Sunday, 2,258 on Saturday, 2,920 on Friday, 3,037 on Thursday, and 3,390 on Wednesday. Dr BL Sherwal, medical director of Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, said, "We saw an increase in hospital admissions around September 16-17 when the cases saw a spike. But now the hospital admissions have decreased and discharges have increased. Beds occupancy has gone down. The awareness and home isolation measures of the Delhi government are to be credited for this, he said. The Covid-19 dedicated facility has 500 beds, of which 393 are vacant. He said nearly 90 patients are in ICU. Indraprastha Apollo Hospital's Dr Rajesh Chawla said private hospitals are seeing more occupancy as people, who can afford treatment there, prefer them over government facilities. "We had a peak and then it came down and then it went up but now we are seeing a decline in admissions," he said. Dr Mugdha Tapdiya, senior consultant, internal medicine, Fortis Hospital Vasant Kunj, said there was a time when it was very difficult to find beds in hospitals but now the situation has become a little better. "The ICU beds are still occupied because once the patient goes in the ICU, they take time and if they go on a ventilator, the recovery takes more. Sometimes, it takes 10-15 days and sometimes even months. There is no movement from the ICU to the outside that is why it is difficult to get ICU beds," she said. All seven coronavirus ICU beds with ventilators at the hospital are occupied, while 12 out of 28 ICU beds without ventilators are vacant, according to Delhi Corona app.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-65-of-beds-for-covid-19-patients-vacant-at-delhi-hospitals-898319.html
07-10-2020||North and Central||Sexual exploitation of kids in Shukartal ashram: POCSO court cross-examine victim||A Muzaffarnagar court on Tuesday completed the cross-examination of a victim of alleged sexual exploitation by a self-styled godman in his ashram at Shukartal area in the district. After the completing the cross-examination of the child victim, who had broken down on the last hearing, the special court trying the offences under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act slated the next hearing in the case on October 12. Special POCSO Court judge Sanjive Kumar Tiwari slated October 12 for the cross-examination of another victim, said prosecution counsel Dinesh Kumar Sharma. The Muzaffarnagar police had in July this year rescued ten children, aged between seven and 10 years, from the Shukartal ashram in Bhopa police station area in the district, run by a self-styled godman Swami Bhakti Bhushan Govind Maharaj and his aide Krishan Mohan. All the children belong to different north eastern states, including Tripura, Mizoram and Assam. Following medical examinations, four of the children were confirmed to have been sexually exploited. The police had also arrested the duo after registering them under IPC sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 377 (unnatural offences), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and sections 5/6 of the POCSO Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sexual-exploitation-of-kids-in-shukartal-ashram-pocso-court-cross-examine-victim-898325.html
07-10-2020||North and Central||JCO Sukhdev Singh's daughter expresses resolve to join Army to fulfill her father's dream||Amid wails and cries of her mother and other relatives, 14-year-old Tanvi Rajput -- daughter of Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) Sukhdev Singh -- fought back tears and expressed her resolve to join the Army to fulfill her father's dream. Patriotic fervor gripped Peoni village on Tuesday as local residents joined the family to bid a tearful adieu to Subedar Singh, who laid down his life for the country. His mortal remains were consigned to flames with full military honours amid chants of "Bharat Mata Ki Jai". The JCO, a Kargil war veteran, sacrificed his life for the country in cross-border firing by Pakistan along the Line of Control (LoC) in Nowshera sector of Rajouri district on Monday. "My father wished me to do well in studies and also to become a shooter. I will fulfill his dream and join the Army as an officer," Rajput, a class 8 student, told reporters. The village reverberated with anti-Pakistan and anti-China slogans throughout the day as the villagers waited for the mortal remains of the deceased which were later consigned to flames with full military honours. "He was here on leave recently, on Raksha Bandhan (August) and had promised me that he will start my training in shooting when I reach class 10," Rajput said in a choked voice while struggling to hold back her tears. A wreath laying ceremony was held at Rajouri before the body of the deceased kept in a tricolor wrapped coffin was transported to Udhampur in a helicopter and then taken to his village in Majalta tehsil by road. A 'Tiranga' (tricolor) rally was also taken out by the local youth as a mark of respect to the deceased. "He is the 15th soldier from our community who sacrificed his life for the country. This war memorial stands testimony to our love for the country," a local resident who identified himself as Manto said, pointing to the War Memorial built by the Bandral community in the village in honour of the martyrs. Mantoo said Singh was a brave soldier and the whole village is proud of his sacrifice and is ready to follow his footsteps to serve the nation. "We have had enough of Pakistan and we request Prime Minister Narendra Modi to teach the rogue country a lesson and settle the things once for all through the barrel of gun," he said. Vicky Rajput, the JCO's cousin brother who is also in the Army, said he is remembered for his bravery during 1999 Kargil war when he survived a tough battle with Pakistani regulars. The JCO's uncle Mohan Singh broke down several times while talking about him and said he was keen to join the Army since his childhood. Army's General Officer Commanding-in-chief, northern command, Lt Gen Y K Joshi and all other ranks offered deepest condolences to the family. "The subedar was a brave, highly motivated and a sincere soldier. The national will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty," Jammu-based Army PRO Lt Col Devender Anand said. Senior civil and police officers besides a number of politicians, including J-K BJP chief Ravinder Raina, joined the last rites of the soldier and paid rich tributes to him. Meanwhile, Lt Governor Manoj Sinha also paid tributes to Subedar Singh and said "our brave Army personnel are serving the nation with utmost dedication and determination". "The nation will remain indebted to bravehearts like Subedar Singh who made supreme sacrifice to safeguard the country's territorial integrity and ensure a safe and secure environment for our citizens," Sinha said, saluting the courage and valour of the valiant soldiers. The Lt governor has expressed solidarity with the family members of the martyr and prayed for eternal peace to the departed soul.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jco-sukhdev-singhs-daughter-expresses-resolve-to-join-army-to-fulfill-her-fathers-dream-898360.html
07-10-2020||North and Central||Jyotiraditya Scindia loyalists dominate BJP list for Madhya Pradhya assembly bypolls||The BJP on Tuesday declared its much-awaited list for the crucial assembly bypolls in Madhya Pradesh, fielding all loyalists of former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, including six Congress ministers, who quit with him to join the saffron party in March. As many as 28 assembly seats will have bypolls on November 3 in the BJP-ruled state. The BJP has announced candidates for all the bypoll-bound seats. A revolt by a section of Congress MLAs, most of them considered close to Scindia, led to the toppling of the Kamal Nath government nearly seven months ago. The six Congress ministers, who were accommodated in Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan's new cabinet, have been fielded from the assembly seats from where they were elected in the 2018 polls. The BJP has given tickets to all 25 MLAs who quit the Congress to join the saffron party. The BJP has fielded Tulsiram Silawat from Sanver (SC), Imarti Devi from Dabra (SC), Pradyumna Singh Tomar from Gwalior, Mahendra Singh Sisodia from Bamori, Govind Singh Rajput from Surkhi and Dr Prabhuram Choudhary from Sanchi (SC) seat, as per the list issued by the BJPs central election committee. From Joura the party has fielded Subedar Singh Rajoudha, Aidal Singh Kansana from Sumavli, Raghuraj Sngh Kansana from Morena, Girraj Dandotia from Dimni, Kamlesh Jatav from Ambah (SC), OPS Bhadoria from Mehgaon, Ranvir Singh Jatav from Gohad (SC), Munna Lal Goyal from Gwalior-East and Raksha Santram Sironia from Bhander (SC). Jasmant Jatav Chitri will contest from Karera (SC), Suresh Dhakad from Pohri, Jajpal Singh Jajji from Ashoknagar (SC) Brajendra Singh Yadav from Mungaoli, Kunwar Pradyumann Singh Lodhi from Malhera, Bisahulal Singh from Anuppur (ST), Narayan Singh Pawar from Biora, Manoj Untwal from Agar (SC), Manoj Choudhary from Hatpipalya, Narayan Patel from Mandhata, Sumitra Devi Kasdekar from Nepanagar (ST), Rajvardhan Singh Dattigaon from Badnawar and Hardeep Singh Dang from Suvasra, it said. The Congress has already declared its candidates on 27 seats except Biora. The bypolls will be held on November 3 and counting of votes will take place on November 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jyotiraditya-scindia-loyalists-dominate-bjp-list-for-madhya-pradhya-assembly-bypolls-898367.html
07-10-2020||North and Central||Visionless Opposition indulging in propaganda: CM Yogi Adityanath||Terming the opposition parties visionless, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said since they have nothing to offer to people, they are indulging in propaganda. "The opposition can go to any extent to vitiate the atmosphere of the country. Recent incidents are testimony to this," he said while virtually addressing the booth and sector-level workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the Ghatampur Assembly constituency, which goes to bypolls on November 3. According to a statement released to the media, the chief minister urged the ruling party workers to publicise the achievements of the Centre and the state government and at the same time, "expose" the opposition. "Both the governments have done some historic works and this needs to be communicated to people," he said. Adityanath asked the party workers to engage themselves in intensive mass contact after setting up booth committees and stressed that the development plank is going to work in the bypoll in these changing times of Covid-19. He said people need to be told that recruitment in the state is now transparently being done on merit and not on the basis of religion or caste. "More than 3.5 lakh youngsters got jobs in the last three years," the chief minister said, adding that an equal number of aspirants will get employment in the near future. He further said his government has proved that criminals will not be allowed to raise their heads in the state and they are now running for shelter. "Gone are the days of the previous jungle raj when industrialists wrapped up their businesses. Instead, new investments are coming to the state," Adityanath said, adding that a sound law-and-order scenario and the availability of infrastructure in terms of electricity, roads etc. are the added advantages for investors to come to Uttar Pradesh. Ever since Narendra Modi became the prime minister in 2014, massive development works have taken place in the country, he said, adding that in the times of a global pandemic, the PM's supervision and consistent support have proved to be extremely helpful. "The state government ensured the return of 40 lakh migrant labourers from across the country and that their needs are taken care of by distributing food and providing medical help, and made them self-reliant by giving them employment through the OPOP initiative. It also made arrangements to bring back thousands of students from different parts of the country," Adityanath said. He also talked about the "remarkable" work done in Kanpur for the cleaning of the Ganga river as it "remains at the centre of our belief". Speaking on the occasion, state BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh said the opposition has not been able to digest the all-round development of the country because its agenda has never been development-oriented.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/visionless-opposition-indulging-in-propaganda-cm-yogi-adityanath-898368.html
07-10-2020||North and Central||Punjab health minister who shared stage with Rahul Gandhi tests positive for Covid-19||Punjab Health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu who recently shared the stage with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday, a health officer said. “He has mild fever and a sore throat,” Mohali civil surgeon Manjit Singh said. The minister is stable and in isolation at home. People who have come in contact with him will also be tested, the doctor said. Sidhu was in Sangrur on Monday for “Kheti Bachao Yatra”, taking part in a protest against the new farm laws. The event was also attended by Rahul Gandhi, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and other senior Congress leaders. Gandhi led a series of “tractor rallies” in the state for three days against the new laws. On Tuesday afternoon, he entered neighbouring Haryana to continue with the protests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-health-minister-who-shared-stage-with-rahul-gandhi-tests-positive-for-covid-19-898377.html
07-10-2020||North and Central||Opposition selectively focusing on crimes for ‘vote bank’ considerations: BJP||With the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh facing flak over the Hathras incident in which a Dalit girl died after allegedly being gang-raped, the party on Tuesday hit back at the Opposition, saying it "picks" such cases selectively for "vote bank" considerations. The party also announced it will launch a campaign in support of farm and labour reform laws, on which the Congress and other opposition parties have been holding protests. After BJP president J P Nadda chaired the maiden meeting of newly appointed national office-bearers of the party, its general secretary Dushyant Kumar Gautam told reporters that farmers across the country, except a few states, are in support of these measures and the protests in states like Punjab are politically “motivated”. Nadda said at the meeting that the party will undertake a nation-wide campaign to spread awareness among farmers, according to Gautam. Asked about crimes against Dalit women in places like Hathras in Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, Gautam slammed the opposition for its "selective approach". “Concern was expressed (at the meeting). Any crime; rape, murder, is committed against a daughter whether Dalit or poor.... is abhorrent irrespective of which government is there... "It is sad when people pick a crime looking at who is in power and which community the murderers or rapists belong to, what is the vote bank there,” he said in an apparent attack on the opposition parties. The BJP government in Uttar Pradesh has drawn criticism over the Hathras incident, in which a 19-year-old Dalit woman died after being assaulted and allegedly gang-raped, and handling of the fallout. It has now recommended a CBI investigation. Gautam said similar crimes occurred at four places in Uttar Pradesh and also in other states, including in Kerala and Madhya Pradesh, as he claimed that there is a “conspiracy” to divide the country. This “love” for Dalits for vote bank is harmful to the country, he said. Next year's assembly elections in states like Assam, West Bengal, Kerala and Tamil Nadu were also discussed at the meeting, he said, asserting that the BJP will form a government in West Bengal. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's handling of the Covid-19 pandemic also came in for praise, he said, adding that the government has worked to minimise the harm caused by the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/opposition-selectively-focusing-on-crimes-for-vote-bank-considerations-bjp-898388.html
07-10-2020||North and Central||3 militants killed in encounter with security forces in J&K's Shopian||Three local militants were killed in an overnight encounter with security forces in the Sugan area of south Kashmir’s Shopian district on Wednesday. The encounter erupted after security forces launched a cordon-and-search-operation in Sugan village of Shopian, 56 km from here, following a tip-off about the presence of militants on Tuesday evening, a police spokesperson said. The hiding militants were repeatedly asked to surrender, however, they refused to do so and fired upon the search party, he said. The operation was suspended late at night on Tuesday due to darkness. However, the operation resumed at the first light this morning and all the three militants were killed, the spokesperson added. The slain militants were identified as Sajad Malla, Junaid Rasheed and Mehraj-ud-Din, all locals. As a precautionary measure, internet services were suspended in Shopian district. On Tuesday night a militant and a policeman were killed when ultras attacked a Bhartiya Janata Party worker in central Kashmir’s Ganderbal district. The BJP worker escaped unhurt in the attack, while his personal security officer (PSO) sustained critical injuries and later succumbed to them in a hospital. In relentless anti-insurgency operations, security forces have killed nearly 190 militants, including 22 foreigners, in 75 operations across Jammu and Kashmir this year. As many as 157 militants were killed in Kashmir in 2019 while the number was 257 in 2018 which was the highest in a decade. In 2019, out of 157 slain militants, 32 were Pakistanis and the majority of them 19 belonged to the Jaish-e-Mohammad outfit.  In 2019, local militants accounted for 79% of deaths in encounters while the number has grown to 88% this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-militants-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-jks-shopian-898402.html
07-10-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: SIT gets 10 more days to investigate Hathras rape case||The UP government has given an additional 10 days to the three-member SIT investigating the alleged gang rape and killing of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras as the "probe is not complete", a senior official said Wednesday. The special investigation team, constituted on September 30 and led by Home Secretary Bhagwan Swarup, was initially given seven days to submit its report. But the UP government later sought a CBI probe into the case and the criminal conspiracy to spread caste conflict it has suspected. On Tuesday, it told the Supreme Court it wanted an apex court-monitored CBI inquiry into the incident to ensure "no vested interests will be able to create fake, false narrative with oblique motives". "Yes...the time for submitting report for the SIT has been extended by 10 days," Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi told PTI. Asked about the reasons for the extension, he added, "The reason is one. The probe is not complete." The Yogi Adityanath government is fighting severe criticism for its handling of the case, particularly after the local police burnt the woman's body at night without the family's approval. However, officials said the cremation was done "as per the wishes of the family". The government has claimed that some people were trying to foment caste tensions in the aftermath of the alleged rape of the woman by four "upper caste" men on September 14. Quoting an FSL report, it has denied the rape charge. Referring to "recent incidents”, Chief Minister Adityanath has said that “anarchist elements” were trying to trigger communal and caste violence in the state. In an affidavit filed in the Supreme Court in response to a PIL, the government said there have been "orchestrated efforts to malign the image of government on social media by attributing baseless comments and building up a distorted narrative on the Hathras case”. The woman died on September 29 of the grievous injuries she suffered during the assault.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-sit-gets-10-more-days-to-investigate-hathras-rape-case-898453.html
07-10-2020||North and Central||NGT directs Delhi government to take action on enhancement of biomedical waste treatment facilities||The National Green Tribunal has directed the Delhi government to take steps to enhance bio-medical waste treatment and disposal facilities in the national capital. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel directed the AAP government to submit a report on the issue by email. "Let the Delhi government take appropriate steps in the matter and furnish a compliance report before the next date by e-mail," the bench, also comprising Justice S P Wangdi, said. The applicant may furnish a set of papers to the Delhi Pollution Control Committee, Health Secretary and Chief Secretary and file an affidavit of service within one week. The matter is posted for next hearing on January 12, 2021. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by International Rehab Foundation seeking directions for enhancement of bio-medical waste treatment and disposal facilities so as to bridge the gap in the generation of such waste and disposal. The plea contended that due to unscientific disposal of the waste there is pollution and damage to public health.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ngt-directs-delhi-government-to-take-action-on-enhancement-of-biomedical-waste-treatment-facilities-898527.html
07-10-2020||North and Central||Another Himachal Pradesh minister tests positive for novel coronavirus||Himachal Pradesh Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj tested positive for novel coronavirus on Wednesday, a health official said.  Bhardwaj is the third Himachal Pradesh minister and ninth MLA in the 68-member state Assembly to have contracted the virus.  The 68-year-old four-time Shimla BJP MLA tested positive at Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) here, the official added.  Earlier Power Minister Sukhram Chaudhary and Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur tested positive for Covid-19. Both the ministers have recovered from the virus.  Power Minister Chaudhary and Doon MLA Paramjeet Singh had attended the monsoon session last month after their recovery. Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur rejoined his office in state secretariat on September 21 after his recovery. He had tested positive on September 3. He could not attend the session which was held from September 7 to 18.  On Tuesday, BJP MLA Surender Shourie said he had tested positive for Covid-19 on October 2. On September 22, Nachan BJP MLA Vinod Kumar Chauhan tested Covid positive. Sundernagar BJP MLA Rakesh Jamwal tested positive on September 20, two days after the monsoon session of the assembly adjourned sine die. On the first day of the session on September 7, BJP MLA from Indora Reeta Devi had tested positive. She had attended the session before her COVID-19 test was conducted. Nalagarh Congress MLA Lakhwinder Rana tested positive on September six.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/another-himachal-pradesh-minister-tests-positive-for-novel-coronavirus-898533.html
07-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi hospital doctors go on 'symbolic indefinite strike' over non-payment of salary||Resident doctors at the civic-run Hindu Rao Hospital on Wednesday protested over non-payment of their due salaries for the last three months and went on a "symbolic indefinite strike", officials said. A group of doctors, who were joined by nurses of the hospital, held placards and raised slogans demanding their due salaries, at the main gate of the facility. Hindu Rao Hospital is the largest municipal hospital in Delhi with 900 beds and is currently a dedicated Covid-19 facility. Many of its healthcare workers had contracted the infection earlier. "We are on a symbolic indefinite strike to make our voices heard to authorities, who have not responded to our appeal so far. We have been doing the symbolic pen down from 9 am to 12 noon, for the last several days, as well as online protests, but no one listened to us," said Abhimanyu Sardana, president of the Resident Doctors Association of the facility. So, the protest took place and doctors who are not on Covid-19 rotational duty joined, he said. "We are humans too and have a family to run. We are risking our lives for humanity in this pandemic. Is it too much to ask for our due salaries," Sardana said. North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash had recently said, "We are doing everything possible to resolve the issue".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hospital-doctors-go-on-symbolic-indefinite-strike-over-non-payment-of-salary-898540.html
07-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi AAP MLA booked for meeting kin of Hathras victim after testing positive for Covid-19||The FIR was registered against the Kondli MLA under the Epidemic Diseases Act at Chandpa Police Station here, they said. According to the MLA’s Twitter account, he tested positive for the disease on September 29 and met the victim’s family on October 4. The police said the legislator should have followed 14 days of isolation norms, adding that he would be sent a notice in this regard. A 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly raped by four upper-caste men on September 14 in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras. She was found beaten and tortured, her tongue cut as she bit it when the accused attempted to strangle her, police said. She died a fortnight later at a Delhi hospital. The woman was cremated in the dead of night near her home on September 30. Her family alleged they were forced by local police to hurriedly conduct her last rites, triggering outrage nationwide and protests in several places. The state government has sought an apex court-monitored CBI inquiry into the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-aap-mla-booked-for-meeting-kin-of-hathras-victim-after-testing-positive-for-covid-19-898555.html
07-10-2020||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh may start interstate buses within a fortnight||Himachal Pradesh may start interstate buses within a fortnight, Transport Minister Bikram Singh said on Wednesday. The inter and intrastate bus service was suspended in HP in March to check the spread of novel coronavirus. While the buses within the state resumed a few weeks ago, the interstate buses were yet to be started. Talking to media here on Wednesday, the minister said the matter of running interstate buses had been taken with several states and UTs. While Chandigarh has given the green signal, Punjab and Uttarakhand are also not averse to it, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradesh-may-start-interstate-buses-within-a-fortnight-898560.html
07-10-2020||North and Central||Engineer duped of Rs 28 lakh on pretext of job offer, security guard arrested||A 28-year-old security guard was arrested in connection with a case in which an engineer was duped of approximately Rs 28 lakh on the pretext of being given a job opportunity, police said on Wednesday. The accused, Pinkesh Kumar, worked as a guard at a housing project in Noida. Two years ago, he came in contact with a person who asked him to provide his bank account details on a commission basis, they said. On his insistence, Kumar opened accounts in a different bank and later withdrew the cheated amount from ATMs. He got 10 per cent as commission on the total withdrawal amount, police said. A probe was initiated after a resident of Malviya Nagar, approached police saying she was duped by a man on the pretext of a job offer. The woman is an engineer by profession and was working as a deputy manager with a firm but was looking for another job. According to her police complaint, in the first week of July this year, she got a Voice over Internet Protocol (VOIP) call from an online job portal. A man introduced himself as Rahul and told her that her CV was selected by DLF Ltd. After a few days, she got a VIOP call from a person who pretended to be the HR of DLF and told her that she was selected for a senior managerial post and offered a handsome package. He told her to furnish a bond of Rs 28 lakh and asked her to deposit Rs 6.8 lakh at first. This way, the man managed to get Rs 28 lakh deposited into different bank accounts. Based on her complaint, a case was registered and during the course of investigation, bank account details of the beneficiary accounts and the alleged calling numbers were traced, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said. With the help of technical analysis of Call Detail Records and local sources, Kumar was apprehended from Parthala Khanjarpur village in Noida Sector 122, he said. Kumar has not been found to be involved in any other crime, police said, adding the main accused is yet to be arrested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/engineer-duped-of-rs-28-lakh-on-pretext-of-job-offer-security-guard-arrested-898586.html
07-10-2020||North and Central||Five-year-old raped by uncle in Uttar Pradesh's Budaun||A five-year-old girl was allegedly raped on Wednesday by her uncle in a village in Hazratpur area of Budaun district, police said. While playing outside her house, the girl was lured by her uncle to a desolate place and raped, said police. The accused left the girl and fled away after raping her, they said. The victim’s family members reached the police station later and lodged a complaint after which the accused was arrested and sent to jail. Budaun Senior Superintendent of Police Sankalp Sharma said the girl was raped by her uncle, who has been arrested. The girl has been sent for medical examination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/five-year-old-raped-by-uncle-in-uttar-pradeshs-budaun-898601.html
07-10-2020||North and Central||Militant who attacked J&K BJP leader close aid of Riyaz Naikoo, deputed by Hizbul Mujahideen: DGP||Hizbul Mujahideen had deputed a close aide of slain militant commander Riyaz Naikoo from south Kashmir to carry out the attack on a BJP leader in Ganderbal district in which a police constable was killed, the top police official of Jammu and Kashmir said on Wednesday. "The militant killed in Ganderbal -- Shabir Ahmad of Awanitpora -- was deputed specifically to carry out the attack," DGP Dilbag Singh told reporters at the wreath-laying ceremony for constable Altaf Hussain. Hussain was injured while protecting BJP leader Ghulam Qadir during an attack on Tuesday night. The police constable managed to kill one of the assailants before he succumbed to his injuries.  The DGP said there was another blood trail at the scene of the attack which was being followed by the investigators. He said the slain militant was a close aide and overground worker of Hizbul Mujahideen commander Riyaz Naikoo who was killed in an encounter earlier this year. Shabir had joined militancy recently, the DGP said.  He said target killings were being carried out in the Union territory on instructions from Pakistan "through its terror mouthpiece TRF (The Resistance Front)". Singh also said it was "not a big deal" for militants to move from one district to another.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militant-who-attacked-jk-bjp-leader-close-aid-of-riyaz-naikoo-deputed-by-hizbul-mujahideen-dgp-898610.html
07-10-2020||North and Central||Hathras gang rape case: Journalist, three others booked for sedition two days after being held by UP police||Uttar Pradesh police on Wednesday booked four persons including Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan on sedition and other charges at Maant police station in Mathura, two days after they were held while on their way to Hathras. According to the FIR, charges under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the IT Act have also been filed against the four, who were accused by the state police of having links with the alleged radical group Popular Front of India and its affiliates. The four were identified as Kappan, a journalist of Malapuram in Kerala, Atiq-ur-Rehman of Muzaffarnagar, Masood Ahmad of Bahraich and Alam of Rampur. They were on Wednesday booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) including 124A (sedition), 153A (Promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) and 295A (Deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage reli­gious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or reli­gious belie), according to the FIR. The PFI has been accused of funding protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act across the country earlier this year and the UP police had sought a ban on the outfit. The four were held when, according to the police, they were on their way to Hathras were a Dalit woman had died after allegedly being gang-raped.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hathras-gang-rape-case-journalist-three-others-booked-for-sedition-two-days-after-being-held-by-up-police-898627.html
07-10-2020||North and Central||15-year-old girl abducted, gang-raped in Rajasthan||A 15-year-old girl was allegedly abducted and raped by two men in Rajasthan's Barmer district, police said on Wednesday. The incident took place under the Sheo Police Station area on Tuesday evening when the victim’s family members had gone to cast their votes in the panchayat election, they said. Two men took the minor on a bike to a secluded place and raped her. They also clicked pictures of the act, police said. "A case was registered against unidentified persons under relevant sections of IPC, POCSO Act and IT Act on the basis of a complaint lodged by the victim’s family members," Vikram Singh, SHO, Sheo Police Station said. He said teams have been formed to arrest the accused. The girl was found unconscious in the fields. Her family took her to a hospital from where she was referred to Barmer for treatment, police said. The victim is presently undergoing medical treatment and her statement has been recorded. District collector Vishram Meena and SP Anand Sharma met the victim and her family members, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/15-year-old-girl-abducted-gang-raped-in-rajasthan-898636.html
07-10-2020||North and Central||BSP announces third list of candidates for MP assembly bypolls||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) on Wednesday released its third list of candidates for the Assembly bypolls in Madhya Pradesh to be held on 28 seats on November 3, a senior party leader said. With this, the BSP has so far announced 27 nominees, state unit BSP president Ramakant Pippal told PTI. Malhera is the only constituency where the Mayawati- led party has not yet announced a candidate. Most of the seats the BSP will be contesting on its own fall in the Gwalior-Chambal belt where the party had gained sizable support in the past elections. In the latest list, the BSP announced the candidature of Rajendra Singh Kanshana from Dimni, Rahul Dandotia from Sumaoli, Dr. Virendra Sharma from Mungaoli, Rajesh Nagar from Hatpipalya, Om Prakash Malviya from Badnawar, Gopal Prasad Ahirwar from Surkhi (all general seats). While Strom Billin Bhandari is the party's choice from Ashoknagar (SC) seat, it has given tickets to Bhul Singh Patel from Nepanagar and Sushil Singh Paraste from Anuppur (Both ST), Pippal said. Former Congress minister Mahendra Boudh is the BSP's nominee from Bhander seat (SC). In the 2018 assembly elections, the BSP had won two seats in the 230-member Assembly. Bypolls became necessary in view of resignations by 22 MLAs, mostly from the Jyotiraditya Scindia camp, in March this year, leading to the collapse of then Kamal Nath government. They later joined the BJP with Scindia. Later, three more legislators resigned from the Congress. Another three seats are lying vacant due to the death of sitting MLAs, bringing down the effective strength of the Assembly to 202. The BJP has announced candidates for all the bypoll-bound seats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsp-announces-third-list-of-candidates-for-mp-assembly-bypolls-898654.html
07-10-2020||North and Central||PIL in HC claims class 10, 12 students in govt schools cannot afford CBSE exam fees||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought response of the Centre, Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and the AAP government on a PIL which said that poor children studying in class 10 and 12 of government schools would not be able to afford the board exam fees. In 2019-20, the Delhi government footed the bill of the exam fees of students studying in class 10 and 12 in its schools, and assured the parents that the matter would be sorted for the future, said the petition by the Parents Forum for Meaningful Education, a registered society of parents and educationists. In a similar PIL by an NGO seeking a waiver of the board exam fees, the Delhi government had told the court on September 28 that it cannot foot the bill this year as it had done last year as the amount was over Rs 100 crore. In the present plea, filed through advocates P S Sharda and Kshitij Sharda, the society has said that CBSE was charging Rs 1,500 as board exam fees for class 10 and 12 and the amount goes upto Rs 2,400 for science stream students as they also have practicals. The petition has contended that in the prevailing situation, parents of children in government schools may not be able to pay such amounts in one go. "It has emerged that respondent 2 (Delhi government) has not only failed to sort out the matter as promised last year but this year it has declined to meet the steep fee obligation thereby abandoning lakhs of children in class 10 and 12 in its schools," the petition has claimed. It has contended that having failed to sort out the matter this year, the Delhi government "cannot now back out leaving the children in the lurch when the ground situation as compared to last year has worsened this year because of the lockdown since March 24". During the hearing, the society's counsel told the bench that if the Delhi government can waive water bills for the economically weaker sections, it can do something for payment of exam fees of students hailing from that section. The petition has urged that Delhi government be directed to "permanently sort out" the issue and also protect the interests of students who are eligible to give the board exams but are unable to pay the fees for the same. The petition also seeks the creation of an empowered committee to examine the fixation of exam fees by CBSE for students in schools run by the Delhi government and to ensure that such children "receive the minimum learning environment and opportunity for equal chances of success at the board examination".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pil-in-hc-claims-class-10-12-students-in-govt-schools-cannot-afford-cbse-exam-fees-898661.html
07-10-2020||North and Central||Punjab farmers reject agriculture department's invite for talks on farm laws||Punjab's several farmers' bodies on Wednesday rejected the Union agriculture department's invitation for a meeting over the new farm laws, saying an officer does not have to tell them if these laws are beneficial for them. The agitating farmers’ bodies, however, said they are ready for talks if a proper invitation comes to them from the Central government. The farmer organisations’ representatives also announced to continue their 'rail roko' agitation against the three agriculture laws of the Centre despite an appeal by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to ease it to allow goods trains to pass through the state. They also gave an ultimatum to the Chief Minister to convene a special session of the Punjab assembly for passing a resolution to reject these farm-related laws within a week otherwise, they said, they would gherao Congress leaders and government representatives. Different farmers' bodies have been holding state-wide protests against the new farm laws. The farmers' organisations rejected the Centre's invite to talk to it saying an officer does not have to tell them if the three central laws are beneficial for them. “We reject the letter of invitation for a meeting coming from an officer (secretary) of the Agriculture Department. We are not going to talk to any officer. We are ready for talks provided a proper and written invitation comes from the Central government,” said a representative of a farmers' organisation. Farmers said a secretary-rank officer of the Union Agriculture Department had invited five to six farmers' leaders to participate in a “conference to address their concerns” on October 8 at Delhi. “If an officer wants to tell us about the benefits of these laws, we are not going to hear it as we know these legislations are against the farming community,” said Jagmohan Singh, general secretary of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Dakunda). When asked about Chief Minister Amarinder Singh's appeal to ease their ‘rail-roko’ stir, farmers' leaders said they would continue with it. “We are farmers and we know farming practices very well. We know when DAP or urea is needed,” another farmers' leader said. “Electricity is being purchased from outside and the paddy sowing season is already over,” he added. Farmers, however, said they would consider the CM's appeal in the next meeting on October 15. Amarinder had urged protesting farmers to ease their rail blockade to ensure that the state is able to meet its critical needs. Due to the prolonged blockade of goods trains, the situation at Punjab's coal plants was critical and they were left with only five to six days of coal, the CM had said. He had also said that with not a single fertilizer rake entering Punjab for the past one week, there could be a severe shortage of fertilizer for the use by farmers for sowing the wheat crop. Farmers asked the CM to fulfil his “promise” of holding a special session of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha for passing a resolution against these legislations. Giving an ultimatum to the CM, they said they would gherao Congress leaders and representatives of the government if the resolution is not passed within a week. Farmers' leaders also announced to block roads for two hours on October 9 in protest against the lathi-charge on agitating farmers in Haryana. Meanwhile, 30 different farmers' bodies asked BKU (Lakhowal) not to attend their joint meeting until they withdraw their writ petition filed against farm laws in the Supreme Court. At present, farmers continued to block rail tracks at 33 places in the state. Besides, they have also staged sit-ins outside several petrol pumps, toll plazas, and shopping malls. They are also staging 'dharnas' outside the houses of some BJP leaders. Farmers said they would continue their agitation till their demand for revocation of farm laws was not accepted. Farmers have expressed apprehension that the Centre's farm reforms would pave a way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates. President Ram Nath Kovind had given assent to the three contentious bills – the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-farmers-reject-agriculture-departments-invite-for-talks-on-farm-laws-898680.html
07-10-2020||North and Central||Yogi Adityanath directs officials to run women safety campaign during Navratri||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday directed officials to conduct a special campaign on the safety of women and girls during Navratri festival, beginning October 17. According to a press statement, the Chief Minister also directed the police to take prompt action in cases involving women and girls and deal with such matters sensitively. He said anti-Romeo squads, formed to check harassment of women and girls, should remain active in crowded and sensitive areas, according to the statement. Adityanath said the presence of police helps in controlling crime and that there has been a noteworthy decrease in crime against girls and women due to efforts of the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-adityanath-directs-officials-to-run-women-safety-campaign-during-navratri-898690.html
07-10-2020||North and Central||Shaheen Bagh's women anti-CAA protesters had no ability to call off stir: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Wednesday noted that the Shaheen Bagh protests started by a group of women to oppose the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019 had a huge periphery comprising mainly of male protestors, volunteers and bystanders who all seemed to have a stake in the continuance of the blockade of the road connecting Delhi and Noida. The court, which declared public roads can't be occupied for protests, relied upon reports given by interlocutors senior advocates Sanjay Hegde and Sadhna Ramachandran, to point out their nature of demands was very wide and that it did look difficult to find a middle path towards at least facilitating the opening of the blocked public way. "The report suggested that the views reflected in private conversations with the protestors were somewhat different from the public statements made to the media and to the protesting crowd in attendance," the court said. The court noted that it appeared that an absence of leadership guiding the protest and the presence of various groups of protesters had resulted in many influencers who were acting possibly at cross-purposes with each other. Acting on a petition filed by advocate Amit Sahni, the bench, also comprising Justices Aniruddha Bose and Krishna Murari, said, only after the Covid-19 pandemic, greater wisdom prevailed over the protestors and the Shaheen Bagh site was cleared, albeit with some police action to remove the structures, built over there in about 100 days of the sit-in.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shaheen-baghs-women-anti-caa-protesters-had-no-ability-to-call-off-stir-supreme-court-898714.html
07-10-2020||North and Central||Rohan Jaitley files nomination for Delhi & District Cricket Association president's post||Late former finance minister Arun Jaitley's son Rohan is all set to become the next president of the Delhi & District Cricket Association (DDCA) and has promised to halt "unnecessary expenses" in the corruption and controversy-ridden body. Former India player and current MP Gautam Gambhir's maternal uncle Pawan Gulati has filed his nomination for the vacant treasurer's post. On the last day of filing nominations for the president's post, Jaitley filed his papers, following in the footsteps of his father, who died last year. He is learnt to have the support of all the major factions in the association. "Yes, I have filed my nomination today. I would like to work for the betterment of Delhi cricket and would love to have everyone on the same page. It's good to come back and serve the association with an aim to take it where it should be," the 31-year-old told PTI during an interaction after the completion of formalities. It is expected that the young lawyer will be a unanimous choice of all warring factions at the DDCA. When asked about it, he laughed. The only other candidate, Sunil Goel, has withdrawn after filing his nomination for the president's post. "I don't mind a contest. It is good for the democratic process. The idea is to bring in good people at appropriate times to have checks and balances in place," he said. Asked about his plans, Jaitley seemed pretty clear about what he would like to achieve. "The first idea is to get a Vision Document and also put the necessary checks and balances in place so that we move in right directions," he said. "I will be working on some unexplored areas of integrity, technology and giving due importance to sports management, along with sports clubs, and infrastructure." But what about the unpaid dues to support staff and all those litigation expenses running into crores? "I can only take up these issues when I assume office. I can assure that no unnecessary expenses will be incurred. Only valid expenses shall be incurred," he said. "I read news about lots of litigation expenses and I don't second that. I would urge everyone to work for the betterment of the association." It will be his maiden entry into cricket administration and DDCA is much-maligned for its multiple factions like the Vinod Tihara group, the SP Bansal group, and CK Khanna group to name a few. Asked about what would be his way of dealing with groups which have often affected growth of cricket in Delhi, he gave a practical reply. "Groupism is in DNA of DDCA. Now if you look at building consensus, then I would look at it from a different perspective. Each group has good people in it. Good people should be elected in different posts, so that they can all contribute," he said. "So I was talking to Maddi paa (Madan lal as he is addressed in Delhi circuit). He was saying that we need to work together and I told him that we need to bring the best out of everyone. Let there be cricket reforms committee and let reforms be put on record," he said. DDCA joint secretary Rajan Manchanda said that every member of the association is backing Rohan. "Everyone is supporting Mr Jaitley and we will support his endeavour to bring in positive changes in the association," Manchanda said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rohan-jaitley-files-nomination-for-delhi-district-cricket-association-presidents-post-898722.html
07-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi restaurants to operate round-the-clock||In a major relief to city restaurants amid Covid-19 outbreak, the Delhi government on Wednesday said they will be allowed to operate round-the-clock and the requirement of tourism licenses will be removed. Setting an example of ‘Delhi Model’ of ease of doing business, the government also announced other measures such as initiation of a process to abolish police licenses and health trade licenses from local bodies for restaurants, an official statement said. The decisions were taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. The meeting was also attended by restaurants owners of the national capital. The government said such steps will help the industry generate more employment in the city through higher demand, adding that this will set an example for the Delhi Model of ease of doing business. "On the request of restaurateurs to allow 24x7 business, it was agreed that the restaurants will be allowed to operate at all hours subject to the condition that they submit an undertaking that they will take care of the health and security of their entire staff," the statement stated. The Chief Minister also instructed that the health trade licenses issued by municipal corporations to the restaurant industries be abolished within 10 days, it said. During the meeting, the excise department agreed to review the existing policy of a 10 per cent automatic increase in the license fees every year. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who also attended the meeting, called for the restaurants to be able to pay their excise by March 31 from the existing deadline of February 28, and for them to make quarterly license fee payments without any interest, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-restaurants-to-operate-round-the-clock-898731.html
07-10-2020||North and Central||Bihar Assembly Elections: Congress releases first list of 21 candidates||The Congress on Wednesday released its first list of 21 candidates for the Bihar assembly elections. The list was announced after the Congress Central Election Committee headed by party chief Sonia Gandhi cleared their names at a meeting held earlier this week. The Congress has nominated Shubhanand Mukesh, the son of Congress Legislature Party leader in Bihar Sadanand Singh, for the Kahalgaon assembly seat. The Congress fielded Akhauri Onkar Nath from Gaya Town instead of Mohan Shrivastava, who is facing charges of rape. Sources said Shrivastava's name was earlier cleared, but following objections by some senior leaders, he was dropped and replaced by another candidate. Tomorrow is the last date for filing of nominations for the first phase of Bihar assembly polls, which will be held on October 28. Bihar assembly elections will be held in three phases on October 28, November 3 and 7, while the results will be out on November 10. The Congress will be contesting on 70 seats as part of the RJD-led grand alliance in Bihar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bihar-assembly-elections-congress-releases-first-list-of-21-candidates-898743.html
07-10-2020||North and Central||First flight from Noida International Airport likely to take off by 2024||The first flight from the Noida International Airport, coming up at Jewar village on the outskirts of Delhi, is expected to take off in 2024. The government of Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday signed the concessionaire agreement with Zurich Airport International AG, which had won the bid to build the airport at Noida in November last year. The signing of the concessionaire agreement paves the way for the construction of the airport, which is projected to handle 70 million passengers per annum by 2050. The airport will be developed in four phases at a cost of Rs 29,560 crores, a NIAL official said. “When phase-I development is completed in 2024, we will provide capacity for 12m (million) passengers per year,” Daniel Bircher, Chief Executive Officer, Zurich Airport International (Asia), told reporters at a virtual briefing here. The first phase of development would entail building one runway, apron space, including 12 boarding bridges and cargo catering space. The Gautam Buddha Nagar administration has acquired 1,334 hectares of land for development of the phase-I of the airport out of the 5,000 hectares required for the entire project. “The construction of Noida International Airport will support economic growth through job creation in the state while making it the most preferred destination for domestic as well as global investors in the upcoming years,” S P Goyal, Additional Chief Secretary, Government of Uttar Pradesh said. The NIAL airport will be located about 70 km from Delhi airport which will be the second airport in the national capital region. The Delhi airport is designed to handle about 70 million passengers per year and is being upgraded to 100 million passengers per year capacity by 2022. The area around the airport is being developed as a business hub with the Buddha International Circuit, a Formula One racing track, in the vicinity and the state government planning to build a film city nearby.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/first-flight-from-noida-international-airport-likely-to-take-off-by-2024-898767.html
07-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt allows functioning of all weekly markets||The Delhi government on Wednesday decided to allow all weekly markets to function in the national capital with immediate effect. The decision was taken by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) after reviewing the Covid-19 situation in the city. Taking to Twitter, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that now all the weekly markets will be opened. The move, he said, will be a relief for the poor people. In his order issued on Wednesday, Chief Secretary Vijay Dev said all weekly markets, except in Covid-19 containment zones, have been allowed to function with immediate effect. Until now, the DDMA had allowed only two such markets to open daily in every municipal zone. "Weekly markets shall be selected by the joint team of district magistrate, DCP and zonal deputy municipal commissioner with the consultation of RWAs of the area...," Dev, who is also the chairperson of DDMA's state executive committee, said in the order. The order said, "In case it is observed by the joint team of officers that any weekly market is unable to function on its fixed/regular place or at roadside due to obstruction to traffic, strictly as per the SOP/guidelines of DDMA, then such weekly markets can be allowed to function at some other nearby ground/school ground, purely on a temporary basis." It stated that if it is found that vendors or customers are not following the instructions prescribed in the standard operating procedures, then such markets will be closed. Dev directed all district magistrates, deputy commissioners of police and authorities concerned to ensure strict compliance of his order. The coronavirus-induced countrywide lockdown was first announced from March 25 and it was extended in phases till May 31. The unlock process in the country had begun on June 1 with the graded reopening of commercial, social, religious and other activities. अब दिल्ली के सभी साप्ताहिक बाज़ार खुल सकेंगे। अभी तक केवल 2 बाज़ार प्रतिदिन प्रति ज़ोन की इजाज़त थी। गरीब लोगों को इस से काफ़ी राहत मिलेगी। 15 अक्तूबर से दिल्ली के सिनेमा हॉल भी खुल सकेंगे। उन्हें केंद्र सरकार द्वारा जारी सभी दिशा निर्देश पालन करने होंगे।||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-allows-functioning-of-all-weekly-markets-898779.html
07-10-2020||North and Central||BJP protests against Congress in Chhattisgarh over 'failed' promises||The BJP held protests at all development block headquarters in Chhattisgarh on Wednesday, accusing the Congress government of failing to fulfil the promises made to farmers, including those related to paddy procurement. In capital Raipur, BJP leaders handed over a memorandum to Governor Anusuiya Uikey at Raj Bhawan hereafter the protest, urging her to direct the state government to fulfil their demands. State BJP chief Vishnu Deo Sai, who reached the dharna site here on a tractor, said the "anti-farmer" Congress has been opposing the revolutionary farm reforms that were recently brought by the Modi government "in the interest of cultivators". "It seems the ruling Congress in the state, which has failed to make complete payments against previous year's paddy procurement, is fearing the new agriculture sector reforms, under which farmers have to be paid within 72 hours of procurement of their produce," he alleged. Later, a BJP delegation led by Sai submitted a memorandum to the governor, urging her to issue directions to the state government for carrying out paddy procurement drive honestly. The BJP alleged in the memorandum that during the previous Kharif season, the state government had failed to properly carry out paddy procurement drive and farmers were subjected to barbaric treatment by the government. The farmers are yet to receive complete payment against the paddy procurement done in the previous Kharif season, it said. The memorandum stated that the new farm laws clearly states that farmers should get their amount on selling their produce within three days. Hence, during the ongoing Kharif season the state government should ensure one-time payment within 72 hours after procuring paddy, it said. The Centre has recently agreed to procure one-and-a-half times more rice in the central pool from the state and allocated an amount of Rs 9,000 crore for paddy procurement, the memorandum said adding that the farmers should be benefited from this decision. "The state government should procure a minimum of 20 quintal paddy per acre from the farmers, which is presently 15 quintal per acre," it said. The BJP urged the governor to ask the state government for making fast decisions on seven points mentioned in the memorandum so as to ensure that farmers this time are not subjected to injustice. Sai was accompanied by former Ministers Brijmohan Agrawal, Ajay Chandrakar and Rajesh Munat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-protests-against-congress-in-chhattisgarh-over-failed-promises-898786.html
07-10-2020||North and Central||Valmiki community body moves HC on behalf of Hathras victims’ kin||A Valmiki community organisation has moved the Allahabad High Court claiming that the Hathras administration is keeping the family members of the alleged gang-rape victim confined to their house and not allowing them to move freely and meet people. The petitioner organisation, Akhil Bharatiya Valmiki Mahapanchayat, claimed in its petition that it has approached the court on behalf of the victim’s family members. The petition also names the victim’s father, mother and her brothers as plaintiff. The lawsuit alleged that the victim’s family members were illegally confined in their house by the district administration and were not allowed to meet anyone. The petition also specifically alleged the violation of the Dalit family’s Fundamental Rights of freedom of movement and the freedom of speech and expression by the Hathras district administration. Akhil Bharatiya Valmiki Mahapanchayat national general secretary Surender Kumar averred that he was approached by the family members of the victim over the telephone and he had filed the petition on behalf of them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/valmiki-community-body-moves-hc-on-behalf-of-hathras-victims-kin-898788.html
07-10-2020||Oasis||Rama or Ravana?||During an interesting discourse, a speaker paused and asked the audience, “If I held two beautiful idols of Rama and Ravana in  both my hands and asked you to choose and take one, which idol will you choose?” The audience unanimously roared, “Rama’s idol!” As he is the epitome of what a gentleman should be, “Well yes! Absolutely, I forgot to mention” added the speaker and continued, “though the idols of both Rama and Ravana are made by the best craftsmen, the idol of Rama is made of wood while that of Ravana is made of gold, now may I know your choice?” There was a stillness in the room which echoed the answer. Materialistic possessions give comfort and are essential for survival in today’s world. The advertising industry is busy convincing that we’re not perfect or healthy until we purchase or consume their products. The youth today craves for attention that can be fulfilled only by materialistic interests. Big houses, fancy cars, huge bank balance are monumental in maintaining status within high social circles. These possessions after a while start possessing us. Money or wealth is hunky-dory as long as it doesn’t control our deeds or spiritual development.  Rama and Ravana are the two sides of our mind. Rama, an example of an ideal man in terms of physical, mental and spiritual strength, is depicted by our conscience while Ravana is our ego. In this materialistic world, where money and pride have taken over humbleness and humility, the Ravana inside has been slowly killing the Rama, our conscience. The hatred, anger and incivility poured outside are the outcome of our silencing the one small right voice within.  Be it Rama or Ravan, both begin with the same syllable. But their destiny is decided by the karmas. Just as a Buddha teaching says “ When you die, they won’t remember your car or house. They will remember who you were. Be a good human, not a good materialist”, Let us nurture the goodness of spirituality over materialism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/rama-or-ravana-898811.html
07-10-2020||Opinion||What my Covid-19 hallucination showed me||I stood on the edge of a tunnel. I could look down it in both directions. It didn’t end, so far as I could tell. It was wide enough for two big trucks to pass abreast. The color was a uniform misty gray. The light never changed. There was never a breeze. There were only two things there. They stood across from my vantage point, near the opposite wall. Both appeared to be packages, though neither had any logo or label. One was a squat cylinder that might have held a half-dozen dinner plates. The other was a tall rectangle about the size of an old-fashioned stereo speaker. They, too, were gray. It made a sort of sense to see the tunnel this way — still, dormant, empty of goods — because so much that I needed could not be had. My doctor told me to take my temperature. I could not buy a thermometer. To clean off the toilet seat with disinfectant wipes. No such product available. To use disposable paper towels and tissues. None to be found. To wear a mask. I coughed all over the two I possessed, and there were no more anywhere. My hallucination was a vision, and this is what it told me: If you insist on bringing an endless stream of items into your life from around the world, you will bring with it unwanted guests. Then, your busy, Technicolor life will turn still and gray. When you treat the world and everything and everyone in it as parts of a vast web of goods and services, the living beings who are at its nodes will suffer. Rapid, constant round-the-world exchange doesn’t bring just a single invasive malady. Look at what has happened to North American trees since World War II. First, we accidentally imported the hemlock woolly adelgid, a pest that has ravaged the hemlock, one of our most important conifers. Then came the Asian long-horned beetle, hidden in shipping pallets, which threatens maples and many other hardwood species. Recently, we added the emerald ash borer, another pallet rider, which is all but eliminating ash trees over most of their range. Now, there is the spotted lanternfly, which is deadly to grapes and to many fruit trees. In the wings is yet another possible malefactor: An Asian roundworm may cause a new disease on American beech. Just as earlier we brought Dutch elm disease and the gypsy moth from Europe, now most problems come from Asian trading partners. What is happening to trees once happened to people. When Europeans appeared in the so-called New World beginning in the 15th century, they brought not only their bodies, their cattle, their trade goods, their crops and their weeds but also their diseases. It is estimated that 90 percent of the Indigenous people were killed over the succeeding century by European maladies. Small pox was the worst, but Europeans brought or spread more than 30 epidemic diseases, some from their homelands, some from other colonies: measles, flu, whooping cough, diphtheria, typhus, cholera, Lyme disease, malaria, yellow fever. Covid-19 is just the first virulent pandemic disease of our present world concatenation. How many more will there be? And how deadly? How quickly in succession will they come? My case of the disease gave me its vision of the gray tunnel, but it also showed me one way out. I had the good fortune to recover in a small town. Social distancing is easy when the population is in the hundreds or the thousands, but that was the least of its virtues. This was not a throwback, not the town of yesteryear, but a new town some of whose people had been there for generations, others for weeks. My cure did not come down the gray hallway, but from that mixed community. I was unable to go out. Things came from down the street. The milkman brought the milk. The egg lady delivered the eggs. (In her recycled cartons, she tried to alternate blue and brown.) The meat people raised all of their own animals. Food passed through few hands before it reached me, and it came reliably. My wife told two friends that I was sick. They mobilized a team to help us. My wife would get a call to say when dinner would arrive. Almost every meal came with a formal menu, neatly written out and with explanations as needed (“rice yellowed with turmeric, not saffron”). At first, I could eat very little of the food, but just its presence there in front of me gave me courage. People went out of their way to make their best dishes. A delicious hot roast chicken, and French onion soup. Arroz con camarones. An amazing 15-bean soup with chunks of ham. Apple walnut cake paired with lemon verbena tea. The biggest chunk of chicken fried steak that I have ever seen. As I recovered, I began to take walks. Right outside the door was a house wren that sang loudly and persistently every morning. We live on the edge of a forest that grows on what once were pastures and fields. It was a pleasure to see how the trees were finding their place in a new woodland, and to see and hear the creatures who lived there. One afternoon, it started to rain. I heard beside me the noisy opening of a huge golf umbrella, but it was in fact a bald eagle, who had been sitting in a nearby tree on the trail. We shocked one another. He rose awkwardly into the air, threading his way higher and farther off, where he settled again. Here was a world not without us, but whose rhythms and struggles were its own. The tunnel is not inevitable. One silver lining of Covid-19 is this: We may build small communities again. It isn’t easy — gossip, competition for scarce resources, political differences — but it is good for our physical and mental health, and good for the nation. We know our neighbors. There is no sense that the egg lady or the appliance repairman is a less important being than the company treasurer or the documentary filmmaker, or for that matter than the governor of the state. When someone is suffering, neighbors effectively rally to help the person, and they don’t ask for anything in return. Political choices involve people that we have met, and their work is visible. The historian Arnold Toynbee once suggested that every civilization reaches a point at which it can go neither forward nor back. The conservatives and the progressives both burn with hyped-up fervor: One side thinks that Covid-19 is a hoax and that vaccines are a vast conspiracy, while the other thinks that gun owners are stupid troglodytes and wonder what signs to put on public restrooms. The only way out, Toynbee wrote, is transfiguration: You must draw a larger circle in time. You draw farther into the past and as you come around the circle you find yourself in the future. With that larger view, you suddenly see old things in a new light. Maybe that time has come.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/what-my-covid-19-hallucination-showed-me-898375.html
07-10-2020||Opinion||Why Bihar could be headed the Maharashtra way||If the 2010 and 2015 assembly elections in Bihar were largely themed around Nitish Kumar and his much-vaunted governance, this year’s polls are expected to be as much of a referendum on his current tenure as CM as an outcome of the state of the alliances that have panned out in unexpected ways. The alliances have not only infused fluidity but spurred active speculation on the post-poll permutations and combinations.  Indeed, commentators believe Bihar could head the Maharashtra way and throw up an unanticipated coalition. Except there’s one factor that is cast in stone: The Congress and the BJP will never join hands. The other cast of players that have the Nitish’s Janata Dal (United) or JD(U) and Tejashwi Yadav’s Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD are bound to make hard calculations before charting their paths. At the epicentre of the alliances stands Ram Vilas Paswan’s Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) that virtually passed into the hands of his scion and Lok Sabha MP, Chirag Paswan, who calls the shots in the absence of his father. Paswan senior underwent a heart surgery that ruled him out of the campaign. Chirag’s ambitions to head Bihar, realistically or fancifully, were fuelled by the presence of Tejashwi, Lalu Prasad’s heir, and his lead role.  Legatees in Indian politics rarely take a measure of their intrinsic worth or reckon with the changing mood of people who increasingly demonstrate little patience or tolerance of the heir-apparent and support leaders who earn their stripes on their own, sans political pedigree. Chirag and Tejashwi are convinced that they are destined to mould Bihar’s destiny and their allies, the BJP and Congress, are reconciled to play secondary parts. It was a combination of ambition, major differences with the JD(U) and a smidgen of ground sense that pushed Chirag to sever ties with Nitish’s party and go independent of the NDA. However, by a sleight of hand, the LJP declared it will not contest against the BJP. On its part, the BJP, while affirming that the polls are being fought under Nitish’s stewardship, has not uttered a word against the Paswans, reinforcing a perception that it does not want to lose the JD (U) and the LJP. On the other hand, the UPA happily discarded three of its partners, the Rashtriya Lok Samta Party (RLSP), the Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) or HAM (S) and the Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP). All three are confined to small pockets and bring in caste-specific votes. The RLSP has become part of a “third front” that has so far brought together Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Jan Adhikar Party (JAP), led by Pappu Yadav, a former RJD member.  Incidentally, Pappu Yadav took a lead in actively working among the migrants who returned to Bihar during the national lockdown. His initiative stood out because the CM was ambivalent over getting the returning migrants and devising ways of resettling them in Bihar. The HAM (S) tied up with the JD(U), ostensibly to compensate for the Dalit votes it could lose after the LJP walked out. The VIP is trying to team up with the “third front”.  The front is projected to eat into the UPA’s votes and help the NDA tangentially. Bereft of ideological commitment (barring the AIMIM), the other constituents could join the NDA if an opportunity arose after the polls. Among the players, Nitish is the one who has to defend his turf, answer charges of “bad” governance and possibly suffer the loss of his status as Bihar’s preeminent leader for nearly 15 years. The LJP has announced that Nitish is the prime adversary, a tactic that puts the BJP in a piquant position. Will the BJP defend Nitish against the LJP and risk losing the Paswans by the end of the polls? Or will it calibrate its campaign in a way that neither is offended? Such “clever”—or too clever by half—ploys never work in an election, and not one in a highly politicised state like Bihar, where elections are decided after voters hear out the leaders to the point of deconstructing and analysing every word spoken from the stump. The BJP’s quandary is because of its dependence on the JD(U) and the LJP for the votes they bring in and more importantly, to dilute its image as an “upper caste” party that isn’t an accurate representation because on its own, the BJP pulls in support from sections of the backward castes and Dalits. But because the upper castes canvass loudly in its support, it has got identified with the Brahmins, Rajputs, Bhumihars and Banias.     The RJD, that struck an alliance with the Congress and the Left spectrum, notably the CPI (M-L), hopes to not only win its core votes but reach out to an enlarged base, principally on Lalu Prasad’s legacy or what remains of it. Lalu, in jail at Ranchi, will skip the elections. The elections are a litmus test of the acceptability and credibility of the leadership the two legatees, Tejashwi and Chirag, have sought to establish. Who among them will be an Uddhav Thackeray in the post-poll scenario has to be seen. (Radhika Ramaseshan is a Delhi-based political analyst and columnist) The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-bihar-could-be-headed-the-maharashtra-way-898430.html
07-10-2020||Opinion||Are hospitals ready for Covid-19’s second wave?||The brutal experience of Covid-19’s first wave humbled many rich countries where even generous health care systems were overwhelmed by an unfamiliar virus. Just as past outbreaks taught Asia hard truths about how to deal with pandemics, lessons from this novel coronavirus abound in the West: Italy has ramped up intensive-care capacity, France is paying health workers better and Spain is building a new pandemic hospital. Thanks to these and other efforts, national lockdowns are being portrayed as a one-off. Yet as cases surge again in Europe, strains on critical-care resources are leading to economic shutdowns on local and regional levels. Covid-19 patients fill more than a third of intensive-care beds in the Paris region. It’s a similar story in Madrid. Blunt, lockdown-style measures — the closure of bars, gyms and other businesses — are being rolled out to slow case growth and hospital admissions. Even though the hospitalization rate is much lower than in the first wave, governments feel they have no alternative but to act now. They’re worried about where that number will be in a month. France’s Institut Pasteur estimates 11,000 Covid-19 patients could be in intensive care by November. That’s not only above the country’s maximum capacity in a pandemic emergency, but higher than the peak in April.  Given hospital metrics feed into governments’ assessment of whether to take tough measures, there’s frustration that so much focus is being put on deciding whether to shut bars or restaurants as opposed to expanding hospital capacity. According to Christophe Prudhomme, an emergency doctor in Paris, if France had structurally doubled bed capacity to 12,000 by now, the national Covid-19 occupancy rate would be around 10% — a level requiring no extra lockdown measures — and not 20%, which does. Are we shutting businesses when we should be building more beds? The question is more complex than it seems. Intensive-care beds don’t always lend themselves well to cost-benefit analyses in the eyes of government officials. The daily cost of one can be anything from around 2,000 euros ($2,347) to more than double that, according to Rosanna Tarricone, associate professor of health care management at Bocconi University in Milan. You don’t just need a mattress and medical equipment but the staff to operate it. And, crucially, it’s an outlay that may save lives but without countering Covid-19’s spread. Policymakers, therefore, face a kind of “Jevons Paradox,” the phenomenon where more supply of a service can increase demand rather than reduce it. Building more beds without getting a grip on the pace of new infections would only serve to fill them up while doing nothing to tackle the core problem. And when epidemics subside, the pressure to cut costs falls on what are suddenly empty beds.  Yet there are limits to strict efficiency analyses in these chaotic times. Governments have shown themselves capable of breaking all sorts of economic taboos, from subsidizing furloughed workers to joint borrowing at the European level. Dismissing hospitals as just another infrastructure “white elephant” looks extreme. One answer could be to better allocate hospital resources that already exist, rather than permanently increase them everywhere. During Covid-19’s first wave, France used special trains to ship patients around the country, and even across the border to Germany and Luxembourg. Cross-border cooperation makes even more sense now, with some countries being hit hard, while others such as Italy or Germany fare much better. Philippe Juvin, head of emergency services at Paris’s Europeen Georges-Pompidou Hospital, has proposed creating a European reserve of medical staff and resources that could be sent from less affected countries to those facing saturation. Another way to ease the strain on intensive-care units can involve reorganizing hospitals themselves. South Korea, which resisted Covid-19 lockdowns via extensive surveillance and testing, used its playbook from the 2015 MERS coronavirus outbreak to allocate patients based on symptom severity and bed availability. Patients were shared among community facilities, dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, and other locations. The community facilities, for instance, housed patients who reported their body temperature and any symptom changes using a mobile app or the telephone while they were there, making any on-site responses and eventual hospital transfer easier. This would require rethinking how resources are used in a way that doesn’t come easily to Western countries that were spared deadly pandemics for decades. It’s also not a substitute for preventative measures. Test-and-trace systems have approached the brink of collapse in several countries — they could also do with European common standards and technology for contact-tracing apps, for example. Still, if ever there was a time to view health care as a benefit to society and the economy, rather than a drag on public finances, it’s now. If we want to learn to live with the virus, we should think about hospital beds, not just bars.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/are-hospitals-ready-for-covid-19-s-second-wave-898789.html
07-10-2020||Panorama||State of Indian economy: Where do we go from here?||It is no secret that Indian economy is in big trouble. The GDP shrank by 24% in the April-June quarter, along with a step-up in the rate of CPI inflation (above 6%). The GDP growth over the entire fiscal 2019-20 is now estimated to be around -10% (minus 10%), instead of the earlier projection of -5%. The fiscal deficits of both central and state governments are ballooning. The central government is not even able to compensate the states for the tax revenue loss due to the introduction of GST. There have been massive losses for self-employed and unorganised workers. Even white-collar workers (like software engineers, teachers, accountants, analysts) have lost 32.6% of jobs over May-August 2020, according to CMIE data. They are being forced to survive on their past savings or drastically cut their consumption expenditures. On the other hand, the more affluent people may end up with higher savings as their expenditures on travel, vacations (in India and abroad), hotel stay, eating out, etc., have fallen. The financial state of banks and NBFCs has worsened due to the moratorium on debt servicing and interest payments. Where do we go from here? The likely scenario is that with gradual unlocking, production, employment and GDP would now start to pick up, though slowly, along with a rise in the rate of infection and deaths. However, the exact timeline of these developments is uncertain. As for the impact on GDP, there is a pure fact of arithmetic. Suppose for a country, GDP is stable at 100. Now, if in one quarter GDP falls by 25%, it becomes 75. Assume that in the next quarter, GDP returns to the earlier trend level of 100. Growth in the second quarter would be (25/75) x100 = 33.3%, though over two quarters, there is zero growth. The government may like to take the credit for the recovery rate being higher than the rate of decline which, in reality, is simply due to the ‘low base effect’. One advantage of the current situation is that the production equipment are already in place and can quickly be activated as demand and workers return. Migrant workers are eager to go back to their former workplaces. Much depends on how quickly demand is generated for goods and services. Here, the government has a large role to play by spending more on infrastructure and relief for some more time to offset the temporary demand deficiency from consumption, investment and exports. A temporary rise in fiscal deficit, even if financed by borrowing from RBI (same as printing of notes), is not likely to spur inflation or interest rates. Private investment expenditure is not going to be crowded out under excess production capacity and surplus liquidity. On the contrary, more spending on infrastructure (roads, ports, transport, power) by the government should lead to better capacity utilization by private players (specially in steel, cement, machinery and equipment) and induce more expenditure, production and jobs through demand and supply-side linkages. The economic slowdown started long before the onset of the pandemic. So, we are not going back to the above 7% growth trajectory of the past. The scope of an export-oriented growth strategy successfully pursued by Japan, the East Asian tigers and then China is not available for a large country like India under the prevailing global atmosphere. Hence, India will have to depend on domestic sources of demand, which needs a more inclusive growth strategy. It should start with diversification of crops away from food grains which, by catering to rising urban demand and generating better profit margins, will enrich farmers and will also add more to aggregate demand as farmers are generally poorer, with higher propensity to consume. Though it sounds like a good idea, it is not really a new idea. The crucial question is how to bring this about. Basically, there are two alternative pathways. One, the government builds the physical infrastructure like warehouses, cold chains, 24-hour reliable power supply, and better roads to connect farms to all-India markets. Given the fiscal constraints of both central and state governments, this is not a feasible option. The other alternative is to rely on private players. This is what the Modi government is proposing to do by allowing farmers to sell to and get investment and technology (by dismantling the monopoly of Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees or APMCs and through contract farming) from any entity in India. This is de-licensing agriculture by introducing competition along the lines of de-licensing of industry in 1991. It is hoped that big private players would invest in building the required infrastructure and supply chains, which would bring about the transformation of Indian agriculture. Apart from the political opposition to any such moves (which has already started due to compulsions of competitive politics, the fear of losing revenue from mandi tax and the political power of the middlemen who would be eliminated), there is always a big difference between what is theoretically possible and what actually happens on the ground in India, given the pervasive inefficiencies and corruption in the implementation machinery at different levels. It is also doubtful how many farmers (specially the smaller ones) would like to give up the price certainty of MSP for rice and wheat (which the government is assuring would continue) for the uncertainty of price realisation under a more diversified crop pattern with more production of vegetables, fruits and flowers. At the same time, contract farming has already benefitted some farmers in states where it is already (selectively) allowed. So, it is possible that, if these success stories are widely publicised by the government and the media, more farmers would opt for contract farming. But, then again, the vast number of small farmers, with fragmented and scattered land holdings, is unlikely to gain. Bringing them together under producer cooperatives has not succeeded in India, where the success story of Amul is an exception. (The writer is a former Professor of Economics, IIM Calcutta, India and Cornell University, USA)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/state-of-indian-economy-where-do-we-go-from-here-898809.html
07-10-2020||Panorama||The campaign to silence Bollywood||India today is like the Mad Hatter’s tea party — partly funny, partly weird — and hidden behind it is an incredibly tragic soliloquy of pain. More than six million confirmed coronavirus cases. About 100,000 deaths. The economy expected to contract by 12 percent. China trying to take over territory on a disputed border. Yet if you had switched on news television in India in the past two months, you would have found a country obsessed with a singular subject: the taming of Bollywood, supposedly a wild, drug-addled place where horrible things happen to outsiders; India’s Gomorrah, infested with vile liberals and Muslims. This hysterical campaign of vilification and the persecution of numerous actors is an attempt to distract people from Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s failure to handle the coronavirus pandemic and a sinking economy. On June 14, as India became fourth on the list of countries worst hit by the pandemic, Sushant Singh Rajput, a 34-year-old actor, hanged himself from a ceiling fan in his apartment in Mumbai. Many in the film industry were aware of his mental health probleA report by the police confirmed the young actor’s death as suicide. India’s National Crime Records Bureau estimated that there were 381 suicides every day in the country in 2019, a majority of them by men living in the cities. The young, accomplished actor’s death did not go unnoticed in the midst of the pandemic. It saddened people. But Rajput’s family in the Indian state of Bihar, more than 1,000 miles away, claimed that he was murdered and filed a complaint in late July with the police in Bihar. The family accused his girlfriend, Rhea Chakraborty, a 28-year-old actor, of abetment of suicide and of stealing several million rupees he had been offered for a new movie. (He had not signed on to the movie.) A torrent of misogyny followed on social media and numerous television networks. Chakraborty was called a gold digger, a thief. A popular Indian news network portrayed her as a witch, accusing her of practicing “black magic” on Rajput. After the misogyny came the politics. Mumbai is the capital of the state of Maharashtra, which is ruled by Uddhav Thackeray of the Shiv Sena party. He is a former ally of Modi who scorned the prime minister’s Bharatiya Janata Party and formed the state government with two opposition parties. The slight wasn’t forgotten or forgiven. On Aug. 1, rumors were floated on social media that Thackeray’s son was a friend of Chakraborty and that was why the “murder case” was quashed. The Mumbai police recently claimed that over 80,000 fake accounts were created on various social media platforms to discredit its investigation into the actor’s death. A study of online behavior by the University of Michigan concluded that conspiracy theories suggesting that Rajput was murdered were amplified by members the ruling B.J.P. and the TV networks that operate as extensions of the Hindu nationalist establishment. Leaders and allies of the B.J.P. supported a demand by the deceased actor’s family that a federal agency probe his death. There was a method to the madness: Rajput’s native state of Bihar, which sends 40 representatives to the Indian Parliament, is scheduled for state elections in October. Modi’s BJP, hoping to strengthen its grip on power in Bihar, positioned itself as fighting for justice for a son of the soil who was “murdered.” “We haven’t forgotten. We won’t let you forget,” reads a BJP poster with the party’s electoral symbol and Rajput’s smiling face on it. All this, as the pandemic was raging, the economy was tanking and about 2.5 million migrant workers from Bihar who had lost their jobs in Indian cities had returned to their villages. On Aug. 19, federal investigators took over the case. Two other top agencies were brought in to investigate murder and money laundering. Nothing came out of it. That is when, in late August, some old WhatsApp messages between Chakraborty and Rajput’s staff and friends, suggesting she procured marijuana for him, were broadcast by the right-wing television networks. The Narcotics Control Bureau opened an investigation. The agency arrested Chakraborty and claimed that she was actively running a drug syndicate. She denied the charges, was refused bail and was sent to prison. (Last week, a top government medical board confirmed Rajput’s death was a suicide, and on Wednesday morning, after almost a month in prison, she was granted bail by a court.) Social media accounts affiliated with the Hindu right and TV networks, which essentially work as extensions of Modi’s party, started frothing about the wild, wild ways of the film industry and its copious consumption of drugs. Beyond distraction, the assault on Bollywood, the most powerful cultural force in India, had a clear purpose: to force the film industry into complete silence and submission, and line up behind the B.J.P.’s Hindu majoritarian project. On Sept. 21, personal messages from WhatsApp were again mysteriously leaked and plastered on television screens by news networks to suggest that one of India’s biggest movie stars, Deepika Padukone, had asked her manager to buy drugs for her. The right-wing TV networks have attacked Padukone and other stars who have been questioned by the bureau with unprecedented vehemence, insinuating that they are part of a drug nexus in the film industry. Padukone has denied consuming or supplying drugs to anyone. The witch hunt has scared various brands into suspending their advertising campaigns with actors who have been named, even if only in gossip columns. That Padukone was summoned and her reputation besmirched made me wonder whether it was retribution for a moment of dissent against Modi’s government in January, when Padukone joined a student protest against a discriminatory citizenship law. Bollywood, a $2.4 billion industry that provides employment to about a million people in India, has always been a secular and culturally open space. Some of its most popular stars and filmmakers are Muslims, which Hindu nationalists resent intensely. Some Bollywood actors and producers have cozied up to the Hindu nationalist establishment, but the film industry is largely seen as the bastion of wasted liberals who are not nationalist enough for Modi’s “New India.” The Hindu nationalists are hoping this sudden and unexpected assault on Bollywood will force the film industry into complete submission to a government keen on wiping out dissent and liberal ideas. They want Bollywood at their command, an accessory to furthering their exclusivist, majoritarian politics. In our greatest moments of joy and sorrow, Indians turn to songs and dialogue and stories from our filOur films are what bring us together as a nation across our religious and cultural diversity. Many filmmakers have bent to the pressure from the government and many more will, but the Hindi film industry has outlived many autocratic regimes. The Hindi film industry survived “The Emergency,” the 21 months of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi’s tryst with dictatorship between 1975 and 1977. It survived the attempts of the Bombay underworld to take it over. It survived the religious riots and bomb blasts of the early ’90s. It will survive this assault too. India’s love for films is a force multiplier that brings people together irrespective of religion, caste or regional loyalties. The Hindi film has its own language, its own cultural ethic, its own ideas about where India’s destiny lies. The current crisis is unlikely to be able to destroy that. As someone who has been an intrinsic part of journalism, politics and the movie industry, I am confident of that.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-campaign-to-silence-bollywood-898810.html
07-10-2020||Second Edit||Wastage of food grains unconscionable||Around 1,453 tonnes of food grains in the Food Corporation of India’s godowns were wasted in the month of June alone, according to data provided by the Ministry of Consumer Affairs. This may seem a small amount, considering that the FCI stores millions of tonnes of grains in its warehouses across the country. However, the wastage in June is worrying for several reasons. For one, there was a sharp surge in wastage that month. From zero wastage in March and April, May saw nearly 26 tonnes of grain damaged. And then, the surge in wastage happened in June. Wastage dropped thereafter in the months of July and August to 41 and 51 tonnes, respectively. What makes the grain wastage in June worrisome is that the volume lost that month amounts to roughly three-fourths of the amount that went waste over a 12-month period in 2019-20. The surge in grain wastage in the May-June period happened amidst the Covid-19 lockdown. It is likely that in the chaos prevailing during the lockdown, warehouse caretakers would have overlooked fumigation and other procedures to keep pests at bay. However, this is no excuse. Procedures and protocols are put in place so that they kick in during extraordinary or abnormal times. Unfortunately, rarely are procedures followed diligently. Consequently, these procedures collapse at the first sign of trouble or pressure. It is distressing that authorities take rather lightly the issue of wastage of food grains. Commenting on wastage in FCI godowns, Union Minister for Consumer Affairs Ram Vilas Paswan said in March that the volume lost was “negligible.” This is true in terms of numbers; the wastage is often less than a percent of the grains the government procures for storage. Still, this attitude towards food is disturbing, especially in the context of the global hunger crisis and the continuing problems of hunger and starvation in India itself. Dismissing wastage of grains as negligible is unconscionable. It was in the months of April, May and June that millions of migrants to India’s cities, who were thrown out of their jobs and left to struggle without food or shelter, were forced to trudge back to their villages. The government did release large volumes of grains and other food items for distribution among these migrant populations, but still many went hungry. While this was mainly because of poor distribution processes, it is disturbing that even as millions of people were going hungry, tonnes of food grains were getting damaged in warehouses. Negligence on the part of warehouse officials must be probed and acted upon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/wastage-of-food-grains-unconscionable-898805.html
07-10-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh urges Centre to draw up policy treating water as national wealth||The Andhra Pradesh government on Tuesday requested the Centre to chalk out a policy treating water as national wealth to balance the needs of both the backward areas and the flourishing areas. It said the requirement of water for drinking and irrigation needs should take precedence in the drought-prone and backward areas and that power generation should only be incidental. Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy made this plea to Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, as he narrated how the "lowest riparian state" was forced to suffer at the cost of an upper riparian state that effortlessly drew water from river Krishna. In a 11-page presentation to the Apex Council chaired by the Jal Shakti Minister, the second meeting of which was held in virtual mode from New Delhi on Tuesday, Jagan asserted that AP never intended to draw additional water from river Krishna than what was allotted by the Krishna River Water Disputes Tribunal and justified the proposed Rayalaseema Lift Scheme. The AP Chief Minister maintained that "the state of Andhra Pradesh has no other option" except taking up the Rayalaseema Lift Scheme to lift three tmc feet of water per day from the Srisailam reservoir. "It is pertinent to mention here that Telangana with mutually agreed share of 299 tmc ft is having a facility to draw three tmc ft per day at a level of 800 ft," he said. According to him, AP, with an agreed allocation of 512 tmc ft, does not have the capacity to draw water into Pothireddypadu at a water level below 881ft. "To effectively convey the allocated water drawn from the foreshore of Srisailam, to the canal network system, and also to avoid inundation of low-lying areas and flood mitigation by diverting the flows during floods, some improvement and lining work is being planned," the Chief Minister said. "It is crystal clear from the proposals of RLS that there is neither any proposal for drawal of additional water than what is allocated to AP, nor any new storage planned. Nor any new ayacut has been contemplated and enhanced utilisation proposed, except to supplement the needs of existing and ongoing projects of AP," he stressed. Jagan pointed out that the four Rayalaseema districts of Kurnool, Kadapa, Anantapuramu and Chittoor and two coastal districts of SPS Nellore and Prakasam were "critical and chronically drought-prone areas" and were mainly dependent on Srisailam project for their drinking water, industrial and irrigation needs. "It is generally agreed that a minimum of 100 tmc ft of water is required for each district to sustain itself and alleviate the backwardness in the region. This has been reiterated very often by the Chief Minister of Telangana and I was personally elated when these words came from him," Jagan noted. The AP Chief Minister also cited the agreement with neighbouring Tamil Nadu over supply of 15 tmc ft of water every year from river Krishna to meet the drinking water needs of Chennai city. Summing up, Jagan requested that the Centre evolve a policy to treat water as national wealth "to balance the needs of the backward areas and flourishing areas". "The sharing mechanism in all the reservoirs in a (river) basin may be considered on a proportionate and fortnightly basis so that all extreme conditions will be shared by all stakeholders in the basin together," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-urges-centre-to-draw-up-policy-treating-water-as-national-wealth-898357.html
07-10-2020||South||'Heinous act of murder of local CPI(M) leader an attempt to destroy peaceful atmosphere in Kerala: CM||The 'heinous act' of murder of a local CPI(M) leader by a gang, of whom the prime accused was arrested today, could only be seen as an attempt to destroy the peaceful atmosphere in Kerala, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Tuesday. P U Sanoop (26),a branch secretary of the ruling CPI(M), was stabbed to death and three others were injured on Sunday night, allegedly by a group belonging to right wing outfits, including RSS. Vijayan said the prime accused was arrested today and andrequested "everyone to cooperate" to maintain peace in the state. "It's an unfortunate incident and a heinous act. Sanoop was stabbed to death. This can only be seen as an attempt to destroy the peaceful atmosphere in Kerala. I request everyone to refrain from committing such acts," Vijayan told reporters. Referring to news reports, Vijayan said Sanoop, also a social worker, was a person liked by all. Nandan (48) was arrested earlier in the day from Thrissur and search was on for the other three accused, police said. Meanwhile, the CPI(M) on Tuesday staged state-wide dharnas against the murder, following the COVID-19 protocol. Sanoop is the third CPI(M) worker to have been killed within a gap of just more than a month in the state. On August 30, two DYFI activists were hacked to death, allegedly by Congress activists at Venjaramoodu in Thiruvananthapuram. Senior minister A C Moideen, who visited the house of Sanoop on Monday, had told the media that the prime accused in the case are "associated with the RSS and Bajrang Dal". He said the party has been fighting gangs involved in drug peddling and suspected that the RSS was engaged in protecting them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/heinous-act-of-murder-of-local-cpim-leader-an-attempt-to-destroy-peaceful-atmosphere-in-kerala-cm-898370.html
07-10-2020||South||Kerala CM hits out at IMA's 'worms' comment about Health Dept||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday came down on the Indian Medical Association (IMA)-Kerala, for its remarks that the Health department was "infested with worms" and said such a comment should have been avoided. Only those with infested minds could make such an observation, he said during the online inauguration of 75 family health centres across Kerala. The IMA had criticised the Health department in the backdrop of suspension of a doctor coordinating Covid duties at the medical college hospital here and two head nurses after an infected patient's family alleged that maggots were found in his bed sores and no proper care was provided to him. Taking on the IMA, Vijayan said such "misleading statements" should be avoided by those "who claim to be an expert" in the field as "it was not right". "Only those with infested minds can claim that the whole 'health department is infested with maggots'. Kerala's endeavours in the field of health have not been so poor to deserve such an insult," he said. In a release, the IMA had also alleged that enough ventilators and ICUs were not ready yet to treat serious patients. Vijayan, at a press meet held in the evening, said the state government takes decisions in the health sector based on the suggestions submitted by an expert medical panel, which also includes members from the IMA. "The IMA is an organisation of doctors. From various suggestions provided by organisations, including the IMA, the expert panel selects the best option and submits it to the government," he added. The state government has various medical panels, including the Covid cell, Rapid Response Team, State Medical Board, an expert panel and all these are "handled by those with academic expertise," he said. "We follow the suggestions of these bodies to contain the pandemic. The members of these bodies are also members of IMA. After all, IMA is not an expert body, but an organisation of doctors to safeguard their interests. But has the central government been considering their expertise during this pandemic? They do not have any criticism on that score," Vijayan said. Dismissing the association's charge about shortage of ventilators, he said steps had already been to make to make necessary purchases. Kerala has been witnessing a steep climb in Covid-19 cases in the past one month and opposition parties have been attacking the state government, alleging lapses in the health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-hits-out-at-imas-worms-comment-about-health-dept-898378.html
07-10-2020||South||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan hits out at IMA's 'worms' comment about Health Department||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday came down on the Indian Medical Association (IMA)- Kerala, for its remarks that the Health Department was "infested with worms" and said such a comment should have been avoided. Only those with infested minds could make such an observation, he said during the online inauguration of 75 family health centres across Kerala. The IMA had criticised the Health department in the backdrop of suspension of a doctor coordinating Covid duties at the medical college hospital here and two head nurses after an infected patient's family alleged that maggots were found in his bed sores and no proper care was provided to him. Taking on the IMA, Vijayan said such "misleading statements" should be avoided by those "who claim to be an expert" in the field as "it was not right". "Only those with infested minds can claim that the whole 'health department is infested with maggots'. Kerala's endeavours in the field of health have not been so poor to deserve such an insult," he said. In a release, the IMA had also alleged that enough ventilators and ICUs were not ready yet to treat serious patients. Vijayan, at a press meet held in the evening, said the state government takes decisions in the health sector based on the suggestions submitted by an expert medical panel, which also includes members from the IMA. "The IMA is an organisation of doctors. From various suggestions provided by organisations, including the IMA, the expert panel selects the best option and submits it to the government," he added. The state government has various medical panels, including the Covid cell, Rapid Response Team, State Medical Board, an expert panel and all these are "handled by those with academic expertise," he said. "We follow the suggestions of these bodies to contain the pandemic. The members of these bodies are also members of IMA. After all, IMA is not an expert body, but an organisation of doctors to safeguard their interests. But has the central government been considering their expertise during this pandemic? They do not have any criticism on that score," Vijayan said. Dismissing the association's charge about shortage of ventilators, he said steps had already been to make to make necessary purchases. Kerala has been witnessing a steep climb in Covid-19 cases in the past one month and opposition parties have been attacking the state government, alleging lapses in the health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-hits-out-at-imas-worms-comment-about-health-department-898394.html
07-10-2020||South||AIADMK sets house in order; to announce CM nominee and Steering Panel ||Overcoming differences within the party during a marathon meeting that continued through the night, Tamil Nadu’s ruling AIADMK is likely to announce incumbent Edappadi K Palaniswami as its Chief Ministerial face for the 2021 assembly elections and a high-powered steering committee to assist coordinator O Panneerselvam in running the party.  “All issues have been resolved. The announcement of the CM nominee and the Steering Committee consisting of senior leaders of the AIADMK will be made at 9.45 am on Wednesday,” a senior leader, who was part of the negotiations, told DH. Both Panneerselvam and Palaniswami are expected to make the announcement jointly at the AIADMK headquarters on the Avvai Shanmugham Salai here at 9.45 am. There was little clarity on whether there will be a press conference, or the announcement will be made through a joint statement.  According to the compromise formula, EPS will be the Chief Ministerial nominee for the Assembly elections. OPS, the Coordinator of the party, has forced EPS to concede to his long-standing demand for constitution of an 11-member high-powered steering committee consisting of leaders from both factions.  However, there was no clarity on whether the “joint leadership” of OPS as coordinator and EPS as joint coordinator would continue or the AIADMK would revert to singular leadership. “Wait for the announcement. Every issue related to the party will be covered in the announcement,” the senior leader said.  Another leader said the Steering Committee will have 11 members – six from the Chief Minister’s side and five from the deputy Chief Minister’s side. While EPS is believed to have cleared the names of four ministers, a former MP from a minority community, and a former minister, who is considered to be neutral.  From OPS’s side, a veteran leader of the party, who was the blue-eyed boy of AIADMK founder M G Ramachandran, and senior leaders from Chennai and Southern districts, are likely to find a place.     OPS’s insistence that he should get more say in the party was one of the reasons for the fresh deadlock on Tuesday. Senior ministers spent the whole of Tuesday shuttling between the residences of OPS and EPS, less than a km away from each other, and negotiating with the two, who were reluctant to meet in person to sort out their differences. The power struggle in AIADMK came out in the open in August when senior ministers began voicing their opinion on announcing EPS as the Chief Ministerial face much to the discomfiture of OPS. As things went out of control, OPS got EPS to sign a joint statement in which a diktat was issued to leaders not to talk or give media interviews regarding policy decisions of the party.    A month later, the issue resurfaced during a meeting of the high-level committee after which leaders resolved to convene the Executive Committee to discuss the issue threadbare. Though EPS seemed to enjoy majority among party legislators and district secretaries, OPS got the decision postponed once again. Panneerselvam, though sidelined and having lost majority of his supporters, trying to assert his authority is significant given that he has opened a line of communication with AIADMK rebel T T V Dhinakaran, nephew of V K Sasikala, for a patch-up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-sets-house-in-order-to-announce-cm-nominee-and-steering-panel-898417.html
07-10-2020||South||Chronology of power struggle within ruling AIADMK||The power struggle within the ruling AIADMK was resolved, albeit for now, on Wednesday. Here is a chronology of the events in the run-up to the announcement since August: August 10: Cooperation Minister Sellur K Raju says newly-elected MLAs choose the chief minister after the assembly elections in 2021. August 11: Dairy Development Minister K T Rajenthra Bhalaji takes to Twitter to say the party should project Edappadi K Palaniswami as the Chief Ministerial face for the 2021 assembly polls. August 12: Revenue Minister R B Udhayakumar says Edappadi K Palaniswami had proved his mettle during the past three-and-half years and that people wanted his leadership to continue.  August 15: Posters of OPS as CM crops up in his home district of Theni; ministers meet OPS and EPS asking them to resolve differences. Temporary truce declared after OPS and EPS sign a joint statement asking party leaders not to talk or give media interviews regarding policy decisions of the AIADMK. September 17: OPS announces a meeting of the party’s high-level committee on September 18. September 18: Sparks fly at the high-level committee meeting where OPS pushes for the constitution of an 11-member Steering Committee. EPS objects and meeting resolves to convene Executive Committee on September 28 September 28: Open fight between EPS and OPS. OPS insists on Steering Committee, while EPS’ supporters push for the announcement of CM nominee. Deputy coordinator K P Munuswamy announces the CM candidate will be declared on October 7, 2020. September 29: OPS skips review meetings called by EPS on Covid-19, meets senior leaders. September 30: OPS attends a meeting of CMDA which comes under him October 2: EPS and OPS participate in four functions on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanthi and late TN CM K Kamaraj’s death anniversary. October 3: OPS arrives in Theni, his home district. He meets party leaders and supporters. October 4: OPS inspects the site where a statue of Thevar community leader Mookaiya Thevar is set to come up, as a show of strength. October 5: OPS tweets hinting at a “decision”. EPS retorts by holding meetings with over 15 senior ministers. OPS arrives in Chennai from Theni. October 6: Senior leaders of the AIADMK hold day-long meetings with EPS and OPS. Last-minute issues crop up, the meeting goes on till late night. October 7: Marathon meeting ends at 3.45 am.  October 7: EPS announced as Chief Ministerial candidate by party coordinator O Panneerselvam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chronology-of-power-struggle-within-ruling-aiadmk-898422.html
07-10-2020||South||Edappadi Palaniswami to be AIADMK's CM candidate for 2021 Tamil Nadu Assembly election||Burying differences, AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam on Wednesday announced incumbent Edappadi K Palaniswami as the party-led alliance’s Chief Ministerial candidate for the 2021 Assembly polls due in April-May 2021. The announcement by Panneerselvam, also deputy chief minister, was made as part of a compromise formula arrived at between him and Palaniswami after several rounds of negotiations that began on Tuesday morning and ended only in the wee hours of Wednesday. For agreeing to announce his one-time junior colleague as the AIADMK’s chief ministerial face for the crucial polls, what Panneerselvam got in return was merely an 11-member Steering Committee to run the party. This was a key demand of OPS when he merged his faction with AIADMK in 2017 and joined the Palaniswami cabinet as a minister.   Though many termed the compromise as a “win-win situation” for the warring leaders, Palaniswami has managed to put his stamp all over by getting six of his cabinet colleagues, including two of his trusted lieutenants, in the Steering Committee. The OPS faction settled for five members and none of them hold any senior position in the party. “I am happy to announce that the Presidium Chairman, the coordinator, joint coordinator, deputy coordinators,  senior leaders, and the Steering Committee unanimously resolve to project Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami as the victorious Chief Ministerial candidate of the party for the 2020-21 assembly elections,” Panneerselvam said, as Palaniswami stood next to him. Immediately after the announcement, OPS presented EPS with a bouquet of flowers and a shawl, even as party cadre burst crackers and distributed sweets outside the AIADMK headquarters. Deputy coordinator K P Munuswamy said that Palaniswami will be the Chief Ministerial face of the AIADMK-led alliance for 2021 polls. Though Wednesday’s decision brought curtains on the long-standing issue, already rumblings have begun in the party with several senior leaders expressing displeasure at being overlooked for a seat in the Steering Committee. Later, EPS and EPS drove to the memorials of party founder M G Ramachandran and J Jayalalithaa to pay their respects. Palaniswami also paid a visit to Panneerselvam at his official residence to “thank” his deputy for his support. The party also came under criticism for not naming a single woman in the Steering Committee with people reminding the AIADMK leadership that the outfit was led by a woman, J Jayalalithaa, for nearly three decades. The members of the Steering Committee are senior ministers Dindigul C Sreenivasan, P Thangamani, S P Velumani, D Jayakumar, C. Ve Shanmugam, and R Kamaraj from Palaniswami’s side, while J C D Prabhakar, P H Manoj Pandian, P Mohan, Gopalakrishnan, and Manickam are from OPS faction. Though the powers of the Steering Committee is yet to be announced, the panel is expected to play a major role in taking key decisions on alliance and election-related issues. With six of his colleagues in the panel, Palaniswami will have a larger say in decisions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/edappadi-palaniswami-to-be-aiadmks-cm-candidate-for-2021-tamil-nadu-assembly-election-898436.html
07-10-2020||South||Studying in English will help marginalised students, Andhra Pradesh tells Supreme Court||The Andhra Pradesh government has told the Supreme Court that providing education through English medium would help the poor and marginalised students and bring better opportunities for career growth. The state government told a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde that the Andhra Pradesh High Court order, which stayed the implementation of such plan for government-run Telugu medium schools, would limit the prospects of the students hailing from weaker strata of society. Senior advocate  K V Viswanathan, appearing for the state government, told the apex court that the most formative years of a child requires medium of instruction to be in English so that no "islands of exclusion" are created. He said the government had said that it would set up Telugu schools at Madal headquarter levels with transport facilities to help those students who wanted to study in their native language. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta submitted before the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, that those who have studied in the vernacular medium are in 'islands of isolation' is a bit "uncharitable". The top court has now posted the matter for hearing in next week. In April this year, the high court had set aside the order for government schools to convert the medium of instruction from Telugu to English. Vishwanathan had earlier said a majority of parents wanted English to be the medium of education and it was a progressive, forward-looking measure in accordance with the Constitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/studying-in-english-will-help-marginalised-students-andhra-pradesh-tells-supreme-court-898573.html
07-10-2020||South||Telangana to purchase paddy from farmers in villages||According to an official release, the chief minister has made it clear that paddy would be purchased in full scale at the village level. "He said since there is still corona fear lingering, various government agencies would be sent to the villages to purchase the entire Paddy production," the release said. Paddy with less than 17 per cent moisture would be purchased by the state government at a Minimum Support Price (MSP) of Rs 1,888 per quintal for Grade A variety and Rs 1,868 per quintal for the B Grade variety. He instructed the agriculture, marketing and civil supplies department officials to take necessary steps during crop harvesting in villages. Observing that Telangana is fast becoming an agriculture-based state in view of improved irrigation facilities and support to farmers from the government, Rao said the civil supplies department should strengthen itself and prepare an action plan accordingly. He complimented the farmers for cultivating red gram in 10.78 lakh acres as suggested under the state governments regulated farming policy and wanted officials to make arrangements for purchase of red gram also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-to-purchase-paddy-from-farmers-in-villages-898577.html
07-10-2020||South||Suggestion for virtual darshan at Sabarimala Ayyappa temple unlikely to get backing||As the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple is gearing up to resume darshan for pilgrims after the Covid-19 lockdown, a suggestion for live virtual darshan has been mooted. However, the Travancore Devaswom Board that manages the temple and the left-front government in Kerala seems to be not even interested in taking forward the suggestion, possibly sensing a general mood of devotees against this. A committee headed by Kerala Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta suggested the option of virtual darshan, subject to nod of the 'tantri' (chief priest) and 'melshanti (head priest) of the temple, as part of the modalities for allowing devotees in the post-Covid scenario. TDB president N Vasu told DH that it was not even decided whether to have any discussion with the chief priest and head priest on the suggestion for exploring the scope of virtual darshan. Online booking for conducting offerings was already introduced and it would continue, he said. While the Thazhamon Madom family of the temple tantri was yet to come out with any stand on the matter, a member of the family and a leader of Ayyappa Dharma Sena, Rahul Easwar, said that 90 per cent of the devotees were opposed to the concept of virtual darshan. Pilgrimage to the hill shrine is not a sightseeing trip. It involved experience and many scientific concepts attached to the trekking and darshan. Hence virtual darshan was not at all an alternative. Even the proposal for the ropeway to Sabarimala had met with resistance earlier, he said. Suggestions for virtual darshan came up during the initial weeks of lockdown also. A section was learned to be pressing for discussions on live darshan options especially since Covid had badly hit the revenue from temples. Of the 1,200 odd temples under the devaswom board, the majority were sustaining from the revenue of a few major temples like Sabarimala. An online offering facility was introduced at major temples like Sabarimala and Guruvayur Sree Krishna temple earlier this year as a step to overcome the revenue fall due to Covid. The chief secretary led committee had also suggested restricting the number of devotees to 1,000 per day on weekdays and 2,000 on weekends, limiting the maximum number of devotees to be allowed during major events like 'Mandala Pooja' and 'Makaravilakku' to 5,000, permitting only those with Covid negative certificates through the virtual queue system and restricting devotees below the age of ten and above the age of 60.  The annual Sabarimala pilgrimage is beginning on November 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/suggestion-for-virtual-darshan-at-sabarimala-ayyappa-temple-unlikely-to-get-backing-898672.html
07-10-2020||South||Income Tax Department to attach iconic properties owned by J Jayalalithaa's aide V K Sasikala||Two palatial bungalows – one in the picturesque Nilgiris and another just outside this metropolis – which were the favourite retreats of late Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa and owned by her close aide V K Sasikala and her family members will be attached under the Benami Act. The Benami Prohibition Unit of the Income Tax Department here has begun the process of attaching the two properties worth Rs 2,000 crore by issuing a notice to Sasikala, her sister-in-law Ilavarasi, and nephew V N Sudhakaran, who was the foster son of Jayalalithaa. The trio is serving four-year imprisonment in the disproportionate assets (DA) case in which Jayalalithaa was also an accused. But she was not convicted as she had died when the final verdict was delivered by the Supreme Court in 2017. Interestingly, notices displayed outside the sprawling bungalow at Siruthavoor, 50 km from here, mentioned that copies were also being served to J Deepa and J Deepak, the legal heirs of Jayalalithaa as declared by the Madras High Court, besides Sasikala, Ilavarasi and Sudhakaran. The orders dated October 6, signed by U N Dilip, Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax (Benami Prohibition), said the provisional attachment of the properties is being done under Section 24 (3) of the Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988. While the notices were displayed outside the Siruthavoor bungalow on Wednesday, reports from Nilgiris said no such notices were stuck in the Kodanad Estate premises till the time of writing. The developments came on the day the ruling AIADMK resolved its internal struggle by naming incumbent Edappadi K Palaniswami as its chief ministerial face for the upcoming 2021 Tamil Nadu Assembly elections. The Kodanad Estate Bungalow, about 20 km from Kothagiri in the Nilgiris, was Jayalalithaa’s favourite summer retreat and she had often visited the Siruthavoor bungalow whenever she wanted a break. When her Poes Garden residence was being renovated in the early 2000s, Jayalalithaa made the bungalow in Siruthavoor her residence. The action by the I-T department comes amid speculation that Sasikala might walk free from the jail by the end of this year. It also comes over a month after the department attached over 60 properties, including a mall in Chennai and a resort in neighbouring Puducherry, owned by Sasikala through her benamis. Last year, the I-T sleuths had attached assets worth Rs 1,500 crore allegedly purchased by Sasikala after demonetisation of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 currency notes was announced by the Centre in November 2016.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/income-tax-department-to-attach-iconic-properties-owned-by-j-jayalalithaas-aide-v-k-sasikala-898710.html
07-10-2020||South||Palaniswami wins hands down; how long will truce with Panneerselvam last?||On the face of it, Wednesday’s developments in the ruling AIADMK may look optimistic. While the issue of the Chief Ministerial face looks done and dusted, the million-dollar question now is how long the truce between Edappadi K Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam will last.    The events that preceded the truce are certainly not “good optics” for a ruling party as senior ministers literally burnt the midnight oil – series of meetings that began Tuesday morning ended only in the wee hours of Wednesday -- to resolve differences between the two leaders to ensure the announcement is made on October 7, the self-imposed deadline. Though EPS and OPS exchanged pleasantries on Wednesday – the Chief Minister also called on his deputy at his residence late in the evening -- the fact that they never met each other to sort out their differences in the past week demonstrates their rift, political analysts feel. And when the decision was announced on Wednesday morning, Chief Minister Palaniswami had won hands down by finding a place for six of his senior cabinet colleagues, including two trusted lieutenants, in the Steering Committee, while the nominees from the other side wield less or no influence within the party and the government. A close look at the Steering Committee reveals the fact that Palaniswami has displayed his political astuteness by ensuring that most members are opposed to his former boss, V K Sasikala, who is expected to walk out of a Bengaluru prison by the end of 2020 or early 2021. Palaniswami, while holding a majority in the Steering Committee, will continue to hold the post of joint coordinator next only to Panneerselvam in the party. The public relations team of EPS also went on overdrive by releasing several videos that project the Chief Minister as the future leader of the AIADMK. Though Panneerselvam’s demand for a Steering Committee was met, the power equation within the committee, party, and the government is clearly tilted towards Palaniswami. The analysts feel the truce will be put to test in the coming months as the AIADMK gets into the election mode. Panneerselvam might feel sidelined yet again due to Palaniswami’s upper hand in the present party structure, they said, adding any differences between the two leaders yet again may not augur well for the party. “Chief Ministerial nominee is just one issue. As the election nears, issues like alliance formation, candidate selection, and formation of different committees will come up for discussion. That is where the real test lies. If both OPS and EPS put up a united face like they did today, it will be good for the party. But who knows?” a party veteran asked. Prof. Ramu Manivannan told Deccan Herald that the “truce” arrived at on Wednesday is just the beginning of a “long duel” between EPS and OPS and it is just a matter of time the deputy chief minister raised a banner of revolt. “In my opinion, the truce was brought about only to pre-empt Panneerselvam from doing anything that would have harmed the party. The elections are seven months away and the contradictions between the two leaders are known already. We should also wait and see what happens when Sasikala comes out of jail,” Prof. Manivannan, Head of the Department of Politics and Public Administration, University of Madras, told DH. Political analyst Prof. P Ramajayam also saw the truce as a “stop-gap” arrangement to put up a united face, while agreeing that the issue of the Chief Ministerial nominee has been settled. “Problems between EPS and OPS would continue. The truce is temporary and a stop-gap arrangement to send out a message to the DMK that they too have a challenger (for M K Stalin) in EPS. But the differences between the two would come out during distribution of tickets during elections and campaigns. I feel the truce may not last long,” he told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/palaniswami-wins-hands-down-how-long-will-truce-with-panneerselvam-last-898750.html
07-10-2020||South||Kerala CM was aware of my recruitment, says Swapna Suresh in gold smuggling case||With a statement of Kerala, gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh that Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan was aware of her recruitment to a government agency coming out, the Opposition Congress and BJP stepped up demand for Vijayan's resignation. It was in her statement to the Enforcement Directorate that Swapna, who was a former employee of the UAE consulate in Kerala, stated that her appointment to Space Park under the state electronics and IT department was made with knowledge of the Chief Minister. Swapna also said in the statement that she had met the Chief Minister at least six times with the chief minister's former secretary M Sivasankar while she was serving as secretary at the UAE consulate. ED, which had registered a case against the gold smuggling accused, submitted the statements before a local court in Kochi on Wednesday. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala of the Congress said that Vijayan should make an introspection whether he should continue as Chief Minster anymore. BJP state president K Surendran said that the central agencies may even quiz the Chief Minister in connection with his links with the smuggling accused. Meanwhile, the customs is learned to have summoned Sivasankar again in connection with his nexus with the gold smuggling accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-was-aware-of-my-recruitment-says-swapna-suresh-in-gold-smuggling-case-898757.html
07-10-2020||South||Telangana tops India in maintenance of law and order: CM||The Telangana government was laying more emphasis on the protection of women and the police should put an extra effort to ensure it, Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said on Wednesday. Rao, who chaired a meeting to discuss law and order, women's safety, the drug menace and other issues, also voiced concern over crimes against Dalits and said police should deal with such issues with a humanitarian approach. Telangana, which is swiftly moving forward on the development path, is now number one state in the country as far as maintenance of Law and Order situation is concerned, an official release quoted Rao as saying. He said it was unfortunate that incidents of atrocities against the Dalits were being reported from various parts of the country. KCR, as Rao is popularly known, said society should distance itself from such incidents and stressed the need for police to take measures to prevent any untoward incidents against the Dalits. As part of this, all the police personnel from the higher officials to the lower rung officials should become part of the society, they should perform what is called friendly policing giving respect to each and every citizen without any discrimination and thereby enhance the spirit of policing, Rao said. The police should follow humanitarian values when the "weak and meek approach them for help and protection, he said. There was a need to control and eradicate the sale and supply of banned substances like ganja, which were harming society especially the young generation, the Chief Minister said, directing police to deal with an iron hand organised crimes. Instructing that stern action should be taken against those plundering the forest wealth, he said the civilian police should also join hands with the forest officers. Rao suggested Director General of Police M Mahender Reddy to speed up the process of setting up 10 lakh CCTV cameras in the state capital. He asked the police department to increase the use of Information Technology advancements to control crime and said the state-of-the-art Command Control system here would become operational very soon. Home Minister Mahmood Ali, Forest Minister Indrakaran Reddy, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and senior police and forest officials were among those who attended the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-tops-india-in-maintenance-of-law-and-order-cm-898772.html
07-10-2020||South||Now 20 devotees can enter places of worship at a time in Kerala: CM||The Kerala government on Wednesday decided to relax the cap on the number of people allowed into places of worship at a time from five to 20 with Covid-19 protocols. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting, chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, an official release said. While allowing reopening of temples and other places of worship earlier, the state government had said only a maximum of five devotees would be allowed at a time. "When special rituals are being held in temples, the number can be increased up to 40 depending on the facilities available. Similarly, the mosques and churches can allow up to 40 people depending upon the size for Fridays prayers and Sunday mass respectively," it said. For the monthly rituals at the famous Lord Ayyappa temple in Sabarimala, up to 250 devotees can be allowed while strictly following Covid-19 protocols. The religious places have been re-opened since June after being closed for devotees from March 24 when the nation-wide Covid-19 lockdown was implemented.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/now-20-devotees-can-enter-places-of-worship-at-a-time-in-kerala-cm-898780.html
07-10-2020||State||Want to refuse Covid-19 test? Get ready to face jail and fine in Karnataka||Amid the worsening Covid-19 outbreak in the state, the government on Tuesday invoked the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020 to crack down on people who refuse to get tested. Invoking powers under section 4 of the Ordinance, the government issued an order stating, "All individuals who are identified for Covid-19 test by the government shall get tested so that the spread of the disease can be contained and lives can be saved."  If a person refuses to get tested, he/she can face a jail term of up to three years and a fine up to Rs 50,000 as per the Ordinance.  Highlighting the problem, DH had carried a report 'K'taka faces Covid contacts challenge' in its Oct 6 edition, revealing that as much as 60 per cent of primary and secondary contacts of Covid patients in the state are refusing the calls to get tested. Government officials said the problem, which was widespread across the state, was creating a serious impediment in the government's efforts to control the pandemic. "It has come to notice that certain individuals are refusing to get tested and thus hampering the efforts to stop the transmission of Covid virus. The timely testing will only help the family members, co-workers etc of Covid positive patients to identify disease early and go for treatment," said Dr Omprakash Patil, Director, Department of Health and Family Welfare, in the order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/want-to-refuse-covid-19-test-get-ready-to-face-jail-and-fine-in-karnataka-898316.html
07-10-2020||State||Karnataka schools may not reopen for at least 1 month||The state government, which had considered reopening schools and colleges post-October 15 in keeping with the Centre’s Unlock 5.0 guidelines, is in a fix due to an alarming spurt in Covid cases. This has prompted it to defer reopening of schools by at least a month, according to officials from the Education department. Despite the Centre’s green signal, the Karnataka Primary and Secondary Education department has decided to wait for another one month before taking any decision. A top official of the department told DH, “The government has almost decided not to open schools and PU colleges at least for another one month. We cannot afford to take chances with children’s lives by reopening schools at this juncture.” Similarly, Health Minister B Sriramulu, who chaired a meeting to discuss the opening of schools on Tuesday, opined that there are several risks involved in the process. Following the education department’s request, the Health department held a preliminary consultative meeting with experts and health officials. “We (Health Department) will submit a report to the education department listing out recommendations on reopening schools after more talks with paediatricians, academicians and other stakeholders,” Sriramulu said. Health officials who were privy to the meeting told DH that many people who were consulted by the minister expressed displeasure over the reopening of schools keeping in mind the safety of children when the infection is at its peak. “Today, out of the 100 samples, 12 to 15 tested positive for Covid-19. This must come down at least to five  before we can think of reopening schools,” a paediatrician who took part in the meeting told the minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-schools-may-not-reopen-for-at-least-1-month-898318.html
07-10-2020||State||Reopen colleges, schools gradually: Prof Doreswamy||Prof M R Doreswamy, the adviser to the state government on education reforms, has recommended reopening schools and colleges in a phased manner.  "First, the colleges may be reopened as these students are quite aware of the health care mandates to be followed and also their immunity is higher than the other students in the lower classes. It is, therefore, easier for the government to enforce preventive health care mandates," Prof Doreswamy stated in letters to both primary and secondary as well as higher education ministers.  In the second phase, pre-university classes may be reopened only for local students so as to avoid complications of hostel accommodation and interstate transport. "As the alternative measure, online education facilities may be used to reach out to out-of-locality students," he stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/reopen-colleges-schools-gradually-prof-doreswamy-898330.html
07-10-2020||State||Woman dies under mysterious circumstances in Mysuru||Manjula, a 20-year-old married woman, died under mysterious circumstances, near Varuna, in Mysuru district. Her parents alleged dowry harassment by her husband, Hemanth. Manjula and Hemanth got married a year back and Hemanth has been demanding a dowry of Rs two lakh. According to the police, though Manjula died, her parents were not informed about the death. Hemanth and his family were preparing to perform the final rites. Manjula's parents, who learnt about the death, rushed to the spot along with the police. The body has been sent for post-mortem.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/woman-dies-under-mysterious-circumstances-in-mysuru-898454.html
07-10-2020||State||CM Yediyurappa denies commenting on Mahadayi issue||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa denied commenting on the Mahadayi project issue regarding which Goa filed a contempt petition in the Supreme Court. Goa on Tuesday filed a contempt petition in the apex court against diverting Mahadayi waters. Yediyurappa was in the city on Wednesday to meet and console family members of union minister Suresh Angadi who passed away recently. When asked by reporters regarding the contempt petition filed by Goa, he said he would not speak on the as he was visiting Angadi;s family to pay his condolences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cm-yediyurappa-denies-commenting-on-mahadayi-issue-898482.html
07-10-2020||State||Report on reopening of schools in Karnataka to be submitted in a week||Health Minister B Sriramulu on Wednesday said the state government was not in a hurry to reopen schools. "A detailed report on whether to open school immediately or not will be submitted to the Education department within one week," he said. The Minister was speaking to reporters in the city. He said, opinion of the parents, the teachers, educationalists will be collected. Sriramulu said, "The government is not in a hurry to open schools. Children, parents and teachers health is much important for us," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/report-on-reopening-of-schools-in-karnataka-to-be-submitted-in-a-week-898518.html
07-10-2020||State||Aero India will be held with Covid-19 measures: Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa||The flagship Aero India 2021 will be organized with all precautionary measures in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa told a round table conference of ambassadors on Wednesday. Aero India is scheduled to be held between February 3-7, 2021 at the Yelahanka Air Force station. “That such a significant event (Aero India) is being organized during the Covid-19 pandemic is a challenge for both the Karnataka government and the Defence Ministry,” Yediyurappa said at the virtual round table organized by the Department of Defence Production and the state government. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh was also present in the meeting. “At Aero India 2021, all international delegates, officials, personnel and members of the public will undergo thermal screening, there will be frequent sanitization and maintenance of social distancing will be mandatory,” Yediyurappa said. The CM said it is heartening to note that in spite of the pandemic exhibitors had booked most of the available space at the Aero India venue. “Karnataka has the experience of hosting the Aero India event for 12 years. It’s a matter of pride that Karnataka has been selected to host the event this time as well,” the CM said. According to the state government, Karnataka contributes 25% to India’s aerospace sector and accounts for 65% of the country’s exports on this front. “On manufacturing of defence helicopters and aircraft, the state’s contribution is 67%,” Yediyurappa said, adding that Karnataka was the first Indian state to formulate an aerospace policy. Noting the presence of HAL, BEML, BEL and other public sector units in Bengaluru, Yediyurappa said that the state is also home to a private aerospace economic zone in Belagavi, a 1,000-acre aerospace park at the Kempegowda International Airport and a defence production cluster in Tumakuru. Speaking at the conference, Rajnath Singh said that India had the largest defence production cluster. “Through Aero India 2021, we want to be among the top five nations in the aerospace sector,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/aero-india-will-be-held-with-covid-19-measures-karnataka-chief-minister-bs-yediyurappa-898658.html
07-10-2020||State||Won’t make CBI raids a bypoll issue, says DK Shivakumar||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) President D K Shivakumar on Wednesday said his party would not go to the voters of Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar with the CBI raids on him as an issue for the November 3 bypolls.  “There’s no need to make that an issue. People will decide on their own,” Shivakumar told reporters. He was speaking soon after the Congress high command approved the candidature of former minister T B Jayachandra for Sira and late IAS officer D K Ravi’s wife Kusuma H for Rajarajeshwarinagar.  “These bypolls won’t impact the Modi government or the B S Yediyurappa government. But, a message should be sent that the current administration is not pro-people. We have faith in voters that they will send that message,” Shivakumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/won-t-make-cbi-raids-a-bypoll-issue-says-dk-shivakumar-898761.html
07-10-2020||State||Finalise method of external borrowing: Karnataka urges Centre||Thanking the central government for releasing Rs 1776.65 crore as GST compensation, the state has urged the GST Council to come to a consensus and decide the method of external borrowing to fund the shortfall in GST compensation during the current fiscal.  A statement by Basavaraj Bommai, Home Minister and Karnataka’s representative in the GST Council, accused some states of “needlessly taking an unreasonable stand of who should borrow rather than concentrating on who will do therepayment.” Some states, it can be recalled, have rejected the two options proposed by the Centre to finance GST compensation, both of which involved market borrowing. The measure was taken since the Centre claimed huge revenue loss due to thepandemic.  “States are in need of finances so that they can fight Covid and get over the economic crisis,” and this will trigger economic activities in the forthcoming months. “Hence, I urge both Centre and states to come at a final consensus in the GST Council meeting scheduled on 12th October and Rs 11,432 crore due up to August to Karnataka is made available immediately,” the statementsaid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/finalise-method-of-external-borrowing-karnataka-urges-centre-898764.html
07-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt mulls tie-up with firms to nab cybercriminals||With the internet rendering borders redundant, cybercrime has been posing a huge challenge to law enforcement agencies, as a criminal sitting in one corner of the globe can rip off an individual in another part of the world with ease. Now, the Karnataka government is mulling a framework agreement under which it will seek assistance from global companies to bring criminals to book.  In case a cybercrime originates from outside the country, authorities will approach a company with offices in both Bengaluru and the country of origin, which is expected to help in nabbing cybercriminals quickly. Finer details of the process are being worked out, said authorities. The proposal for such an agreement was revealed during the launch of the cybersecurity awareness month. Additional DGP (CID) Umesh Kumar, who also supervises the cybercrime division, said that perpetrators of cybercrime hailed from different countries in a large number of cases. Explaining the challenges in nabbing such culprits, Kumar said that Bengaluru can seek assistance from global firms. "Many companies have their units in the city, and similarly in a country where a cybercrime affecting citizens is being perpetrated. If the firms can help in providing legal assistance in such countries, it will help law enforcement agencies," he said. Such an agreement, Umesh said, would help in reducing the number of offenses. The government is also seeking assistance from the industry in tackling cybercrime as "cybercriminals were more tech-savvy than the cops", Kumar said. He called upon cybersecurity professionals in the industry to develop expertise to tackle such crimes. According to Karthik Bappanad, who heads the Centre of Excellence in Cyber Security, any such agreement will involve easing the process of deportation of criminals outside the country, adding that the agreement would be based on the recommendations of the cybercrime division of the Karnataka police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-mulls-tie-up-with-firms-to-nab-cybercriminals-898317.html
07-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt slashes ‘hefty’ fine for not wearing face mask to Rs 250 from Rs 1,000||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday said the fine amount for not wearing a face mask in public will be reduced to Rs 250 from Rs 1,000 in urban areas and Rs 100 from Rs 500 in rural areas. The decision to slash the fine amount for not wearing face masks was taken “in the backdrop of public opposition and experts’ opinions,” Yediyurappa said in a statement. The new fines will come into effect immediately. About a week ago, the state government decided to impose Rs 1,000 fine in urban areas and Rs 500 in rural areas on citizens who are found in public places without wearing a face mask. The move was aimed at containing Covid-19 with cases rising. Marshalls in Bengaluru and other designated enforcement officials have been penalizing citizens. Several cases of citizens refusing to pay the fine citing it is “too much” have been reported. “Ever since Covid-19 was first reported in Karnataka, the government is doing everything possible to contain it. Since there is no vaccine, it is inevitable to make mandatory wearing of face masks, using hand sanitizer and maintaining social distance,” Yediyurappa said. “As Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said, the government is making all efforts to balance life and livelihood. I request citizens to voluntarily wear masks, use hand sanitizer and keep social distance and cooperate with the government,” Yediyurappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-slashes-hefty-fine-for-not-wearing-face-mask-to-rs-250-from-rs-1000-898564.html
07-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka aims to increase Covid-19 tests to 1.5 lakh a day||Karnataka Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar on Wednesday said the state conducted 1.04 lakh coronavirus tests in a single day on October 6, and the government's aim was to increase the number of tests to 1.5 lakh per day. In a tweet, Sudhakar said, "Karnataka conducted 1,04,348 Covid-19 tests in a single day on Tuesday. 55,690 RT-PCR & other method tests were conducted across 146 labs in the state & 48,658 Rapid Antigen Tests were conducted across 30 districts" We will soon increase the tests to 1.5 lakh per day, he added. As of October 6 evening, cumulatively 6.57 lakh Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 9,461 deaths and 5.33 lakh discharges, the health department's bulletin said. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 2.57 lakh infections, followed by Mysuru 38,611 and Ballari 33,257. Out of 9,993 fresh cases reported on Tuesday, a record 5,012 cases were from Bengaluru urban alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-aims-to-increase-covid-19-tests-to-15-lakh-a-day-898592.html
07-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress names candidates for Sira, RR Nagar bypolls||The Congress on Wednesday named former Minister T B Jayachandra and Kusuma H, the wife of late IAS officer D K Ravi, as its candidates for the November 3 by-polls in Sira and Rajarajeshwari Nagar assembly segments. The byelection in Sira was necessitated following the death of JD(S) legislator B Sathyanarayana in August, while the Rajarajeshwari Nagar (R R Nagar) seat fell vacant after the disqualification of Congress MLA N Munirathna under the anti-defection law last year.  Jayachandra had represented Sira in Tumakuru district in 2008 and 2013 by defeating Sathyanarayana, who in turn had emerged victorious against him in the 2018 polls. Apparently, with an eye on sympathy votes, JDS has fielded Sathyanarayana's wife Ammajamma as its candidate in Sira. The BJP is yet to announce its nominee and the party's state unit has sent its recommendations to the high command. Speculations are rife in the J P Nadda-led party circles that radiologist Dr C M Rajesh Gowda, the son of former Congress MP C P Mudalagiriyappa, who had recently joined the BJP along with several local political workers and leaders, is likely to be named as the candidate. Congress and JD(S) are traditional rivals for the Sira seat, which the BJP has never won. If BJP fields a strong candidate, the Sira by-poll is likely to see a three-cornered contest. After the recent victories in K R Pet and Chikkaballapura by-polls, BJP is keen to make further inroads into the old Mysuru region, where the party is weak. So the ruling party is expected to go all out in Sira. In R R Nagar, the Congress has fielded a fresh face -- Kusuma H. Kusuma (31), who holds an MS degree in Information Technology from the University of Massachusetts, Boston, is currently an assistant professor of computer science engineering at Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering. She is the wife of IAS officer D K Ravi, who died in March 2015. Her father Hanumantharayappa was earlier with the Congress before jumping ship to JD(S). He had unsuccessfully contested the 2008 assembly polls from RR Nagar on the regional party's ticket. JD(S) has shortlisted three probables -- party city unit chief R Prakash, RR Nagar President Bettaswamy Gowda and a leader from the Jnananbharathi ward Krishnamurthy. The ruling BJP is also yet to announce its candidate. Speculations are rife that the party may field Munirathna, whose disqualification necessitated the by-polls from the seat, but there are also reports about strong resistance within the party against his candidature. A section of the party has pitched for fielding Tulsi Muniraju Gowda, the party's defeated candidate in the 2018 elections. Munirathna, who was a Congress MLA, had quit last year along with others, which led to the fall of the coalition government, and subsequently joined the BJP. It is said that he was promised the ticket by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and others. According to BJP sources, the party's state leadership has recommended the names of Munirthana and Tulsi Muniraju Gowda to the high command for it to decide on one of them as the candidate. The stakes are high for all the three political parties in the polls, more so for the ruling BJP, as the results will be seen in many quarters as a reflection of the government's performance, including Covid-19 management. For Congress and JD(S) too, the by-polls are crucial as they will be keen on retaining one seat each that they had won during the 2018 assembly polls and will be focusing on gaining an additional seat. The results will be crucial for leaders like CM Yediyurappa, amid talks that the BJP high command is considering a leadership change in Karnataka and also state Congress President D K Shivakumar and JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy to assert their command over the Vokkaliga community, which has a considerable presence in both constituencies. Much is at stake for Shivakumar after the recent CBI raids as he is looking at consolidating his position in the party by winning both seats, especially R R Nagar, as it comes under Bangalore Rural Lok Sabha constituency, represented by his brother D K Suresh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-names-candidates-for-sira-rr-nagar-bypolls-898644.html
07-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||I could’ve been deputy CM, says JD(S) leader GT Deve Gowda||JD(S) legislator G T Deve Gowda claimed on Wednesday that he could have become deputy chief minister in exchange for helping the BJP topple the H D Kumaraswamy-led coalition government.  Gowda said this after paying Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) President D K Shivakumar a visit.  “We made Kumaraswamy the chief minister. I’m not someone who’d topple my own CM for the sake of power. It’s not humanity,” Gowda told reporters when asked about him joining the BJP. “I didn’t aspire to become the deputy chief minister by removing our own CM and joining the BJP. There was that demand, but I didn’t go,” he said.  Ever since the Congress-JD(S) coalition fell apart last year, Gowda has maintained a distance from the regional party, fuelling speculation that he might be considering a future with the BJP. Gowda famously defeated Congress’ Siddaramaiah in the Chamundeshwari constituency in the 2018 assembly election.  “Right now, I’m serving as a JD(S) MLA. In the next election, I will decide based on the blessings of Goddess Chamundeshwari and whatever my constituents say,” he said, adding that he was not sure from which party he would contest the next election.  In the previous coalition government, Gowda was the higher education minister, a portfolio he did not want. “During my election, Kumaraswamy had promised that I will be given a position that will be equivalent to that of the CM. But then, it was a coalition set-up and he had his own limitations. I’m not holding anything against (Kumaraswamy),” he said.  Gowda also backed Shivakumar over the CBI raids. “The raid could have taken place after the (Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar) bypolls. Nothing would have changed. Naturally, if there’s a raid during an election, people will think it was politically motivated,” Gowda said, adding that he visited Shivakumar to show support.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/i-could-ve-been-deputy-cm-says-jds-leader-gt-deve-gowda-898686.html
07-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees record single-day spike of 10,947 coronavirus cases||Karnataka on Wednesday reported its highest single-day spike of over 10,900 Covid-19 cases and 113 fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 6,68,652 and the toll to 9,574. The day also saw 9,832 patients getting discharged after recovery and the active cases stood at 1,16,153, the health department said. The number of samples tested in the state crossed the 55 lakh mark. On Wednesday a total of 1,04,348 tests were done, taking the cumulative to 55,24,302. Out of the 10,947 cases reported on Wednesday, 5,000 were from Bengaluru Urban alone. The previous biggest single-day spike was recorded on September 29 with 10,453 cases. Cumulatively 6,68,652 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 9,574 deaths and 5,42,906 discharges, the department said in its bulletin. Of the active cases, 1,15,312 patients are stable in isolation at designated hospitals, while 841 are in Intensive Care Units. Amid a spike in cases, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday will chair a meeting with Deputy Commissioners, Zilla Panchayat CEOs, Police Superintendents and District Health officers of 10 districts that have high positive cases. Bengaluru Urban recorded 55 of the total of 113 deaths, followed by Mysuru (9), Dakshina Kannada and Uttara Kannada (7), Hassan and Tumakuru (5), Kolar (4), Bagalkote and Ramanagara (3), Bengaluru Rural, Dharwad, Haveri and Udupi (2), and Belagavi, Bidar, Chamarajanagara, Chikkamagaluru, Kalaburagi, Kodagu and Vijayapura (1). Most of the deceased were either with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI), the bulletin said. Among the districts where new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 5,000, Mysuru 979, Hassan 471, Uttara Kannada 462, Dakshina Kannada 447, Ballari 258, Tumakuru 250, Chitradurga 217, Udupi 209, Mandya 207, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban topped districts in both positive cases and discharges -- 2,62,241 and 2,00,426. Mysuru has 39,590 positive cases and Ballari, 33,515. In recoveries, Mysuru was second at 31,694, followed by Ballari at 30,153. As many as 48,658 samples were tested on Wednesday, using rapid antigen kits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-record-single-day-spike-of-10947-coronavirus-cases-898755.html
07-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Fresh allocation of Krishna water: Karnataka stares at setback||The assurance of the Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to Telangana government on referring the Krishna river water sharing dispute between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh to the Krishna Water Dispute Tribunal has given raise to a question - whether the Centre is opening the door for fresh allocation of river water among all river basin states- Karnataka, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. “If the Jal Shakti ministry asks the tribunal for fresh allocation of Krishna river water among basin states, it will be a major blow to Karnataka as the Centre will be reopening settled dispute of allocation of water among riparian states” said an official in the Karnataka government. The official said that the dispute was between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh and hence thee was no need to refer the matter to the tribunal for fresh allocation among all the basin states. The Krishna Water Dispute Tribunal headed by Justice Brijesh Kumar in 2010 pronounced the award by allotting 911 tmc of water to Karnataka, 666 tmc to Maharashtra and 1001 tmc to erstwhile united Andhra Pradesh. However, after clarification petitions from all the states, the Tribunal gave its final award in 2013 by reducing Karnataka share by 4 tmc and allotting it to Andhra Pradesh. This united Andhra Pradesh got 1005 tmc feet of water. After formation of Telangana state bifurcating united Andhra Pradesh in 2014, Telangana demanded more water and asked for fresh allocation of water among all basin states. Telangana approached the Tribunal, which rejected its plea and in turn asked both Andhra Pradesh and Telangana to share among 1005 tmc feet of water allocated to united Andhra Pradesh. Questioning this the Telangana had approached the Supreme Court and matter is pending. Mohan V Katarki, senior advocate, Supreme Court and member of Karnataka legal team in river water dispute, said that Telangana’s share in Krishna water ought to be worked out only within the share of water of 1005 tmc allocated to erstwhile Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/fresh-allocation-of-krishna-water-karnataka-stares-at-setback-898792.html
07-10-2020||West||Koregaon-Bhima panel gets final extension till December 31||The Koregaon-Bhima inquiry commission, probing the January 1, 2018 violence around Koregaon-Bhima village in Maharashtra's Pune district, was on Tuesday given the "final" extension till December 31, 2020 to submit its report, by the state government. This will be the seventh extension being granted to the commission. "The previous extension was given to the commission till April 8, 2020, however, due to the lockdown in the state, further extension was under consideration. The home department has now granted the seventh and final extension till December 31, 2020, to the commission and asked it submit its report," the home department said in a notification. Commission secretary V V Palnitkar said they had written to the state government requesting to hold the notification till December and take the decision as per the future Covid-19 situation. "Even if we decide to resume our work by following social distancing norms, it would not be possible in a courtroom in Mumbai," he told PTI. Palnitkar said several staff members of the commission are above 60 years of age and it would be difficult for them to travel in local trains. "It would not be feasible for witnesses to come to Mumbai and appear before the commission," he said. The Elgar Parishad-Koregaon Bhima case is now heard in the special NIA (National Investigation Agency) court in Mumbai. Violence had broken out near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial in Pune district on January 1, 2018. Dalits visit the memorial in large numbers as it commemorates the victory of British forces, which included Dalit soldiers over the army of the Brahmin Peshwa rulers of Pune in 1818. The police had claimed that provocative speeches at Elgar Parishad conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, led to the violence and Maoists were behind the conclave. They later arrested several Left-leaning activists including Telugu poet Varavara Rao and activist Sudha Bharadwaj for alleged links to Maoists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/koregaon-bhima-panel-gets-final-extension-till-december-31-898312.html
07-10-2020||West||Maharashtra's 'Amar Akbar Anthony' govt will fall on its own: Union minister Raosaheb Danve||Union minister Raosaheb Danve on Tuesday termed the Shiv Sena-led dispensation in Maharashtra as the "Amar, Akbar and Anthony" government which he said will fall on its own, and added that the BJP would play the role of a "strong" opposition party. "This is an 'Amar, Akbar, Anthony' government. We should not be blamed if this government falls on its own," the BJP MP told reporters. Besides the Sena, the Congress and the NCP are two other constituents of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. 'Amar Akbar Anthony' is a 1977 Bollywood potboiler featuring three brothers who are separated in childhood and adopted by three families of different faiths. The MoS for consumer affairs, food and public distribution also sought to allay concerns over the farm laws passed by the Centre, saying the new legislations have given freedom to farmers to sell their produce anywhere they choose to. He said the Centre didn't want to close down market committees (as being projected by the Opposition). When asked about the alleged gang-rape and death of a Dalit woman in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras, the minister said it was an "unfortunate" incident. Responding to a query, Danve said people were allowed to visit the village of the Hathras victim after probe was completed. "Even Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi visited the village and there were no restrictions imposed," he said. Asked whether incidents like Hathras, farm bills and Sushant Singh Rajput case sullied the image of the BJP, the minister replied in negative. "The Sushant Singh case does not have any bearing on our image. The CBI is investigating the case. One can comment only after the agency completes its probe," he said. An AIIMS medical panel recently ruled out the murder angle in the death of the actor in its report to the CBI. Danve said the Congress had failed to do anything for farmers compared to various measures being taken by the Narendra Modi government. "In the current budget, Rs 1 lakh crore has been allocated for the agriculture sector and 10 crore farmers have been given benefits of total Rs 93,000 crore under 'Kisan Sanman Scheme' by theCentre," Danve said, adding that it was Modi government which implemented recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission. He said the BJP government has increased the Minimum Support Price (MSP) for food grains in the country. "In the last six years, PM Modi took several decisions in the favour of farmers but the Congress and its allies cannot tolerate this and are thus spreading misinformation about the farms laws," he said. When asked about the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) walking out of the NDA over the farm laws, Danve hinted at political compulsions in Punjab behind the SAD's move.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-amar-akbar-anthony-govt-will-fall-on-its-own-union-minister-raosaheb-danve-898344.html
07-10-2020||West||Who is behind social media accounts defaming Maha govt, asks NCP||Facebook and Twitter should declare who owns fake social media accounts that were allegedly created to defame the Maharashtra government and its police, the NCP demanded on Tuesday. The poser from the NCP, a partner in the ruling coalition in Maharashtra, came in the backdrop of news reports about existence of a large numer of fake social media accounts. NCP spokesperson Mahesh Tapase, in a statement, said that these accounts were created in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajputs death case. As many as 80,000 such accounts were opened to defame the Maharashtra government, its ministers and the Mumbai Police to gain benefits in the Bihar elections," Tapase said, citing a study by an American university. Facebook and Twitter should declare who owns these fake accounts and from which IP addresses they were created, he demanded. Tapase also asked the Centre to enact a law to ensure there is no media trial when judicial probe is on in any matter. Earlier in the day, an official said the cyber cell here has registered two FIRs against unidentified persons for trolling the Mumbai police commissioner on social media and using abusive language against him and the city police. The police have come to know that several fake social media accounts are being used for the purpose, the official said. "Several social media account holders are trolling Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh on different platforms like Twitter, Instagram and Facebook and using abusive language against him and the force," said Deputy Commissioner of Police, cyber cell, Rashmi Karandikar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/who-is-behind-social-media-accounts-defaming-maha-govt-asks-ncp-898346.html
07-10-2020||West||Politicians have greater onus to follow Covid-19 norms: Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Tuesday said political leaders have a "greater responsibility" to follow Covid-19 guidelines of social distancing and wearing masks, so that they don't send a wrong message to the public. Rupani's statement came even as several instances have emerged of senior leaders from the ruling BJP and the opposition Congress participating in functions, rallies and addressing large gatherings without following safety norms. "Everybody should follow rules related to social distancing and wearing masks, and they should do so of their own accord in their fight against coronavirus. It is not that we are arresting common man and not politicians (for flouting these rules)," the chief minister said. "Political leaders have a bigger responsibility. They should follow the rules properly so that no wrong message is conveyed to the public," Rupani said, and urged the public to support the administration's efforts to contain the viral spread. Several videos of political leaders flouting Covid-19 safety measures are being circulated on social media. Recently, one such video came to the notice of the Gujarat High Court Chief Justice Vikram Nath, who asked government pleader Manisha Lavkumar Shah to ensure that the rules of social distancing and masks are imposed uniformly on all, including politicians. In its recent order in a suo motu case on the state government's handling of the pandemic, the division bench of Chief Justice Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala had observed that "the norms and protocols, as prescribed by the state government, time to time, needs to be scrupulously followed, and this applies even to the political leaders of the state". Political leaders of the state are expected to lead their masses and not by themselves flout the norms or the rules and regulations prescribed to combat the pandemic, the court had observed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/politicians-have-greater-onus-to-follow-covid-19-norms-gujarat-chief-minister-vijay-rupani-898354.html
07-10-2020||West||Employee held for bid to take liquor inside Covid-19 hospital in Maharashtra||An attempt by a contractual employee of a Covid-19 hospital here in Maharashtra to take liquor and tobacco inside the facility has been foiled at the checking gate, a civic official said on Tuesday. The incident occurred on Monday night when the night duty staff was being checked as per protocol, said Thane Municipal Corporation chief security officer M B Thorve. The employee was later handed over to Kapurbawdi police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/employee-held-for-bid-to-take-liquor-inside-covid-19-hospital-in-maharashtra-898372.html
07-10-2020||West||Flight operations at Pune airport to remain shut at night for a year||The flight operations at the Pune airport will remain shut during night for a year due to recarpeting work of runway, airport authorities said on Tuesday. "The recarpeting work of runway is going to start from October 26 and will be on for around one year. Since the work is planned during the night time, the runway will be shut for flight operations between 8 pm and 8 am," Pune Airport Director Kuldip Singh. He added that the flight operations will take place from 8 am to 8 pm. All the night flights, including take-offs and landings, have been spread out in the day time, Singh said. He also said, "So, average 10 flights from the night will be scheduled in the day time." A meeting of the Airport Advisory Committee of Pune Airport was held on Tuesday under the chairmanship of Pune MP Girish Bapat, and issues regarding improving passenger facilities, airport infrastructure, land for cargo, widening of roads were discussed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/flight-operations-at-pune-airport-to-remain-shut-at-night-for-a-year-898387.html
07-10-2020||West||Rhea Chakraborty granted bail in drug case related to Sushant Singh Rajput's death, walks out of jail||After 28 days in jail, late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s live-in partner Rhea Chakraborty is free after the Bombay High Court granted bail to her. She walked out of the jail on Wednesday evening. An actor and model, Rhea (28), who was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), has been accused of sourcing and procuring drugs for Sushant, who had died by suicide on June 14. However, the bail plea of Rhea’s brother Showik (28) has been rejected for alleged links with drug peddlers. Justice Sarang V Kotwal of the Bombay High Court, who conducted the hearings last week, allowed bail to her. “She is not part of a chain of drug dealers and has not forwarded the drugs, allegedly procured by her, to somebody else to earn monetary or other benefits…Since she has no criminal antecedents, there are reasonable grounds for believing that she is not likely to commit any offence while on bail," the order states. Earlier, the Magistrate’s Court and the Special NDPS Court had rejected her bail application. She was placed under arrest after the drug angle surfaced in the case during the investigations by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) as the probe was handed over to the apex agencies from the Mumbai Police following an order of the Supreme Court. Sushant’s father Krishna Kishore Singh and his sisters have alleged that Rhea and her family members and her team was responsible for the death of the actor and they also swindled Rs 14 crore from his accounts. Later, they also alleged that their son was murdered. In the 70-page order, Justice Kotwal said: “I am unable to agree with the submission that giving money to another for consuming drug would mean encouraging such habit and would mean financing or harbouring as envisaged under Section 27A of the NDPS Act.” The court went on to add: “The allegations and material against the present applicant are that on some occasions she had used her own money in procuring drugs. She facilitated procuring of drugs through her brother. For that purpose employees of Sushant Singh Rajput were also used. As discussed earlier, her acts would not fall under Section 27A of the NDPS Act.” Raising some questions over the probe, it said: “The main Section which could be attracted in her case is violation of Section 8(c) of the NDPS Act, which is made punishable under Section 20 or Section 22. In that case, it is necessary for the investigating agency to show that her activities or contravention involved commercial quantity of a narcotic drug or psychotropic substance. The investigation did not reveal any recovery either from the applicant or from the house of Sushant Singh Rajput. It is their own case that the drugs were already consumed and hence, there was no recovery.” Rhea's counsel Satish Maneshinde said that truth and justice have prevailed. "The arrest and custody of Rhea was totally unwarranted and beyond the reach of law....the hounding and witchhunt of three central agencies CBI, ED and NCB should come to an end," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rhea-chakraborty-granted-bail-in-drug-case-related-to-sushant-singh-rajputs-death-walks-out-of-jail-898455.html
07-10-2020||West||Maharashtra: Surplus rainfall in 6 Marathwada districts this year||Six out of the eight districts in Maharashtra's Marathwada region have received more than average rainfall during the monsoon season this year, an official said. The Marathwada region comprises Aurangabad, Latur, Beed, Parbhani, Jalna, Osmanabad, Nanded and Hingoli districts. The normal rainfall expected in Marathwada between June 1 and September 30 is 722.5 mm. But, the region received 844.7 mm downpour during the period this year, 16.9 per cent more than expected, agrometeorologist Dr Kailas Dakhore, from the Vasantrao Naik Marathwada Agriculture University in Parbhani, told PTI. Aurangabad, the biggest district in the region, on an average gets 623.5 mm rainfall during the monsoon, but this year, it received 951.3 mm rain, which is higher by 52.6 per cent, he said. In Latur, where water had to be supplied with the help of rail wagons in 2016 due to scarcity, also received more rainfall than average this year. The average rainfall expected in Latur is 725.3 mm, but it received 867.6 mm in the four monsoon months, 19.6 per cent more than average, Dakhore said. In Parbhani, the expected average rain during the four monsoon months is 721.6 mm, but it recorded 906.6 mm this season, 25.6 per cent higher than average, he said. Among other districts, Beed received 32.5 per cent more rainfall than average, Jalna got 31.6 more downpour and Hingoli got 1.6 per cent more rains, he said. Besides, Nanded received 872.8 mm rain against the expected average of 882.8 mm, a deficit of 1.1 per cent. Similarly, Osmanabad got 671.5 mm rainfall against the expected average of 749 mm, resulting in a deficit of 10.4 per cent, the official said. "As of now, we can primarily say the region got good rains in the coronavirus-enforced lockdown period as man-made activities and emissions from vehicles were very less. But, there is no concrete evidence yet on this and the study is going on," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-surplus-rainfall-in-6-marathwada-districts-this-year-898469.html
07-10-2020||West||Dabbawalas, consulates staff allowed to travel in Mumbai local trains||Mumbai's dabbawalas and staff of foreign consulates and high commissions have been allowed to travel in local trains which are currently being run only for essential services staff, officials said on Wednesday. Dabbawalas, the famous lunch-box carriers in Mumbai, last month said there was never a six-month break in the "130-year-old history of the tiffin services", and demanded access to local trains to resume their services in full capacity. Currently, in view of the Covid-19 restrictions, only the dabbawalas who could reach the south Mumbai area on their cycles were able to deliver food to office-goers. They have now expressed happiness on being allowed to board local trains with effect from Tuesday. Sumit Thakur, chief public relations officer of the Western Railway, said based on the unlock guidelines issued by the Maharashtra government on September 30, they have allowed the dabbawalas to travel in local trains. "The staff of foreign consulates and high commissions have also been permitted to travel in local trains, as per the directives received from the Ministry of Railways," he said. Over 5,000 dabbawalas run the tiffin delivery business in the metropolis. Before the outbreak of Covid-19, they used to deliver over two lakh tiffins to office-goers on normal working days. They use suburban trains to ensure lunch boxes are delivered at the destination on time. Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer of the Central Railway, said QR-coded ID cards issued by the state government will be mandatory for them to travel in local trains, but dabbawalas have requested that they be allowed to travel on their identity cards. "If the Maharashtra government agrees to their demand, we will permit them to travel on their ID cards," he said. Subhash Talekar, spokesperson of the Mumbai Dabbawala Association, expressed happiness on being allowed to travel in local trains. "Finally, after more than six months, we can resume our service," Talekar said, adding dabbawalas will now contact their customers and request them to resume the tiffin service. He was, however, skeptic about the resumption of services in full capacity amid the Covid-19 pandemic. "Before the pandemic, every dabbawala had on an average 20 to 22 customers, but I doubt all customers will resume the service immediately as many people are still working from home," he said. Another issue is that many housing societies are still not allowing outsiders into the premises, he said. Talekar said the dabbawalas will start tiffin delivery even with four to five customers initially as they know it will take some time for things to normalise. "We are going to follow the Covid-19 safety protocols like wearing masks and gloves, using sanitisers and maintaining social distance and will also ensure our customers about it," he said. Most of the dabbawalas hail from Maval area of Pune in western Maharashtra. Following the enforcement of lockdown in March this year, many of them returned to their native places in Junnar, Ambegaon, Rajgurunagar, Maval, Haveli, Mulashi and other talukas in Pune district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dabbawalas-consulates-staff-allowed-to-travel-in-mumbai-local-trains-898514.html
07-10-2020||West||Thane sees 1.166 new Covid-19 cases; tally reaches 1,83,942||The Covid-19 tally in Maharashtra's Thane district has risen to 1,83,942 with the addition of 1,166 new cases, an official said on Wednesday. The death toll reached 4,644 after 28 more patients succumbed to the disease in the district on Tuesday, he said. The official said the number of active Covid-19 cases in the district has now dropped to 8.78 per cent from 20 per cent in mid-September. As of now, there are 16,147 active Covid-19 cases in the district, while 1,63,151 patients have recovered, he said. The Covid-19 recovery rate in the district is 88.70 per cent, while the death rate is 2.52 per cent, he said. The district covers seven talukas- Thane, Kalyan, Ambernath, Ulhasnagar, Bhiwandi, Murbad, and Sahapur. Kalyan has so far reported the maximum number of Covid-19 cases at 44,392, followed by Thane city-38,944, Navi Mumbai-38,735 and Mira Bhayander-19,565, the official said. Out of the total deaths, Thane city has reported 1,035 fatalities, Kalyan-864, Navi Mumbai-788 and Mira Bhayander- 603, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/thane-sees-1166-new-covid-19-cases-tally-reaches-183942-898529.html
07-10-2020||West||Rajasthan government to crowdsource data on artists||The Rajasthan government will launch an initiative on October 10 to create a database of artists through crowdsourcing, an official said Wednesday. Secretary of Art and Culture Department Mugdha Sinha said the artist database will have basic details along with genre of art forms including performing arts, visual arts, literary arts, dying arts, wandering arts (ghoomantu), folk arts, tribal arts and others. "Reaching out to and involving stakeholder artists themselves in collecting this data through Google Form is truly participative policymaking and inclusive approach. With the database of artists, the government can extend necessary help to them," Sinha said in a statement. In April this year, the government launched the ‘Mukhyamantri Lok Kalakar Protsahan Yojana’ (Chief Minister Folk Artist Encouragement Scheme) to extend help to folk artists. The government has spent Rs 9 lakh to support 337 artists, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rajasthan-government-to-crowdsource-data-on-artists-898579.html
07-10-2020||West||Hunt on for Indian tiger after eighth human kill||Indian authorities are hunting for a tiger which has killed eight people in the last two years after another fatal attack, officials said Wednesday. The big cat's latest victim, an elderly villager, was mauled to death late Monday when he ventured into a forest for firewood in Khambada, around 660 kilometres (410 miles) from the financial capital Mumbai. "We have been trying to capture the tiger using tranquilizer darts but with no success," N.R. Praveen, a forest official in Maharashtra state, told AFP. Human encroachment on tiger habitats has increased rapidly in recent decades in the nation of 1.3 billion people, leading to deadly conflicts. Nearly 225 people were killed in tiger attacks between 2014 and 2019, according to government figures. But the big cats have also suffered. More than 200 tigers were killed by poachers or electrocution between 2012 and 2018, the data showed. In June, a tiger blamed for killing three people was captured and sent to a zoo in the central Indian state of Madhya Pradesh. Officials said the big cat was "too dangerous" to be allowed to roam free. India is home to around 70 percent of the world's tigers. Last year, the government said the tiger population had risen to 2,967 in 2018 from a record low of 1,411 in 2006.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hunt-on-for-indian-tiger-after-eighth-human-kill-898651.html
07-10-2020||West||After WHO, World Bank praises BMC for containing Covid-19 spread in Dharavi||After the World Health Organization, the World Bank has now appreciated the Dharavi model of combating the Covid-19 pandemic. Dharavi in Mumbai is the largest slum cluster of Asia – and is one of the top densely-populated localities. For the Maharashtra government and the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), containing the spread of Covid-19 in Dharavi was one of the biggest challenges. According to a report, the Washington-based global lender, in its biennial Poverty and Shared Prosperity report, said that in the span of three months, by July 2020, reported cases in the area had been cut to 20 per cent of their peak in May. World Bank said that in Mumbai, city officials were able to stem the rapid spread of the coronavirus in Dharavi, one of the city's largest urban settlements, by mobilising community members and staff from private medical clinics for a strategy based on mass screening for fever and oxygen levels. Sandwiched between the Sion and Matunga stations of the Central line and Mahim and Bandra stations on the Western line, the Dharavi locality is a sort of business-cum-residential-cum-warehouse area, where nearly seven to 10 lakh people stay and work, in an area of 2.1 sq km – making it the biggest slum locality of Asia. The famous Mithi river that empties into the Arabian Sea from the Mahim creek passes by the Dharavi area. The Maharashtra government and BMC adopted the mantra of four Ts - tracing, tracking, testing, and treating – to combat the spread. The 4Ts model is now being implemented in the whole of Mumbai, the Mumbai metropolitan region, Pune, and several other cities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/after-who-world-bank-praises-bmc-for-containing-covid-19-spread-in-dharavi-898682.html
07-10-2020||West||Action initiated against cops in Palghar lynching case, Maharashtra govt tells SC||Maharashtra government informed the Supreme Court on Wednesday that action has been initiated against some policemen in connection with the alleged lynching of three people, including two seers, in Palghar district in April this year. The state government told a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan that it has filed an affidavit last month in which it has given various details, including action taken against policemen for alleged dereliction of duties in the case. “We have placed on record all the actions taken by the state,” the counsel appearing for Maharashtra told the bench, also comprising Justices R S Reddy and M R Shah. Maharashtra Police had last month filed the affidavit in the top court saying that action has been taken against 18 personnel, ranging from dismissal from service to salary cuts. The apex court was hearing the pleas, including those seeking separate probes by the CBI and the NIA into the alleged lynching. The victims were identified as Chikne Maharaj Kalpavrukshagiri, 70, Sushil Giri Maharaj, 35, and Nilesh Telgade, 30, who was driving the vehicle. During the hearing, conducted through video-conferencing, one of the petitioners claimed they have got the around 1000-page affidavit filed by the state on Tuesday night only. “Why is everybody filing reply at the last moment,” the bench said, adding that it would grant time to the petitioners to file their reply. A lawyer representing another petitioner argued that one wing of the state machinery is investigating the other wing in the case and this would not inspire confidence. “We will consider it. We have not read the affidavit. How can we decide it today? Let the petitioners file their reply then we will take it up,” the bench said. The bench referred to the earlier order passed by it asking the state to bring on record the details of enquiry, including action taken against the police personnel, in the case. The state’s counsel said these details have already been placed on record. “Action has been initiated against policemen. One policeman has been dismissed, some of them have been compulsorily retired,” the state’s counsel said, adding that charge sheet has been filed in the case. The bench has posted the matter for hearing in the week commencing November 16. “An affidavit has been filed by the state. Let the petitioners file a reply to the affidavit within two weeks,” the bench said in its order. In an affidavit filed in the top court, the state police said it has punished "delinquent" policemen for their dereliction of duties in the alleged lynching of three people in Palghar district. The affidavit said as many as 18 delinquent police personnel have been awarded varying punishments and some of them have been dismissed from service and some of them have been compulsorily retired. Some delinquent cops have also been punished with the salary cuts, it said. It said that the state's criminal investigation department has so far filed two charge sheets in the case. Some of the pleas filed in the apex court have alleged that investigation by state police was being conducted in a biased manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/action-initiated-against-cops-in-palghar-lynching-case-maharashtra-govt-tells-sc-898693.html
07-10-2020||West||Sushant death case: Cong seeks probe into BJP role in anti-police campaign||The Congress in Maharashtra on Wednesday requested Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh to investigate what it called a "BJP-driven social media terrorism" aimed at defaming the state government and police in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death case. Leaders of the ruling Shiv Sena, NCP, and Congress have stepped up their attack on the BJP since an AIIMS medical panel ruled out "murder" in Rajput's death, which is currently probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). After a delegation of Congress leaders called on the police commissioner, state Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said they have been assured of a probe into the allegations leveled by them. The BJP has dismissed the allegations as "wild and baseless". "We met @CPMumbaiPolice with the demand to probe the BJP driven Social media terrorism - Conspiracy against our democracy, a methodology designed to defame opp govt's by creating a narrative based on artificial public rage. Our team dug into Twitter terrorism & found out the following facts," Sawant tweeted. He alleged that "thousands" of Twitter accounts were opened after Rajput's death in June this year "just to run a campaign against Mumbai Police and the state government". Sawant said these accounts tweeted and retweeted hashtags suggesting that Rajput was killed. "The behavioral pattern of these twitter handles, history of their tweets and frequency of their retweets suggest that it was a well-thought planned conspiracy against the Maharashtra government," he alleged. The Congress spokesperson further claimed that some professional agencies were specifically hired to malign the image of the Mumbai police and the state government. He said the Congress had submitted the name of one such agency to the police. "The target of this campaign was to paint a picture that the Mumbai Police is trying to push the matter under the carpet as the CM is desperate to save his son," he added. Hitting back, Maharashtra BJP chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said, "the Congress and Sawant have the habit of making wild and baseless allegations..let the matter be probed". Taking a dig, he said instead of making "baseless" allegations, the ruling party should focus on the deteriorating law and order situation in the state including the safety of women. On Tuesday, Maharashtra Home Minister and NCP leader Anil Deshmukh said the state cyber department will probe who defamed the state in connection with the Rajput's death case on social media. He had also told reporters that a US-based university's study in connection with the case revealed, "BJP hand in hyping the conspiracy theory".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-death-case-cong-seeks-probe-into-bjp-role-in-anti-police-campaign-898700.html
07-10-2020||West||Gujarat HC slaps Rs 2,000 fine on advocates' association president for criminal contempt||The Gujarat High Court on Wednesday sentenced advocate Yatin Oza, who is also the president of Gujarat High Court Advocates' Association (GHCAA), with Rs 2,000 fine and punishment till rising of the court and two months of imprisonment in case of default of payment for criminal contempt of court. However, the court stayed the order following Oza's lawyer's request for challenging the order in Supreme Court. The division bench of the high court of justice Sonia Gokani and justice N V Anjaria pronounced the sentence a day after holding Oza guilty of criminal contempt of court for his remarks that alleged the court running a "gambling den," among others. The court took suo motu cognisance of Oza's remarks uttered during a press conference. On June 5, Oza had made these remarks during a Facebook live press conference. He had said, "The High Court is an absolute gambling den today, wherein only billionaires can gamble. If poor people gamble for five rupees at home, the police would arrest them. This is the situation of the High Court. High Court can file a contempt petition against me." With the remark, Oza pointed that during the lockdown it was difficult to get petitions listed for hearing when lawyers or clients were not influential. Days later, the high court took suo motu cognisance of it and issued a criminal contempt notice. After initiation of the proceedings, Oza had tendered an unconditional apology which was rejected by the court. While the petition was pending, a full-court decision stripped Oza off his "senior advocate" status. While rejecting the apology, the division bench had said that a "clear and loud" message needed to be sent out that the judiciary is "open to every healthy criticism respecting the fundamental right of freedom of expression," but at the same time "attempts to tarnish its prestige will not be tolerated."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-hc-slaps-rs-2000-fine-on-advocates-association-president-for-criminal-contempt-898703.html
07-10-2020||West||25 tweets per minute, efforts to defame Maha Vikas Aghadi: Congress||Solidifying claims of misuse of social media platforms to defame the Maha Vikas Aghadi government and the Mumbai Police, the Congress said that some of the Twitter handles were posting at the rate of 25 posts per minute. The Mumbai Police has registered two FIRs into the alleged use of social media profiles on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram to defame the top cops and government functionaries. A delegation of Congress comprising its state unit General Secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant, Dr Raju Waghmare, Ratnakar Singh called on Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh and handed over a memorandum. “There is an unusual pattern in this, no ordinary user of Facebook or Twitter can post or tweet 40,000 posts in 3 months. Most of these Twitter handles seem to be tweeting at the rate of 25 tweets per minute. All these tweets are generally around the same topic which in this case was the Sushant Singh Rajput (SSR) case. Their hashtags are also common,” Sawant said. According to him, some commercial agency was hired to tarnish the image of Maharashtra Police and state government. "It also looks like the sole purpose of the campaign was to paint a picture that the Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray is trying to save his son Aditya Thackeray and that is why the Mumbai Police is trying to suppress the case. And based on these fake tweets and posts, some of the agenda-driven news channels were also seen spreading propaganda. A video claiming that the person spoke to Sushant's soul went viral on a YouTube channel,” Sawant pointed out. "This is an advanced version of the Goebbels technique and the BJP leaders are creating an artificial public opinion on it. It is a very serious and worrying precedent that they are setting," Sawant said. The Congress had demanded that an SIT be set up to crack down on the social media racket and also to find out the real mastermind behind the BJP's new mode of terrorism. Mumbai Police has also revealed that they are investigating 80,000 bogus accounts that are running a defamatory campaign. "The University of Michigan has also reported that the BJP has a hand in the campaign. The Wall Street Journal had also exposed the alliance between Facebook and the BJP,” he said. "The same modus operandi was used in the Delhi riots, during the killing of two sadhus in Palghar and could be used in the future to spread unrest in the society and to destabilize opposition governments, said Sawant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/25-tweets-per-minute-efforts-to-defame-maha-vikas-aghadi-congress-898712.html
07-10-2020||West||Maharashtra restaurants, bars to remain open from 8 am to 10 pm||Restaurants and bars in Maharashtra have been allowed to remain open from 8 am to 10 pm or as directed by the municipal commissioners or district collectors, the state government said on Wednesday. The government has conveyed this in a letter sent to the bodies representing hotels and restaurants. Hotels, food courts, restaurants and bars in the state have been allowed to resume their operations from October 5 with a capacity not exceeding 50 per cent or as prescribed by local authorities. He also said that all the stakeholder restaurants and bars from the state need to follow the timings mandatorily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-restaurants-bars-to-remain-open-from-8-am-to-10-pm-898718.html
