08-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||10 Indonesians convicted in Belagavi for violating visa rules||Ten Indonesian nationals who flouted visa rules were convicted by Second JMFC Court here on Wednesday. Second JMFC Court Judge B V Lalitasri sentenced them to two days imprisonment and asked each of them to pay a fine of Rs 20,000. Mal-Maruti police had arrested them and filed cases for violating visa rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/10-indonesians-convicted-in-belagavi-for-violating-visa-rules-898902.html
08-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Currency notes of Rs 50, 100 and 2000 found in farm land||A large number of denomination currency notes of Rs 50, Rs 100, and Rs 2,000 were found near a bush in a farming land at Buklorahalli in Challakere taluk on Thursday. According to police, some days ago, Rs 36 lakh was stolen from the office of Dileep Buildcon Limited, which is close to the farming land. The company is implementing Bidar-Srirangapatna national highway work. They suspected that the stolen money might have been thrown in the land. Acting on a tip-off, a police team led by circle police inspector Manjunath and sub-inspector Satish Naik rushed to the spot with the sniffer dog squad and forensic experts. Police are still counting the notes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/currency-notes-of-rs-50-100-and-2000-found-in-farm-land-899031.html
08-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Boy drowns near Yettinahole project site in Hassan||A 13-year-old boy, who was herding cattle, drowned in the water collected in the land dug up near Yettinahole project site at Hebbanahalli in Sakleshpur taluk in Hassan district on Thursday. The land was dug up to lay pipes as part of the work underway for the Yettinahole drinking water project. Due to heavy rains in the region recently, the water had collected in the dug-up portion.   The boy, who had gone to feed water to his cattle, slipped and drowned, according to sources. More details are awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/boy-drowns-near-yettinahole-project-site-in-hassan-899105.html
08-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Medini Mutt pontiff Shivalinga Swami dies of Covid-19||Shivalinga Swami (75), of Medini Mutt in Talakad in T Narasipur taluk in the district, died of Covid-19 in a private hospital on Thursday. The Swami was admitted to JSS Hospital for health issues and he had tested positive for Covid-19. In addition to being a pontiff, he also served as a Sanskrit teacher. The final rites were held at the Mutt's premises.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/medini-mutt-pontiff-shivalinga-swami-dies-of-covid-19-899216.html
08-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Kodagu police bids tearful adieu to ‘Rambo’||The police personnel of Kodagu bid a tearful adieu to ‘Rambo’, the trained dog of their dog squad, on Thursday. Owing to illness, Rambo, who had been performing duties of detecting explosives for the past six years, passed away on Wednesday. SP Kshama Mishra paid her respects to Rambo. The final rites were performed as per necessary protocol of the department. Two days ago, Rambo had been on official duty to Surathkal in Dakshina Kannada and a change in weather resulted in deterioration of his health. He showed symptoms of tiredness and developed fever on Wednesday evening. Though treatment was to given Rambo, did not respond to it and succumbed to heart attack. He was brought to Madikeri later. Born on October 15, 2013, Rambo underwent training in the police dog training camp in Adugodi, Bengaluru, and joined for duty in Madikeri. He was known for his intelligence and swiftness.  Rambo had performed duties at Harangi reservoir, Raja Seat, court premises among other places. He had been part of the dog surveillance team at the International Air Show in Bengaluru and the election rallies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in the state. Rambo had been awarded certificates of merit, for his performances. He had detected explosives in more than 400 places during the last six years in Kodagu and other parts of the state. Rambo’s caretakers Sukumar and Jitendra Rai were deeply hurt by his demise. Rambo is survived by his fellow mates Shourya, Leo and Prithvi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kodagu-police-bids-tearful-adieu-to-rambo-899283.html
08-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka reports 10,704 new Covid-19 cases, 101 fatalities||Karnataka on Thursday recorded 10,704 fresh cases of coronavirus and 101 related fatalities, taking the infection count to 6.79 lakh and the toll to 9,675, the health department said. The day also saw 9,613 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of 10,704 fresh cases reported on Thursday, 5,121 cases were from Bengaluru urban alone. As of October 8 evening, cumulatively 6,79,356 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 9,675 deaths and 5,52,519 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. It said out of 1.17 lakh active cases, 1,16,290 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 853 are in ICU. Of the total 101 deaths reported on Thursday, 43 are from Bengaluru urban, followed by Mysuru 12, Dakshina Kannada 6, Kalaburgai, Kolara and Tumakuru 5, Bagalkote and Ballari 3, and others. Most of the dead are either with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Among the districts where new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban is accounting for 5,121, Mysuru 642, Tumakuru 509, Hassan 441, Bengaluru Rural 368, Dakshina Kannada 296, followed by others. Bengaluru urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 2.67 lakh infections, followed by Mysuru 40,232 and Ballari 33,763. A total of over 56.29 lakh samples have been tested so far, out of which 1.05 lakh were tested on Thursday alone, and 51,221 among them were rapid antigen tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-reports-10704-new-covid-19-cases-101-fatalities-899315.html
08-10-2020||Karnataka Politics||HD Kumaraswamy warns against conducting elections during Covid-19 pandemic||“If the Centre, Election Commission, and the state government had any common sense, there was no need for all these elections that are happening now,” Kumaraswamy said. He was referring to elections in Bihar, the bypolls to 54 assembly segments across India, and polls to four Legislative Council seats in the state. Citing his own example, Kumaraswamy said that he was down with a high fever after addressing rallies in Sira. “Is it possible to hold an election? How can you ensure social distancing? I went to Sira for two days and ended up with a 101-degree celsius fever. We, politicians, are playing with the lives of people,” he stated. “The world would not have ended if the elections were deferred by three more months. You could have imposed a 6-month President’s rule in Bihar with a caretaker government,” he said. “How can we do this election? When we go to villages, people will gather. Will all of them wear a mask? Forget us, who will protect people?” he asked. The former Karnataka CM also hit out at the Congress for suggesting that the JD(S) would help the BJP win in the Rajarajeshwarinagar bypoll. “The Congress should be ashamed to say that,” he said. “Why should I sacrifice a seat where our party workers have managed to get us 40,000-60,000 votes in past elections? And, why couldn’t the Congress keep their man under control,” he asked, referring to disqualified Rarajeshwarinagar legislator Munirathna who defected from the Congress to join the BJP. Accusing the Congress of indulging in caste politics, Kumaraswamy said that Siddaramaiah held a meeting with OBC leaders recently. “They’re the ones doing caste politics round-the-clock and they attack me. They were the ones who told Muslims not to vote for the JD(S) saying we had an understanding with the BJP,” he added. Mocking Siddaramaiah for demanding that the caste census be made public, Kumaraswamy asked why he did not bring this up when he headed the coordination committee during the tenure of the Congress-JD(S) coalition. On reports that Munirathna might consider contesting the Rajarajeshwarinagar election from the JD(S) ticket if the BJP failed to accommodate him, Kumaraswamy said, “We have already identified three of our own candidates and one of them will be finalized. We want to field a local, loyal party worker.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/hd-kumaraswamy-warns-against-conducting-elections-during-covid-19-pandemic-899137.html
08-10-2020||Mysuru||Historian P V Nanjaraj Urs slams Karnataka govt over Dasara celebration||Historian P V Nanjaraj Urs slammed the Karnataka government on Thursday over Dasara celebration, alleging that the government was looting money in the name of Dasara. Urs asked why the government earmarked Rs 15 crore for simple Dasara? "Let the government provide facilities to combat Covid-19 rather than investing on Dasara," he said. Chamundeshwari Devi will bless the government if they ensure the safety of the people instead of celebration, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/historian-p-v-nanjaraj-urs-slams-karnataka-govt-over-dasara-celebration-899114.html
08-10-2020||National||India's daily coronavirus infections slow down after scaling highs||India reported 72,049 new cases of coronavirus on Wednesday, dropping from the daily highs of last month in a sign infections were peaking for now, officials and experts said. India leads the world in the average number of new infections and is expected to overtake the United States over the next several weeks as the country with the world's largest number of cases. But since it hit a single-day high of 97,894 new cases on Sept 17, the country has reported a downward trend with 75,909 daily cases on an average, according to a Reuters tally. "There is a continuous drop in our daily new cases, which is an encouraging sign," said health secretary Rajesh Bhushan. The overall tally reached 6.76 million infections on Wednesday while the death toll rose by 986 to 104,555. Faced with a collapsing economy, the federal government has been pushing states to fully reopen after enforcing one of the world's strictest lockdowns in March. Experts said the opening up led to a spike in cases in August and September, which now may have started to stabilise in the big cities. "The virus is slowing down in the big metros because there are a lot of people already infected," said Bhramar Mukherjee, a professor of biostatistics and epidemiology at the University of Michigan. A serological survey released by the government late last month showed the prevalence of SARS-CoV-2 antibodies increased to 7.1% between Aug. 17 and Sept. 22 compared to 0.73% in a previous survey between May 11 and June 4. Mukherjee said the survey suggested that about 130 million out of 1.3 billion population may have been infected by now. The government has asked authorities to be vigilant during the upcoming festival period including the Hindu festival of Diwali in November. It said they should cap on number of people allowed into temples, set up close circuit television to monitor crowds and not allow people to touch idols and religious books.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-daily-coronavirus-infections-slow-down-after-scaling-highs-898818.html
08-10-2020||National||Welfare of nation, poor paramount for me, says PM Modi||As he entered his 20th year as head of an elected government, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said he wants to assure the countrymen once again that the welfare of the nation and the poor is paramount for him. In a series of tweets in Hindi, Modi said he will continue to strive to make himself worthy of people's blessings and love. "I would like to assure the countrymen once again that the welfare of the nation and the poor is paramount for me and will always be so," Modi said. "No person can ever claim that he does not have any shortcomings. A long period of holding such responsible positions...being human, even I can make mistakes," Modi said. He said it is his good fortune that despite all these limitations, people's love for him is growing. Modi said the way people have showered blessings and love on him from every corner of the country today, the power of his words to thank them is falling short. BJP leaders on Wednesday heaped praise on Modi and his leadership as he entered his 20th year without a break as the head of an elected government, including close to 13 years as chief minister of Gujarat. Modi, who turned 70 last month, started as a volunteer of the RSS and then served in the BJP's organisation for many years before the party leadership sent him to Gujarat, his home state, as its chief minister in 2001. Since then, he has never tasted electoral defeat and led the BJP to power in the state three straight times before steering the party to its biggest, until then, Lok Sabha poll win in 2014 and then scripting an even bigger win in the 2019 general elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/welfare-of-nation-poor-paramount-for-me-says-pm-modi-898829.html
08-10-2020||National||Ashwani Kumar: Lover of cartoons dies in tragic way||A lover of the Tom and Jerry cartoon show, Ashwani Kumar, who had a posting in Raj Bhavan as well as headed the premier probe agency CBI, ended his life in a tragic way with his body being found hanging at his residence in Shimla on Wednesday evening. The 69-year-old, survived by his wife and son, is remembered by his former colleagues and even the present officers as a perfect soft-spoken gentleman who always wore a graceful smile. Kumar, a 1973-batch IPS officer, was a surprise announcement for the post of the Director CBI in August 2008 when two other names, of those senior to him, were doing the rounds for the prestigious posting. This was the time when the agency was grappling with controversies surrounding the infamous Aarushi murder case of Noida. "I like Tom and Jerry cartoon show. Police is like the cat while the criminals are like mice. So Tom never leaves Jerry," Kumar had said in an interview to PTI in 2008 after taking over as the CBI Director. "I am in the game of Tom and Jerry and I have to do my job," he had said. Kumar had expressed his displeasure over the probe into the Aarushi murder case and had taken upon himself to take it to a logical conclusion. "This case is a litmus test for me. I need to know who killed Aarushi -- parents or someone else. I feel agitated within over this case," he had commented. During his tenure, a closure report had been prepared which later formed the basis of arrest and conviction of Aarushi's parents. Both the parents are now out on bail and the case is being heard in higher courts. Kumar, a recipient of the President's Police medal for meritorious and distinguished services, had served as joint director (north) and additional director (anti-corruption) in the CBI. Besides, he had a stint in the Special Protection Group. "A man of integrity and honesty who was always smiling in tiring conditions. I am shocked," recalls former CBI Director P C Sharma. Kumar served under him as the joint director (policy), a post within the CBI which is a bridge between the government and the agency. During his stint as the CBI Director, Kumar laid a special focus on the growing economic offences and roped in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) to help the agency in probing white-collar crimes. Hailing from the small town of Nahan in Himachal Pradesh, Kumar after becoming the Director General of Police of his home state had ordered removal of all barriers and check posts which used to cause long traffic jams in the state. In 2013, the then UPA government appointed him as Governor of Nagaland, a post from which he tendered his resignation after the BJP-led NDA government came to power in 2014. He was the first CBI Director to have been appointed to the post of Governor as he was considered close to the then power corridors. An avid lover of devotional music and ghazals, Kumar had taken on to academics and was teaching for some time at the O P Jindal University in Haryana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ashwani-kumar-lover-of-cartoons-dies-in-tragic-way-898833.html
08-10-2020||National||RSS cadre work among people for their welfare without seeking publicity: Bhagwat||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Wednesday said the organisation's biggest strength was its cadre who work among the people relentlessly without seeking publicity and rewards. Speaking at the birth centenary of late Manik Chandra Vajpayee, former editor of Hindi daily Swadesh and senior RSS functionary, Bhagwat said he never came into limelight despite his immense contribution in the welfare of the society and in the field of journalism. Stating that fame and significance are two separate things, Bhagwat said Sangh comprises people who work relentlessly among people for the welfare of society as well as the country without seeking any publicity. Giving the example of Vajpayee, Bhagwat said they are significant but may not be well-known. He said Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) workers are like a seed which has to sacrifice itself by mixing in soil so that a tree can grow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rss-cadre-work-among-people-for-their-welfare-without-seeking-publicity-bhagwat-898834.html
08-10-2020||National||Centre goes all out to woo agitating farmers||The Modi government is pulling out all stops to woo agitating farmers by increasing procurement centres for kharif, promising to spend more on buying at MSP rates, which could benefit 32 lakh more farmers. Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Agarwal also sent out invites to representatives of farmers in Punjab to address their concerns related to the three farm sector reforms unveiled by the government and clear misgivings, an offer that was turned down. “Farmers organisations from Punjab have turned down the invitation," Avik Saha, general secretary, All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, said. Top government officials associated with the procurement process addressed a joint press conference on Wednesday to assure the farmers that the MSP regime would continue and that the government has made elaborate arrangements for the same. Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said the government is setting up 8,581 more procurement centres, taking the total number to 39,130 so that farmers have easy access to sell their paddy crop. “The Food Corporation of India and state agencies are all set to procure a record quantity of 738 lakh tonnes of paddy (497 lakh tonnes in terms of rice) during the ongoing kharif crop (season) as against 627 lakh tonnes of paddy in the year-ago (period),” he said. He said 1.56 crore farmers were expected to be benefited from the rice procurement operations during the ongoing kharif marketing season as against 1.24 crore the previous year, an increase of 32 lakh farmers. The Centre also planned to spend 21% this kharif season on procurement of food grains at MSP rate. “Last year, Rs 1.15 lakh crore was transferred to farmers during the season and this year the figure is expected to be around Rs 1.40 lakh crore,” Pandey said. Based on the proposal from the states, the Centre has also approved procurement of 30.17 lakh metric tonnes of pulses and oilseeds for Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Telangana, Gujarat, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha. It has also sanctioned the procurement of 1.23 lakh metric tonnes of copra for Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-goes-all-out-to-woo-agitating-farmers-898854.html
08-10-2020||National||Non-BJP parties slam Centre for 'fuelling speculation' on Gorkhaland ahead of polls||Non-BJP parties in West Bengal on Wednesday came down heavily on the BJP government at the Centre for "fuelling speculation" over demands for a separate Gorkhaland, ahead of assembly polls, and said it was "playing with fire" to serve vested political interests. The BJP, however, dubbed the allegations as "baseless" and said the central government just wants a "permanent solution" to the political crisis. The Union Home Ministry convened a tripartite meeting on Wednesday to discuss "issues related to the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA)", officials said. A delegation of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) met Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy and sought the creation of a separate state of Gorkhaland, comprising Darjeeling and its adjoining areas in West Bengal. However, no representative of the West Bengal government attended the meeting. GJM (Bimal Gurung faction) working president Lopsang Lama said the outfit has submitted a memorandum demanding that Gorkhaland be carved out of Bengal. Slamming the Union government's move, the TMC dispensation in the state asked the central leaders to come clean on whether they want a "division of the state". "Every time we approach an election, the BJP raises the Gorkhaland issue to create disturbance in the Hills. This is yet another move. The BJP should come clean on whether they want a division of the state... They should stop beating around the bush," Gautam Deb, the state tourism minister and senior TMC leader from north Bengal, said. The Mamata Banerjee-led party also claimed that it was a just another attempt by the BJP to create "confusion", as Union Home Minister Amit Shah skipped Wednesday's meeting. "Had it been a serious meeting, the Union home minister would have attended it instead of sending MoS home. This only reflects that the BJP is trying to create confusion ahead of polls. Gorkhaland will never happen, as our Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has already said," senior TMC leader Sougato Roy said. The opposition Congress and the CPI(M), too, echoed the TMC and said the saffron camp was trying to fuel a separatist movement. "The BJP is playing with fire to serve its political interest. Earlier, the TMC did the same thing to come to power. We feel that there should be autonomy as per constitutional provisions. But in no way, Bengal should be divided," CPI(M) leader Sujan Chakraborty said. The BJP, however, said the allegations levelled against it were bereft of truth. "We want a permanent political solution to this crisis, which has been going on for several decades. Neither the erstwhile Left Front government nor the present TMC government is interested in a political solution. They want the problem to linger as it furthers their political agenda," BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said. The picturesque Darjeeling had time and again witnessed violent agitation over the demand for a separate state, the latest being in June 2017, when the Hills saw a 104-day-long strike over the issue. The strike also led to a split in the GJM, with Binay Tamang, once deputy to the outfit's supremo Bimal Gurung, taking over the reins of the party and expelling the boss. Since then the GJM faction led by Gurung had aligned with the BJP, and the other camp, headed by Tamang, joined hands with the ruling TMC in the state. Anit Thapa, a loyalist of Tamang, is currently the chairman of the GTA board of administrators. "The Centre has called a meeting as assembly polls are due next year. This is just a political move. Had they been serious they would have invited us too," Thapa said. Assembly elections in Bengal are likely to be held in April-May next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/non-bjp-parties-slam-centre-for-fuelling-speculation-on-gorkhaland-ahead-of-polls-898868.html
08-10-2020||National||Head of Afghan peace council Abdullah Abdullah holds talks with NSA Doval||National Security Advisor Ajit Doval on Wednesday conveyed to top Afghan peace negotiator Abdullah Abdullah that India supports an independent, democratic, sovereign and peaceful Afghanistan where no terrorists can operate. Doval and Abdullah held extensive talks on the Afghan peace process under which Kabul is holding direct negotiation with the Taliban for the first time to bring lasting peace to the country. In the talks, Doval was accompanied by Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, Army Chief Gen MM Naravane, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla and Joint Secretary (Pakistan-Afghanistan-Iran division) in the Ministry of External Affairs J P Singh. In a series of tweets, Abdullah, the head of Afghanistan's peace council, said Doval assured him of India's full support for the peace efforts and that any peace settlement acceptable to Afghans will have the support of New Delhi. "Had a constructive discussion with HE Ajit Doval, the NSA of India. We discussed the #AfghanPeaceProcess, & the talks in Doha. He assured me of India's full support for the peace efforts, & that any peace settlement acceptable to Afghans, will have the support of India," he said. The influential Afghan leader also said that Doval further conveyed that India is in favour of an independent, democratic, sovereign and peaceful Afghanistan where no terrorists can operate. "I thanked India for the invitation, its continued support for Afghanistan, & its constructive role in peace efforts," he said. The Afghan delegation accompanying Abdullah comprised Mohammad Akram Khpalwak, Deputy Chairman of the High Council for National Reconciliation (HCNR), and senior leaders Nasrullah Arsalai, Zeya Gul Rezaee and Farida Momand. Abdullah arrived here on Tuesday on a five-day visit as part of the efforts to build a regional consensus and support for the Afghan peace process. He is scheduled to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday. The visit of the influential Afghan leader to India comes in the midst of peace talks between the Afghan government and the Taliban in Doha. The Taliban and the Afghan government are holding direct talks to end 19 years of war that has killed tens of thousands of people and ravaged various parts of the country. India has been a major stakeholder in peace and stability of Afghanistan. It has already invested USD two billion in aid and reconstruction activities in the country. India has been supporting a national peace and reconciliation process which is Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled. On September 12, an Indian delegation attended the inaugural ceremony of the intra-Afghan negotiations in Doha while S Jaishankar joined it through video conference. India has been keenly following the evolving political situation after the US signed a peace deal with the Taliban in February. The deal provided for the withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan, effectively drawing curtains to Washington's 18-year war in the country. The US has lost over 2,400 soldiers in Afghanistan since late 2001. India has also been maintaining that care should be taken to ensure that any such process does not lead to any "ungoverned spaces" where terrorists and their proxies can relocate. India has been calling upon all sections of the political spectrum in Afghanistan to work together to meet the aspirations of all people in that country including those from the minority community for a prosperous and safe future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/head-of-afghan-peace-council-abdullah-abdullah-holds-talks-with-nsa-doval-898872.html
08-10-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on October 8||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 68 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases.  Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 8,539,111 as of October 8 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 126,427 
<!--
{C}<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->  No. of people discharged:  58,27,704      Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-october-8-898879.html
08-10-2020||National||West Bengal has shut Nabanna out of fear ahead of BJYM march: Tejasvi Surya||Newly appointed BJYM president Tejasvi Surya on Wednesday alleged that the Mamata Banerjee government has shut Nabanna out of fear ahead of the organisation's march to the state secretariat on Thursday. He said that it was expected that permission would be denied for the rallies, while asserting that the protest programme will be a success and will be participated by at least 50,000 people. The West Bengal government has cited the pandemic to deny permission for a major gathering during the BJP youth wing's scheduled "March to Nabanna" on Thursday and said peaceful and democratic rallies within "permissible parameters" of only 100 people would be allowed. The government also announced that Nabanna will be shut for two days from October 8 "for sanitisation purpose". Addressing a press conference around 11 pm at the BJP office here, Surya said, "Mamata didi has got afraid. I have learnt that she has closed the CMO. This is the sign of a real 'paribartan' (change) in Bengal and this is being led by the patriotic youth of the state and the rest of the country is with them." He said that the state government is citing the Covid-19 situation to deny permission for the BJYM march, but the Trinamool Congress supremo had herself led a rally against the farm bills a couple of days ago. "Are there one set of rules for the TMC and another for other parties?" he asked. "Mamata ji is a living example of what a Fascist government looks like," Surya said, adding that he has come to participate in the first protest rally after being appointed the national president of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM). On the closure of Nabanna for two days, he claimed that the state secretariat has been closed in all practical terms since Mamata Banerjee took over as chief minister. The decision to shut down Nabanna on working days drew condemnation from the BJP leadership, which termed the decision as a "reflection of TMC's fear", but maintained that they would go ahead with the programme. Alleging that the most corrupt government is in power in West Bengal now, he said, "Because of this government of syndicates and cut money, unemployment is increasing in the state." Alleging that those who raise their voice against the TMC government are eliminated, he claimed, "In the last two years, at least 200 members of the BJP's youth wing have been killed by goons of the TMC." Claiming that all nationalist young men and women of the country are with the youth of Bengal, he said that they will together bring down the TMC government in the state and restore the lost glory of Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-has-shut-nabanna-out-of-fear-ahead-of-bjym-march-tejasvi-surya-898882.html
08-10-2020||National||DH Radio | The Lead: The nexus between sexual violence and caste, Hathras rape case in focus||Over past week, the Hathras rape case has dominated the airwaves. Opposition parties have slammed the BJP govt headed by Yogi Adityanath for the way in which Dalits have been treated. However, one doesn't realise how pervasive the nexus between caste and sexual violence is in India. Listen in to Chetana Kumari P, a Dalit rights activist talk about the nexus.   Varsha Gowda: Hi, I'm Varsha Gowda and you're listening to The Lead by DH Radio. The Hathras incident is a gruesome example of caste-based violence that is not uncommon in India. It has provoked national outrage and this could be India, having its Dalit Rights Matter Movement in tandem with the Black Lives Matter movement in the West.In conversation with me, Dalit activist Chetana Kumari P explains the context behind the movement. Welcome, Chetna. Chetana Kumari P : Thank you. Thank you for having me today. Varsha: Chetana, the Hathras incident has provoked national outrage because of the gruesome way in which the victim was treated both before and after the incident, but it is hardly an isolated incident. How pervasive is this problem? Chetana: See, I think everybody knows that. This violence that has taken place in Hathras is not an isolated incident at all. It's been happening you know, for ages now, it has been happening in rural and in urban places, but unfortunately, it has been happening more in rural areas. According to many researchers, if you see, you know, there are different researches that have been done like one research says, a Dalit woman is raped every five hours in India. Another report says 10 rapes happen every single day in India, that means to say, at this point in time when you're talking to me, there could be your rape that would be happening to a Dalit woman anywhere in India today. And there are so many gruesome violent incidents that are been happening against Dalit women, men and children, and it has been happening. These are the official figures that I'm telling you, when I say four hours one rape or five hours one rape or 10 women that have been raped in India in one day, that is the official figure but so many people who don't go to the police station or other institutions and report these incidents that are happening that means to say, there is a big issue that is you know, that is facing our country right now. Dalit women are the vulnerable group in the world and this has been happening. Hathras is just one of the incident that has come to light and we are not able to bear that. Varsha: You did mention this issue of casteism only comes up in such violent crimes occur. Casual casteist behaviour often you know slips under the radar, do you have any personal experiences as a Dalit woman that you would like to share in this context to explain what kind of everyday casteist behaviour a person from a Dalit community has to face? Chetana: Yes, we do, we do have to face a lot of discrimination on a daily basis. That is why I think most of us Dalits, many of them are leaving rural places or coming to urban areas, we are trying to hide our identities, we try to hide our identities as much as possible behind you know, behind the name of another caste we never do reveal to anybody at all. To know more about this conversation, tune in to the podcast. Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-radio-the-lead-the-nexus-between-sexual-violence-and-caste-hathras-rape-case-in-focus-898883.html
08-10-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi greets Indian Air Force on its foundation day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday greeted the Indian Air Force on its foundation day, saying the courage, valour and dedication of its soldiers to protect the country inspire everyone. In a tweet on the Air Force Day, he lauded the force and said its brave soldiers do not only protect Indian skies, but also play a leading role in serving humanity during any crisis. The prime minister also posted a brief video in which he speaks of the Indian Air Force's (IAF) beginning in 1932 as a force of six pilots and 19 airmen and its rise to become one of the strongest forces in the 21st century. It is a memorable journey, Modi said, as he praised the IAF and noted the pride and respect it commands from people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-greets-indian-air-force-on-its-foundation-day-898899.html
08-10-2020||National||DH Toon | 20 years of Narendra Modi||BJP leaders on Wednesday heaped praise on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his leadership as he entered his 20th year without a break as the head of an elected government, including close to 13 years as chief minister of Gujarat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-20-years-of-narendra-modi-898900.html
08-10-2020||National||Plea in Supreme Court for appointment of Chairman to SC, ST panels||A plea has been moved in the Supreme Court for a direction to the Union government for appointment of full-term chairman and vice-chairman to the National Commissions for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, saying the role of constitutional bodies was pivotal for taking into account the issues related to atrocities upon the oppressed communities. The headless-Commissions have been reduced to paper-tigers and were fast losing their relevance, becoming non-functional. They have been reduced to a window-dressing, it claimed. The plea assumed significance in the wake of alleged gang-rape and subsequent death of a 19-year-old Dalit girl in Hathras, causing massive outrage across the country.  In a PIL, NGO People's Charioteer Organisation, through its secretary Ankur Azad, said there was neither the chairperson nor chairman and the vice-chairperson, nor the members in both the NCSC and the NCST. Similarly, the top posts of such a panel in Uttar Pradesh are lying vacant. "This shows the total lack of empathy and seriousness, as regards the rights of the SCs and STs and the redressal of the encroachment and transgressions of their rights. The result of it has proved catastrophic to the whole community, extremely vulnerable. They are now bearing the brunt of being targeted systematically by the anti-social elements," it said. The petition, drafted by advocates Rajesh Inamdar, Shashwat Anand and Amit Pai and others, stated that the role of the Commissions as constitutional bodies was important, as they take into account the issues related to atrocities against SCs and STs. They exercise the power of a civil court and can also, like the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), approach the appropriate court for injunction or mandamus to protect the interests of the SCs and STs, it said. "Owing to glaring vacancies, the Commissions were being run by the bureaucracy, which made them toothless, ineffective and rendered the victims of the atrocities remediless," it said.  "This makes these Commissions redundant and ephemeral, and thus, failing the very constitutional objectives and mandate for which they have been established," it further added. The petition said it was utmost necessary and imperative that the court directed the central and UP governments to make appointments of the respective posts in the concerned Commissions. It also sought a direction for publishing the Annual Reports, within a reasonable time. The annual report of the NCSC has not been published since October 17, 2016, which was laid in the Parliament on August 9, 2018. The Annual report of the National Commission for Scheduled Tribes has not been published for the years 2018-19 and 2019-20, as of yet. It pointed out that the data of the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) was alarming to its core. The bureau recorded that there were nearly 45,935 crimes against SCs in 2019, showing an increase of 7.3% over 2018 when 42,793 such cases were recorded. At 11,829 cases, Uttar Pradesh recorded the highest number of crimes against SCs in2019.  "It is noteworthy here that UP’s Commission for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes is missing a Chairman since the last 10 months and no steps have been taken to appoint one by the state government," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-supreme-court-for-appointment-of-chairman-to-sc-st-panels-898934.html
08-10-2020||National||IAF demonstrated its operational capability in Ladakh: Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria||The Indian Air Force has "clearly" demonstrated its resolve, operational capability and will to effectively engage with the adversary when the need arises, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria said on Thursday, referring to his force's combat readiness in eastern Ladakh. In an address on the occasion of the Air Force Day, the Chief of Air Staff also commended the air warriors for their "prompt response" in the recent standoff on the northern frontiers and talked about the deployment of combat assets at short notice to handle any eventuality. The Indian and Chinese troops are engaged in a five-month bitter standoff in eastern Ladakh. The IAF has made significant deployment in the region to deal with any eventuality. "I would like to commend all air warriors for the prompt response in the recent standoff on the northern frontiers when we deployed our combat assets at short notice to handle any eventuality and provided proactive support to all the requirements of deployment and sustenance for the Indian Army," he said at the event in Hindon. "We have clearly demonstrated our resolve, our operational capability and the will to effectively engage the adversary should the need arise," the IAF chief added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-demonstrated-its-operational-capability-in-ladakh-air-chief-marshal-bhadauria-898939.html
08-10-2020||National||UNSC should not be misused with 'retaliatory intent' to name innocent civilians as terrorists: India||The UN Security Council should not be misused by countries with "retaliatory intent to name innocent civilians as terrorist" without credible evidence by invoking non-transparent working methods and procedures, India has said, referring to Pakistan's failed attempt to get four Indian nationals listed under the 1267 Al Qaeda Sanctions Committee. Pakistan had submitted the names of Indian nationals Angara Appaji, Gobinda Patnaik, Ajoy Mistry and Venumadhav Dongara for designation under the 1267 Al Qaeda Sanctions Committee of the UN Security Council. However, Pakistan’s attempt was thwarted last month after the US, the UK, France, Germany and Belgium blocked the move in the Council to list Appaji and Patnaik. According to sources, no evidence was given by Pakistan in its case to get the individuals listed. Similarly, an earlier attempt by Pakistan to list Mistry and Dongara was blocked by the Council around June/July. "We believe that UN Security Council continues to be an effective forum for the maintenance of international peace and security and combating terrorism. "However, it should also be ensured that the forum is not misused by countries with retaliatory intent to name innocent civilians as terrorist without credible evidence by invoking non-transparent working methods and procedures,” First Secretary and Legal Adviser in India’s Permanent Mission to the UN Yedla Umasankar said on Tuesday at the 6th Committee of the UN General Assembly on 'Measures to eliminate international terrorism'. Without naming Pakistan, he said, “India has been and continues to be a victim of terrorism sponsored across our borders. We have had firsthand experience of the cruel link between transnational organised crime and terrorism." Umashankar said India condemns terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and no cause whatsoever or grievance can justify terrorism, including state-sponsored cross-border terrorism. "Our fight against terrorism should not only seek to eliminate terrorists and disrupt terror organisations/networks, but should also identify/hold accountable and take strong measures against states that encourage, support and finance terrorism, provide sanctuary to terrorists and terror groups," he said. Umasankar said the fight against terrorism has to be unrelenting and across all fronts and the flow of resources to terror-linked entities needs to be completely stopped by collective inter-state efforts. “The international community cannot and should not be selective in dealing with the terrorists groups or in dismantling terror infrastructure. India strongly condemns direct or indirect financial assistance provided by some States to terrorist groups and/or individuals members thereof,” he said. “We need an international mechanism to ensure accountability and justice, enhanced dialogue and broaden understanding amongst member states,” Umasankar said. While the threat emanating from international terrorism is looming large, the inability of the UN to agree on a Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism remains “one of the most glaring shortcomings" in the international legislative framework, which could have boosted enforcement efforts to destroy safe havens of terrorists, their financial flows and their support networks, he noted. Umasankar also underscored the importance and need for early finalisation and conclusion of the draft Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism (CCIT), which will reflect the international community's commitment to cooperate in combating terrorism. He said with advancement in technology and an over flowing cyber world, terrorists are gaining access to infinite resources of “DO IT YOURSELF” kits on issues ranging from making bombs to executing, beheadings besides securing communications and flow of funds. “The proponents and perpetrators of these nefarious acts cleverly adopt emerging technologies for furthering their ideologies and accomplishing their evil acts,” Umasankar said. Asserting that the only effective way to tackle terrorism is by way of concerted international cooperation and genuine collaboration among the States, Umasankar said combined international efforts by way of extradition, prosecution, information exchange and capacity building go a long way in countering the menace of terrorism which is threatening the global community. Umasankar said normative efforts at the United Nations need to be coordinated through collaboration with other fora like Financial Action Task Force (FATF). He said the Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy (GCTS) being discussed by the UN General Assembly over the last decade has resulted in little impact on the ground. He also stressed that while making every effort to combat terrorism, the UN and its member states should consider the rights of victims of terrorism and obligation of states towards the victims of terrorism under international law. “A vast majority of victims of terrorism are often women and children. It’s high time for us to try and strengthen efforts to achieve the objective of putting in place a global legal framework in the form of CCIT to counter a global scourge. This will provide a legal basis for global fight against terrorism as all member states will have a multilateral platform to counter terrorism,” Umasankar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unsc-should-not-be-misused-with-retaliatory-intent-to-name-innocent-civilians-as-terrorists-india-898943.html
08-10-2020||National||India’s coronavirus fight people driven; gets great strength from Covid warriors: PM Narendra Modi||India’s coronavirus fight is people driven and gets great strength from its COVID warriors, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday as he urged people to follow Covid appropriate behaviour. He made the appeal to people to follow social distancing norms and expressed confidence that the fight against the pandemic will be won. The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting had on Wednesday said the prime minister will launch a 'jan andolan' campaign for Covid appropriate behaviour on Thursday with a tweet in view of the upcoming festivals, winter season and opening up of the economy. "India’s Covid -19 fight is people driven and gets great strength from our Covid warriors," Modi said. He said collective efforts have helped save many lives. "We have to continue the momentum and protect our citizens from the virus," the PM tweeted using the hashtag 'Unite2FightCorona'. "Let us #Unite2FightCorona! Let us always remember: Wear a mask. Wash hands. Follow social distancing. Practice ‘Do Gaj Ki Doori.’ Together, we will succeed. Together, we will win against Covid -19," he said in another tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-coronavirus-fight-people-driven-gets-great-strength-from-covid-warriors-pm-narendra-modi-898957.html
08-10-2020||National||Modi wants Yale and Oxford to be able to open campuses in India||By Bibhudatta Pradhan and Rahul Satija India’s universities have produced chief executive officers at companies from Microsoft Corp. to Google -- now Prime Minister Narendra Modi thinks they can be even better with competition from global names like Yale, Oxford and Stanford. Modi’s government is pushing to overhaul the South Asian nation’s heavily regulated education sector to woo nearly 750,000 students who spend about $15 billion each year pursuing degrees overseas, Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ said in written responses to questions. The legislation -- which will regulate the operation of foreign universities -- is being prepared for approval by the parliament, where the government retains a significant majority. It represents a change of heart for the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, which has long resisted opening up the country’s education sector. “There has been lot of enthusiasm,” Pokhriyal said, noting that Australia’s government and some universities had shown interest in the proposal. “Very soon, India will have some of the finest, world-class institutions.” The South Asian nation needs to boost its education sector to become more competitive and close the growing gap between college curricula and market demands. It’s currently ranked 72 among 132 nations in the 2020 Global Talent Competitiveness Index that measures the nation’s ability to grow, attract and retain talent. Still, India’s notoriously tricky bureaucracy may be the main stumbling block for foreign universities, along with difficulties in acquiring land, academic staff and adequate infrastructure. The minister didn’t specify what incentives India will offer to attract foreign universities, except that institutions, which are required to operate not-for-profit, will be on a playing field with local players. Some universities have already set up partnerships with Indian institutions, allowing students to partially study in India and complete their degrees on the main campus abroad. The current move encourages these overseas institutions to set up campuses without local partners. Fresh Challenges “We’ll seek new opportunities to further pursue such collaborations as India’s new policy is implemented,” said Joe Wong, a vice-president at the University of Toronto, which has a tie-up with Tata Trusts and the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay. The University of Washington, London School of Economics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology and University of Western Australia were among institutions that said they have no plans of setting up campuses in India. Others like McGill University and the University of Sydney said they’re looking to expand their partnerships in India through new courses or research programs. “We have been dreaming about the possibilities of delivering degrees in India,” said Alessandro Giuliani, managing director of SDA Bocconi Asia Center, an Italian business school that operates in Mumbai. He said the institute is waiting to see the government’s final regulations in the new policy, which it hopes will avoid any minimum investment requirements, especially in land. With more than 51,000 institutions, India’s higher education system is already one of the largest in the world and in terms of enrollment, it is second only to China. Still, it lags behind China in terms of infrastructure, quality teaching, and research investment. Pokhriyal is optimistic that overseas universities will set up their campus in India to tap the nation’s young demographics, with the World Bank projecting 34% of its population will be aged between 15 and 34 years by 2021. India had already entered into agreements on educational programs with 55 countries that include exchange of academics and students and cooperation on other initiatives, he said. The new plan will double education spending to 6% of India’s GDP “at the earliest” according to Pokhriyal. The federal government has proposed spending of over 9 trillion rupees or about $123 billion on education in the five years to 2026, of which $28 billion will be on higher education. It’s time for India to open up its tertiary sector, said T. V. Mohandas Pai, chairman of Manipal Global Education Services, who has done research on the country’s higher education system. “The main hurdle will be the actual regulations,” Pai said. “My concern is that the control-minded bureaucracy should not scuttle the execution of the policy by putting in unnecessary controls.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-wants-yale-and-oxford-to-be-able-to-open-campuses-in-india-898958.html
08-10-2020||National||In pursuit of AIL board seat, Valli Arunachalam issues legal notice to Murugappa family||Dr Valli Arunachalam, daughter of Murugappa Group’s former executive chairman M V Murugappan, has issued legal notices to members of the Murugappa family, Ambadi Investments Ltd, the group’s holding company, and others in her fight for a seat on the firm’s male-dominated board. The US-based 59-year-old nuclear scientist’s proposal to be inducted as a non-executive director of the Rs 38,000 crore family-business conglomerate’s board was rejected at the 79th annual general meeting (AGM) of the company held via video conferencing on September 21. If the proposal was accepted, Valli Arunachalam could have been the first woman to have been appointed to AIL’s board. Valli Arunachalam, her mother M V Valli Murugappan and sister Vellachi Murugappan jointly hold 8.15 per cent share bequeathed to them by Murugappan, who died in 2017. Murugappan’s family is not represented in the board after his death as he did not have a male heir. Murugappa Group, as a policy, does not appoint women to its board. Over a fortnight after the decision, which she had termed unfortunate, Valli Arunachalam released a detailed statement on Wednesday explaining why she, her sister and their mother had to take the legal recourse to settle the matter. “We issued legal notices to the Murugappa family members, Ambadi Investments Ltd. (“AIL” or the “Company”) management, the Company, and other people in relation thereto. It was a big step for us and a very unfortunate one, as we have worked tirelessly over the course of the last three years to bring about an amicable settlement of my father’s interests in AIL,” she said in the statement. She added they have seemingly reached the end of the road for an amicable settlement after the Murugappa family voting unanimously to reject her appointment to the AIL board.  “It would be impossible to enumerate each step we have taken over the last three years, but we can assure you that we, together with our advisors, have taken the leave-no-stone-unturned approach in an effort to bring about an amicable settlement. Such efforts include, inter alia, a proposal for the engagement of an independent mediator,” she said. Contending that each entreaty was met with some combination of silence, combativeness, false assurances, and delay tactics, Valli Arunachalam said they have no confidence that their “substantial stake” in the business will be safeguarded by the Murugappa family given how they “treated our family branch over the past three years.” “What is clear to us after three years is that the family’s tactics are nothing more than a robe to conceal their socially-regressive gender bias. With only female heirs, the historically male-dominated family business is effectively asking that my family assume a second class standing in AIL without any of the rights or privileges enjoyed by other families (many of whom have equal economic interests),” she said.   Maintaining that a considerable portion of her late father’s estate is tied to AIL, Valli Arunachalam said it was entirely unreasonable to expect her family to relinquish control and visibility over these holdings to the broader Murugappa family. She also said the Murugappa family has not given a logical or legally valid explanation as to why “my family” should be subordinated in this manner.  “What is most hurtful is that despite my father’s lifetime of dedicated service to the family and business, no other family branch, all of whom are shareholders in the company, has come forward to support us. Instead, they have been united in casting us out as pariahs for daring to challenge the family’s male-only business hierarchy,” she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-pursuit-of-ail-board-seat-valli-arunachalam-issues-legal-notice-to-murugappa-family-898965.html
08-10-2020||National||SC declines Swami Chinmayanand access to copy of law student's statement||The Supreme Court on Thursday held that a copy of a rape victim's statement recorded in camera by a judicial magistrate under Section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code can't be provided to the accused until the cognisance of the offence has been taken on the basis of charge sheet by a court. The top court said in cases of sexual assaults, it must be kept in mind that the utmost confidentiality has to be maintained. "No person is entitled to a copy of statement recorded under Section 164 of the CrPC till the appropriate orders are passed by the court after the charge sheet is filed. The right to receive a copy of such statement will arise only after cognizance is taken," a three-judge bench presided over by Justice U U Lalit said. The top court allowed an appeal by the victim against the Allahabad High Court's order of November 7, 2019 for providing a copy of her statement to the former Union Minister Swami Chinmayanand. A rape case was lodged in Shahjahanpur against the former BJP MP after the LLM's student video statement, uploaded on Facebook, went viral. "The High Court completely erred in appreciating the directions issued by this court (Bhagwant Singh vs Commissioner of Police) (1985) especially in a matter where the offences alleged against accused are of sexual exploitation. In such matters utmost confidentiality is required to be maintained. In our view, the High Court completely failed in that behalf," the bench, also comprising Justices Vineet Saran and S Ravindra Bhat, said. Though the statement was already provided to the accused by the time appeal was filed, the bench said we must set aside the order passed by the HC and lay down that under no circumstances copies of such statements can be furnished till appropriate orders are passed by the court on cognisance. In its judgement, the court made it categorical that the filing of the charge sheet by itself, does not entitle an accused to copies of any of the relevant documents, including statement under Section 164 of the CrPC. A Special Investigation Team (SIT) headed by IG rank officer had filed charge sheet against the 73-year-old former minister in November, 2019. It had also filed a charge sheet against the law student in a college run by Chinmayanand's trust and three of her alleged associate for extortion as the leader also lodged a counter case alleging blackmail by them. The top court had in August 2019 taken Suo Motu cognisance of the matter and directed for providing security to the girl after she uploaded a video message on a social media alleging threat to her life and family by the leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-declines-swami-chinmayanand-access-to-copy-of-law-students-statement-898975.html
08-10-2020||National||Markandey Katju tells Dalits to give up caste-based reservation||In a five-point post on the social media platform, Katju stated various reasons why the caste reservation system has done “great harm” to the Dalits and OBCs, going on to say that only about “0.1% of those castes, that too of the ‘creamy layer’ (because the jobs and seats in educational institutions are too few), but the SCs and OBCs are befooled into thinking that they will all benefit”. He added that the system is a “vote catching device in India” and the only persons benefiting from this are politicians. His logic on the caste system stems from the fact that it is a “part of the divide and rule as it separates these castes from the upper castes, and often creates hatred between them”. He even compared the caste reservation system to crutches given to SCs and OBCs, saying that they are weakened “as an impression is created in them that they need not study and work hard, as even without doing so they will get a job or admission”. “SCs and OBCs should, therefore, throw away these crutches and stand erect in a manly way, and demand an end to caste reservations. They should say that they will compete on merit with the upper caste by studying hard, and show that they are not intellectually inferior to upper castes,” the post included. According to the Katju, “All caste based reservations should be abolished, but special help and facilities should be given to poor boys and girls (even of upper caste) to give them a level playing field”.  The post received flak for Katju’s ‘Anti-Dalit’ stance and his idea of abolishing case reservation.  Twitterati also pointed out that Katju is a Brahmin, and has no right to speak for thousands of SCs and OBCs without having lived their experiences or facing caste-based discrimination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/markandey-katju-tells-dalits-to-give-up-caste-based-reservation-898979.html
08-10-2020||National||Bengal tigress will fight back: Rhea Chakraborty's lawyer on her release||The Bombay High Court on October 7 granted bail to Chakraborty, who was arrested by Narcotics Control Bureau a month ago, dismissing the claims that she was part of "a drug syndicate."  Rajput's family alleged that Chakraborty played a key role in his death and that she drugged him and also exploited him for money. "Sushant Rajput's family looks very vindictive as far as Rhea is concerned," Manshinde said. He also said that Chakraborty was hounded because she was Rajput's partner and they lived together. "She was almost like a housewife," he added. "The judge found that the quantity (of drugs involved) was very less. It was not equivalent to the quantity that can be traded," Chakraborty's lawyer said. He criticised sections of media and journalists for the vilification of the actor. "The Bombay High Court is examining the role of media trial. The Supreme Court is also examining the role of the media trial in this case," he told the publication. "One channel was discussing my fees and my cars and my office. I saw an attack on social media. How is my fee of any concern to them (news anchors)?" he added.    Rajput's death became a highly sensationalised case in the media as Mumbai Police began investigating claims of nepotism in Bollywood which led to other several angles including his mental health, drugs, and financial dealings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengal-tigress-will-fight-back-rhea-chakrabortys-lawyer-on-her-release-898980.html
08-10-2020||National||IAF chopper makes precautionary landing in Saharanpur||An advanced light helicopter of the Indian Air Force on Thursday made a precautionary landing in Saharanpur district of Uttar Pradesh after it developed a technical snag, officials said. A spokesperson of the IAF said the helicopter landed safely following prompt and swift emergency action by the air crew. "An advanced light helicopter of Indian Air Force was airborne from Air Force station Sarsawa on a routine training mission. Approximately 30 nautical mile out of Sarsawa, the helicopter developed a technical snag and carried out precautionary landing South of the airfield," he said. The official said a rescue team has been sent to the area where the chopper made the precautionary landing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-chopper-makes-precautionary-landing-in-saharanpur-898987.html
08-10-2020||National||Hardeep Singh Puri mulls allowing domestic airlines to operate at 75% capacity||Addressing a press conference, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri, on Thursday, mentioned that he expected domestic aviation to reach pre-Covid-19 levels by the year-end and the government would soon allow airlines to operate at 75% of their pre-Covid capacity in the country. From 30,000 passengers on May 25, the day the government re-started domestic flights, the number of passengers opting for air travel has grown to 1.76 lakh daily as of October 3, Puri added. He also made it clear that it would seek parity in the operation of international flights and foreign airlines would not be allowed at the cost of homegrown air carriers. The unequivocal message from the government came after German airline Lufthansa suspended operations to India over a disagreement on the number of flights. “We are all for foreign carriers operating here. But I think the time has come for the message to go out loud and clear that it will not be at the cost of Indian carriers,” Puri told reporters here. He said that under the regulated arrangements of travel bubbles, India was insisting on near parity, if not total parity. Under the travel bubble initiative, Lufthansa was operating 20 flights per week to India, while Air India could run only three per week, putting it at a disadvantage commercially. When Lufthansa submitted its October schedule for approval to the civil aviation regulator, the German airline was granted permission to operate seven flights a week. Most Indian travelers prefer to travel to hub airports in Europe and proceed to their destinations in the US, Canada, and other countries, under the sixth freedom rights. “If the (bubble) arrangement is being carried out only for six freedom rights, then obviously we would want parity,” Puri said. He noted that Air India was operating 30 flights per week to the US as against 23 flights by American airlines to India. The minister said that he expected the international travel bubble arrangements to continue at least till March-April, depending on the availability of the Covid-19 vaccine, before the resumption of regular international flights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hardeep-singh-puri-mulls-allowing-domestic-airlines-to-operate-at-75-capacity-899013.html
08-10-2020||National||Ongoing process of modernisation with induction of Rafale, Apache will transform IAF: Prez||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday said the ongoing process of modernisation with induction of Rafale, Apache and Chinook will transform the Indian Air Force into an even more formidable strategic force. On the occasion of Air Force Day, he said the nation remains indebted to the contribution of the Indian Air Force (IAF) in securing our skies and assisting civil authorities in humanitarian assistance and disaster relief. “The ongoing process of modernisation with induction of Rafale, Apache and Chinook will transform the IAF into an even more formidable strategic force. Confident that in the years to come, the Indian Air Force will continue to maintain its high standards of commitment & competence,” Kovind tweeted. “On Air Force Day, we proudly honour our air warriors, veterans, and families of the Indian Air Force. The nation remains indebted to the contribution of the IAF in securing our skies and assisting civil authorities in humanitarian assistance and disaster relief,” the president said in another tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ongoing-process-of-modernisation-with-induction-of-rafale-apache-will-transform-iaf-prez-899018.html
08-10-2020||National||Coronavirus cases in India cross 68-lakh mark||India saw a single-day rise of 78,524 Covid-19 cases taking the virus caseload to over 68 lakh, while the number of people who have recuperated surged to 58,27,704,  according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The national recovery stands at 85.25 per cent. The total coronavirus cases mounted to  68,35,655,while the death toll climbed to  1,05,526  with 971 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The total recoveries have surged to  58,27,704 while there are 9,02,425 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 13.20  per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The Covid-19 case fatality rate due to the coronavirus infection has dropped to 1.54 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5 . It went past  50 lakh on September 16 and crossed 60 lakh on September 28. According to the ICMR,  a cumulative total of 8,34,65,975 samples have been tested up to  October 7 with 11,94,321 samples being tested on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-cases-in-india-cross-68-lakh-mark-899028.html
08-10-2020||National||India needs to ramp up cold storage facilities significantly for Covid-19 vaccine: Experts||The safe delivery of vaccines for mass immunisation against Covid-19 is a massive challenge and India will need to significantly ramp up its cold chain facilities, say experts as the world’s second-most populous nation moves into the next stage of management of the disease and looks towards a preventive.   With most frontrunner vaccine candidates likely to require ‘extra cold’ storage, the private sector could also be roped in for effective delivery of a preventive when it is available, suggest several experts and industry insiders.   Some vaccine frontrunners are in advanced stages of trial and could hit the market by early next year, making the task of securing “last mile connectivity” and ensuring that nothing goes wrong before the shot is administered more urgent.   “Most if not all the current frontrunners require extremely stringent cold chains, making them immensely challenging for India to implement,” said Satyajit Rath from New Delhi’s National Institute of Immunology (NII).   The immunologist noted that some Covid-19 vaccines will need storage temperatures that simply cannot be realistically managed in any large-scale Indian campaign.   He said the real problems will arise once vaccines are ready to go into the market.   Vaccine candidates by Moderna and Pfizer will require stringent standards for refrigeration that may hamper how they are distributed to millions of people across India’s length and breadth, according to scientists.   Unlike drugs, virtually all vaccines need to be transported at cold temperatures, usually between 2 and 8 degrees Celsius, said Raghavan Varadarajan, professor at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) in Bengaluru.   “The necessity is to keep the vaccine product cold, either refrigerated or frozen. This is a constraint especially with large numbers of doses,” Varadarajan told PTI, explaining the particular problems of India that has a population of 1.3 billion, second only to China.   Many vaccines lose potency when exposed to higher temperatures, he said, and re-cooling does not help.   Thus we need what is called the cold chain of handling before use, said Varadarajan whose team at IISc is working on a “warm vaccine” that can be stored for over a month at 37 degrees Celsius, and needs no cold chain for storage.   Pawanexh Kohli, the founding CEO of India’s National Centre for Cold-Chain Development (NCCD), agreed that protocols will require Covid-19 vaccines to be kept between 2 and 8 degrees Celsius, while in transport and storage until delivery.    “The Moderna vaccine candidate is shipped in minus 20 degrees Celsius and held at 2-4 degrees for seven days. The Pfizer (vaccine) that requires minus 70 degrees temperatures,” Kohli, honorary professor of post-harvest Logistics at the University of Birmingham in the UK, told PTI.   Both the Moderna and Pfizer vaccines use a synthetic version of genetic material from part of the coronavirus.   The genetic material called messenger RNA (mRNA) then prompts the cells to make a tiny piece of the virus, which the immune system recognises as foreign. If the person is later exposed to the real virus, the immune system will attack it.   Noting that RNA vaccines have never been used on humans, Vardarajan said it is possible high temperatures can affect these structures and thus affect the efficacy of the formulation.   While a bulk of the vaccines will be distributed through the Centre’s Universal Immunization Programme (UIP) mechanism, experts also suggest that the government rope in private cold chain operators.   The vast scale of India’s UIP is supported by more than 27,000 functional cold chain points of which 750 (3 per cent) are located at the district level and above. The rest are located below the district level, according to the government’s comprehensive multi-year UIP plan for 2018-22.   This includes 76,000 cold chain 'equipment', 2.5 million health workers, and 55,000 cold chain staff, the plan report said.  Cold chain logistics involves many moving parts, including cold storage facilities that store products waiting to be transported, cooling systems to keep it at an appropriate temperature during all aspects of the supply chain such as storing and transporting. Gel packs are also often used for medical and pharmaceutical shipments. Approximately 390 million doses are administered annually at nine million sessions held across the country to immunise 26 million children and 30 million pregnant women, it said.   Noting that cold storage protocols are well established in India, Kohli said the public health network is limited in capacity.   “Luckily, the food cold chain has synergistic use for this purpose and should assist in this battle. Existing cold chain enterprises may need to allocate specific resources in their network,” noted Kohli.   He added that the food cold chain has the maximum reach, with extensive last-mile connectivity, and will require minor redesign to designate storage space and transport load for this purpose.   “Almost every cold chain owner I have spoken to is willing to contribute space and assets towards this, should the need arise,”  Kohli added.   Kohli also believes that India must restructure with the purpose to start and finish the immunisation programme within a short time period to be effective.   “Even if the vaccine is ready, the programme should not be commenced until the last mile for administering the vaccine is prepared,” he said. According to the World Health Organisation, at the higher levels of the cold chain, i.e. at primary and regional intermediate stores, the oral polio vaccine must be kept frozen between minus 15 degrees Celsius and minus 25 degrees Celsius. At other levels of the cold chain, the vaccines should be stored between 2 degrees Celsius and 8 degrees Celsius.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-needs-to-ramp-up-cold-storage-facilities-significantly-for-covid-19-vaccine-experts-899035.html
08-10-2020||National||Violent clashes erupt between BJP, police during secretariat march; WB burning under Mamata, says Nadda||Clashes erupted between BJP workers and police at several places of Kolkata and Howrah district of West Bengal on Thursday as the saffron party’s March to the State Secretariat turned violent. While BJP workers resorted to stone-pelting at the police and tried to barge through the barricades, police retaliated with lobbing tear gas shells, using water cannons and baton charging BJP workers to disperse the crowd. Newly appointed BJYM president Tejasvi Surya was also present in Howrah. Majority of the clashes took place in Howrah. Trouble started when large BJP procession led by Surya and state BJYM president Soumitra Khan were stopped by police. Soon after BJP workers became aggressive and started pelting stones at police. At first police personnel tried to disperse the mob by lobbing tear gas shells but the attempt did not succeed. Then the Rapid Action Force (RAF) baton charged the BJP workers to disperse them. Police claimed to have seized a pistol from a BJP worker alleging that the protesters even hurled crude bombs at them. Several BJP workers and leaders were injured in clash with police. While state BJP vice president Raju Banerjee fell ill during the protest and was hospitalised, national secretary Arvind Menon was injured and admitted a to private health facility in Kolkata. Later in the day Chief Secretary Alapon Bandypadhyay said that 89 agitators were detained by Kolkata Police and 24 were detained by Howrah City Police. He also said that several police personnel were injured. Speaking to reporters later in the day Surya dubbed the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government as the “most corrupt” in the country. “In last two years more than 120 BJP and BJYM workers have been murdered in the state. Mamata didi is afraid of the Yuva Morcha and that is why she shut down Nabanna (as the State Secretariat is called),” said Surya. Taking potshots at Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee BJP president J P Nadda tweeted "The only thing Mamata Banerjee’s government has done better than the previous Left regimes is increase brutality and political violence against political opponents. Bengal has been burning under her administration, which patronises violent elements." He also said that BJP and the people of Bengal will end the TMC regime in Bengal. "I want to clearly tell her again that BJP karyakartas have resolved to fight her corrupt, violent and dictatorial rule democratically to restore Bengal’s lost glory and pride. The people of Bengal and BJP will defeat her regime lock, stock and barrel. #NabannoCholo," tweeted Nadda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/violent-clashes-erupt-between-bjp-police-during-secretariat-march-wb-burning-under-mamata-says-nadda-899042.html
08-10-2020||National||True potential of India-US relations yet to come: Envoy||The true potential of the US-India relations is yet to come, India’s top diplomat here has said, asserting that the bilateral relationship stands firm in the face of the Covid-19 pandemic and resultant economic uncertainty that has gripped the world. India’s Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu, addressing a virtual meeting of ‘India-Colorado Partnership: Opportunities’ organised by India’s Consulate in Houston, said that the US-India partnership is underpinned by democratic ideals, shared economic and security interests as well as robust people-to-people ties. “I can assure you that India will continue to shine as a beacon of peace, hope and stability in this increasingly uncertain and unpredictable world. And the US will remain an important friend and a close partner for us. And I personally believe that the true potential of India-US relations is yet to come!” he said on Wednesday. “Our relationship stands firm in the face of Covid-19 pandemic and resultant economic uncertainty that has gripped the world. “Today, we are looking at new opportunities for collaboration. While there’s vast potential in almost every sector, there are inherent synergies and complementarities between our countries in certain key areas: These include health and pharma, IT and digital space, and energy, especially renewable energy. The significance of each of these sectors has only increased during the pandemic,” Sandhu said. Governor of Colorado Jared Polis spoke about the great potential of the bilateral relations. Last year, Polis let the first international trade mission as Governor to India. Among other speakers were the US-India Business Council president Nisha Biswal, President of the University of Colorado System Mark Kennedy; Gaurav Gupta, Karnataka’s Principal Secretary, Commerce and Industries; Consul General of India in Houston Aseem Mahajan and Surya Kant, chairman, North America, Tata Consultancy Services. “Rich exchange of ideas on the opportunities for deepening the 'India-Colorado Partnership’, Karnataka-India and other partners,” tweeted the Indian Consulate in Houston. “Look forward to working closely to strengthen the multifaceted ties between India and Colorado,” it said. Sandhu said that Colorado is a thriving aerospace hub and has a very special place in the US Defence system. From Kepler to Hubble Space Telescope to Dream Chaser and Orion, Colorado’s aerospace companies are at the forefront of space travel, exploration, and groundbreaking research. “I am pleased to share that the Indian state of Karnataka, which is present on the panel today, is home to India’s space program – ISRO. Recently, India undertook landmark reforms to open the space sector to private players. This presents a massive opportunity for India-US collaboration. “Together, with the support of the private sector and academia, India and the US can unleash a new era in the space technology with its varied applications which are of immense benefit to its citizens and world at large,” the Indian Ambassador added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/true-potential-of-india-us-relations-yet-to-come-envoy-899044.html
08-10-2020||National||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray, Sharad Pawar among star campaigners in Bihar Assembly polls||Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena President Uddhav Thackeray and NCP supremo Sharad Pawar are among the star campaigners in the upcoming Bihar Assembly elections. The Shiv Sena and NCP, the two major allies along with Congress in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, released their respective list of star campaigners on Thursday. In fact, BJP’s in-charge in Bihar polls is Maharashtra stalwart Devendra Fadnavis, the current Leader of Opposition and ex-chief minister. The Shiv Sena list of start campaigners besides Thackeray includes his son and state Protocol Minister Aaditya Thackeray, close family aide Subhash Desai, pointsman and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut among other leaders. Besides Sharad Pawar, the NCP list of star campaigners includes his daughter and Baramati MP Supriya Sule, General Secretary Praful Patel, Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik. The way the Bihar political spectrum, cutting across party lines, attacked the Thackeray-government, on the issue of investigations into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput by the Mumbai Police and the subsequent transfer to the CBI has become a major issue. Meanwhile, the JD(U) seems to have denied ticket to former Bihar police chief Gupteshwar Pandey, who took VRS to join politics. "Giving an election ticket to Gupteshwar Pandey is a matter of the party. We had asked whether the BJP leaders will campaign for him in the Bihar assembly elections. Maybe it was due to the fear of this question that he was not given a ticket," state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh of the NCP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-sharad-pawar-among-star-campaigners-in-bihar-assembly-polls-899048.html
08-10-2020||National||Epic Kannada novel 'Anchu' now in English||S L Bhyrappa's epic Kannada novel "Anchu", which addresses the issues of mental health and suicidal tendencies, has been translated into English. Translated by R Ranganath Prasad, "Brink" is a love saga between Somashekhar, a widower, and Amrita, an estranged woman. Amrita recurrently suffers from a severe urge to take her own life but Somashekhar anchors her to life each time. She revolts, and because of her mental condition, she also inflicts pain and torture - emotional and moral - upon him. With great perseverance, personal suffering, and sacrifice, he brings her back to normalcy. Interestingly, the author draws inference between the names and the actions of the two characters. The footnotes to the preface say: "Amrita means ambrosia and Somashekhar is a synonym for Lord Shiva, whose anthropomorphic form is adorned in the head (shekhar) by the moon (soma). In a mythological event, Shiva swallowed poison to save the universe." The narrative thus deliberates on the moral, philosophical, and physical aspects of love between a man and a woman. At the core of the story is compassion, and Somashekhar is the very personification of it. In relating the thoughts of the characters in this novel, Prasad says, it is typical of Bhyrappa to script contiguously seemingly disparate thoughts within a single sentence as they occur in their minds. Though the constituent parts of this "stream of consciousness" are almost complete semantically, they are mostly incomplete syntactically. He says while translating, care has been taken to strike a balance with a view to ironing out the impediments to comprehension. "Anchu" was originally published in 1990. The translation is being brought out by Niyogi Books to coincide with World Mental Health Day on October 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/epic-kannada-novel-anchu-now-in-english-899056.html
08-10-2020||National||NGO moves SC, seeks transfer of probe into Hathras incident to CBI||An NGO has moved the Supreme Court seeking to transfer the investigation in the Hathras incident, in which a Dalit girl was allegedly raped and died of injuries, to the CBI. The NGO, which has sought to intervene and assist the apex court in the pending plea on Hathras incident, said it has the experience of working with victims who were “threatened and intimidated by the mighty state” in the past. The applicant, Citizens for Justice and Peace, has raised certain aspects in its application like witness protection, rights of deceased, admissibility of narco-analysis test, statements by public authorities, dying declaration and relevance of forensic reports and other medical evidence in rape cases.  “The applicant is intervening primarily since there are widespread news reports attributed to senior police officials and elected representatives who are trying to underplay the heinous offence and actually prejudging the issue,” it said. The Uttar Pradesh government, which filed an affidavit in the case this week, also urged the top court to order CBI probe into the incident saying an innocent life has been lost and the central agency may be ordered to conduct the probe under the supervision of the apex court itself. The 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly raped by four upper-caste men in Hathras on September 14. She died on September 29 at Delhi''s Safdarjung Hospital during treatment. The victim was cremated in the dead of the night near her home on September 30. Her family alleged they were forced by the local police to hurriedly conduct her last rites. Local police officers, however, said the cremation was carried out "as per the wishes of the family". The NGO, in its plea, has alleged that there are reports of a senior police officer saying that there was no sexual assault in the case. “It is rather alarming that an officer at that level is making these public statements when investigation is still in progress and the final outcome would be post the trial,” it said, adding, “The applicant is intervening in these circumstances having had experience working with victims who were threatened and intimidated by the mighty state in the past.” It alleged that uncertainty around the protection of the victim’s family is “growing day-by-day especially as it appears from media reports that the socially powerful families allegedly associated with the accused, are intimidating the family”. It said that larger question of protection of witness has become of “paramount importance” in the matter. The plea claimed that on October 2, a spokesperson of the Uttar Pradesh government said that a polygraph and narco-analysis test of the victim’s family would be conducted. It alleged the official also said that tests would be conducted both from the side of accused and victim, apart from police officials and others involved in the case. It said “subjecting the family members to such tests when they are neither accused nor booked under any charges in the manner is a great defiance of law”. The plea has said that the probe should be transferred to the CBI “with specific directions that the team would file progress report” before the apex court. It has also sought direction to provide protection to all the witnesses from the central paramilitary forces and also to appoint a retired judge of the top court to investigate the circumstances which led to the cremation of victim in the middle of the night in open field. While hearing a plea on Hathras incident, the apex court had on October 6 termed as "shocking” and “horrible" the incident and said it would ensure a “smooth” investigation. It had sought Uttar Pradesh government's reply by October 8 on how the witnesses were being protected in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngo-moves-sc-seeks-transfer-of-probe-into-hathras-incident-to-cbi-899074.html
08-10-2020||National||MHA allows bigger political gatherings in poll-bound states before October 15||Enabling parties to hold rallies in election-bound states during the Covid-19 pandemic, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Thursday allowed bigger political gatherings in Bihar, which is going to Assembly polls, and Assembly and Parliament constituencies in 11 other states where bypolls are scheduled. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla issued fresh orders in this regard, as the re-opening guidelines issued for this month had earlier said that political and other gatherings with more than 100 people could be allowed only after October 15. Bihar is going to Assembly elections while Assembly and Parliamentary bypolls are scheduled in 11 states by this month-end and first week of November. According to the revised order, state governments concerned can permit political gatherings outside containment zones beyond the existing limit of 100 people on any date before October 15 in those Assembly and Parliamentary constituencies where elections are to be held subject to certain conditions. In closed spaces, the order said, a maximum of 50% of the hall capacity will be allowed with a ceiling of 200 people. In open spaces, keeping the size of the ground or space in view, the gathering will be allowed.  Wearing of masks, maintaining social distancing, provision for thermal scanning and use of hand wash or sanitiser will be mandatory. The state governments will issue detailed Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to regulate such political gatherings and strictly enforce the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mha-allows-bigger-political-gatherings-in-poll-bound-states-before-october-15-899082.html
08-10-2020||National||2 in 5 Indian professionals experience increased stress due to Covid-19||Covid-19 has taken a toll on working professionals in India as two in five professionals are experiencing increased anxiety due to the pandemic, according to a survey. Leading professional network LinkedIn on Thursday released key survey data from April to September 2020 to highlight how pandemic stress and remote work burnout have adversely impacted the mental health of professionals in India. Findings of the latest LinkedIn survey showed that two in five (39 per cent) professionals are experiencing increased stress or anxiety due to Covid-19, and as the pandemic took hold only one in five professionals were offered more time off for well-being. Moreover, the economic repercussions of the ongoing pandemic have made Indian professionals vulnerable to job uncertainty, financial instability, and bleak company outlook, while continuing to work remotely in social isolation, the special ‘mental health’ edition of the fortnightly LinkedIn Workforce Confidence Index said. More than one in three Indian professionals also believe that working remotely is slowing down their career progression (41 per cent), it is making them feel more lonely (37 per cent), and harming their work-life balance (36 per cent). LinkedIn data showed that the employees’ appeal for stronger well-being support as findings show that only one in four (23 per cent) Indian professionals were being offered emotional well-being initiatives and flexible work hours by their employers in the early months of the lockdown. As India begins to return to work, more than one in three professionals are also worried about workplace sanitation (36 per cent), exposure to large groups of people in meetings or in public (34 per cent), and uncertain workplace safety guidelines (34 per cent), which further compounds their distress towards an uncertain future of work. "The ongoing stress around the 3 Rs — Remote work, Return to work, and Risk of exposure — are adversely impacting the mental health of Indian professionals," Ashutosh Gupta, India Country Manager, LinkedIn said adding that companies in India are beginning to bolster their mental health programmes to support their employees in such times. Gupta noted that LinkedIn has enhanced its people initiatives to include increased professional counselling sessions and other well-being programmes. "Your professional community can also be a pillar of strength right now, and we encourage our members to continue to reach out and seek help from others on the platform," he said. All findings around the mental health of Indian professionals are based on the online survey responses of 16,199 professionals over the past six months as part of the LinkedIn Workforce Confidence Index, which is a fortnightly pulse on the confidence of the Indian workforce.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-in-5-indian-professionals-experience-increased-stress-due-to-covid-19-899102.html
08-10-2020||National||Hathras victim deserves justice, not slander: Priyanka Gandhi||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday accused the BJP of building a narrative to defame the Hathras victim, saying she deserves justice and not slander. She charged that a narrative is being built by the ruling party in Uttar Pradesh for holding the woman responsible for crimes committed against her.  "Creating a narrative that defames a woman's character and holding her somehow responsible for crimes committed against her is revolting and regressive," she said on Twitter. "A heinous crime has been committed at Hathras, leaving a 20-year-old Dalit woman dead. Her body has been burned without the participation or consent of her family. She deserves justice not slander," Gandhi also said. The Congress general secretary for Uttar Pradesh also used a hashtag, accusing the BJP of being "shameless". ..Her body has been burned without the participation or consent of her family. SHE DESERVES JUSTICE NOT SLANDER.   Priyanka Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi had earlier visited the victim's family last Saturday. The 19-year-old Dalit woman from Hathras was allegedly raped and attacked by four upper-caste men. She later succumbed to injuries at a Delhi hospital. The incident has triggered outrage across the country after TV footage showed that the local police cremated the body at night. Her family members alleged they were not allowed to bring the body home one last time, but police claimed they had the family's consent for the cremation. The family is now demanding a judicial probe into the incident while the UP government has sought a CBI probe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hathras-victim-deserves-justice-not-slander-priyanka-gandhi-899104.html
08-10-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi to deliver keynote address at Invest India Conference||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will deliver the keynote address at the Invest India Conference in Canada via video conferencing on Thursday evening. The forum aims to give the Canadian business community a first-hand perspective of the opportunities to invest in India and showcase India as an investment destination, an official statement said. The conference is expected to witness participation of representatives from banks and insurance companies, investment funds, companies in sectors like aviation, electronics and manufacturing, consultant firms and universities among others, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-to-deliver-keynote-address-at-invest-india-conference-899106.html
08-10-2020||National||Plea for court-monitored probe into Disha Salian death case should be filed in HC: SC||The Supreme Court Thursday said the plea seeking court-monitored CBI probe into the death of Sushant Singh Rajput's former manager, Disha Salian should be filed in the Bombay High Court. However, the apex court said it was adjourning the matter for October 12 and in the meantime, the lawyer should approach the high court. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian conducted the hearing through video conferencing and said it will hear the matter on Monday as the lawyer who was to appear was unavailable. Besides the court-monitored CBI probe into Salian's death case, the PIL filed by Puneet Kaur Dhanda, has also sought filing of the detailed probe report before the top court by Mumbai police into the investigated conducted so far by it into the case. The plea, which has to be argued by lawyer Vineet Dhanda, claimed that both the deaths of Rajput and Salian were interconnected as they occurred under suspicious circumstances. “It is after the death of Sushant Singh Rajput, various rumours and conspiracy theories have been linked between the deaths of Disha and Sushant, because both died in suspicious circumstances and at the peak of their successful professional career,” the plea said. Disha, 28, died on June 8 after falling off the 14th floor of a residential building in Malad (west) Mumbai. Rajput, aged 34, was found hanging from the ceiling of his apartment in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14 and since then the Mumbai police has been probing the case keeping in mind various angles. The PIL said that if the top court, after perusal of the investigation report by the Mumbai police, finds it unsatisfactorily then the matter be referred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for further investigation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-for-court-monitored-probe-into-disha-salian-death-case-should-be-filed-in-hc-sc-899113.html
08-10-2020||National||5 states/UTs conducting more than 140 Covid-19 tests per day/million population||Thirty-five states and Union territories in the country are performing more than 140 Covid-19 tests per day per million population, while 22 states and UTs have Covid-19 positivity rate less than the national average, the health ministry said on Thursday. The cumulative positivity rate stands at 8.19 per cent, it said. The national average of Covid-19 tests per day per million population is 865, the ministry said, asserting that the country has demonstrated an exponential increase in the Covid-19 testing infrastructure since January 2020.   "As evidence has revealed, higher number of testing on a sustained basis has aided in bringing down the positivity rate. The sharp decline in national cumulative positivity rate has demonstrated that the rate of spread of infection is being contained," the ministry underlined.  The country's testing capacities have multiplied manifolds. More than 15 lakh samples can be tested every day, it said. "India has performed remarkably on fulfilling WHO's advise of 140 tests/day/million population," the health ministry underscored. In its Guidance Note on 'Public Health Criteria to Adjust Public Health and Social Measures in the Context of Covid-19', the World Health Organisation (WHO) has advised this strategy for comprehensive surveillance for suspected cases.  "A total of 35 states/UTs have exceeded the advised number of tests. The national average of tests per day per million population stands at 865," the ministry said. With 11,94,321 tests conducted for detection of Covid-19 in a span of 24 hours, the cumulative tests in India have crossed 8.34 crore.  Higher testing across wide regions leads to early identification of positive cases, prompt tracking through efficient surveillance and tracing, and timely and effective treatment in homes/facilities and in hospitals for the severe cases, the ministry noted.   These measures in tandem eventually lead to lower mortality rate, it said.   Seven states and Union territories (UTs) have reported a positivity rate less than 5 per cent. This is a result of the successful 'test, track, trace, treat and technology' strategy of the central government effectively followed by states and UTs, it said. "The cumulative Covid-19 positivity rate is 8.19 per cent and is on a continuous decline," the ministry said. Maintaining the spree of registering more recoveries than the new confirmed cases, 83,011 recoveries were registered in a span of  24 hours as against 78,524 new confirmed cases.  A total of 58,27,704 people have recuperated from coronavirus infection, pushing the recovery rate to 85.25 per cent. The recoveries exceed the active cases of Covid-19 by 49,25,279, it said. "The active cases are less than 10 lakh for the 17th day in a row," the ministry said. Presently, the active cases comprise merely 13.20 per cent of the total positive cases of the country standing at 9,02,425, according to the ministry data updated at 8 am on Thursday. "Seventy-five per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and UTs. Maharashtra alone has contributed the maximum with more than 16,000 single-day recoveries," the ministry said.  It said 79 per cent of the 78,524 new cases recorded in a span of 24 hours are from 10 states and UTs. Maharashtra continues to be the state reporting a very high number of new cases with more than 14,000 cases followed by Karnataka with nearly 11,000 cases. Also, 971 case fatalities due to Covid-19 have been reported in  a span of 24 hours. Of these, nearly 82 per cent are concentrated in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh. More than 36 per cent of new fatalities are reported from Maharashtra (355 deaths).  India's Covid-19 caseload mounted to 68,35,655 with 78,524 infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to  1,05,526 with 971 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the ministry data updated at 8 am on Thursday showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5-states/uts-conducting-more-than-140-covid-19-tests-per-day/million-population-899116.html
08-10-2020||National||Covid-19: Wear mask, ensure social distancing, says PM Modi ahead of festive season||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday launched a public awareness campaign to promote Covid-19-appropriate behaviour ahead of the festive season that begins next week. “Let us Unite to fight Corona! Let us always remember: Wear a mask, wash hands, follow social distancing, practice ‘Do Gaj Ki Doori'. Together, we will succeed and together, we will win against Covid-19,” Modi tweeted, with a hashtag #Unite2FightCorona. Let us always remember: Wear a mask. Wash hands. Follow social distancing. Practice ‘Do Gaj Ki Doori.’ Together, we will succeed. President Ram Nath Kovind also urged fellow citizens to unite in the fight against Covid-19. He appealed to wear a mask, wash hands and practice social distancing. Soon after the prime minister’s message, Union ministers, sportspersons, film personalities took the campaign forward, emphasising Covid-19 appropriate behaviour ahead of the festive season. “India's Covid-19 fight is people-driven and gets great strength from our Covid-19 warriors. Our collective efforts have helped to save many lives. We have to continue the momentum and protect our citizens from the virus,” the prime minister said. Union ministers Harsh Vardhan, Nirmala Sitharaman, Anurag Thakur, sportspersons Saina Nehwal and Milkha Singh, actors Salman Khan, Tiger Shroff, Kriti Sanon, Fatima Sana Shaikh, Rajkumar Rao, Shekhar Kapur, Mahesh Babu and Shankar Mahadevan lent their support to the awareness campaign. The prime minister in his Mann Ki Baat programme had reminded people to always wear a mask and not to venture out without a face shield. A Concerted Action Plan will also be implemented by Central government ministries and departments, state governments and Union Territories with region-specific targeted communication in high case-load districts||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wear-mask-ensure-social-distancing-says-pm-modi-ahead-of-festive-season-899118.html
08-10-2020||National||Hathras rape accused claims victim killed by her brother, victim's family terms it 'conspiracy'||Giving a twist to the alleged 'gang-rape' and killing of an SC teen in Hathras, the main accused wrote a letter to the district police chief claiming that the victim was a friend of his and was killed by her brother as the latter did not approve of their relationship. In the letter, which went viral on social media, the main accused, Sandeep, said that the victim had called him to meet her in the fields. ''I, however, returned home after the victim told me that her brother and mother were also there with her,'' Sandeep claimed. He said that he later came to know that the victim had been ''brutally beaten'' by her brother. Sandeep sought an impartial inquiry into the matter. The victim's family members, however, termed Sandeep's claims as 'lies' and said that none of them knew any of the four accused, including Sandeep. ''Neither Sandeep nor any other accused persons ever visited us...he is lying...Sandeep is also the name of one of her brothers..it is a conspiracy to get them released from jail,'' said one of the family members of the victim on Thursday.  ''Our daughter was cremated in the dead of night...kill us too...give us some poison so that we also die,'' said another member of the family. According to the sources here, the victim's family has filed a petition in the Allahabad High Court claiming that they had been 'confined' to their house by the security personnel and were not being allowed to either go out or speak to anyone. The SC teen had been brutally assaulted by four youths and died in the hospital. The family members alleged that she was gang-raped. The police allegedly held her family hostage and cremated the body at midnight. . All the four accused have been arrested The police claimed that the postmortem report and forensic examination of the Hathras victim did not confirm ''rape or gang-rape' and that she had died owing to injury on her neck. As the incident triggered nationwide outrage, the state government was reported to be part of an ''international conspiracy'' aimed at instigating sectarian violence in the state and tarnishing the image of the state. As many as 19 cases, including those of sedition and promoting enmity between different groups, have been lodged in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hathras-rape-accused-claims-victim-killed-by-her-brother-victims-family-terms-it-conspiracy-899128.html
08-10-2020||National||Lodge FIR against Thakur, Verma for hate speech: Karat tells Delhi HC||CPI(M) leader Brinda Karat claimed in the Delhi High Court on Thursday that a cognisable offence is made out against Union Minister Anurag Thakur and his BJP colleague and MP Pravesh Verma and an FIR should be lodged against them for their alleged hate speeches in relation to anti-CAA protest at Shaheen Bagh here. Karat has challenged a trial court’s August 26 order dismissing her plea seeking lodging of FIR against the two leaders on the grounds that the requisite sanction from the competent authority, the central government, was not obtained. Justice Yogesh Khanna, after hearing the submissions, asked the counsel for Karat and Delhi Police to file relevant judgements in support of their contentions. The court listed the matter for further hearing on November 2. Advocate Richa Kapoor, appearing for the police, questioned maintainability of the petition. Advocate Siddharth Aggarwal, representing Karat, said the complaint was kept pending before the trial court for 9 months and thereafter, the magistrate rejected the plea and did not even go into the merits of the case. “The proposition adopted by the magistrate is in the teeth of many judgements of the Supreme Court. The magistrate has refused to exercise the jurisdiction which the law vests on him,” he contended. He added that a cognisable offence is made out and they were only asking the police to investigate the matter. CPI(M) leaders Brinda Karat and KM Tewari had filed the complaint before the trial court seeking a direction to the Parliament Street Police Station to register an FIR against Thakur and Verma. However, the trial court said that the complaint was not sustainable without the prior sanction. Karat, in her petition in the high court, sought quashing of the trial court’s order and also a direction for expeditious disposal of applications under Section 156(3) CrPC (power of a magistrate to direct the police to conduct investigation in respect of a cognisable offence) and that technical objections and maintainability be decided at the threshold to avoid prejudice to the complainant and wastage of judicial time. The plea, filed through advocate Tara Narula and Adit S Pujari, said the relevant provision of CrPC demonstrates that the sanction to be taken thereunder is a sanction for taking cognisance. “It is settled law that the stage of cognisance does not arise at a time when directions under Section 156(3) CrPC are given, and as such, no sanction is required under either Section 195 or 196 CrPC for the registration of an FIR and/or for investigation,” the plea said. It contended when the State and the police have pointedly excused the speeches of the accused and other persons, the petitioners submit that the only recourse available to them is judicial. “The petitioners’ judicial recourse has been barred by the ACMM without considering that the very State that is supportive of the accused persons (who are sitting Members of Parliament) would function as the Sanctioning Authority. “Public policy and the interest of justice demand that this court forms a view on the content of the speeches given by the accused on the basis of settled law and opine whether cognisable offence is made out thereupon,” it said and sought lodging of an FIR on the complaint. The plea said they had filed the complaint over 9 months ago and the registration of FIR is already extremely delayed despite cognisable offences being made out. Karat had claimed in her complaint that “Thakur and Verma had sought to incite people as a result of which three incidents of firing took place at two different protest sites in Delhi”. The complaint had sought lodging of FIRs under various sections, including 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc.), 153-B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national-integration) and 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) of the IPC. It had also sought action under other sections of the IPC, including 298 (uttering, words, etc., with deliberate intent to wound the religious feelings of any person), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 505 (statements conducing to public mischief) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation). The maximum punishment for the offences is jail term for seven years. Karat had approached the court after her written complaints to the Commissioner of Police and the SHO, Parliament Street, failed to elicit any response. The CPI (M) leader had mentioned that at the Rithala rally here, Thakur, the minister of state for finance and corporate affairs, had on January 27 egged on the crowd to raise an incendiary slogan – “shoot the traitors” – after lashing out at anti-CAA protesters. In the complaint, she had mentioned that Verma had on January 28 allegedly made incendiary comments against the anti-CAA protesters in Shaheen Bagh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lodge-fir-against-thakur-verma-for-hate-speech-karat-tells-delhi-hc-899131.html
08-10-2020||National||Uddhav, Aaditya Thackeray to campaign in Bihar for Assembly elections||Shiv Sena president and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will be campaigning for his party's candidates in the Bihar Assembly elections. The Sena on Thursday released a list of 22 leaders who will campaign in Bihar. Besides Uddhav Thackeray, his son and Maharashtra tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray also figures in the list of campaigners. Sources said the Sena, which parted ways with the BJP last year, will contest around 50 seats in the northern state. Other Sena leaders who would campaign in Bihar include Subhash Desai, Sanjay Raut, Anil Desai, Vinayak Raut, Arvind Sawant, Priyanka Chaturvedi, Rahul Shewale and Krupal Tumane. Elections for the 243-member Bihar assembly are being held in three phases -- October 28, November 3 and November 7.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uddhav-aaditya-thackeray-to-campaign-in-bihar-for-assembly-elections-899133.html
08-10-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Republic TV accused of TRP scam; Domestic flights may operate at 75% capacity||In your evening news brief, From the Newsroom, Three broadcast news channels including Republic TV are being investigated for TRP manipulation; Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said he was deliberating on allowing domestic airlines to operate at 75% capacity; The World Bank said that India’s GDP is expected to contract by 9.6 per cent this fiscal.  Here are the top stories of the day, October 8, 2020: Three broadcast news channels including Republic TV are being investigated for TRP manipulation, the Mumbai police said today. Two persons have been arrested. One of them is a former employee of an agency that installed "people metres" in homes to assess ratings. The investigation is part of a larger analysis of the manipulation of news trends and how "false narratives" were spread. The information has been shared with the central government, the police said. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said he was deliberating allowing domestic airlines to operate at 75% of the total capacity, according to news agency Reuters. In an interaction with officials from the civil aviation sector and the media, Puri said they expect total passengers to double to 2 lakh by the end of October. Puri also said that he may meet officials from Germany in a couple of days to finalise bilateral air-bubble flights. The Supreme Court castigated the Union government for filing an "evasive" reply with "unnecessary nonsensical" statements by a junior officer in a matter alleging "communal headlines and bigoted statements" by a section of media on Tablighi Jamaat participants in Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi in March 2020.  As a senior advocate, Dushyant Dave said, on behalf of petitioner Jamiat Ulama-I-Hind, that the government accused it of seeking a gag order against the media, a bench, presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde said, "Freedom of speech is one of the most abused freedoms in the recent times." The World Bank said that India’s GDP is expected to contract by 9.6 per cent this fiscal which is reflective of the national lockdown and the income shock experienced by households and firms due to the Covid-19 pandemic, noting that the country's economic situation is “much worse” than ever seen before. Uber on Thursday announced a partnership with electric vehicle fleet operator Lithium Urban Technologies to deploy over 1,000 EVs, all sedans, across Uber Rentals and Premier in Delhi NCR, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, and Pune. This means that soon, you could zip to work or run an errand in an electric Uber soon! That is it today, From the Newsroom. Tune in tomorrow morning for our feature show, The Lead.  If you liked this show, please share this podcast with your friends, family, and on social media. Do rate and review us on Apple Podcasts. Yes, we are on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts, Spotify, and wherever you listen to podcasts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-republic-tv-accused-of-trp-scam-domestic-flights-may-operate-at-75-capacity-899139.html
08-10-2020||National||Tamil Nadu opposition alleges cops transferred for garlanding Periyar statue; district police denies||Cuddalore District Police was at the center of a controversy on Thursday with political parties alleging that three policemen were transferred out of the district after they posted a picture of them standing in front of a statue of social reformer E V R Periyar. However, Cuddalore District Superintendent of Police M Sree Abhinav said the policemen were transferred for “misconduct” and their pictures doing rounds on the social media had nothing to do with the action against them. “They were not transferred for that one particular act and the photo was taken on September 17. Since some other misconduct has come to light now, the DIG has transferred them out of the district,” Sree Abhinav told Deccan Herald. “The incident on September 17 has nothing to do with this particular transfer because if it had it could have happened immediately after that. Subsequently some other angle has come into the picture and that is why they have been transferred,” the police officer added. In an order dated October 6, Sree Abhinav transferred S Ranjith, D Rangarajan, and G Ashok, all working in the district, to Kallakurichi on the orders of the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Villupuram range. Their transfer became a political issue after pictures of the three policemen posing in front of a Periyar statue in Cuddalore was shared on social media and this was cited as a reason for the action by the district police. As the pictures went viral on social media, political leaders, including MDMK chief Vaiko, VCK president Thol. Thirumavalavan and DMK Youth Wing head Udhayanidhi Stalin, condemned the transfer and demanded revoking of the same. “It is surprising that the Tamil Nadu government which did not act against those who disrespected Periyar and Anna (DMK founder) by spraying saffron colour on them has transferred three policemen for posing before Periyar statue,” Thirumavalavan said. He also sought to know whether Tamil Nadu was being ruled by “AIADMK or RSS”, pointing out that the policemen did not pay respects while in uniform. “Is the Tamil Nadu government coming to say that paying respects to Periyar, who fought for social justice all through his life, is a crime? The Chief Minister should clarify,” he said. Vaiko questioned whether it was against the law to garland the statue of a person who fought for the betterment of the people of Tamil Nadu. “The transfer should be revoked immediately,” the Rajya Sabha MP demanded. Udhayanidhi Stalin also took to Twitter to say that the then government led by late M Karunanidhi had ensured that Periyar was buried with full state honours. “But the slave government transfers policemen who garlanded his statue,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-opposition-alleges-cops-transferred-for-garlanding-periyar-statue-district-police-denies-899141.html
08-10-2020||National||Same sex couple moves HC for getting married under SMA||A same sex couple has moved the Delhi High Court seeking they be allowed to get married under the Special Marriage Act saying they have been living together as a couple for 8 years, in love with each other sharing the highs and lows of life, but are unable marry as they are both women. A similar plea has been moved by two men, who got married in the United States, but their marriage was not registered under the Foreign Marriage Act of 1969 by the Indian consulate as they were a same sex couple. Both the petitions came up for hearing before Justice Navin Chawla who directed the registry to list them before the bench of the Chief Justice of the High Court which is already hearing a PIL seeking a declaration that same sex marriages be recognised under the Hindu Marriage Act (HMA) and Special Marriage Act (SMA). The petitioners are being represented by senior advocate Menaka Guruswamy and advocates Arundhati Katju, Govind Manoharan and Surabhi Dhar. The two women, aged 47 years and 36 years have said that simple things -- like opening a joint bank account, buying family health insurance, or securing address proof -- which a married couple takes for granted are a struggle for them. "Marriage is not just a relationship between two individuals – it brings two families together. But it is also a bundle of rights. Without marriage, the petitioners are strangers in law. Article 21 of the Constitution of India protects the right to marry a person of one's choice and this right applies with full force to same-sex couples, just as it does to opposite-sex couples," they have contended in their plea. The women are part of the team that built north India's leading clinic specializing in mental health and learning disabilities for children and young adults. They have sought that the SMA be declared as unconstitutional to the extent that it does not allow solemnisation of marriage between same sex couples. They have also urged the court to declare that the SMA ought to apply to all couples regardless of their gender identity and sexual orientation and also issue a direction to the Sub-Divisional Magistrate Kalkaji, who is also the Marriage Officer of South East District of Delhi to register their marriage under the Act. The two men, in their plea, have contended that Indian consulate at New York refused their application for registration on the ground of their sexual orientation alone.  "The Indian consulate would have registered the marriage of any similarly placed opposite sex couple," they have contended. The couple, who were in a relationship since 2012 and got married in 2017, have also claimed that during the Covid-19 pandemic, non recognition of their marriage by the laws here continues to disentitle them to travel as a married couple to India and spend time with their families. They have contended that the consulate's decision has violated their rights under Articles 14, 15, 19 and 21 which the Supreme Court, in Navtej Singh Johar case, had held was guaranteed to LGBT and non-LGBT Indians with equal force.  "Further, the Foreign Marriage Act (FMA) ought to be read to apply to same-sex marriages and is unconstitutional to the extent it does not do so," their petition has said. They have also said that "nonrecognition of same-sex marriages is a wanton act of discrimination that strikes at the root of dignity and self-fulfilment of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer (LGBTQ)couples".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/same-sex-couple-moves-hc-for-getting-married-under-sma-899153.html
08-10-2020||National||UK professor calls idlis boring; Shashi Tharoor gives savage reply||Idli-lovers have waged a war against a UK-based professor after he dared to call idlis boring.  On October 6, when Zomato asked about one dish that "you would never understand why people like so much", Dr Edward Anderson, in his response wrote, "Idlis are the most boring things in the world." Since then, Twitter has been buzzing with South Indians and idli lovers questioning Anderson's food choices and giving him tips on what serves best with idlis.  Not sure I would agree to it..🤔 I agree 100 percent. Idli is flavorless. It gets its flavor from Whatever flavor chutney is We can think of it like pasta before it is covered in marinara or alfredo. Shashi Tharoor and his son also joined the discussion. "Yes, my son, there are some who are truly challenged in this world. Civilisation is hard to acquire: the taste & refinement to appreciate idlis, enjoy cricket, or watch ottamthullal is not given to every mortal. Take pity on this poor man, for he may never know what Life can be," Tharoor wrote retweeting his son's response. But Edward Anderson still doesn't agree. "...Before the whole of south India attacks me, can I just say that I love dosa and appam and basically all south Indian food. But idli (and puttu for that matter) are insufferable," he wrote in a Twitter thread.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-professor-calls-idlis-boring-shashi-tharoor-gives-savage-reply-899160.html
08-10-2020||National||J&K High Court quashes FIR against senior journalist||Jammu and Kashmir High Court on Thursday quashed an FIR lodged against a senior journalist by then Mehbooba Mufti-led government for his news report about stone-pelting attacks on tourist vehicles that left four tourists injured in April 2018. The J&K police had filed an FIR against Times of India’s Srinagar correspondent M Saleem Pandit on the basis of a complaint submitted by some local travel agencies who alleged that the news report was “false and written with malicious intention to disrupt the peaceful tourist season” in Kashmir. Justice Sanjay Dhar of J&K High Court while quashing the FIR observed that the allegations made in the First Information Report (FIR) and the complaint, “even if taken at their face value and accepted in their entirety do not prima facie constitute any offence or make out a case against the petitioner (Salim Pandit).” “Thus, a continuation of investigation in the subject FIR would account to abuse of process of law….. The present case is fit one where the court should exercise its inherent powers under Section 561-A of the J&K Code of Criminal Procedure, to quash the FIR. Accordingly, the petition is allowed and the impugned FIR is quashed,” Justice Dhar ordered. Interestingly, just a few weeks after the news report, a 22-year-old tourist from Chennai was killed and two members of his family were injured when their cab was attacked by a group of stone-pelters at Narbal on the Srinagar-Gulmarg highway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-high-court-quashes-fir-against-senior-journalist-899167.html
08-10-2020||National||Centre extends LTC facility by two years for its employees to visit J&K, northeast||The Centre has extended the facility that allows its employees to visit Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands and the northeast while availing leave travel concession (LTC) by two more years till September 25, 2022, according to a personnel ministry statement issued on Thursday. The eligible central government employees get reimbursement of tickets for to and fro journey, besides paid leave, when they avail LTC. Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh said an entitled government official can avail LTC for visiting Jammu and Kashmir, the northeast, Ladakh and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands in lieu of his hometown LTC. In addition, the facility of air journey for the non-entitled government servants will be available for visiting the said places, he added. "As a further convenience, ease of travel permission is also being granted to undertake journey to these areas by private airlines, whereas normally a government servant is expected to travel by the state-owned Air India," Singh said. In relaxation to the Central Civil Services (LTC) Rules 1988, the scheme allowing government servants to travel by air to visit the Union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, the northeastern states and the Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands has been extended for a period of two years till September 25, 2022, the statement said. Describing this as a huge and an exclusive facility for government employees, Singh said all eligible government servants may avail LTC to visit the said places against the conversion of their one hometown LTC in a four-year block, it said. However, the government servants whose hometown and place of posting are the same, are not allowed this conversion, the statement said. Such government servants, who are not otherwise entitled to travel by air, will also be allowed to travel by air -- in economy class and by any airline -- under the norms of this scheme. Ever since the Modi government came to power in 2014, it has been the direction of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to give priority to the far-flung and difficult regions and do whatever possible for ease of living and ease of governance in these areas, Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-extends-ltc-facility-by-two-years-for-its-employees-to-visit-jk-northeast-899169.html
08-10-2020||National||Free books, bag, uniforms, shoes: Andhra CM Jaganmohan launches Vidya-kanuka for govt schoolchildren||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy launched the Jagananna Vidya kanuka scheme on Thursday, where schoolchildren were provided with a free kit consisting of three pairs of uniform, a pair of shoes, two pairs of socks, prescribed textbooks, notebooks, belt, and a school bag.  The government plans to reopen the schools from November 2. The programme costing Rs 650 crore this year would benefit over 42 lakh government schoolchildren from Class 1 to 10. The scheme is in furtherance of programmes launched earlier by the YSRCP government to improve the government sector education standards and thereby the school enrolment ratio. In January, Reddy had launched the 'Amma-vodi' programme through which Rs 15,000 per year will be given to mothers from poorer sections sending their kids to schools. The Rs 6,500 crore scheme is applicable till Class 12 and benefits 82 lakh students, 42 lakh mothers across the state, officials said. Under the Mana Badi-Nadu Nedu (Our School – Then and Now), 44,512 government schools are transforming with the provision of facilities like green chalkboards, water purifiers, modern benches, almirahs, fans, toilet conveniences on par with the corporate schools. Under the first tranche, 15,715 schools are in the makeover for this academic year. Anganwadi centres are also being revamped to serve as nutrition and education initiation hubs for the budding minds to be called YSR Pre-primary schools, the chief minister said. The stitching charges for uniforms would be credited into the mothers’ bank accounts so that children would be ready for November 2 reopening of schools. The chief minister quoted Nelson Mandela and Malala Yousafzai to stress that “education is the only treasure we can pass on to our children.” “Education alone has the power to change the world, eradicate poverty and backwardness of the society. So, our thrust is to provide a level playing field to the children from poor families to face the competitive world. English medium from primary level was introduced keeping this in mind,” Reddy said while accusing the previous governments for “neglecting government sector education.” Reddy’s intent to change the medium of instruction in government schools from Telugu to English faced opposition from various quarters. The matter is before the Supreme Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/free-books-bag-uniforms-shoes-andhra-cm-jaganmohan-launches-vidya-kanuka-for-govt-schoolchildren-899171.html
08-10-2020||National||Textile industry hails launch of Indian cotton brand 'Kasturi'||The launch of the first Indian cotton brand 'Kasturi' will help textile manufacturers and exporters get better price realisation for their products in the international markets, the Confederation of Indian Textile Industry (CITI) said on Thursday. Hailing the launch of the national brand by Textiles Minister Smriti Irani on Wednesday on World Cotton Day, CITI Chairman T Rajkumar said it will enable the Indian cotton value chain to improve quality and emerge as one of the best in the world. It would also facilitate the production of high value-added products out of the same to sustain the growth, he said. Indian exporters at present do not get better prices on the cotton products due to poor quality of cotton fibre and contaminated cotton, Rajkumar said in a statement here.  The ongoing initiatives and various measures already taken by the government to improve productivity, quality and branding of Indian cotton and its products across the value chain will have a bright future and make it globally competitive, he said. The World Cotton Day is more relevant for India as there has been a 25 to 30 per cent drop in cotton consumption across the globe as well as in the country due to Covid-19 pandemic. Rajkumar also said excess cotton stock to the tune of three to four times of normal stock level would be a challenge for India and the textile Ministry was already taking necessary steps to boost the exports of all products across the value chain apart from increasing the consumption domestically. For example, cotton face mask and cotton lining materials in personal protection equipment (PPE) and increased medical textiles consumption have thrown very good opportunities for the country, he said. Rajkumar appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to announce the Technology Mission on Cotton in a revised format with the Mission Mode approach that has already been recommended by the Textiles minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/textile-industry-hails-launch-of-indian-cotton-brand-kasturi-899179.html
08-10-2020||National||Action plan to curb pollution to come in force from Oct 15 in Delhi, adjoining areas||A Supreme Court-mandated pollution control authority on Thursday said that stricter measures to fight air pollution will come into force from October 15 in Delhi and its neighbourhood as part of the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP). The Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority directed the governments of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to ban the use of diesel generators, barring for essential or emergency services, in the national capital and the vicinity towns of Ghaziabad, Noida, Greater Noida, Faridabad and Gurugram. “Large construction projects, including highways and metro, will provide an undertaking to the state pollution control boards/pollution control committees that they will assure adherence to the prescribed norms for dust management,” EPCA chief Bhure Lal said in a letter to the states.   The pollution watchdog also said barring some economic activities, such as stopping construction work and plying of trucks, as emergency measures to control pollution will put pressure on an already stressed economy amid the coronavirus pandemic. “We should try and avert the need to take other emergency measures for pollution control… the economy is already under stress post-lockdown. Therefore, our combined effort is to ensure that there is no further disruption," it said in the letter. The EPCA also stressed that the prevalence of co-morbid health conditions is a huge challenge during the COVID-19 pandemic and there is enough evidence that pollution can make it more dangerous. The measures under GRAP, which was first implemented in Delhi-NCR in 2017, include increasing bus and metro services, hiking parking fees, and stopping the use of diesel generator sets when the air quality turns poor. When the situation turns "severe", GRAP recommends closure of brick kilns, stone crushers, and hot mix plants, a sprinkling of water, frequent mechanised cleaning of roads and maximising power generation from natural gas. The measures to be followed in the "emergency" situation include stopping the entry of trucks in Delhi, ban on construction activities and introduction of the odd-even car rationing scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/action-plan-to-curb-pollution-to-come-in-force-from-oct-15-in-delhi-adjoining-areas-899193.html
08-10-2020||National||IAF's Cheetah helicopter makes precautionary landing in Rajasthan||A Cheetah helicopter of the Indian Air Force made a precautionary landing in an open field in Rajasthan's Jalore district on Thursday after developing a technical snag, police said. "The helicopter landed in the field near Sarnau village. After nearly half an hour, it took off," Station House Officer, Sanchore, Arvind Kumar said. Defence sources said the helicopter was on a routine sortie from Ahmedabad to Uttarlai (Barmer) when it developed some technical snag mid-air following which the pilot had to make a precautionary landing. Later, the helicopter took off from the field and landed at Uttarlai, the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iafs-cheetah-helicopter-makes-precautionary-landing-in-rajasthan-899195.html
08-10-2020||National||Central Railways to run eight more special trains in Maharashtra||After announcing five special trains the day before, the Central Railway (CR) on Thursday announced another eight trains connecting various cities in Maharashtra. These eight trains will start operating from October 11, it said in a release here. Two trains will run between Pune-Ajni, while a train each will be operated between Mumbai-Kolhapur, Mumbai-Latur, Pune-Nagpur, Pune-Amravati, Kolhapur-Gondia, and Mumbai-Nanded. All these trains will be fully reserved, which means only those with a confirmed reservation will be able to board them. Pune-Ajni, Pune-Amravati, and Pune-Nagpur will be AC trains and operated once a week, while Mumbai-Latur superfast special will run four times a week. Other special trains will run daily. Reservation for some of these trains will commence from October 9, and for remaining ones on October 11. While announcing the latest `unlock' (lockdown easing) guidelines on September 30, the Maharashtra government allowed the railways to resume intra-state trains. On Wednesday, the CR announced special trains between CSMT-Pune (two trains), CSMT-Nagpur, CSMT-Gondia and CSMT- Solapur from October 9. The CR on Thursday also said that it will operate four special suburban trains between Pune-Lonavla for essential services staff from October 12. Local services for essential staff resumed in Mumbai on June 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-railways-to-run-eight-more-special-trains-in-maharashtra-899197.html
08-10-2020||National||PM Modi invites Canadian businesses to invest in India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday hard sold his government's latest labour and agriculture reforms, saying they will make doing business in India easier as also give farmers the right to choose their market. With its vibrant democracy, political stability and business-friendly policies, India offers an unparalleled investment destination for foreign investors, he said in his keynote address at the annual Invest India Conference. The conference is organised with a special focus on further strengthening business ties between India and Canada. The government, he said, has implemented reforms in key sectors of education, agriculture and labour with a view to improving participation of the private sector. "If you are looking to partner in the field of education, the place to be is India. If you are looking to invest in manufacturing or services, the place to be is India. If you are looking to collaborate in the field of agriculture, the place to be is India," Modi said. Stressing that "the India story is strong today and stronger tomorrow", the Prime Minister said, "We are proactively monetising assets across sectors -- airports, railways, highways, power transmission lines." He further said the FDI regime has been very well liberalised and the country has created a friendly tax regime for sovereign wealth and pension funds. The Prime Minister further said India is playing the role of pharmacy to the world. India has provided medicines to around 150 countries so far, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-invites-canadian-businesses-to-invest-in-india-899207.html
08-10-2020||National||TMC women's wing rally against Hathras rape and murder||The Trinamool Congress continued on Thursday its protests against the alleged gangrape and murder at Hathras with members of its women's wing taking out a rally in the city demanding that BJP governments at the Centre and Uttar Pradesh take steps to ensure safety of women and minorities. Speaking at the rally, TMC women wing president Chandrima Bhattacharjee deplored BJP's failure to stop "increasing attacks" on dalits, women and minorities in the states ruled by it and the Centre's alleged silence on such attacks that have taken place in the recent months. The procession marched from Jadavpur to Golpark in the southern part of the city. A similar protest march had been taken out by the party wing on Tuesday and was participated by hundreds of women activists. Coming down heavily on BJP, Bhattacharya said while there has been no let up in attacks on women and dalits in BJP-ruled states, the saffron party has "unleashed anarchy" in West Bengal in the name of democratic protests. "While our protests have always been peaceful, see how they (BJP) are instigating violence in West Bengal. BJP does don't believe in democracy," Bhattacharya said referring to BJP's march to the state secretariat during the day. Some of the TMC rallyists flaunted 'I am Dalit' posters, while some others carried festoons. Similar rallies were taken out in different districts of the state by women activists of the party. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had launched the party's series of protests against the alleged gangrape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman at Hathras which triggered nationwide outrage. Banerjee had walked in the first protest rally by TMC on Saturday and had called BJP "the biggest pandemic in the country". The party launched the series of protest rallies against the Hathras atrocity after a delegation including two party MPs led by Derek O'brien was prevented from meeting the kin of the deceased woman by UP police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmc-womens-wing-rally-against-hathras-rape-and-murder-899208.html
08-10-2020||National||After China’s diktat to journalists, India says it has free media||A day after Beijing advised journalists in India to adhere to the One-China policy while reporting on Taiwan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government in New Delhi said that the country had a free media. “India has a free media that reports on issues that it sees fit,” Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), told journalists in New Delhi on Thursday. He was replying to a query on the reaction of the government on the diktat the Embassy of the People’s Republic of China in New Delhi had issued to the media in India on Wednesday. The communist country’s diplomatic mission in New Delhi sent out a letter to journalists, stating that India’s media should stick to its government’s “One-China” principle and to refrain from referring to Taiwan as a country or a nation. China, which has all its media outlets controlled by its communist party, issued the advisory to the journalists in India ahead of the National Day of Taiwan on October 10.   “There is only one China in the world. Taiwan is an inalienable part of China's territory. (The) One-China policy is int'l (international) universal consensus & (and) long-standing position of Indian govt (government), which China appreciates,” Ji Rong, the spokesperson and press counsellor of the PRC’s embassy in New Delhi, posted on Twitter on Wednesday. “It's wishful thinking to seek any Taiwan independence.” The “One-China” policy recognises only the People's Republic of China, which came into existence in 1949 after the communists defeated the nationalists in the civil war of China. It does not recognise the existence of Taiwan (or the Republic of China), where the nationalists retreated to and based the seat of their government after losing to the communists. India, like most of the other nations, has been adhering to the One-China policy since 1949, recognising only the People's Republic of China. “India is the largest democracy on (the) earth with a vibrant press & (and) freedom-loving people. But it looks like communist China is hoping to march into the subcontinent by imposing censorship. Taiwan’s Indian friends will have one reply: GET LOST!” Joseph Wu, Taiwan’s Foreign Minister, posted on Twitter, reacting to the diktat issued by the Chinese Embassy in New Delhi to the media in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-china-s-diktat-to-journalists-india-says-it-has-free-media-899214.html
08-10-2020||National||Rahul Gandhi attacks PM over VVIP aircraft acquisition||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi again attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday over the acquisition of VVIP aircraft and wondered how many things could have been bought for the soldiers stationed in the Siachen-Ladakh border in the amount spent. During his campaign in Punjab against the farm reform laws, the Congress leader on Tuesday had accused the prime minister of "wasting" thousands of crores of rupees on the aircraft. Tagging a media report which claimed that the Public Accounts Committee has asked for permission from the Lok Sabha Speaker to go to Ladakh over delay in procuring clothing and equipment for jawans stationed at the Siachen, Ladakh border, Gandhi renewed his attack on the prime minister over the aircraft acquisition. "PM bought a plane worth Rs 8,400 crore for himself. In this amount, how many things could be purchased for our soldiers posted on the Siachen-Ladakh border? Warm clothes: 30,00,000. Jacket, gloves: 60,00,000. Shoes: 67,20,000 Oxygen cylinder: 16,80,000," he said in a tweet in Hindi. Gandhi alleged that the PM is "only concerned about his image and not soldiers". When he was asked about the BJP's criticism of him for using a cushion to sit in a tractor, Gandhi had said in Punjab that the prime minister's 'Air India One' did not just have a cushion but a whole lot of luxury beds for his comfort. Government sources had said that the process for procuring two VVIP aircraft had begun under the UPA government, and the current dispensation has only brought it to a logical conclusion. They noted that the exercise had begun in 2011 and an Inter-Ministerial Group submitted its recommendations in 2012 after meeting for 10 times. Taking a swipe at Gandhi, they had said like most other initiatives of the Congress-led UPA government, he perhaps wants to "disown" this procurement too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-attacks-pm-over-vvip-aircraft-acquisition-899215.html
08-10-2020||National||Union Minister and LJP leader Ram Vilas Paswan passes away||Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, one of the most prominent Dalit leaders of the country, died on Thursday at the age of 74, his son Chirag Paswan said. The Lok Janshakti Party founder and Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution was admitted to a private hospital here for several weeks and had recently undergone a heart operation. "Papa, you are no more in this world but I know you are with me wherever you are. Miss you papa,” Chirag, who now heads the LJP, tweeted. A stalwart of the socialist movement who later emerged as Bihar's foremost Dalit leader with following across the country, Ram Vilas Paswan was instrumental in the implementation of the Mandal Commission report in the 1990s. Condoling his demise, President Ram Nath Kovind said, "In the demise of Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, the nation has lost a visionary leader. He was among the most active and longest-serving members of parliament. He was the voice of the oppressed, and championed the cause of the marginalized.” Expressing grief at Paswan's demise, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said he was saddened beyond words as his death has left a void in the nation that will perhaps never be filled. "Shri Ram Vilas Paswan Ji's demise is a personal loss. I have lost a friend, valued colleague and someone who was extremely passionate to ensure every poor person leads a life of dignity," Modi said in his condolence message. The prime minister also said Paswan "rose in politics through hardwork and determination. As a young leader, he resisted tyranny and the assault on our democracy during the Emergency. He was an outstanding Parliamentarian and Minister, making lasting contributions in several policy areas." Born in Khagaria in 1946, Paswan was selected as a police official but chose the calling of politics and became an MLA for the first time in 1969 on a Samyukta Socialist Party ticket. He was elected to Lok Sabha eight times and also held the record of winning his constituency, Hajipur, with the highest margin for several years. Always at the forefront of raising issues concerning the disadvantaged sections of society, he was also a skilful grassroots politician who enjoyed good equations with leaders across the spectrum, and his dedicated following in his state ensured that every national party courted him in his over five decades of career. He was a minister in central governments headed by parties of contrasting ideological persuasions, ranging from the Janata Dal to the Congress and the BJP, since 1989. Whoever might be his ally, he took pride in describing himself as a socialist and secular politician by conviction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-minister-and-ljp-leader-ram-vilas-paswan-passes-away-899225.html
08-10-2020||National||SC allows three women doctors, accused of Dalit junior's suicide to pursue PG course||The Supreme Court on Thursday allowed three women doctors, who allegedly drove a Dalit girl to end her life due to ragging, to pursue their post graduate course in Mumbai's medical college, saying, they are just accused and even a convict is allowed to have academic pursuits. A bench of Justices U U Lalit, Vineet Saran and Ajay Rastogi modified the Bombay HC's order of February 21, 2020 and relaxed the conditions of bail granted to Ankita Kailash Khandelwal, Hema Suresh Ahuja and Bhakti Arvind Mehare in the suicide case of Payal Tadavi. The top court said they should be permitted to pursue their courses of study regardless of the order of suspension, passed against them on May 27, 2019, with conditions that they should not influence any witness and attend to trial court proceedings. The deceased had ended her life by hanging in her room on May 22, 2019. A case was lodged against the three women doctors, who were pursuing MD in Gynaecology and Obstetrics in Topiwala National Medical College, Mumbai and were working as residents in BYL Nair Charity Hospital. The court rejected a contention by senior advocate Indira Jainsing, appearing for the family of the deceased doctor, and the counsel of the Maharashtra government that in a matter arising from the request for relaxation of bail condition, no collateral attack on the suspension order can be permitted and the accused can't be allowed to enter the college or the hospital. The court noted the order of suspension against the appellant doctors was passed on the basis of registration of the criminal case under various provisions of the IPC and the Maharashtra Prohibition of Ragging Act, 1999. "If the law presumes an accused to be innocent till his guilt is proved, the appellants as presumably innocent persons, are entitled to all the fundamental rights including the right to liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution and are entitled to pursue their course of study so long as exercise of said right does not hamper smooth conduct and progress of the prosecution," the court said. It rejected the HC's observation on the basis of state government's contention that appellants can pursue their Post Graduate course in future after conclusion of the trial. "Even a convict is allowed to have academic pursuits while undergoing sentence and develop his potential as a human being to the fullest. The State apparatus must facilitate such pursuits rather than hamper any attempts in that behalf," the bench said. The court also said it would be difficult to imagine three women doctors, who do not otherwise belong to Mumbai, will be able to influence any witnesses by their mere presence in the College and the Hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-allows-three-women-doctors-accused-of-dalit-juniors-suicide-to-pursue-pg-course-899229.html
08-10-2020||National||Pakistan must address core issues in Kulbhushan Jadhav case: India||India on Thursday said Pakistan has failed to address the core issues in the case relating to Indian death row convict Kulbhushan Jadhav and pressed for an "unimpeded, unconditional and unhindered" consular access to him as ordered by an international tribunal. A Pakistani court is in the process of hearing a review petition against his death sentence. India has been pressing for appointment of an Indian lawyer to represent Jadhav in the case besides seeking unhindered consular access to him as ordered by the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in a verdict in 2019. "Pakistan has failed to respond on core issues pertaining to this case and the core issues are provision of all documents relating to the case and providing unimpeded, unconditional and unhindered consular access to him," External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said at a media briefing. He was asked about Pakistani authorities informing the Islamabad High Court (IHC) on Tuesday that India failed to appoint a lawyer to represent Jadhav in the case. "The core issues need to be addressed if we have to have effective review and reconsideration as ordered by the international court of justice. Pakistan must show its intention to deliver on the core issues," Srivastava said. Fifty-year-old retired Indian Navy officer Jadhav was sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court on charges of espionage and terrorism in April 2017. Weeks later, India approached the ICJ against Pakistan for denial of consular access to him and challenging the death sentence. The Hague-based ICJ ruled in July 2019 that Pakistan must undertake an "effective review and reconsideration" of the conviction and sentence of Jadhav and also to grant consular access to India without further delay. In July, India accused Pakistan of adopting a "farcical" approach in denying available legal remedies to Jadhav against his death sentence in contravention of the ICJ order. The strong reaction had come after Pakistan did not provide documents relating to Jadhav's case to India so that it could file a review petition in the court against the death sentence. India had also accused Pakistan of blocking all the avenues for an effective remedy available in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-must-address-core-issues-in-kulbhushan-jadhav-case-india-899238.html
08-10-2020||National||Tourism going to be next growth driver for India: FAITH||The tourism sector is going to be the next growth driver for India but to achieve that, it needs to survive the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and revive, the Federation of Associations in Indian Tourism and Hospitality (FAITH) said on Thursday. Currently, each vertical of the tourism industry is under deep stress, it added. "Our first goal is to move India into the top-20 ranks in global tourism competitiveness in 5 years post Covid-19 and then make our place in the top-10 in five years after that," FAITH Chairman Nakul Anand said. Indian tourism is estimated to contribute 9-10 per cent to India's gross domestic product (GDP) on a direct and indirect basis, he added while addressing the virtual conference on the India Tourism Vision Day. "In the post-Covid-19 normal as our country moves towards the stated goal of becoming a USD 5-trillion economy, our vision is to have a tourism economic footprint of USD 500 billion. That would more than double the economic footprint of tourism from what it is today," Anand said. He added that this would unleash major employment growth for India. "Our industry has the potential to double the jobs that tourism influences from around five crore currently to over 10 crore." Each segment of the Indian tourism industry is committed to this goal. The way forward will entail contribution from each member association, he added. "While we remain optimistic of the growth in Indian tourism and its role in serving national priorities, the question today is of the industry's survival in the post-COVID-19 normal," Anand said. He added that this is the worst crisis ever to hit the tourism and hospitality industry, a crisis worse than the economic depression, the world wars and 9/11. As an industry, tourism was the first to be affected and will be the last to recover, he added. "Each vertical of our tourism industry is under deep stress — travel agents, hotels, tour operators, tourist transporters, restaurants, guides, and destinations. The list is endless. The RBI risk survey, the income tax and GST collections data and the GDP data all have repeatedly highlighted our industry's plight," Anand said. From now, till the time the vaccine is deployed, we need to sustain tourism and the service talent that forms the core of this industry, he added. "We believe this will be best served by our request for a Tourism COVID-19 Fund set up by the Ministry of Tourism where interest-free funds are given to support the employees and the operating costs of tourism companies," Anand said. This could be done through a direct benefits transfer against their PAN cards and GST identities, he added. "The tourism industry has been identified as one of 26 most-stressed industries by the RBI expert committee, eligible for restructuring. "We thus need to ensure that an across the board moratorium is made immediately applicable for tourism enterprises till March 2022 or till complete recovery happens and there should be no interest on interest during that period," Anand said. As we re-start tourism from a zero base today across all our verticals, we need revival policies in terms of GST correction, export status, infrastructure status , industry status, secured refunds, Services Export from India Scheme (SEIS), he added. "Finally, we believe that just like the way the GST council is structured, Indian tourism also needs to be structured through a constitutionally-empowered legislative body, a National Tourism Council comprising all relevant ministries and all chief ministers," he added. This will enable fast track government decision making and work on a 'One India-One Tourism' approach, leveraging and utilising full synergies of India's tourism potential across all states, Anand said. In line with Made in India, the vision of FAITH is 'Tourism - Made in India', to make India one of the most preferred tourism destinations both for domestic and international tourists, offering best-in-class tourism experiences, infrastructure and services right here in India, he added. "We are the next growth driver for India and like the white revolution, the green revolution and the digital revolution, the time now, is for a tourism revolution — leading to GDP growth, forex (foreign exchange) earnings and job creation. But, for that, we need to survive to revive," Anand said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tourism-going-to-be-next-growth-driver-for-india-faith-899239.html
08-10-2020||National||Muhammad Yunus stresses on importance of Covid-19 vaccine||Nobel laureate Muhammad Yunus on Thursday warned that many lives will be lost due to Covid-19 if the coronavirus vaccine is not declared a 'global common good'. He also said the vaccine should not be patented by anyone as it will be difficult for other pharmaceutical companies to produce it for not having license. "Many rich countries are paying huge amounts to those pharmaceutical companies which are in the process of producing the vaccines to get hold of the latter," Yunus said during a webinar organised by St Xavier's College, Kolkata, and the Yunus Centre, Bangladesh, Such companies are happy to make huge profits and have no concern about the countries that are not rich, he said. "This will result in many people losing their lives due to non-availability of the vaccine in the poor countries," the 2006 Nobel Peace Prize recipient said. Yunus said the polio vaccine was also declared a 'common good', which led to its eradication from the world. The other danger is that if the vaccine is not declared a 'common good', many pharmaceutical companies will manufacture fake vaccines for making profits, he said. Yunus, also the founder of Grameen Bank in Bangladesh, said the pandemic has exposed the weaknesses of "our entire system" and presented an opportunity to start afresh. "Covid has given us a path to choose and follow alternative economic models other than the ones which have been followed so far," he said. The Grameen Bank, he said, was set up as an alternative to the traditional banking system that only catered to the rich and ignored the poor. "We created a banking system based on trust and not collaterals," the Nobel laureate said. Yunus added that other threats looming large before mankind are global warming and artificial intelligence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/muhammad-yunus-stresses-on-importance-of-covid-19-vaccine-899246.html
08-10-2020||National||India can play key role in Afghan peace process: Abdullah Abdullah||India could play a vital role in establishing lasting peace in Afghanistan, said Abdullah Abdullah, who leads the council constituted by the conflict-ravaged country’s government to hold talks with the Taliban. The proposal for New Delhi to play a greater role in the peace process between the existing government of President Ashraf Ghani in Kabul and the Taliban came amid growing concerns in India about the possibility of Pakistan and China gaining undue advantage out of it and elbowing India out of Afghanistan. Abdullah, who is currently on a visit to New Delhi, on Thursday had a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who reiterated India’s “commitment towards sustainable peace and prosperity in Afghanistan and welcomed efforts towards a comprehensive and permanent ceasefire in Afghanistan”, according to a press release by the Ministry of External Affairs. The chairman of the High Council for National Reconciliation (HCNR) of Afghanistan briefed the prime minister about the peace process the Afghan government recently launched with the Taliban and the talks being held at Doha in Qatar. “In our friendly discussion we took stock of the latest developments on the #AfghanPeaceProcess (Afghan Peace Process), the talks in Doha, & (and) India’s support for the peace efforts,” Abdullah tweeted after meeting Modi. He also added that the Modi had assured him of India’s “continued support for the peace process and Afghanistan”. He later spoke on the peace process during a speech at the Manohar Parrikar Institute of Defence Studies and Analyses (MPIDSA). He urged New Delhi to play a greater role in the ongoing talks between the Afghan government’s peace council and the Taliban. He said the Afghans could now see some light at the end of the tunnel after years of ravaging war and would now come together to build a peaceful country, which would remain friends with the neighbourhood and beyond and be able to contribute to peace and security in the region. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on September 12 virtually participated in the ceremony held in Doha to mark the beginning of the formal negotiations between the Ghani’s Government in Kabul and the Taliban. He reiterated India’s position that any peace process in Afghanistan must be “Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled” and must respect the national sovereignty and territorial integrity of Afghanistan. He also said the peace process must preserve the progress made in the establishment of a democratic Islamic Republic in Afghanistan after the fall of Taliban in 2001. The interests of the minorities, women and vulnerable sections of society must be preserved, he added. India over the past few years contributed over $ 3 billion to support the reconstruction of infrastructure in Afghanistan. It, however, refrained from sending troops to Afghanistan and kept its military support to the conflict-hit country limited to providing training to officials and soldiers of the Afghan National Army and the supply of non-lethal defence hardware. It was in December 2015 that India started providing MI-25 helicopters to give some teeth to the Afghan Air Force.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-can-play-key-role-in-afghan-peace-process-abdullah-abdullah-899248.html
08-10-2020||National||Void in our nation that will perhaps never be filled: PM Modi on Ram Vilas Paswan's demise||Paswan died on Thursday at the age of 74. Reacting to Paswan's demise, the Prime Minister said, "I am saddened beyond words. There is a void in our nation that will perhaps never be filled." "Shri Ram Vilas Paswan Ji's demise is a personal loss. I have lost a friend, valued colleague and someone who was extremely passionate to ensure every poor person leads a life of dignity," he said. Hailing the Lok Janshakti Party patron for his rise in politics through hardwork and determination, Modi said as a young leader, Paswan resisted "tyranny and the assault on our democracy during the Emergency". "He was an outstanding Parliamentarian and Minister, making lasting contributions in several policy areas," Modi said. Paswan had undergone a heart surgery at a hospital here a few days ago. He had been in active politics for more than five decades and was one of the country's most noted Dalit leaders. He was the Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/void-in-our-nation-that-will-perhaps-never-be-filled-pm-modi-on-ram-vilas-paswans-demise-899251.html
08-10-2020||National||Nation has lost a visionary leader: President Kovind on Ram Vilas Paswan's demise||Paswan was the voice of the oppressed, and championed the cause of the marginalised, Kovind said, condoling his demise. "In the demise of Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, the nation has lost a visionary leader. He was among the most active and longest-serving members of parliament. He was the voice of the oppressed, and championed the cause of the marginalized,” the president tweeted. Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Paswan died at the age of 74 on Thursday. "A firebrand socialist in youth, mentored by the likes of Jayaprakash Narayan during anti-Emergency movement, Paswan ji had enviable rapport with masses and he ardently strove for their welfare. Condolences to his family and supporters,” Kovind said in another tweet. Announcing Paswan's death, his son Chirag Paswan tweeted in Hindi, "Papa...you are not in this world today but I know no matter where you are, you will always be with me. Miss you papa." Ram Vilas Paswan, who was the Lok Janshakti Party patron, had undergone a heart surgery at a hospital here a few days ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nation-has-lost-a-visionary-leader-president-kovind-on-ram-vilas-paswans-demise-899252.html
08-10-2020||National||Big names from cricket, Bollywood support govt's Jan Andolan for Covid-19||Several big names from sports and Bollywood on Thursday came out in support of the government's 'Jan Andolan against Covid-19' by posting on their social media accounts. While BCCI President and former cricketer Sourav Ganguly urged people to take all precautions to fight Covid-19, international wrestler Babita Phogat said citizens should unite in the fight against the pandemic. "It is important for us to be safe and healthy and take precautions to fight Covid-19," Ganguly posted and urged people to wear a mask, maintain social distancing, sanitise and wash hands regularly. Badminton player Saina Nehwal shared a video message on her Twitter handle asking people to keep safe as the festive season approaches. "This festive season, make sure you keep yourself and your loved ones safe. Wear a mask, wash your hands, and keep the physical distance. Join Jan Andolan against Covid-19," she said. Bollywood actors Salman Khan, Anil Kapoor, Kangana Ranaut, Kriti Sanon, Rajkumar Rao and many others voiced their support for the campaign and urged people to take all necessary precautions to beat the pandemic. "The worldwide crisis of corona may have many setbacks but it has the possibility of bringing us together like never before, let's pledge to #Unite2FightCorona," Ranaut tweeted and tagged PM Modi, Union Minister Prakash Javadekar, adding "thanks for this initiative #Unite2FightCorona". "Bhaiyo, beheno aur mitron in difficult times mein, only do three things: 6ft ka distance, mask peheno & wash & sanitise ur hands.  Let's implement PM Modi's  - Jan andolan against covid. Come on buck up india! Jai hind!! Narendramodi @pmoindia @MIB_india #UniteToFightCorona," tweeted Khan. The Prime Minister had earlier in the day asked people to follow coronavirus protocol. "Let us #Unite2FightCorona! Let us always remember: Wear a mask. Wash hands. Follow social distancing. Practice 'Do Gaj Ki Doori.' Together, we will succeed. Together, we will win against Covid-19," he tweeted. The 'jan andolan', launched by the government, involves spreading public awareness by putting up hoardings, wall paintings, electronic display boards in government premises, involvement of local and national influencers, running mobile vans for regular awareness generation and distribution of pamphlets and brochures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/big-names-from-cricket-bollywood-support-govts-jan-andolan-for-covid-19-899258.html
08-10-2020||National||7 Indians kidnapped in Libya; govt in touch with Libyan authorities to rescue them: MEA||Seven Indians, hailing from Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, were kidnapped in Libya last month and India is in touch with authorities in the African nation to secure their release, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Thursday. The Indians were kidnapped at a place called Asshwerif on September 14 when they were on their way to the Tripoli airport to catch a flight to India, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said at a media briefing. "The government is in touch with their family members and would like to assure them that we are making all possible efforts in consultation and coordination with Libyan authorities and the employer to trace our nationals and secure their release from captivity at the earliest," he said. Srivastava said the Indian nationals were working at a construction and oil field supplies company. "The employer has been contacted by the kidnappers and shown photographs as proof that the Indian nationals were safe and keeping well," he said. Libya, an oil-rich country in North Africa, has been witnessing large-scale violence and unrest since the fall of Muammar Gaddafi's four-decade regime in 2011. Srivastava said the Indian embassy in Tunisia has reached out to the Libyan government authorities as also the international organisations present there, seeking their help in rescuing the Indian nationals. The Indian mission in Tunisia handles matters relating to the welfare of Indian nationals in Libya. In September 2015, an advisory was issued by the government for Indian nationals to avoid traveling to Libya in view of the security situation there. In May 2016, the government imposed a complete travel ban irrespective of the purpose in view of the deteriorating security situation in Libya. "This travel ban is still in force," said Srivastava.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/7-indians-kidnapped-in-libya-govt-in-touch-with-libyan-authorities-to-rescue-them-mea-899259.html
08-10-2020||National||Ram Vilas Paswan, the ‘Mausam Vaigyanik’, knew his time was up||Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, one of the most prominent Dalit leaders of the country, died on Thursday at the age of 74, his son Chirag Paswan said. The Lok Janshakti Party founder and Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution was admitted to a private hospital here for several weeks and had recently undergone a heart operation. Paswan - The political ‘Mausam Vaigyanik’ Three months before the 2009 Lok Sabha election, the then Union Minister, Ram Vilas Paswan called up RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav and told him to give a few more Lok Sabha seats to the angry Congress in Bihar “or else, we will be out of the UPA”. Lalu, the then Union Railway Minister in the UPA-I and adept at knowing the pulse of the people, paid no heed to his Cabinet colleague. When the results of the Lok Sabha poll were announced in May 2009, Lalu’s RJD was decimated while Paswan, the LJP chief, himself lost from his fiefdom Hajipur. The Congress, as predicted by Paswan, rode to power for the second consecutive term. Since then, Lalu started calling Paswan a ‘Mausam Vaigyanik’ (a weather scientist) who could read well in advance which way the political wind was blowing. Lalu also conceded in private that not heeding to the sane suggestion of Paswan was one of the biggest political blunders of his life as he was not only ‘shunted’ out of the UPA, he was also jailed in 2013. But Paswan, true to his nomenclature as Mausam Vaigyanik, changed colours in 2014 and crossed over the fence (to NDA) for greener pastures. He and his son Chirag Paswan were among the six LJP MPs who romped home in the Modi wave of 2014. Paswan was invited to join the Narendra Modi Government as the Food and Civil Supplies Minister. It was a record of sorts again, as Paswan was the only Union Minister who had served under six Prime Ministers. (For the record, since December 1989, Paswan has served under V P Singh, Deve Gowda, IK Gujral, Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Manmohan Singh before joining the Narendra Modi Government). Born in Bihar’s Khagaria district in July 1946, Paswan wanted to be a police officer and had cleared the examination for DSP. But eventually became a legislator in 1969 (amid row over his age). But he hogged the nation’s limelight when his name was entered into the Guinness Book of World Records for winning from Hajipur reserved constituency with a record margin in 1977. That record was later broken by Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao when he won a Lok Sabha bypoll from the undivided Andhra Pradesh in 1991. A prominent Dalit leader, who had friends across the political spectrum, Paswan had been a parliamentarian since 1977, barring two terms 1984-89 and 2009-14. In 2019, he made two decisions: One, he will not contest Lok Sabha poll (and, therefore, became a Rajya Sabha member from Bihar) and second, he passed on the baton to his only son Chirag who took over as the LJP president from his father in November 2019. The ‘Mausam Vaigyanik’ might not have said it in so many words but he knew his time was up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ram-vilas-paswan-the-mausam-vaigyanik-knew-his-time-was-up-899260.html
08-10-2020||National||New flying schools at Belgavi, Kalaburgi soon; AAI to invite bids||The Centre has cleared plans to set up six flying schools at less utilised airports, including at Belagavi and Kalaburagi, to meet the growing demand for pilots in the country. Addressing a press conference here, Airports Authority of India Chairman Arvind Singh said the government has approved a policy to set up flying training organisations at six airports – Belagavi, Jalgaon, Khajuraho, Kalaburagi, Lilabari and Salem. Over the next five years, India would require an estimated 9,488 pilots to meet the growing demand of its burgeoning civil aviation sector. Currently, India’s scheduled airlines employ over 9,000 pilots. The civil aviation regulator DGCA issues about 700-800 commercial pilot licenses every year, of which 30% are given to pilots who have undergone training in a foreign country. Singh said the new flying schools would help meet the growing demand for pilots and the government would offer incentives to them to set up shop here. The flying school operators would be selected through a competitive bidding process and international players too would be allowed to participate. These six airports are less utilised due to limited number of flight operations, but have adequate land resources to support flying schools. “We will soon come up with requests for proposals for these airports.. We will offer a host of concessions such as reduced concessionaire fee and other charges that flying schools pay,” Singh said. The decision to open new flying schools was taken on recommendation of a committee of experts chaired by former Indian Air Force chief Fali H Major.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-flying-schools-at-belgavi-kalaburgi-soon-aai-to-invite-bids-899270.html
08-10-2020||National||Congress leaders condole death of Ram Vilas Paswan||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday described Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan as a towering personality who stood with the cause of social justice and empowerment of the most marginalised. Paswan died at a Delhi hospital on Thursday evening at the age of 74. "My deepest condolences on the passing away of Ram Vilas Paswan. A towering personality, who stood with the cause of social justice and empowerment of the most marginalised, Paswan will be forever remembered for asserting the cause of social and political equity," Gandhi said. "I remember his long association as an ally and as a competent and dynamic minister of the UPA. My thoughts are with his wife, (son) Chirag and all the family members, friends and followers in this moment of loss and grief," she said in her condolence message. A host of other Congress leaders also condoled the demise of Paswan, with Rahul Gandhi saying that with his passing away, the poor and Dalits have lost a strong political voice. "The news of untimely demise of Ram Vilas Paswan ji is tragic. The poor and Dalit have lost a strong political voice today. My condolences to his family," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel described Paswan as a champion of the downtrodden, who had immense faith in India's pluralism and diversity. "Chirag, shocked to hear about the demise of your father. Ram Vilas Paswan ji was a champion of the downtrodden and had immense faith in India's pluralism and diversity. It's a big loss for the nation. My condolences to you, your family and all his supporters," he said on Twitter. Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad said he was shocked to hear the sad news of the death of Paswan. "He was deeply committed to the upliftment of the downtrodden. His demise has left a vacuum which will be difficult to fill. My heartfelt condolences to his family. May the departed soul rest in peace," he said. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said, "Ram Vilas Paswan ji has been a neighbour of my mother for years and we had a personal relationship with his family. Deeply saddened over the news of his demise. My deepest condolences to Chirag ji and all the family members. We are with you in this sad hour." Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said he was deeply hurt by the demise of Paswan. "Paswan left an indelible mark in the country's politics and raised the voice of the underprivileged. He played an active role in the eradication of poverty in the UPA government along with Mrs Sonia Gandhi and Dr Manmohan Singh. Emotional tribute," he said on Twitter. Paswan, the Union minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, died on Thursday. The Lok Janshakti Party patron had undergone a heart surgery at a hospital here a few days ago. He had been in active politics for more than five decades and was one of the country's most noted Dalit leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-leaders-condole-death-of-ram-vilas-paswan-899285.html
08-10-2020||National||India, Sri Lanka talk on implementation of $15 million grant to boost Buddhist ties||India and Sri Lanka held talks on the implementation of a $15 million grant for the promotion of Buddhist ties between the two countries, the Indian High Commission here said on Thursday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on September 26 announced the grant assistance of $15 million for the promotion of Buddhist ties between India and Sri Lanka to further enhance bilateral cultural links. The Prime Minister made the announcement during a virtual summit with his Sri Lankan counterpart Mahinda Rajapaksa. Deputy High Commissioner of India Vinod K Jacob met Kapila Gunawardena, Secretary, Ministry of Buddhasasana, Religious and Cultural Affairs to discuss the implementation of the grant from India for the promotion of Buddhist ties between India and Sri Lanka, the High Commission said in a statement. Jacob sad it was a first of its kind grant announcement by India and may be used for the construction/renovation of Buddhist monasteries, capacity development, cultural exchanges, archaeological cooperation, reciprocal exposition of the Buddha’s relics, strengthening engagement of Buddhist scholars and clergy, it said. Gunawardena welcomed the suggestions and stated that the Ministry of Buddhasasana, Religious and Cultural Affairs will work towards finalising various projects to utilise the Indian grant. The two sides also discussed other Indian grant projects currently under implementation such as the Kandyan Dancing School being constructed at the Sri Lanka International Buddhist Academy (SIBA) campus in Pallekele, Kandy, and the Jaffna Cultural Centre. The Deputy High Commissioner also briefed the Secretary on India's advancements in the niche field of digital documentation of cultural and world heritage sites in order to preserve them for posterity and invited Sri Lanka to partner in this advanced field. Gunawardena noted that Sri Lanka would be happy to partner with India in this initiative to conserve cultural heritage, the statement said. A joint statement issued after the Modi-Rajapaksa talks had said the Sri Lankan leader welcomed the announcement made by his Indian counterpart on India's grant assistance of $15 million for the promotion of Buddhist ties. It said both sides agreed to facilitate tourism by enhancing connectivity and early establishment of an air bubble between the two countries to resume travel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sri-lanka-talk-on-implementation-of-15-million-grant-to-boost-buddhist-ties-899289.html
08-10-2020||National||Covid-19: IMA questions Harsh Vardhan on Ayush protocol||Days after the Central government released a Covid-19 management protocol based on Ayurveda, India’s largest body of doctors raised several posers to the Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, asking him to come clean on the protocol with scientific evidence. “Is there satisfactory evidence regarding the claims made from studies done on Covid-19 patients? If so, whether the evidence is weak or moderate or strong? The evidence should be in the public domain and available for scientific scrutiny,” the Indian Medical Association said in a statement. Arguing that science demands reproducibility of a claim in non-conflict situations and outcome of double-blind control studies as the evidence of a claim, the IMA wondered whether the proponents of the claim and ministry officials would subject themselves as volunteers in such studies. The doctors asked Vardhan to disclose how many of his ministerial colleagues have so far made the informed choice of getting treated under this protocol. "IMA demands that the Union Health Minister should come clean on the above posers. If not, he is inflicting a fraud on the nation and gullible patients by calling placebos as drugs," IMA national president Rajan Sharma and secretary-general R V Asokan said in the statement. The government, on its part, had stated that Ayush protocol was supplementary to the standard treatment protocol issued by the Health Ministry on the advice of the Indian Council of Medical Research. Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha, Secretary, the Ministry of Ayurveda, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy (AYUSH), clarified that the protocol based on the Indian system of medicine should be considered as a supplement and not a replacement to the standard protocol. It aimed to ensure that the mild cases didn’t progress into severe ones and give support to asymptomatic Covid-19 positive patients, Kotecha said. “This is also not meant for people having hypoxia or lack of oxygen, which is associated with a severe form of the disease.” The Ayush protocol was created based on empirical evidence and emerging trends from more than 66 ongoing studies registered on the Clinical Trial Registry of India, Kotecha said. The IMA, however, countered that argument claiming that empirical evidence is nothing but anecdotal evidence, which could not be relied upon. The row erupted on a day when India recorded 78,524 new cases continuing on its three-week-long path of declining numbers after attaining a peak on September 17. As many as 971 people died in the past 24 hours taking the toll to 1,05,526. The total number of active cases stands 9.02 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-ima-questions-harsh-vardhan-on-ayush-protocol-899296.html
08-10-2020||National||Fake TRPs: BARC welcomes probe, affirms commitment to represent true numbers||Amid controversy over an alleged plot to manipulate TRPs, the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) on Thursday said it is committed to report a true picture of television viewership and welcomed the Mumbai Police's investigation into the case. Earlier in the day, city police chief Param Bir Singh claimed to have busted a racket to manipulate TRPs. The police has arrested four persons, including a former employee of Hansa Research, a company engaged by BARC. TRP (television rating point) is a tool to judge which TV programmes and channels are viewed the most. "As in all our previous cases of suspected panel homes intrusions, BARC India continues to follow its established vigilance and disciplinary guidelines... BARC India appreciates the efforts of the Mumbai Police and will provide the support asked of it," a BARC India spokesperson said. The body added that it remains "steadfastly true" to its purpose to accurately and faithfully report "what India watches". "Hansa Research and BARC conducted an investigation into the matter over the last few weeks, the conclusion of which resulted in Hansa Research filing an FIR against an ex-employee who was engaged in some wrongdoing," Praveen Nijhara, Hansa's chief executive, said in a statement. He added that the agency is always vigilant and will cooperate with the law enforcement authorities. In a statement, the city police said BARC functions under the Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting and the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India, and it has installed 30,000 barometers in homes to monitor TV consumption and come out with the TRP numbers. It is based on these TRPs that marketers place advertisements and manipulation of the numbers may have resulted in losses, the police said. Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh told reporters that Republic TV channel, facing flak over its attack on the city police and Maharashtra government in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case, was also involved in the "false TRP" racket. Republic TV, in a statement, rubbished Singh's claims. Arnab Goswami, editor-in-chief of the channel, said the Mumbai Police chief made false claims against Republic TV as the channel had questioned him in the Sushant Singh Rajput case investigation. Goswami further said the channel will file a criminal defamation case against the Mumbai police commissioner. Meanwhile, news media company ABP Network urged advertisers to be more circumspect about TRPs. "This incident has once again, severely questioned the credibility and reliability of BARC data. Numerous incongruities have been clearly visible in their viewership ratings in the past. It is especially disturbing to witness the same at a time of such extreme volatility in the industry. "Contrary to the popular belief, reliability on BARC data shouldn't be the sole criteria for advertisers to make investments anymore, as these rating, (while not only tampered with), also fail to emphasise on the real audience's preference for content," its chief executive Avinash Pandey said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fake-trps-barc-welcomes-probe-affirms-commitment-to-represent-true-numbers-899298.html
08-10-2020||National||Ram Vilas Paswan's death a great loss to country: Former PM Deve Gowda||Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda on Thursday expressed grief over the demise of Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, who had served as the Railway Minister in his cabinet, and said it was a great loss to the country. Paswan (74), who was the Lok Janshakti Party patron, had undergone a heart surgery at a hospital here a few days ago, died on Thursday. "I am deeply saddened by the demise of Union Minister and 8-term MP Shri. Ram Vilas Paswan ji. He was very dear to me and had worked as the Railways Minister in my cabinet. Losing a very senior leader like him is a great loss for our country," Gowda tweeted. "May god give his family and well-wishers the strength to bear this pain," the JD(S) patriarch said. Paswan was the Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution. Karnataka BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel also expressed grief over the passing away of Paswan. He had been in active politics for more than five decades and was a senior Dalit leader, he said. Congress legislature party leader Siddaramaiah in a tweet said, "Saddened by the demise of Union Minister Shri. Ram Vilas Paswan. He was one of the finest leaders of our country and his work speaks for his commitment. My deepest condolences to his family members and well-wishers."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ram-vilas-paswans-death-a-great-loss-to-country-former-pm-deve-gowda-899299.html
08-10-2020||National||Modi govt committed to fulfill Ram Vilas Paswan's commitments: Amit Shah||Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday expressed grief over the demise of Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan and said it has created a void in Indian politics. Paswan, 74, passed away at a hospital here on Thursday. In a series of tweets in Hindi, Shah said the Modi government is committed to fulfilling his commitments towards the welfare of the poor and development of Bihar. "I am extremely sad over the demise of Ram Vilas Paswan ji, who had always fought for the welfare and rights of the poor and the deprived. In his political life, he always kept national interest and public welfare paramount. His death has created a void in Indian politics,” he said. The Home Minister said whether it was to fight against the Emergency of 1975 or to make the Modi government's welfare programmes for poor meaningful during the coronavirus epidemic, Paswan had played a unique role in all these.  "While working in many important positions, Paswan was beloved by everyone with his simple and gentle personality,” he said. Shah said Paswan's absence in Indian politics and the Union Cabinet will always remain and the Modi government is committed to fulfilling his commitments for the welfare of poor and development of Bihar. “My condolences to his family and supporters and I pray for the peace of the departed soul. Om Shanti,” he said. In Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said Paswan was a senior and experienced leader who successfully discharged his duties as a Union minister. He had always been active for the welfare of weaker sections and served for a long time as MP. "It would not be easy to fill the void created by his death," Adityanath said. Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel and Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha also condoled the demise of Paswan. Bahujan Samaj Party president Mayawati also condoled his demise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govt-committed-to-fulfill-ram-vilas-paswans-commitments-amit-shah-899305.html
08-10-2020||National||Bhagat Singh Koshyari, Uddhav Thackeray, Sharad Pawar condole Ram Vilas Paswan's death||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday condoled the death of Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan and said he was a popular leader who stood for deprived and weaker sections of the society. NCP chief Sharad Pawar and BJP leader Nitin Gadkari also expressed grief over the death of the veteran politician and paid rich tributes to him. The Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) founder, one of the most prominent Dalit leaders of the country, died on Thursday in a Delhi hospital at the age of 74. Koshyari said Paswan was one of the most popular leaders from Bihar and enjoyed strong mass support. He had the distinction of serving as a Union minister in various governments and handling different portfolios ably, the governor said. "We have lost a great parliamentarian and a popular leader," Koshyari said. Thackeray said Paswan was connected with ordinary people all through his long political career. The country has lost a leader who stood for deprived and weaker sectionsof the society, the CM said. Pawar also expressed grief over Paswans death. Saddened to hear about the demise of Shri Ramvilas Paswan. He was a veteran leader and founder of Lok Janshakti Party. "I had a long association with him as a Parliamentarian. My sincere condolences to his family. RIP, Pawar tweeted. In Nagpur, Gadkari, a Union minister, said Paswan had an important contribution in upliftment of the poor, deprived and underprivileged sections of the society. Gadkari tweeted, "I am numbed by the news of passing away of Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan. My emotional tributes to him. "Paswanji had an important contribution in the development of poor, deprived and underprivileged. May the Lord Grant peace to his soul and strength to his family," said the BJP leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhagat-singh-koshyari-uddhav-thackeray-sharad-pawar-condole-ram-vilas-paswans-death-899307.html
08-10-2020||National||Nitish Kumar, Lalu Yadav, Sushil Kumar Modi fondly remember Ram Vilas Paswan||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, his deputy Sushil Kumar Modi and RJD president Lalu Prasad on Thursday condoled the death of Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan in Delhi. Paswan (74), who was the Lok Janshakti Party patron, had undergone heart surgery at a hospital in the national capital a few days ago. His son Chirag Paswan informed about his demise. A veteran Dalit leader, Paswan was the Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution. He was born on July 5, 1946, in Khagaria district of Bihar. The Bihar Chief Minister in his condolence message said: "Paswan was a big signature in the Indian politics." He highlighted Paswan's start of political innings with a win in the Bihar legislative assembly election in 1969. Paswan hit the national headlines after a thumping victory from Hajipur Parliamentary constituency for the first time in 1977, he said. Fondly remembering his old ties with the veteran leader, Kumar said, "I am personally pained by his death." Jailed RJD supremo Lalu Prasad, who has known Paswan since the 1970s when the former was a student leader and the latter a young member of the Bihar assembly, offered his condolences on his twitter handle. "Shocked by the news of the death of Ram Vilas bhai (brother). Memories of an unbroken friendship that lasted for 45 years, during which we waged various social and political battles, are floating before my eyes. Ram Vilas bhai, you left us too soon. "I am unable to say much more. Om Shanti!", tweeted Prasad who was also Paswans cabinet colleague in the UPA-1 government. Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi, a senior BJP leader who was like Prasad a dynamic student leader in the 1970s, also recalled his decades-old relationship with Ram Vilas Paswan. "He left an indelible imprint as a minister who held numerous portfolios in his career. The people of Bihar can never forget his contributions. "He was a Dalit leader who took all sections of the society along, a reason why he enjoyed the support of the OBCs and the upper castes as well", Modi said in his condolence message. Former chief minister Rabri Devi and her son Tejashwi Yadav also condoled the death of Paswan and recalled his close ties with their family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nitish-kumar-lalu-yadav-sushil-kumar-modi-fondly-remember-ram-vilas-paswan-899312.html
08-10-2020||National||J&K LG announces 'comprehensive' employment plan to fill up 25k vacancies||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Thursday announced a "comprehensive" employment plan to fill up 25,000 vacant posts in the union territory. A total of 10,000 posts have already advertised, he added. The UT administration is working on fulfilling the assurance of 50,000 jobs for the youth announced by the prime minister, Sinha said.  "Central Armed Police Force, paramilitary forces, and JKP recruitment rallies shall also be conducted across the UT," he added. Sinha was speaking after visiting the Peeri area of Budhal block in Rajouri district during a 'back to village phase-3' programme. On the occasion, the Lt Governor e-inaugurated a multi-purpose sports stadium in Rajouri worth Rs 12.3 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-lg-announces-comprehensive-employment-plan-to-fill-up-25k-vacancies-899313.html
08-10-2020||National||NHRC issues advisory on protection of human rights of women||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has issued advisories to various ministries and states, stressing on human rights aspects, including protection of rights of women, in the pandemic scenario, officials said on Thursday. In view of the unprecedented situation across the country and being "deeply concerned" about the rights of the vulnerable and marginalised sections of the society affected by the Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant lockdowns, the NHRC had constituted a 'Committee of Experts on Impact of Covid-19 Pandemic on Human Rights and Future Response', it said in a statement. The committee included representatives from civil society organisations, independent domain experts, and representatives from ministries and departments concerned, the statement said. The panel was tasked to assess the impact of the pandemic on realisation of the rights of the people, especially the marginalised and vulnerable sections of the population which have been "disproportionately impacted", it added. After due consideration of the impact assessment and recommendations made by the committee of experts, the commission has issued the advisories on the protection of the human rights of women in the pandemic situation, the statement said. The commission has also requested the ministries and the states and UTs concerned to implement the recommendations made in the advisory and send it action-taken reports, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhrc-issues-advisory-on-protection-of-human-rights-of-women-899314.html
08-10-2020||National||State funeral for Ram Vilas Paswan; tricolor to fly at half-mast||As a mark of respect to Union Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Ram Vilas Paswan who passed away on Thursday, the Centre said that a state funeral will be accorded to the minister and the national flag will be flown at half-mast on Friday in Delhi and the capitals of the states and union territories where it is regularly flown. The national flag will also fly at half-mast at the place where the funeral will take place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/state-funeral-for-ram-vilas-paswan-tricolor-to-fly-at-half-mast-899324.html
08-10-2020||National||Ram Vilas Paswan — A kingmaker who outlasted many kings||In politics people you support may forget you sometimes but if you attack a group, then they will never forget and forgive you, Ram Vilas Paswan once said in an informal get-together when someone prodded him on the secret of goodwill and warm equations he enjoyed across parties of contrasting ideological hues and communities. This kernel of Paswan's political philosophy may well explain his durability as a successful politician who might not have ever been a king but as a "kingmaker", as he often described himself, outlasted many kings in his illustrious career of more than five decades. The veteran Dalit leader died on Thursday at the age of 74 at a private hospital here where he had recently undergone a heart operation. Paswan believed in making friends and building bridges, and if he did once in a while make angry comments against rivals, then it was mostly guided more by the demands of realpolitik and quickly forgotten. He took pride in describing himself as a cementing force among, at times, warring allies. Elected for the first time as an MLA in 1969 as a member of an anti-Congress front after quitting his job as a police official, he rose through the ranks of various socialist parties, which changed forms with a periodic interval, and became a leading Dalit face. Born in Khagaria in Bihar in 1946, Paswan was elected to Lok Sabha eight times and was currently a Rajya Sabha member. K C Tyagi of the Janatal Dal (United), who was with Paswan in the Charan Singh-led Lok Dal for years and described him as a socialist colleague of over 45 years, said the Lok Janshakti Party founder played a key role in consolidating Dalits in north India and remained their voice. His death brings the curtains downs on yet another leading socialist politician associated with the anti-Emergency movement of 1975-77. He would fondly recite a few poems, some of which he wrote himself, imbued with political and social messages. He was one of the key ministers in the V P Singh government, which came to power in 1989, and pushed for implementing the Mandal Commission report, which recommended reservation for other backward classes, upending the pivot of politics, especially in Hindi-speaking states like Bihar and Uttar Pradesh forever. Paswan's simplicity and sincerity will remain exemplary, Tyagi said. It is an ode to his politics of bridging social or political divides that he was one of the most liked state leaders among the upper castes even though he drew his support mostly from Dalits, a group which at times shared antagonistic relations with the more prosperous communities due to a number of social and political reasons. It is also a tribute to his worth as a politician and his warm acceptance across parties as contrasting in their ideologies as the Congress and the BJP that he was courted by arch rivals like Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Sonia Gandhi and served as a valuable minister in the BJP-led NDA as well as the Congress-led UPA governments. When he quit the Vajpayee government due to his growing differences with the saffron party, he had also attacked the then Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi but when he joined hands with the Modi-led BJP in 2014, he soon became a trusted colleague of the prime minister, especially on Dalit issues. In the first half of his political life, he was a sharp critic of the RSS and, though he mellowed down later, Paswan continued to maintain that the Hindutva organisation needed to change its image among Dalits. He was, however, also an enthusiastic supporter of PM Modi's works for Dalits and took on the government's critics over the issue. He was at times mocked as 'mausam vaigyanik' (weatherman) for his skill to navigate his ways into an alliance that would eventually come to power after elections. However, many believed it was an over simplification and noted that he was almost forced to quit the UPA in 2014 after Lalu Prasad's RJD argued that the Lok Janshakti Party should not be given more than three seats in the Lok Sabha polls. His decision to not ally with the Congress in the 2009 Lok Sabha polls boomeranged on him as he suffered a rare loss in his own seat and then remained out of the UPA-2 government. Always a part of national politics, Paswan nursed his vote bank in the state, unlike many of his contemporaries who faded away as their disconnect with grassroots grew. He had formed the Dalit Sena in 1980 to voice the issues related to Scheduled Castes. His death, however, could not have come at a more inopportune time for his 37-year-old son Chirag Paswan, who is now heading the party his father founded in 2000. No longer in the ruling National Democratic Alliance in Bihar, Chirag Paswan is taking on Chief Minister Nitish Kumar's JD(U) as well as the opposition alliance in the assembly polls and will miss out on his father's experience of deftly navigating several such crises in the past. Paswan's death may also spark an upsurge of support for his scion among his party's supporters and sympathisers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ram-vilas-paswan-a-kingmaker-who-outlasted-many-kings-899325.html
08-10-2020||National||Haryana: BJP hopes to win Baroda bypoll, Congress says people will teach them a lesson||The BJP on Thursday exuded confidence of winning the Baroda assembly seat in Sonipat in the November bypoll while the Congress asserted that people are waiting to teach the ruling party a lesson for its “anti-farmer” policies. Haryana BJP chief O P Dhankar said the Baroda people will ensure the BJP candidate’s victory in the bypoll by voting for the development. “The people of Baroda constituency, like the rest of the state, want development. They will vote for development,” Dhankar told reporters in Gurgaon in response to queries over the poll prospect of the ruling dispensation candidate. Discarding Dhankar’s claim, Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja asserted that the people are eagerly waiting for the bypoll to teach this “anti-farmer” and “anti-people” government a lesson. “Not even one section of people, including the poor, employees, youths and farmers, who are already up in arms against the three farm laws, is happy with this government,” she claimed. The Baroda assembly seat, traditionally a Congress stronghold, has fallen vacant following the death of the party’s MLA Shri Krishan Hooda in April this year. Dwelling upon the BJP’s developmental work, Dhankar said the people have seen his party’s government work in the state during its previous term and have been seeing it now for the last one year of the BJP-JJP rule. On Baroda being considered a Congress stronghold, Dhankar said Jind too was viewed so but the BJP won the seat in a bypoll early last year and retained it even later during the state assembly elections in October 2019. None of the two parties has decided their candidates for the Baroda bypoll as yet. While the state BJP is to hold a meeting on October 10 to choose the names of its probable candidates for the seat, Shelja said her party will soon announce the name of its candidate. She said the party's state in-charge Vivek Bansal will consult senior leaders from the state and a list of probable candidates would be made and forwarded to the party high command to select the candidate. She told reporters that so far 25 aspirants have applied for the Congress ticket. The bypoll for the Baroda assembly seat is to be held on November 3 and the counting of votes is to be undertaken on November 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haryana-bjp-hopes-to-win-baroda-bypoll-congress-says-people-will-teach-them-a-lesson-899334.html
08-10-2020||National||Javadekar attacks Cong, says trampling on media freedom won't be tolerated by people of India||Union minister Prakash Javadekar on Thursday attacked the Congress for allegedly targeting the media and said trampling on media freedom will not be tolerated by the people of India. His reaction came after the Mumbai Police claimed to have arrested four persons in a Television Rating Points (TRP) manipulation racket and alleged that Republic TV was also involved in it. In a tweet, Javadekar, the Information and Broadcasting Minister, said, "Free press is a defining feature of our democracy and a cherished ideal of the Constitution. Trampling on media freedom will not be tolerated by people of India." "Targeting of the media by #Congress and its allies is against all principles of democracy and is unacceptable," he added. BJP president J P Nadda also targeted the Congress over the issue. "Shooting the messenger is an art the Congress, their allies and eco-system have mastered. They’ve been unapologetic about it since the Emergency. Their assaults on @republic and trampling over media freedom will never be tolerated by the people of India," he tweeted. "If the Congress, their allies and eco-system feel their incompetence and inefficiency can be hidden by whimsical witch-hunts against media, they are mistaken. Instead, they should learn what democracy is and practice a democratic temperament," he said in another tweet. Earlier in the day, Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh told reporters that Republic TV channel, facing flak over its attack on Mumbai police and Maharashtra government in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case, was also involved in the "false TRP" racket. The Mumbai Police crime branch, which unearthed the TRP racket, has arrested two persons, owners of two Marathi channels, for manipulating viewership ratings, Singh said. TRP is a tool to judge which TV programmes are viewed the most and also indicates the viewers' choice and popularity of a particular channel. Singh said Republic TV channel is also involved in the TRP racket and those responsible will be arrested, be it a director, promoter or any other employee of the channel. Republic TV, in a statement, rubbished the claims. Arnab Goswami, editor-in-chief of the channel, said the Mumbai Police chief made false claims against Republic TV as the channel had questioned the investigation in the Sushant Singh Rajput case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/javadekar-attacks-cong-says-trampling-on-media-freedom-wont-be-tolerated-by-people-of-india-899340.html
08-10-2020||National||AYUSH ministry body signs MoU with Amity University to promote research in Ayurvedic sciences||Continuing with its policy of forging partnerships for promoting and developing the AYUSH systems of healthcare, the All India Institute of Ayurveda (AIIA) here under the AYUSH ministry has inked an MoU with the Amity University for promoting research in Ayurvedic sciences. The memorandum of understanding (MoU) of the AIIA is with the Amity Institute of Indian System of Medicine, which was established in 2018 by the Amity University in recognition of the growing importance of the Indian system of medicine, the ministry said in a statement on Thursday. The MoU envisages collaboration to ensure quality and standardisation of Ayurvedic drugs as well as in PhD programmes in natural product chemistry and pharmacy. Studies in pharmaceutics, pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics have also been identified as potential areas for collaboration, the statement said, adding that the MoU will lead to joint projects and publications as well. The partnership is expected to result in some cutting-edge research in Ayurveda as well as in the promotion and spread of knowledge associated with Ayurvedic Sciences across the globe. It will integrate traditional knowledge with modern sciences and add new dimensions to research in Ayurveda. The Ministry of AYUSH plays a big role in introducing and promoting the Indian system of medicine globally in the current Covid-19 pandemic scenario, the statement said. Ayurveda has made a mark by providing prophylactic solutions, the viability of many of which has been established through scientific studies, it added. "The ministry has accepted the need for forging partnerships with like-minded and stake-holding institutions for increasing the depth and scope of the AYUSH health solutions that are available to the public," the statement said. It has also consciously encouraged public-private partnerships (PPPs) as a strategy to augment the inflow of resources into the Ayush sector. The current MoU is an outcome of this approach. "The two institutions will work together for evolving knowledge and procedures, which will be of use to the national healthcare system and ultimately, to health solutions that will be of relevance at a population scale," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ayush-ministry-body-signs-mou-with-amity-university-to-promote-research-in-ayurvedic-sciences-899341.html
08-10-2020||National Politics||NCP to contest Bihar Assembly polls||The NCP on Thursday said it will contest the Bihar Assembly polls, and released a list of its 40 star campaigners for the elections. The party in a statement said it will share details of its poll outing in the eastern state soon. NCP president Sharad Pawar will be the party's key star campaigner for the polls, it said. Maharashtra Minority Affairs Minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik, party MPs Praful Patel, Sunil Tatkare, Supriya Sule and Fauzia Khan are among the other star campaigners. Elections for the 243-member Bihar Assembly will be held in three phases on October 28, November 3 and November 7 and the counting of votes will take place on November 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ncp-to-contest-bihar-assembly-polls-899091.html
08-10-2020||National Politics||Ex-DGP Gupteshwar Pandey: Twice bitten by political bug, but always shy||“I am not contesting any election.... Please don’t make phone calls to enquire about it,” former DGP of Bihar, Gupteshwar Pandey, posted an emotional post on Facebook, a day after he was denied a ticket. Sharing his thoughts, he dwelt at length that ever since he took VRS in September 2020 and joined the JD(U) in October, speculations were rife that he would be contesting the ensuing Assembly election as Nitish’s nominee, “but, in politics, there are certain compulsions.....However, Nitish Kumar has not let me down. He never deceives anyone.... I will work for the party like an ordinary worker.” Incidentally, the 1987 batch IPS officer, Pandey has been denied poll ticket twice since 2009. Eleven years ago, when he was an IG-rank officer, he took VRS on the eve of the 2009 Lok Sabha election. He was speculated to contest the parliamentary poll from Buxar as the BJP candidate in place of party’s veteran parliamentarian Lalmuni Choubey. However, Choubey, an Advani protege, managed to get the BJP ticket from Buxar, and the IPS officer had to beat a hasty retreat and withdraw his VRS application. In 2020, the clock turned a full circle when Pandey met a similar fate. The Director General of Police (DGP) of Bihar, who was to retire in February 2021, opted for voluntary retirement in September. Within a fortnight of his VRS, he joined the JD(U) amid much fanfare. It was speculated that he might be fielded from either Buxar, his birth place, or Shahpur in Bhojpur. Incidentally, both the seats went to the BJP under the seat-sharing pact with the JD(U) and Pandey was left twiddling his thumbs. Interestingly, the BJP has fielded Parshuram Chaturvedi, a former constable, from Buxar. To rub salt on Pandey’s wounds, the JD(U) gave ticket to his batch-mate Sunil Kumar, a super cop in the DG rank, who superannuated two months back to join Nitish’s organisation. A 1987-batch IPS officer, Sunil is admired by all for being an upright and honest officer. Sunil has been fielded as the JD(U) nominee from Bhore in Gopalganj from where his brother Anil Kumar won during the 2015 Assembly election as the Congress candidate. This year, Anil is unlikely to contest the poll.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ex-dgp-gupteshwar-pandey-twice-bitten-by-political-bug-but-always-shy-899092.html
08-10-2020||National Politics||Where does he get such 'nasha': MP minister mocks Rahul Gandhi||Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra on Thursday ridiculed Congress leader Rahul Gandhi over his remark that the UPA government would have thrown out China in 15 minutes, and sought to know from where does he get such "intoxicating stuff". Referring to the Ladakh standoff, Gandhi on Tuesday said had the UPA been in power, "We would have evicted and thrown out China and it would not have taken 15 minutes to do so". In 2018, during the campaign for Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh Assembly polls, Gandhi had said the Congress will waive off farmers' loans within 10 days if it comes to power. "In ten days, loan will be waived off. China will be wiped out in 15 minutes. I bow to that teacher who has taught him. I am unable to understand from where he gets such high quality 'nasha' (intoxicating stuff)," Mishra told reporters here. He was asked about Gandhi's criticism of the NDA government's handling of the border issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/where-does-he-get-such-nasha-mp-minister-mocks-rahul-gandhi-899109.html
08-10-2020||National Politics||BJP says will rule West Bengal, but ground realities are tough||On a day violent clashes marked BJP’s protest march in Kolkata, the ruling party at the Centre sought to give a message to party workers that the day is not far when the saffron party will rule the state. However, the statistics tell a different story. While the BJP slammed West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Trinamool Congress for “beating up peaceful protesters, hurling country made bombs and using water cannons on their protest march” and its chief JP Nadda alleged it shows Mamata Banerjee’s frustration because she knows that “her days in power are numbered” and the “people of Bengal have made up their mind to throw out her tyrannical govt”, Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad holding a media briefing in the national capital, said “BJP will bring about the change in West Bengal. The ground realities of West Bengal tells that the formation of BJP government in the state is a foregone conclusion whenever the state elections are held”. Prasad cited the example of BJP winning 18 of 42 Lok Sabha seats in West Bengal in 2019 Lok Sabha polls, which is a nine time jump from just 02 seats it had won in 2014 general elections as a “proof” of “TMC losing their political ground in the state” and expressed the confidence that the BJP will bring about the change in West Bengal. However, political realities seem different for the BJP as the outcome of Lok Sabha polls and state polls point to a contradictory pattern. While its vote share in 2019 Lok Sabha polls shot up to nearly 40.23%, almost two and half times more than the  17.02% it had got in 2014 Lok Sabha polls, BJP got just 10.16 per cent votes in 2016 Assembly polls. In the 2011 Assembly elections, it got only 04 % votes.  Also, BJP had won only three seats in 2016 assembly polls and the gap between votes garnered by BJP and Trinamool Congress was a huge over 34%. The BJP faces the problem of a lack of a popular CM face and in the last Lok Sabha polls it banked on a number of imports from other parties to increase its tally. Mamata Banerjee’s close friend Mukul Roy is now BJP’s ace strategist. The elevation of Roy in party hierarchy as national vice President and appointment of Anupam Hazara as national secretary (both former TMC MPs) irked BJP’s former West Bengal chief Rahul Sinha and he resigned from the party in a huff. The names of several celebrities from Cricket to Bollywood earlier made rounds as probable CM candidate of BJP. Recently a Hindu monk’s name was also in buzz. However, the BJP is yet to find an acceptable popular face to match Mamata Banerjee’s persona. Moreover, the party is organisationally weak. BJP leadership has been aggressively trying to woo the ground level workers of CPI-M, who are out of power in their fight against Trinamool. Union Minister Prasad on Thursday Prasad also hit out at the alleged self-appointed liberals in Delhi for making big noise when something happens in BJP-ruled state but are keeping mum over police torture of BJP workers in West Bengal. “BJP’s struggle to save the rich glory of Bengal will continue. We stand with the people of Bengal despite the brazen misuse of state power by Mamata didi. I want to clearly tell her again that BJP karyakartas have resolved to fight her corrupt, violent and dictatorial rule democratically to restore Bengal’s lost glory and pride. The people of Bengal and BJP will defeat her regime lock, stock and barrel,” said Nadda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-says-will-rule-west-bengal-but-ground-realities-are-tough-899249.html
08-10-2020||National Politics||Raghuvansh Singh's son joins JD(U); RJD gives poll ticket to his detractor's wife||Senior RJD leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh's son Satya Prakash Singh on Thursday joined JD(U), a day after Lalu Prasad's party gave the ticket to the wife of don- turned-politician Rama Singh in the assembly elections. Satya Prakash Singh was admitted into JD(U) by its state unit president Basistha Narayan Singh at party headquarters here. His joining comes a day after RJD gave the nomination to Rama Singh's wife from the Mahnar assembly seat in the Vaishali district. Before his death on September 13, Raghuvansh Singh had strongly protested the induction of Rama Singh, the muscleman- a politician who had defeated him from Vaishali Lok Sabha constituency in 2014 on the LJP ticket. The veteran socialist leader and a close companion of the RJD supremo had quit from the RJD vice president post in protest against efforts to enroll Rama Singh into the party. Following his stout resistance, the move was stalled after party chief Lalu Prasad intervened. But, the demise of Raghuvansh Singh, paved the way for Rama Singh's entry into the RJD with his wife getting the nomination in the assembly polls. Peeved at the approach of the RJD leadership in the absence of Prasad, who is in Ranchi jail following conviction in four cases of multi-crore rupees fodder scam, the former union minister had sent a letter to the RJD supremo from ICU of AIIMS Delhi, where he was admitted then, announcing his decision to quit the party. Prasad had rejected the resignation and sent a return letter to his close associate that things would be sorted out after he gets well and had made a sentimental appeal that he was not going anywhere. The very next day of sending his resignation letter, Raghuvansh Singh had sent series of letters to Chief Minister Nitish Kumar seeking amendment in the MNREGA scheme and some issues related to the development of his native Vaishali district. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and leaders belonging to all the parties had condoled the death of the septuagenarian leader, who is credited with piloting the NREGA programme as a rural development department minister in the UPA-I. While paying tribute to the departed leader, Modi had asked the Bihar Chief Minister to fulfill veterans' last wishes. Without wasting time, Kumar's government had approved a few schemes related to irrigation in Vaishali as wished by the socialist leader. While giving membership to Raghuvansh Singh's son, Basistha Singh hoped he would carry forward his father's unfulfilled works as a member of the JD(U). Speaking on the occasion, Satya Prakash Singh, who recently left his corporate job, told media persons he has come into politics to complete the works left by his father. He said his father subscribed to the socialist's views that there should not be more than one member of a family in politics. "Socialist leader Karpoori Thakur practiced it during his lifetime and so is my father," Satya Prakash Singh said. He took a dig at family members of Prasad for not taking kindly his father's protest over non-inclusion of the issue of reservation for the poor among the upper castes in the RJD manifesto for the 2019 elections and also inducting bad elements into the party. While the JD(U) and the BJP flayed RJD's over giving the nomination to Rama Singh's wife for getting the party's founding members' reservation on it, Lalu Prasad's party spokesman Mrityunjay Tiwari said there was nothing wrong in giving a ticket to a person having "winning potential."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/raghuvansh-singhs-son-joins-jdu-rjd-gives-poll-ticket-to-his-detractors-wife-899291.html
08-10-2020||National Politics||Cong dares BJP: Cancel Manju Verma's candidature in Bihar or quit alliance with JD(U)||The Congress asked the BJP on Thursday to prevail on its alliance partner JD(U) in Bihar to cancel the candidature of Manju Verma, who was named in the infamous Muzaffarpur shelter home sex scandal, for the upcoming state polls. Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev said Verma, after being named in the scandal, was removed as the women and child development minister in the Nitish Kumar-led NDA government in Bihar and expelled from the Janata Dal (United). However, she has again been fielded by the JD(U), led by Kumar, in the upcoming state polls starting October 28. "The BJP-JD(U) should cancel Verma's candidature and I hope that (Prime Minister) Narendra Modi, who consistently says 'beti bachao, beti padhao', will walk the talk and make sure that her candidature is cancelled," Dev told reporters. "If you are serious about women security, you should break this alliance with the JD(U), unless they remove Verma and withdraw her candidature," she said. Dev also said the prime minister should show his seriousness when it comes to crimes against women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cong-dares-bjp-cancel-manju-vermas-candidature-in-bihar-or-quit-alliance-with-jdu-899300.html
08-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt allows reopening of cinemas, theatres with 50% seating capacity from Oct 15||The Delhi government on Wednesday permitted reopening of cinemas, theatres and multiplexes with up to 50 per cent of their seating capacity from October 15. According to an order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), such establishments will remain closed in Covid-19 containment zones in the city. The DDMA also allowed all weekly markets to function with immediate effect. Until now, only two such markets were being allowed in every municipal zone every day. Taking to Twitter, Chief Minister Arvind Kejrjiwal said that cinema halls will be allowed to reopen from October 15 and they will have to follow all guidelines issued by the central government. The coronavirus-induced countrywide lockdown was first announced from March 25 and it was extended in phases till May 31. The Unlock process in the country had begun on June 1 with the graded reopening of commercial, social, religious and other activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-allows-reopening-of-cinemas-theatres-with-50-seating-capacity-from-oct-15-898825.html
08-10-2020||North and Central||Have political will to implement bold steps to curb air pollution in Delhi, says CM Arvind Kejriwal||There is political will to implement bold steps to tackle pollution in Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said at 'Daring Cities 2020' conference on Wednesday, asserting the odd-even scheme by his government brought down pollution in India's national capital by about 15 per cent. He said the Delhi government has in the past five years taken several measures to tackle the twin problems of climate change and air pollution. The conference was organised by City of Bonn and ICLEI, with the support of the German government. Kejriwal was one of the five urban leaders around the world to speak at the conference, a global, action-oriented forum to recognise courageous urban leaders taking bold climate action across the world.  Kejriwal was invited alongside urban leaders and decision-makers from Bogota (Colombia), Sao Paolo (Brazil), Los Angles (USA), and Entebbe (Uganda) to discuss multilevel action to tackle the climate emergency and environmental sustainability.  The Delhi chief minister addressed the conference virtually, explaining the multilevel action taken by his government to tackle climate change and pollution in the city. "In the last five years in Delhi, we have taken several measures to tackle the twin problems of climate change and air pollution in Delhi and we propose to take several measures in the next five years to further reduce pollution," he said. Citing improvement in air quality in many places in the world where lockdown was imposed due to COVID-19, Kejriwal said it has made us realise how human beings are responsible for spoiling the climate and tampering the ecosystem. "In an effort to devise sustainable solutions to crop stubble burning, we have joined hands with the Indian Agricultural Research Institute to bring in the bio-decomposer technique," he said, hoping the technique will solve the crisis of air pollution faced by Delhi in winter season. He said the his government is also working towards shifting to renewable sources of energy and focusing on mega tree planation. Last year, more than six million saplings were planted with the participation of ordinary people and school children, he added. "We have recently launched an electrical vehicle policy, under which our target is within 2024, nearly 25 per cent of vehicles purchased in Delhi should be electric," the Chief minister said. Kejriwal quoted some of the initiatives taken by the Delhi government to control and respond to the climate emergency like introducing odd-even schemes, shutting down of thermal power plants, banning the use of polluting fuels, and starting a mega green drive. "We have taken some very bold and imaginative steps in the last five years. By sharing these experiences I want to say the political will is there to implement bold steps in Delhi," he stated. He said when his government launched the odd-even scheme in winters of 2015-16, he was cautioned that it will be "politically suicidal" because people do not appreciate harsh measures. "In many parts of the world, this scheme was implemented with mixed results. Many political people cautioned me when we implemented this scheme. It was a harsh step and could have been politically suicidal for us because people will not appreciate it. Since then, we have implemented the odd-even scheme three times in Delhi. We saw people voluntarily participating in the scheme." He said even fines for the violation of the odd-even road rationing scheme for vehicles was "negligible", showing it was voluntarily accepted by people in Delhi. Public transport has been given a huge push by the Delhi government and it is working to double the bus fleet in next few years, Kejriwal said. He said the government also brought out a strict policy to make the shift to non-polluting fuel by industries. Now almost all the industries of Delhi have shifted to non-polluting fuel, he claimed.  Kejriwal said the Indian Agricultural Research Institute recently come out with a chemical solution that can be sprayed over the crop residue as a bio-decomposer technique. The Delhi government will sprinkle the chemical solution free of cost in the farm fields of the state to avoid stubble burning, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/have-political-will-to-implement-bold-steps-to-curb-air-pollution-in-delhi-says-cm-arvind-kejriwal-898845.html
08-10-2020||North and Central||Only mass movement can defeat Covid-19, says Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday welcomed the Centre's decision to launch an awareness campaign to check the spread of novel coronavirus, saying the pandemic can be defeated only with a mass movement. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch a 'jan andolan' campaign for Covid appropriate behaviour on Thursday in view of upcoming festivals, winter season and opening up of the economy. Gehlot said the state government has already started such a campaign which is running successfully. "It is good that the central govt will also be launching a mass awareness campaign against corona. In Rajasthan, we already started such a campaign, 'Corona Ke Viruddh Jan-andolan' from 2nd October, Gandhi Jayanti, which is running successfully," the chief minister tweeted. "Corona can be defeated only with mass movement," Gehlot said. He said people in the state are overwhelmingly participating in the 'Jan-andolan' against the coronavirus. "The message conveyed through the campaign is, we need not be scared of the virus but take precautions. As a result of the mass movement, more and more people are wearing masks, keeping social distance when in public, washing hands and encouraging others to do so," he said. The chief minister said common people are participating in every way and distributing masks as well. "In Rajasthan, we will defeat the virus with people's participation and support," he hoped.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/only-mass-movement-can-defeat-covid-19-says-gehlot-898856.html
08-10-2020||North and Central||Congress demands probe by sitting SC/HC judge into Hathras incident, criticises BJP govt||The Congress on Wednesday demanded an inquiry by a sitting judge of the Supreme Court or high court into the alleged gang-rape and death of a Dalit woman in Hathras in Uttar Pradesh, and said the BJP government should not try to fool the people by offering a probe by the CBI which is "under its control". Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh should stop blaming everyone in the world but itself for the incident. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also released a video of his meeting with the family of the woman in their village home. The over five-minute video shows Gandhi extending his support to the family and assuring them that no one can suppress their voice. He also told them that they should not leave the village, saying no one can exert pressure on them to leave and he will stand by them if anyone does. "Watch the Hathras victim's family facing exploitation and oppression at the hands of the UP government. The truth of the injustice done to them should be seen by every Indian," Gandhi said along with the video put out on Twitter. In Lucknow, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate alleged the Uttar Pradesh government's affidavit in the Supreme Court over the Hathras case was a "white lie". Snhinate, along with other senior women leaders of the Congress, addressed the media and said the state government should not cover up the issue and present facts before the public. "The Uttar Pradesh government, in the affidavit filed before the Supreme Court, has said that the cremation of the alleged gangrape victim was done with the consent of her family although everybody knows that the woman's family was not present there," she said. "This is nothing but a white lie spoken before the apex court," Shrinate added. She also rejected the Yogi Adityanath government's claims that there is a conspiracy to spread caste violence in the state. Some tweets and Facebook posts of people having not more than 900 or 14,000 followers have also been cited in the affidavit, Shrinate said, suggesting that these numbers are not significant. "Now the question is can a person having 900 followers instigate caste violence," she asked. On Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's remark that his government's image is being tarnished, the Congress spokesperson said the UP dispensation is only worried about its image and not concerned about getting justice for the victim's family. Asked about the BJP's claim of the Congress involvement in the Hathras incident, she said, "Levelling false charges against the Congress is its old habit. If the BJP does not drag Rahul Gandhi's name, how will it do politics?" Former MP and Congress Working Committee (CWC) member Rajni Patil who was also present sought his resignation of Chief Minister for failing to ensure women's security in the State. All India Mahila Congress Committee president and former MP Sushmita Dev said in Hindu religion, the dead are not cremated at night, but the daughter of Hathras was cremated at 2.30 in the night. “The whole of the country has seen how the body was cremated. The victim in her statement revealed that she was raped,” Dev said. Singhvi said at a virtual press conference that the Uttar Pradesh government should stop shedding crocodile tears by offering a CBI probe as all Indians know how the probe agency is under its control. "What is this great game, charade, crocodile tears you are playing by offering a CBI inquiry? Please don't take this country, the people of this great country to be eating grass. Everybody knows and understands and common sense teaches us that for such cases, the political colour of the UP government and the central government completely washes out, washes upon and suffuses agencies like the CBI, the ED and several other such agencies. "It is all too convenient, all too escapists, all too clever and too clever by half, to offer this whole thing to the CBI," he told reporters. Daring the UP government to order a judicial probe, Singhvi said, "If you have the guts and the courage of conviction, I challenge you to ask for an inquiry, comprehensive within one month, two months, three months by a sitting High Court judge and or a sitting Supreme Court judge. Don't do this charade of the CBI inquiry." The Congress leader also asked the UP government to stop blaming everyone in the world but itself, saying "each time you point your index finger, there are three fingers pointing at you which you cannot and must not ignore". Singhvi alleged that BJP's Uttar Pradesh government and the central government can best be described by five words -- "autocratic, dictatorial, authoritarian, totalitarian and tyrannical". "I cannot find sufficiently strong words but these are at least partially appropriate to describe the weird, unheard of, kafka-like...actions of the governments in the state and at the Centre after the Hathras incident," he alleged. He said the reasons cited by the UP government in alleging a conspiracy behind it and in defaming it through the incident were not just bizarre but also comic. The chief minister believes all these are happening because he had taken a strong stand against the anti-citizenship law protests, Singhvi said, adding "how grotesque can this be".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-demands-probe-by-sitting-sc/hc-judge-into-hathras-incident-criticises-bjp-govt-898857.html
08-10-2020||North and Central||SAD asks Punjab govt to pay Rs 2.5k per acre to farmers to manage stubble||Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday asked Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to release Rs 2,500 per acre to all paddy growers for managing paddy stubble. In a statement here, Badal said the Congress-led government has not only “refused” to give compensation of Rs 100 per quintal to farmers for managing paddy stubble last year as mandated by the Supreme Court, it has not kept any provision in the state budget this year either to offer this compensation. “This speaks of the utter insensitivity of the state government which is using threats and even FIRs to force farmers to do its bidding but is not ready to facilitate them at all,” Badal said in his statement. “The SAD demands the government clear last year's compensation backlog and release funds in advance to farmers this year on their undertakings to manage paddy stubble as per the apex court’s directions,” he added. Badal said the apex court had clearly stipulated that the state should not wait for the Union government to come up with the compensation and should take measures to do the needful on its own. “After failing to offer compensation to farmers, the Congress government registered 1,700 cases against them for burning stubble last year,” he said. “This year the Congress government is seeking to abrogate its responsibility to farmers by claiming that they can take machines needed to manage stubble from custom hiring centres free of cost,” Badal said. It is a known fact that these centres can manage only a fraction of the paddy stubble in the state, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sad-asks-punjab-govt-to-pay-rs-25k-per-acre-to-farmers-to-manage-stubble-898861.html
08-10-2020||North and Central||Ram Rath Yatra reaches Ayodhya from Rameswaram||A Ram Rath Yatra, which started in Rameswaram in Tamil Nadu last month, reached Ayodhya on Wednesday and its participants handed over a large bell for installation at the Ram temple. The yatra, organised by the Chennai-based Legal Rights Council, began on September 17 and covered a distance of 4,500 km across 11 states before reaching Ayodhya on Wednesday. Talking to PTI, Rajlakshmi Manda, who drove the rath, said the 4.1-foot-tall bell with 'Jai Sri Ram' embossed on it weighs 613 kg. Its sound can be heard within a radius of 10 km of the temple, Manda said. They also handed over bronze idols of Lord Ram, Sita, Laxman, Ganpati and Lord Hanuman to Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra trust secretary Champat Rai. The 'bhoomi pujan' ceremony to begin the construction of the temple in Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh was conducted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ram-rath-yatra-reaches-ayodhya-from-rameswaram-898869.html
08-10-2020||North and Central||Govt officers not complying with court orders: Allahabad High Court||The Allahabad High Court has expressed concern that officers of the state are not complying with its orders at the first instance, forcing people to file contempt petitions. Coming down heavily on the officers of the state for willful disobedience of court's order, the HC observed, "Apparently the officers are becoming habitual and not complying with the orders of this court at the first instance. This is a sorry state of affairs." Hearing a contempt petition filed by Usha Singh, Justice Vivek Kumar Birla in his order passed on last Thursday had observed, "This court is noticing everyday that apparently the officers concerned, who were directed to act as per the order of the court, are not complying with the orders at the first instance and the aggrieved party is forced to file contempt application and even after granting further time to comply with the order of the writ court passed in contempt application, the orders not being complied with." The contempt application was filed for punishing -- Satrughan Singh, director, Bal Vikas Sewa and another person -- for willful disobedience of the judgment and order dated November 1, 2019 and the order dated March 2, 2020 passed in contempt application. According to the counsel for the applicant, a copy of the court order dated November 1, 2019 was served on them. When nothing was done, the applicant filed the contempt application. The contempt court vide order dated March 2, 2020 had granted time for compliance of the order of this court. It was alleged that even after the service of the order of contempt court and after expiry of time, no decision has yet been taken by them. Taking a serious note of it, the court observed, "Prima facie, a case for punishing the opposite party for willful disobedience of the orders as noted above is made out. It is expected that the opposite parties shall make every effort to comply with the order at first instance and shall also issue necessary orders in this regard to the subordinate authorities to strictly comply with the orders at the first instance itself, otherwise the court will take serious view of the matter."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/govt-officers-not-complying-with-court-orders-allahabad-high-court-898874.html
08-10-2020||North and Central||Freedom of speech is one of the most abused rights in recent times: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday castigated the Union government for filing an "evasive" reply with "unnecessary nonsensical" statements by a junior officer in a matter alleging "communal headlines and bigoted statements" by a section of media on Tablighi Jamaat participants in Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi in March 2020. As a senior advocate Dushyant Dave said, on behalf of petitioner Jamiat Ulama-I-Hind, that the government accused it of seeking a gag order against the media, a bench, presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde said, "Freedom of speech is one of the most abused freedoms in the recent times." Taking up the matter, the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, "You cannot treat the court how you are treating it. The affidavit is by some junior officer. The affidavit is evasive and says the petitioner shows no instance of bad reporting. You may not agree but how you can say there is no instance of bad reporting shown." The court told the law officer that the Secretary of the department must file an affidavit and avoid any unnecessary and nonsensical averments. Dave said that Section 20 of the Cable TV Network Act, provided the remedy in case of bad reporting. He cited the decision of the government to take Asianet TV down for a few days. Mehta assured the court that a fresh affidavit would be filed in the matter. The court posted the matter for consideration after two weeks. The Union government, earlier in August, told the court that an “attempt to seek a blanket gag order against the entire media” would meddle with the freedom of Indians to know about various sections of the nation and the right of the journalists to ensure an informed society. Responding to a plea for strict action against the media for communalisation of the Tablighi Jamaat meeting in Delhi's Nizamuddin Markaz, the Centre said in an affidavit that “media cannot be gagged” and that citizens, in fact, have the right and freedom to know. After the incident, several news reports were shown with "communal headlines and bigoted statements" by presenting the information in a "twisted and incendiary manner". The petitioner alleged that certain sections of media have exacerbated tension in society by showing "virulent and vitriolic statements" inciting hatred against the entire Muslim community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/freedom-of-speech-is-one-of-the-most-abused-rights-in-recent-times-sc-898998.html
08-10-2020||North and Central||Virtual hearing software glitch stalls Delhi HC proceedings for 45 minutes||Virtual hearings in the Delhi High Court were delayed by nearly 45 minutes on Thursday morning due to a technical fault in the video conferencing software. The hearings were to start at 10.30 am but commenced around 11.15 am. Court masters of several benches said the WebEx platform being used for online proceedings apparently faltered and they had to face anxious calls from lawyers and litigants. They said courts across the country where the WebEx software was being used were facing this problem. The Delhi High Court Registrar General's office also confirmed the software did not work. When trying to log in to the hearings via the video conference link, a message was displayed: "Cisco WebEx had a problem processing your request. Contact support or your administrator and provide the following error tracking ID: 857FB792F41344E2A77DEB0EC62B8C28_1602135310759."   Some lawyers reported that the software was facing operational issues in other courts too, like in the Rajasthan High Court and Punjab and Haryana High Court. WebEx is a software developed by the US-based Cisco WebEx. Since the courts in the national capital switched to virtual hearings, from March 24 onwards, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, they have been using the WebEx platform. The Supreme Court, however, does not use the software and its proceedings are held on another software called the 'Vidyo' app.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/virtual-hearing-software-glitch-stalls-delhi-hc-proceedings-for-45-minutes-899049.html
08-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi gets 'green war room' to monitor pollution levels this winter||Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Thursday inaugurated a 'green war room' at the Delhi Secretariat to monitor pollution levels in the city this winter. The minister said a 10-member team has been set up to monitor the levels of primary pollutants, measures taken to curb pollution and status of complaints received through Green Delhi mobile application. Satellite data related to farm fires in the neighbouring states will also be analysed in the green war room.   There are different agencies working to deal with the problem of air pollution in Delhi. The green war room has been set up to coordinate their efforts, Rai said. He said the control room will work towards ensuring stricter enforcement of guidelines to check dust pollution at construction and demolition sites, ready-mix concrete plants, and garbage burning. “This anti-dust campaign will continue in mission mode till October 15 and strict action will be taken against the violators,” he said.  The environment minister said the pollution levels at 13 hotspots in the city and the steps taken to bring them down will also be monitored via the green war room. He added that daily reports on the number of complaints received and grievances redressed will be sent to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-gets-green-war-room-to-monitor-pollution-levels-this-winter-899053.html
08-10-2020||North and Central||Yogi Adityanath inaugurates UP's biggest oxygen plant to aid medical supplies||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath Thursday inaugurated a new state-of-the-art cryogenic oxygen plant, the biggest in the state, which will help with supplies in hospitals. The ultra-high purity air separation plant with a capacity of 150 tonnes per days (TPD) in Ghaziabad's Modinagar will produce liquid oxygen, liquid nitrogen and liquid argon for various industrial needs, according to INOX Air Products (INOX AP), which has commissioned the plant. Adityanath, who inaugurated the plant virtually from his office in Lucknow, said the facility will help the state fight the coronavirus better. “On this day of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's call for 'Jan Andolan' for Covid-19, I am happy to inaugurate a 150 TPD capacity Liquid Oxygen Plant in Uttar Pradesh which will help us to fight Corona better,” he tweeted. In another tweet he described the plant as the “biggest” in the state. "After this, the demand and supply of oxygen in the state, especially when the entire country is battling strongly with the Covid-19 pandemic, will not be a hindrance in the treatment of patients in the state,” Adityanath said in a statement. He said it will now be a thing of the past when the state was struggling for the availability of oxygen, adding that after the installation of High Flow Nasal Cannula (HFNC), the demand for oxygen has gone up in the Covid-19 hospitals. “The new facility will come handy to bridge the gap between demand and supply,” he pointed out expressing satisfaction that such a facility came up during the “trying times” of the pandemic and when it was “required the most”. The plant has come up as a part of a memorandum of understanding between INOX AP and the UP government during the 'Investors Summit 2018'. The foundation stone for the project was laid by PM Modi on July 29, 2018. “This is the sign of our commitment to bring investment in the state. MoU for this plant was signed in 2018 in the presence of PM Modi. It is our commitment and support to industry that this plant has started production,” Adityanath said in another tweet. INOX AP said the plant will fulfil the medical oxygen need "of more than 200 hospitals". “With a potential to produce 150 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen per day, the plant now takes state's current liquid oxygen manufacturing capacity from 115 metric tonnes to 265 metric tonnes per day,” it said in a statement. The Chief Minister said the company will set up another plant in central UP soon. Earlier this year, there were reports of shortage of oxygen supply at some hospitals in the state amid a surge in demand due to the coronavirus pandemic, with opposition politicians expressing “concern” over the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-adityanath-inaugurates-ups-biggest-oxygen-plant-to-aid-medical-supplies-899111.html
08-10-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir LG Manoj Sinha walks half a kilometre to meet families of Shopian fake encounter victims||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Thursday assured the parents of three slain youth killed in an alleged fake encounter by the army that justice will be delivered at any cost. Official sources said Sinha travelled half-a kilometer by foot to reach Tarkassi village in Rajouri district of Jammu region to meet the family members of the slain youth killed in a fake encounter on July 18 in Amshipora, Shopian in south Kashmir. The LG first addressed a public gathering in a Rajouri village and later walked almost half a kilometer to reach Tarkassi village. “Here, Sinha visited the residence of Muhammad Yousuf, the father of one of the slain youths. Other two families were also present at Yousuf’s house. The LG gave a patient hearing to the demands put forth by the families of the slain trio and assured them all the possible help,” they said. On July 18, the Army had claimed that three unidentified militants were killed in Amshipora village in the higher reaches of Shopian. However, the Amshipora encounter came under scrutiny after three families from the Rajouri claimed that the trio killed were their kin and labourers by profession. The outcome of the probe into the Amshipora encounter was made public after the J&K LG met Army Chief General Manoj Naravane during the latter’s two-day visit to Kashmir on September 17. Prior to that ,the families of the slain had knocked at the doors of the LG demanding a probe and making their DNA reports public.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-lg-manoj-sinha-walks-half-a-kilometre-to-meet-families-of-shopian-fake-encounter-victims-899157.html
08-10-2020||North and Central||Bihar Polls: LJP releases first list of candidates, fields BJP turncoats||The Lok Janshakti Party on Thursday named its 42 candidates for the Bihar assembly polls with some BJP turncoats figuring in the list as Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan's party works to make the contest harder for the Chief Minister Nitish Kumar-led JD(U). As the party released its first list of candidates, its president Chirag Paswan again gave a call to defeat the JD (U), claiming that a vote for the state's ruling party will amount to "destroying" Bihar. All these 42 seats are among the 71 constituencies going to polls in the first phase on October 28, the LJP said. As expected, the LJP has fielded Rajendra Singh and Usha Vidyarthi, two senior Bihar BJP leaders who joined it recently, from Dinara and Paliganj respectively. The LJP has announced that it will fight from the seats where the JD(U) is also contesting and that it will not take on the BJP. Though the party may contest from a few constituencies where the BJP is also in the fray due to political reasons, but it will mostly avoid such a situation. LJP sources said the party had given preference to upper caste and Dalit nominees in its choice of candidates. Thursday was the last day of filing for nominations for the first phase of the three-phase Bihar elections. Hitting out at Kumar's leadership, Chirag Paswan had walked out of the NDA in Bihar and had claimed that a BJP-LJP government will come to power in this state after the polls. The BJP has, however, worked to placate the JD (U) leader, maintaining constantly that he will be the state's chief minister again if the ruling alliance is voted to power for one more time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bihar-polls-ljp-releases-first-list-of-candidates-fields-bjp-turncoats-899200.html
08-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia launches coding campaign||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia launched a CODE-A-THON campaign on Thursday in which over 12,000 government school students to take part. At the launch event, six students presented their animated videos which they made from scratch on their smartphones on various topics such as 'good touch-bad touch', 'saving the environment', 'beti padhao, beti bachao' and public awareness about the coronavirus, among others. "Steve Jobs once said coding is the new generations' liberal art. It is not about programming, designing, or creating some videos, it is about creating art. Coding helps you to think, that is why it is important to learn to code. Today, I could see how it is enabling our school children to start thinking. There was a girl who made a video on early childhood marriage where she mentioned that the girl was helpless," Sisodia said. "While watching the video a thought crossed my mind that now she will not be helpless, she will be able to code. We endeavour to make coding a language so accessible that can be used on a day-to-day basis, like Hindi, English or any other language," he added. As part of the CODE-A-THON campaign, students will go through self-learning modules on coding and will get an opportunity to practise it. They will take part in various quizzes and based on that, they will jump to the next level. There will be a grand finale in December where students will get an opportunity to showcase their projects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-deputy-cm-manish-sisodia-launches-coding-campaign-899203.html
08-10-2020||North and Central||#BabakaDhaba: Delhi elderly couple receive immense love||Kanta Prasad pulled down his mask every few minutes to reveal a nearly toothless smile, his eyes taking in with gratitude the crowds thronging his tiny food stall, 'Baba ka Dhaba', that was forlorn and empty till just a day ago, much as it had been through the last six months. On Thursday, though, everything changed for the 80-year-old and his family that was on the brink of penury. Social media spun its magic with a video of Prasad tearfully recounting the desperation of the months since the lockdown being shared widely across platforms — and, hey presto, customers made a beeline to eat his food as did camera crews, bloggers and journalists. 'Baba ka Dhaba', a little blue box in Malviya Nagar in south Delhi, was the cynosure of many eyes across the country, including celebs from showbiz who posted appeals asking people to go there and get themselves a meal. A day after the heartbreaking video, #Babakadhaba was trending on Twitter and the food joint was flooded with more customers than it had seen in 30 years of being in business. “Like every day, my parents started cooking at 6 am. When they reached the shop at 8.30 am, they found people were already lined up outside. “For the first few hours, we sold only parathas and then prepared more items,” said Azad Hind, Prasad’s 37-year-old son. By 12 noon, all items on the menu, comprising chapati, rice, mixed vegetable, and paneer, all ranging between Rs 10-50, were sold out — much to their surprise and stupefaction.  Their despair came to light when Instagram influencer Gaurav Wasan on Wednesday captured Prasad breaking down as he talked about his struggles in a video shared on his social media account.    Overnight, the post spiralled into a movement to help the elderly couple, whose plight struck a chord of empathy in distant corners of the country. Life had become increasingly difficult for the family also because their son Azad lost his job as an office boy. “The earning from the shop was the only way to feed ourselves,” Azad said. Besides Prasad and his wife, the family comprises their three children, two grandchildren and a daughter-in-law. Before Covid-19 took its toll on businesses countrywide, Prasad would make enough to save Rs 4,000-Rs.5000 almost every month. It all dried up in the months since March when India went into lockdown. There were days, Prasad said, when not a single customer turned up. “We realised there was no point in sitting at home, so we opened our shop every day. Some days we would have a couple of customers, so whatever money we could make was important. Sometimes we didn’t even manage to cover the cost of preparing the food,” Prasad, who lives with his family in Jagdamba camp in Sheikh Sarai, said. Today, people not only helped in buying his food but also with rations, he said. Wasan, who posted the video through his Instagram handle @youtubeswadofficial, said he is always on the lookout for lesser-known food joints around the city but never did he imagine his post would lead to so much traction. “I am so glad I decided to take the first step to help them. I realised that they made good food… the only thing missing was marketing, and I thought I could use my followers to do that.  “With the kind of support this has created, I will continue to focus on other food joints which need help in this time,” Wasan, who has over 1,15,000 followers on Instagram, said.  AAP party MLA Somnath Bharti was an early visitor at Baba ka Dhaba.  “Visited ‘Baba Ka Dhaba’ and have done the needful to bring a smile on their faces as promised. Will take care of them and I am starting a drive to take care of similarly placed people (sic),” he tweeted. Actors such as Suniel Shetty, Randeep Hooda and Raveena Tandon, retweeted Wasan’s video, asking people to support the couple and other local vendors in need during the challenging times of Covid-19 pandemic. "Do visit if you are in Delhi! Block B, Shivalik Colony, Opposite Hanuman Mandir, Malviya Nagar, South Delhi. #SupportLocal #BabaKaDhaba," tweeted Hooda. Do visit if you are in Delhi! 🙏🙏 "#dilliwalon #dil #dikhao. Whoever eats here, sends me pic, I shall put up a sweet message with your pics ! #supportlocalbusiness #localvendors," posted Tandon. "Let's help put their smile back ... our neighbourhood vendors need our help to." tweeted Shetty.   Cricketer Ravichandran Ashwin expressed his desire to help. “I am not able to message you, but is there a way I can help that man?? I would like to contribute,” he wrote. Sharing a video of Prasad, satirist Akash Banerjee urged his followers on social media to “stop by” at the food kiosk. The overwhelming support was a ray of hope for other small-scale shopkeepers and hawkers in the vicinity. Raj Rani, a 70-year-old widow who sells towels and handkerchiefs on a pavement in the Malviya Nagar market, said she has barely been making Rs 60 a day.  “I have no family…my husband died 20 years ago, and since then I have been running this shop. Earlier I used to still earn enough to support myself, but now there is nothing. Can someone help me?” the Begumpura resident said. Yes, they can.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/babakadhaba-delhi-elderly-couple-receive-immense-love-899231.html
08-10-2020||North and Central||AAP demands immediate shut down of all pollution causing thermal power plants||he Aam Aadmi Party on Thursday demanded that all pollution causing thermal power plants be immediately shut down in the surrounding states of Delhi-NCR in view of the deteriorating air quality of the national capital. AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj claimed that despite a Supreme Court order and central government's direction, 13 coal-based thermal power plants have not yet adopted anti-pollution technology. Bhardwaj claimed that over 2,150 brick kilns are running and they have not followed the SC order with help from corrupt nexus between the state pollution control boards and officials. He also claimed that the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) is behaving like the "central political controlled board". "The Aam Aadmi Party wants to know from the central political controlled board why don't they take an initiative to stop these power plants in UP, Punjab and Haryana. We want to know why the CPCB is silent over the inaction of these states," he told reporters. "When the Delhi government can shut down these power plants then why can't the other states do the same. The Aam Aadmi Party demands that all these thermal power plants should be immediately shut down," he said. He further said that brick kilns are another big source of pollution. "Only in the NCR, there are around 2,300 brick kilns. These were supposed to get converted into newer technology but none of these brick kilns have adopted any such new technology. And due to the corruption of the state pollution control boards and officials, these brick kilns are running as usual and causing massive pollution," he said. "The CPCB is neglecting all these issues. In the coming days, questions will be raised against Delhi and everyone will talk about dust pollution and vehicular pollution. But all these issues are already there, only the toxic air of stubble burning is absent. When that toxic air comes the situation of Delhi will worsen," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-demands-immediate-shut-down-of-all-pollution-causing-thermal-power-plants-899322.html
08-10-2020||Opinion||Myth of Donald Trump’s political genius, exposed||It sounds counterintuitive, but it’s true: Donald Trump is bad at electoral politics. Yes, he is the president, which by itself would suggest the opposite. But to look at his conduct during the coronavirus pandemic is to see someone who doesn’t understand his own political interests and won’t listen to anyone who does. The past week has been instructive in this regard. Last week, he faced off against Joe Biden in the first presidential debate. Trump, who trailed Biden in national polls and in most swing states, had one job: to bring wavering voters back into the fold. With a sufficiently competent performance, Trump could stop the bleeding and maybe even mount a small comeback. It wasn’t going to be easy, but it should have been simple — a straightforward turn that any incumbent president ought to have been able to make. Of course, Trump blew it. He barked and ranted for 90 minutes, making the debate-that-was-not-actually-a-debate an alienating spectacle for most viewers. He demonstrated the truth of Democratic attacks on his temperament and ability at the same time that Biden dispelled the idea, pushed by the president and his allies, that Biden suffers from serious cognitive decline. The result was a rout. The debate — an indoor, in-person affair — was also a showcase for Trump’s handling of the pandemic. Would he and his entourage take the situation seriously? Would they try to model good behavior for the public? The obvious answer was no. The venue, Case Western Reserve University, asked all attendees to wear masks. But Trump and his team refused, acting as if the virus didn’t actually exist. The president even mocked Biden for his dedication to wearing a mask. “I don’t wear face masks like him,” Trump said. “Every time you see him he’s got a mask. He could be speaking 200 feet away and he shows up with the biggest mask I’ve ever seen.” Trump seems to believe that it shows strength to flout precautions and weakness to heed them. He seems to think the public wants this “strength” and will flock to him in support of his performance. Yet again, his vaunted political instincts failed him. When, in the wake of the debate, the White House announced that Trump and much of his senior staff had contracted the virus, the public response was something akin to “We told you so.” Sixty-three percent of Americans said the president had acted “irresponsibly” in “handling the risk of coronavirus infection to the people who have been around him most recently,” according to a CNN poll. The most important issue right now for most voters is the pandemic, which has damaged the economy and radically transformed life for hundreds of millions of Americans, while killing more than 210,000 of us. They want solutions and assistance, not ostentatious displays of so-called masculine strength. They want the government, and the president, to be honest about the challenge. None of this is particularly difficult. Andrew Cuomo, the Democratic governor of New York, has had as much failure as success in handling the pandemic. His administration’s early decision to send thousands of discharged hospital patients back to nursing homes is arguably responsible for a significant portion of the state’s death toll. This might have doomed Cuomo with the public. But the power of the rallying effect is such that a serious performance of competence, as well as concrete actions to regain New Yorkers’ lost confidence, has been enough to keep him well above water politically. The extent to which leaders across the country and around the world have been able to thrive despite high pandemic death tolls and a vicious economic downturn is a testament to how Trump could have forged a path to reelection had he treated the pandemic with any seriousness. Wearing a mask, pressing Congress for more aid, rejecting Covid-19 denialism and refraining from magical thinking — this is probably all it would have taken to spin a once-in-a-century crisis into political gold. But Trump refused, and now, if the polls are right and the forecasts are accurate, he’s just a few weeks away from what may well prove to be a landslide defeat. Trump was the unexpected winner of the 2016 presidential election. That victory led many, including Trump himself, to believe he had some special sauce, some superpower that helped him defy political gravity. There’s no question he has some political skills. A lifelong showman, he’s good with a crowd, or at least certain kinds of crowds. He can distill an entire governing agenda into a few simple phrases. And he’s been able to build an emotional connection with a significant part of the American electorate. But even with those assets, Trump doesn’t win the 2016 election without a huge amount of luck. Take away the WikiLeaks dump, take away the Comey letter, keep Anthony Weiner away from a computer, and there’s a very good chance that Hillary Clinton is elected president. Run the 2016 election a hundred times, exactly as it was, and Trump loses most of the time. If the president had any appreciation for the role of luck and chance in his election, he would have governed in ways that maximized his advantages and cleared the path for an outright win. Instead, he embraced the myth of his political genius and brought himself, and his party, to the brink of political disaster. It took a fluke to put Trump into the White House, and if nothing changes, it will take another fluke to keep him there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/myth-of-donald-trump-s-political-genius-exposed-898884.html
08-10-2020||Opinion||Donald Trump does fear the coronavirus. Not with his words, of course||Something momentous happened late last week, a brief pinprick of clarity piercing through the haze: President Donald Trump finally showed Americans the truth about the coronavirus. Not with his words, of course. According to researchers at Cornell, Trump has been the single largest driver of misinformation about the pandemic. Public health experts had hoped that the President’s own infection might prompt him to become more truthful. Instead, since his release from the hospital Monday, Trump has become even bolder in his distortions, declaring that the virus is nothing to be afraid of. On Tuesday both Facebook and Twitter blocked posts in which Trump falsely claimed that the seasonal flu is deadlier than the coronavirus. But the President’s actions tell a more honest tale and suggest a way for the media to convey even to Trump’s loyalists the threat the virus poses: When he became the patient, Trump took it seriously. He did not react like a man who’d only gotten the flu. To convey the true danger, the media should focus on how Trump acts with regard to his own battle against the virus, rather than amplifying the things he says about how the rest of us should think of it. The timeline unspooled like a medical thriller. The President announced he’d tested positive just before 1 am Friday. Only 16 hours later, with his fever spiking and his blood oxygen levels dropping, Trump was taken by helicopter to Walter Reed National Military Medical Center. The President’s doctors did not mess around with any of the miracle cures that Trump had long touted. Instead of hydroxychloroquine, ultraviolet light therapy or bleach, they turned to treatments whose efficacy had a basis in science. They put him on an experimental antibody treatment that has been shown in a clinical trial to alleviate symptoms in some patients; it is unavailable to most Americans. Over the weekend, Trump was prescribed two more drugs, including a steroid that is usually administered to patients with severe cases of Covid-19. “We’re in a bit of uncharted territory when it comes to a patient that received the therapies he has so early in the course,” Dr Sean Conley, the president’s physician, said Monday. Behind Conley stood a phalanx of doctors attending to Trump. The scene was grave: The President of the United States had acquired a deadly infection, and an army had assembled to confront the enemy. Those doctors were responding with everything they had, with shock and awe, as if it were a full-blown emergency — because, guess what, it was. I don’t begrudge Trump his world-class medical care; the leader of the United States deserves it. But if the President’s Covid-19 deserves to be taken seriously, requiring a team of the world’s best doctors and a pharmacy full of drugs, how can he tell the rest of us to treat it as if it’s no big deal? But there’s more at stake here than hypocrisy. We in the media often focus on what Trump says about the virus instead of how he has sought to combat it personally. For instance, while Trump does not often wear a mask himself, he has been irritated when others who are close to him don’t, and he has bristled when people get too close to him. (Then again, he has also asked people to remove their masks when addressing him; consistency is not his strong suit.) The media also take for granted that the public will be able to see through his lies to see these facts. That Covid-19 is actually pretty dangerous may seem like an obvious point, considering that more than 2.1 lakh Americans have been killed by the disease, and hundreds more are dying each day. But many Americans do not accept this danger, mainly because Trump has managed to steamroll obvious reality since the very beginning of the pandemic. In his wake, rumours and conspiracy theories have sprouted like wildflowers. Now, behind in the polls and with a widening outbreak on his staff, Trump is embarking on his most damaging disinformation campaign yet: The virus is nothing, and America is back. No one should believe this claptrap, but millions will. The Cornell researchers — a team led by Sarah Evanega, director of the Cornell Alliance for Science — analyzed 38 million English-language articles published this year between Jan. 1 and May 26. They found numerous subjects of misinformation about the virus, from miracle cures to conspiracy theories about Bill Gates and Dr. Anthony Fauci and 5G cellular technology’s supposed links to the disease. The researchers found that while “grass-roots sources” like anti-vaccination groups did make an impact, “they contributed far less to the overall volume of misinformation than more powerful actors, in particular the US president.” Why is the president such a powerful source of mendacity? It isn’t simply that he says a lot of things that aren’t true; it’s that everything the president says is amplified by the media. Some of these mentions might be as part of an effort to correct the president; the vast majority are not. The researchers found that “a great deal of misinformation is going out to the public uncorrected.” You might argue that the way to mitigate this problem is for reporters to challenge the President’s falsehoods, and perhaps to cover him a lot less, too. But I’m not sure either is the answer. Studies have shown fact-checking to be of mixed effectiveness against misinformation. And as long as Trump is the President, not covering him isn’t really an option — especially now, in the midst of a heated campaign and a pandemic in which he has played a starring role. To me, the President’s medical treatment last week makes a point that undoes months of propaganda: Covid-19 is clearly a very bad disease. It can take you from to hobnobbing with high-dollar donors one day to requiring supplemental oxygen the next. Trump says we shouldn’t let Covid-19 dominate us. That’s easy to say; it’s just as easy to prove untrue. The facts of Trump’s experience with the virus — how rapidly it spread through those closest to him, how thoroughly it undermined his campaign messages and sidelined his campaign travel, and how quickly it sickened him to the point of requiring intensive medical care — are the greatest weapon against his misinformation about it. Even the President of the United States has been dominated by the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/donald-trump-does-fear-the-coronavirus-not-with-his-words-of-course-898898.html
08-10-2020||Opinion||This year’s Nobel Prize in Chemistry honours a revolution||When Jennifer Doudna was in sixth grade, she came home one day to find that her dad had left a paperback titled “The Double Helix” on her bed. She put it aside, thinking it was one of those detective tales she loved. When she read it on a rainy Saturday, she discovered she was right, in a way. As she sped through the pages, she became enthralled by the intense drama, filled with colorful characters, about ambition and competition in the pursuit of nature’s wonders. Even though her high school counselor told her girls didn’t become scientists, she decided she would. She would help to make what the book’s author, James Watson, later told her was the most important biological advance since he and Francis Crick discovered the structure of DNA. She worked with a brilliant Parisian biologist named Emmanuelle Charpentier to turn a curiosity of nature into an invention that will transform the human race: an easy-to-use tool that can edit DNA. Known as Crispr, it ushered in a brave new world of medical miracles and moral questions. For this accomplishment, on Wednesday they were awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry. It is a recognition that the development of Crispr will hasten our transition to the next great innovation revolution. The past half-century has been a digital age, based on the microchip, the computer and the internet. Now we are entering a life-science era. Children who study digital coding will be joined by those who study the code of life. It will be a revolution that will someday allow us to cure diseases, fend off virus pandemics and (if we decide it’s wise) to design babies with the genetic features we want for them. Crispr is especially relevant in this year of the coronavirus. The gene-editing tool that Dr. Doudna and Dr. Charpentier developed is based on a virus-fighting trick used by bacteria, which have been battling viruses for billions of years. In their DNA, bacteria develop clustered repeated sequences, known as Crisprs, that can remember and then destroy viruses that attack them. In other words, it’s an immune system that can adapt itself to fight each new wave of viruses — just what we humans need in an era that has been plagued by repeated viral epidemics. The award is also a great testament to the growing power of women in the life sciences. When Rosalind Franklin made the images that helped James Watson and Francis Crick discover the structure of DNA, she became just a minor character in the early histories, and she died before she could share a Nobel Prize. Until now, only five women, beginning with Marie Curie in 1911, have won or shared the Nobel for chemistry, out of 184 honorees. When this year’s prize was announced, Dr. Charpentier said it would “provide a message specifically to young girls who would like to follow the path of science and to show them that in friendship women can also be awarded prizes.” Crispr is now being used to treat sickle-cell anemia, cancers and blindness. And this year, Dr. Doudna and her research teams began exploring how Crispr could detect and destroy the coronavirus. “Crispr evolved in bacteria because of their long-running war against viruses,” Dr. Doudna told me. “We humans don’t have time to wait for our own cells to evolve natural resistance to this virus, so we have to use our ingenuity to do that. Isn’t it fitting that one of the tools is this ancient bacterial immune system called Crispr? Nature is beautiful that way.” In November 2018, He Jiankui, a young Chinese scientist who had been to some of Dr. Doudna’s gene-editing conferences, shocked the world by using Crispr to help produce the world’s first “designer babies.” He edited human embryos to remove a gene that produces a receptor for H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS. There was an immediate outburst of awe and then shock. After more than three billion years of evolution of life on this planet, one species (us) had developed the talent and temerity to grab control of its own genetic future. There was a sense that we had crossed the threshold into a whole new age, perhaps a brave new world, as when Adam and Eve bit into the apple or Prometheus snatched fire from the gods. Crispr raises some tough moral questions. Should we edit our species to make us less susceptible to deadly viruses? In the midst of this coronavirus plague, most of us probably think that would be a wonderful boon. Right? Should we eliminate disorders such as Huntington’s, sickle-cell anemia and cystic fibrosis? That sounds good, too. And what about congenital deafness or blindness? Or being short? Or depressed? Hmm. How should we think about that? A few decades from now, if it becomes possible and safe, should we allow parents to enhance the IQ and physical strength of their kids? Should we let them decide eye color? Skin color? Height? After helping to discover Crispr, Dr. Doudna has become a thought leader on these moral issues. That’s the main message we should take from this year’s Nobel Prize in Chemistry: New technologies can be a huge benefit to the human race, but in order to make sure they are used wisely, it’s important for people to understand them. By shining a light on gene editing, the Nobel committee is bringing a needed awareness of the wonders of nature — and of the technology that will increasingly determine how nature works.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/this-year-s-nobel-prize-in-chemistry-honours-a-revolution-898910.html
08-10-2020||Opinion||Why conspiracy theories are so addictive right now||The other night, as President Donald Trump convalesced at Walter Reed, I took a spin through social media to see the latest news on his health. Instead, what I found were a bunch of paranoid partisans posting grainy, zoomed-in photos, analyzing video footage frame by frame, and people straining to connect the dots on far-fetched conspiracy theories involving a cabal of nefarious elites staging an elaborate cover-up. No, I didn’t stumble into a room for QAnon, the pro-Trump conspiracy theory. In fact, many of the people sharing bogus and unverified claims on my feeds were die-hard Democrats. Some of them were speculating, with no evidence, that Trump was faking his bout with Covid-19 to engender sympathy and boost his reelection chances. Others claimed that Trump had died and been replaced by a body double (nope), that he had gotten a secret vaccine from Russia and was quarantining until it took effect (also nope) or that he had deliberately contracted the disease to distract the public from a New York Times article about his taxes (creative, but doubtful). None of these theories passed the smell test, but they were retweeted and shared thousands of times anyway. Zignal Labs, a firm that tracks online misinformation, said that the theory that Trump had faked his illness had been mentioned more than 85,000 times on social media, and that the hashtag #TrumpCovidHoax, which trended on Twitter in the United States, had been mentioned more than 75,000 times. To be clear, none of the rumormongering I saw from the left was comparable to a dangerous extremist movement like QAnon, which alleges that the world is controlled by a cabal of satanic pedophiles led by prominent Democrats. And it’s understandable that people would question the official narrative of Trump’s illness. Presidents have a long history of hiding their health problems from the public, and the barrage of conflicting, confusing and dishonest information emanating from Trump and his medical team this week has made it hard to take their claims at face value. But it is notable how easily the conspiracist’s creed — that the official narrative is always a lie, and that the truth is out there for those willing to dig for it themselves — has penetrated our national psyche. After Trump tested positive for Covid-19 last week, social media sleuths raced to dissect every statement, tweet and photograph that might reveal clues about his real condition. (Is that lump in his jacket a hidden oxygen tank? Was that video edited to remove a telltale cough?) Unsatisfied with the official explanations given by Trump’s doctors, they sought out their own sources, like the TikTok account of Claudia Conway, the 15-year-old daughter of the former presidential adviser Kellyanne Conway, who offered a grimmer prognosis. And when the president did emerge from Walter Reed, armchair pulmonologists pored over his homecoming video as if it were a modern-day Zapruder film, looking for evidence that he was still in dire shape. Some of what’s happening is related to the dynamics of social media platforms, which favor bold, engaging claims over dry and careful ones. But there seems to be something else happening, too — a force that is pulling us all toward conspiracy theories these days, no matter our political persuasion. On Monday, as I watched a video clip of the president standing on a White House balcony, I was struck by the realization that virtually no one was simply accepting the scene at face value. Democrats were theorizing about what secret maladies he was trying to cover up. Republicans were speculating about what signals he was trying to send to his political opponents. Everyone was “doing their own research,” and looking behind the curtain for the real story. There was no text, only subtext. I thought of Martin Gurri, a media theorist whose work I find provocative, even if I disagree with some of his conclusions. In his book The Revolt of the Public, Gurri writes that social media, and the internet more broadly, have eroded the authority of long-standing mass-media gatekeepers — like the newspaper you’re reading right now — and replaced it with “vital communities” of digital insurgents who are united around shared interests. These groups, Gurri writes, develop their own sources of authority. For one group, a phalanx of white-coated doctors standing outside Walter Reed might seem authoritative. For another group, a teenage girl’s TikTok feed or a QAnon believer’s YouTube channel might hold more sway. Every group creates its own evidentiary standards, and processes information in its own way. There is no “consensus reality” they can all agree to because the idea of a single, shared reality was an artifact of the 20th century, when most people got information from a handful of big mainstream sources. I called Gurri, who told me that he wasn’t surprised that people were turning to conspiracy theories about Trump’s illness. Uncertainty always breeds distrust, and in the age of social media, he said, authority is held by people who can effectively get their message out — even if those messages are false or misleading. “Dissemination is validation,” he said. “If you can concoct something that travels on the web, then you’re on the same plane as any expert in the world.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-conspiracy-theories-are-so-addictive-right-now-898948.html
08-10-2020||Opinion||Understanding China’s attitude on the Ladakh stand-off||Speculation has been rife about the unduly aggressive posture of the Chinese President Xi Jinping in asserting China’s claims on the disputed territories with India, Japan, Vietnam, Philippines, Indonesia, Taiwan and others. A study of Chinese aggressive behaviour in recent years by Aaron Friedberg, professor at Princeton University, indicates that such behaviour is palpable whenever Beijing feels that it is stronger and can act more decisively. Chinese strategic writings suggest that “long unresolved disputes with foreign countries can be resolved by provoking crises” to settle disputes in China’s favour.  Two factors, primarily, contributed to China’s decision to despatch its military on its borders with India in April 2020. First, India’s ties with the USA, after the Doklam standoff in 2017, had grown rapidly fomenting China’s distrust of India. Yun Sun, director of the China program at Stimson Centre, USA, noted in March 2020 that the “assistance, alignment and power status” that USA had given to India in context of its Indo-Pacific (IP) strategy worried Beijing that it could hurt China’s power projection in South and East Asia, including threatening its energy supply from the Middle East.  China’s concerns about Indo-US ties China has been alarmed at the growing strategic nexus between India and the USA as evident from the acceptance of India as USA’s major defence partner, conclusion of Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement (COMCASA), institution of 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue, including Ministers of External Affairs and Defence, and the upgradation of the Quad (USA, India, Japan and Australia) Dialogue from official to ministerial level. Unfortunately, India’s efforts to address Beijing’s concerns that its ties with the USA are not aimed at China or that it favours an open IP has not alleviated China’s worries.  China’s strategic goal has always been to avoid a two-front war with the United States and India. Against the backdrop of cementing ties between India and the United States, President Xi thought of upgrading China’s ties with India to summit level in the hope that India would pursue its stated “strategic autonomy”, not align with the USA against China and not agree to the IP strategy directed against Beijing. Thus, the elevation of Sino-Indian ties from China’s view was based on exogenous factors. India, of course, viewed it differently as a means to reduce built-up tensions, reset its relations with China and manage its differences with that country.  Had the USA not adopted the IP strategy and pursued close relations with India, the trajectory of China’s policy towards India would have been very different. In China’s vision of Asia, while Beijing is at the top, India is several rungs down the ladder, given its smaller economy, defence and technological capabilities. China’s relationship with India always had had a high adversarial component as China viewed India as a potential rival and tried to contain its growth and rising influence by supporting contending Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Nepal and others, deny India a place in the Nuclear Suppliers Group and by other measures. Once the Chinese leadership came to believe that India had accepted a de facto alliance with the USA (though India has refuted such a suggestion), they started altering their policy in favour of accelerated pressure on India to dissuade her from pursuing that course.  Factors within India Second, India’s reorganisation of Jammu and Kashmir including the grant of status of union territory to Ladakh on August 5, 2019, and its improvement of several border roads connecting several strategic points in Ladakh with the Line of Actual Control (LAC) further deepened China’s suspicions that India’s actions could adversely impact its security interests in the restive Xinjiang and Tibet regions where a large number of Uighurs and Tibetans are up in arms against Beijing.  Some analysts believe that the amassing troops at the borders in Ladakh in April 2020 was a pre-emptive move by China to stymie any potential misadventure by India in Aksai Chin. China has been surprised at the stout response of the Indian military in the scuffle at Galwan Valley on June 15 and their quick manoeuvre in occupying mountainous heights like Helmet, Black Top, Mupari, Rezang La and Reqin La in South Pangong Tso on August 29 and 30.  While India has been asking China to move back its forces to April 20 positions, China is insisting that India must vacate the heights it has captured which pose a threat to China. Despite an agreement between the Foreign Ministers of the two countries on September 10, there has been no disengagement of troops and both sides are arranging logistics to tide over the winter.  Given the vast differences in the perceptions of the two sides, uneasy peace and tensions, border skirmishes will continue for the time being. A major conflagration is unlikely as the Chinese leaders are very cautious and do not undertake any military venture until they are absolutely certain of their victory. Also, China’s concentration of forces on the borders does not yet indicate that it is planning a major offensive operation (which requires about 10 times more troops than the adversary in mountainous regions). So long as China deals with India on the basis of its ‘Middle Kingdom’ mindset, real peace will elude India. Given the huge power asymmetry between India and China, it is important that the former shed diffidence and avail all opportunities to forge deeper political, economic and strategic ties with the USA, UK, France, Japan, Australia, Vietnam and others who are also at the receiving end of China’s policies of aggression and expansionism. (Yogesh Gupta is a former Ambassador who writes on China-related issues) The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/understanding-china-s-attitude-on-the-ladakh-stand-off-898989.html
08-10-2020||Panorama||Silent signs of heart ailments||Heart ailments happen to be one of the most common burdens of disease in India. In fact, cardiovascular disease is one of the top killers not just in the country but in the entire world, as per the latest estimates. The raging pandemic has made the situation even worse. While we are aware of the common risk factors of heart ailments like unhealthy foods, lack of exercise, smoking, hypertension and more, there are certain unusual factors that may hurt the heart. Due to our lack of awareness about these strange causes, we tend to ignore them. It is essential we look into these odd risk factors that may affect our heart. Several studies have found that those suffering from migraine may have higher risk of suffering from a stroke, chest pain and heart attacks. Those with migraine and a family history of heart disease may have to be extra cautious about taking medicines called triptans for migraine as they are known to narrow blood vessels and increase the risk of heart ailments. It could be the volume of the humming of a refrigerator or a friendly chat or traffic noise, any noise starting at around 50 decibels can increase the likelihood of a stroke or a heart attack. Studies show that for each 10-decibel rise in noise, the risk of heart failure goes up. It is closely linked to the way the body reacts to noise-induced stress. Menstruation and complications in the reproductive organs: It has been observed that women with advanced onset of menstruation and early menopause are at a greater chance of developing heart conditions. Those who get their first period before 12 or stop having period before they are 47 are likely to have a stroke or any other heart disease. Also, a woman's risk of heart complication increases if she has had a miscarriage or ovaries and uterus removed. Amid the raging pandemic, as we have been compelled to stay indoors, the concern of loneliness has increased manifold. It not only affects our minds but also increases the risk of heart disease and stroke, as much as passive smoking does, reveals a study. Being unhappy and feeling alone are linked to high blood pressure and other triggers of stress, thereby increasing the chance of developing heart complications. Prolonged working hours: Those spending long hours at work may have a greater risk of suffering from heart disease. People spending 55 hours per week at work are more prone to develop cardiac issues compared to those who work for 35 to 40 hours. This could be because of more stress, staying physically inactive for a prolonged period of time and more. Gum disease may also be indicative of eventual heart conditions. Why? Because bacteria from the mouth, including periodontal disease may enter the blood and cause inflammation in the lining of the arteries which can result in atherosclerosis or fatty build-up in the arteries. Heart attacks may come with different symptoms for different people. However, it is important to be aware of the symptoms of a heart attack in order to be able to detect it at the earliest. Some of these symptoms include pressure, tightness, pain or a squeezing or aching sensation in the chest or arms that may spread to the neck, jaw and back, nausea, indigestion, heartburn or abdominal pain, shortness of breath, cold sweat, fatigue, lightheadedness or sudden dizziness. Controlling blood pressure, keeping cholesterol and triglyceride levels under control, managing the body weight appropriately, eating the right food, getting daily exercise, limiting consumption of alcohol, quitting smoke and managing stress could be some of the ways by which the risk of cardiac ailments could be reduced.  While some may have mid pain during a heart attack, others may experience severe pain and some may have no symptoms at all. This is why it is imperative to be aware of the strange risk factors, silent symptoms and take precautions against the common risk factors that may result in any kind of heart complications. (The writer is a Senior Consultant and Head of Interventional Cardiology at a hospital in Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/silent-signs-of-heart-ailments-898816.html
08-10-2020||South||Two more Kerala ministers test positive for Covid-19||Kerala ministers M M Mani and K T Jaleel tested positive for the coronavirus on Wednesday. With this, five members of the Pinarayi Vijayan cabinet have so far been infected by the deadly virus. While Mani, the Electricity minister, has been admitted to the government medical college hospital here, Jaleel, Higher Education Minister, is under observation at his official residence. The 75-year old Mani, in a Facebook post, requested all those who had come in contact with him in the past few days to be on guard. Earlier, ministers -- Thomas Isaac, E P Jayarajan and V S Sunil Kumar, had tested positive. They have all recovered. The state reported the highest single-day surge of Covid-19 with 10,606 people testing positive and the infection tally crossed the 2.50 lakh mark on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-more-kerala-ministers-test-positive-for-covid-19-898832.html
08-10-2020||South||Kerala gold smuggling case: Congress, BJP demand Vijayan's resignation||The Enforcement Directorate has said a thorough investigation of suspended IAS officer M Sivasankar is required in the Kerala gold smuggling case as he allegedly facilitated opening a locker in a bank for prime accused Swapna Suresh. The locker with a nationalised bank was used by Suresh to keep the profits from the smuggling, ED, probing the money trail in the smuggling case, said in the interim charge-sheet filed on Tuesday in the Special Court for PMLA cases against Suresh and two other co-accused Sarith P S and Sandeep Nair. Opposition Congress and BJP latched on to the ED's charge sheet and demanded the resignation of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, saying the "link between" him and Suresh "has been proved". The agency claimed Suresh had given a statement to it, saying she was selected in the state government-promoted Space Park project as she was close to Sivasankar, former principal secretary to Vijayan. Her appointment was in the knowledge of the Chief Minister of Kerala, the ED said. Reacting to the ED's submissions, Leader of the Opposition in the state assembly Ramesh Chennithala of Congress alleged the ED has found that the appointment of Suresh at the Space Park was "with the knowledge" of the Chief Minister. "The link between the accused in the smuggling case and the chief minister is proved. He does not have the right to continue in the post. We seek his resignation," he told reporters. BJP leader K Surendran said it was "shocking" that Suresh during her official meetings with Sivashankar had met the Chief Minister 5-6 times. In his August 12 and 15 statements to the ED, given under Section 50 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), Sivasankar admitted he had facilitated opening of the bank locker by Suresh jointly with his chartered accountant P Venugopal with SBI, Thiruvananthapuram branch, the agency said. Venugopal was referred to her by Sivasankar to manage her funds and she trusted the IAS officer, it added. Sivasankar has denied having knowledge of Suresh being in possession of huge cash, the ED said in the interim charge-sheet. It added the probe revealed Suresh was directly involved in smuggling of gold through diplomatic baggage and had earned lucrative profits from it. The proceeds of the crime had been kept in the bank locker in the form of gold and cash, which were already seized by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in Kochi, the ED said. "In the light of the above, the role of M Sivasankar, who was the key person in the present government, in the entire episode has to be thoroughly investigated and the mirror image of the electronic evidences has to be confronted with him as well as the accused persons and others", the ED said. In August 2019, Suresh resigned from the UAE Consulate and sought the help of the suspended IAS officer, then principal secretary of Chief Minister, to get a job, the agency said. In her statement to the ED, Suresh claimed Sivasankar had asked her to submit her resume to PriceWaterhouseCoopers Pvt Ltd (PWC) over an opening in the Space Park project under Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Ltd (KSITIL), the agency said. Suresh had put Sivasankar's name as a reference in her resume and she was selected for the opening in the Space Park in October 2019. She was selected in Space Park as she was close to Sivasankar, trustworthy and reliable and her appointment was with the knowledge of the Chief Minister of Kerala, the ED said, quoting her statement given to it. Suresh further stated that another key accused, Ramees, had approached her and Sarith for smuggling gold. They decided to smuggle gold and arranged for two trial consignments, it said, adding, Sarith had forged the required documents and after clearance, he and Suresh handed over the gold to Sandeep Nair. Gold was smuggled through Thiruvananthapuram airport on 21 occasions and she had facilitated it. Sarith gave the smuggled gold to Sandeep, who in turn gave it to Ramees, the ED charged. In her statement to the ED on August 8, Suresh said she met Sivasankar around eight times officially, but many times unofficially. She has also said she met Sivasankar five to six times in the presence of the Chief Minister of Kerala, the ED said in the interim charge-sheet. Central agencies, including NIA, Customs and Enforcement Directorate, are conducting a separate probe into the seizure of gold worth nearly Rs 15 crore from a "diplomatic baggage" at Thiruvananthapuram International airport on July 5. Several people, including two former employees of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, Swapna Suresh and Sarith, have been arrested by the central agencies in connection with the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-congress-bjp-demand-vijayans-resignation-898851.html
08-10-2020||South||BJP welcomes AIADMK decision on CM candidate; DMK says will have no impact||The Tamil Nadu unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday welcomed the announcement of incumbent Edappadi K Palaniswami as the party-led alliance’s Chief Ministerial candidate for the 2021 polls, saying the declaration has further brightened the chances for the combine. “We welcome the decision of the AIADMK to sort differences within and announce the Chief Ministerial candidate. This will further brighten the chances of the National Democratic Alliance in Tamil Nadu. However, this news will come as a shock for the DMK, which was hoping for problems within the AIADMK,” BJP Treasurer S R Shekarsaid.  Though another senior leader Pon Radhakrishnan also welcomed the move, he said BJP’s alliance for the 2021 polls will be decided as elections near. “The alliance that is continuing now was stitched for the Lok Sabha polls in 2019. The alliance for Assembly elections will be formed before the polls. We may tie-up with the AIADMK, or even DMK, or we may even form our own alliance,” he said. However, AIADMK spokesperson Vaigai Chelvan said Radhakrishnan’s comments cannot be taken as the BJP’s official version. AIADMK’s arch-rival DMK said Palaniswami and Panneerselvam coming together will have no impact on the party. Party chief M K Stalin used the opportunity to take a dig at the AIADMK saying all the ruling party did in the past four years was to fight. “First (O) Panneerselvam fought with (V K) Sasikala and later Palaniswami and Panneerselvam fought with each other. After this, Palaniswami fought with Sasikala and later Panneerselvam and Palaniswami fought with each other. This government has been running with fear of who will pull the other’s legs,” Stalin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-welcomes-aiadmk-decision-on-cm-candidate-dmk-says-will-have-no-impact-898862.html
08-10-2020||South||Need fresh option on GST through debate, says Kerala Finance Minister Thomas Isaac||The ongoing row in the GST Council meetings over GST compensation seems to be causing fresh cracks in Centre-State relationship. Kerala Finance Minister Thomas Isaac told Arjun Raghunath of DH that the only solution is to evolve a fresh option through deliberations and not through confrontation. Excerpts from the interview: Has the ongoing row over GST affected Centre-State relationship? Over the years, it has been generally a collaborative exercise that has been going on in the GST Council. The council needs to take decision by consensus... The functioning of the GST council over the last few years is not on these lines. The states were being pressurised to choose the options the Centre prescribed. Do you think that politics is the reason behind the present stalemate? If you review the stands taken by many states during the previous council meetings, you can see that many states that are now favouring the Centre’s options, had differences earlier. Their concerns were reflected in their speeches. But later when the Centre came up with two options, the BJP-ruled states backed it. Hence, it is quite obvious that the BJP-ruled states were just falling in line with BJP’s opinion. Can the GST Council be insulated from the political intervention? I don’t think so. All members of the council are representatives of political parties. Hence, political interests are quite inevitable... However, there is a certain way in which decisions are made. Opinions raised by all states have to be accommodated... Is the opposition of states like Kerala also due to political interests? The last GST Council meeting (on October 5) lasted for about eight hours. Ten states, including Kerala, clarified their stand and practical aspects. Finally, the revenue secretary said that the discussions were over. Then we insisted that the council’s decision should be taken in the council itself. Decisions taken by the Centre could not be seen as that of the council, and should not be imposed on the states. How do you justify your stand that the Centre should borrow? It is much easier for the Centre to borrow than the states. They can borrow at easy terms and may even be able to borrow without interest from the RBI. The borrowing limits of the Centre is also high. What is the solution to this stalemate? A fresh option could be evolved through deliberations. The Centre and the states should move back from their earlier options. The borrowing for GST compensation should not be made part of the borrowing limits of the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/need-fresh-option-on-gst-through-debate-says-kerala-finance-minister-thomas-isaac-898867.html
08-10-2020||South||Telangana reports 1,896 new Covid-19 cases, 12 deaths||Telangana reported 1,896 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally of infections to 2,06,644, while the death toll rose to 1,201 with 12 more fatalities, a state government bulletin said on Thursday. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) registered 294 out of the 1,896 fresh cases, followed by Rangareddy (211), Medchal Malkajgiri (154), Nalgonda (126), Siddipet (100) and other districts, it said, providing data as of 8 pm on October 7. The bulletin said 50,367 samples were tested on October 7. Cumulatively, the number of samples tested was 33,96,839. The samples tested per million population was 91,264, it added. The cumulative recovered cases stood at 1,79,075, while 26,368 were under treatment. The recovery rate in the state rose further to 86.65 per cent, while it was 85.2 per cent in the country, it said. The case fatality rate in the state was 0.58 per cent, while it was 1.5 per cent at the national level, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-reports-1896-new-covid-19-cases-12-deaths-899037.html
08-10-2020||South||Kerala govt sets up welfare board for farmers||In a first in the country, the Kerala government has decided to form a Welfare Fund Board for the uplift of farmers in the state. The state cabineton Wednesday decided to set up the board to be known as 'Kerala Karshaka Kshemanidhi Board'. The cabinet also decided that Dr P Rajendran would be appointed as the chairman of the Kerala Farmers Welfare Fund Board. "This is the first time in the country that such a board has been set up for the welfare and uplift of farmers," an official press release said. As per the Kerala Karshaka Kshemanidhi Act, agriculture includes horticulture, medicinal plant cultivation, nursery management, fish, ornamental fish, mussels, bees, silkworms, poultry, ducks, goats, rabbits, livestock, and the maintenance and use of land for such agricultural purposes. For the farmers to become a member of the Board, they need to pay Rs 100 as registration fee and a monthly fee of Rs 100. "Farmers can pay the monthlyfee together for six months or one year. The government will provide an equivalent share of upto Rs 250 to the members of the Welfare Fund," the release said. The Board members are entitled to personal pension, family pension, sickness benefit, disability benefit, medical assistance, marriage and maternity allowance, education assistance and posthumous benefits. The benefit would be given for the marriage of women members and daughters of members of the Welfare Fund. As per the Act, a farmer is an owner, licencee, sole proprietor, oral tenant, government land leaseholder who owns not less than 5 cents and not more than 15 acres, with an annual income of less than Rs five lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-sets-up-welfare-board-for-farmers-899069.html
08-10-2020||South||Farm laws may have limited effect on Kerala's existing trade systems, feel farmers||Being a state that has not implemented the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC), farmers in Kerala feel that the opening up of trade with new farm laws might not make much impact in the existing trade systems in Kerala, even as there are serious concerns of entry of corporates. While the existing government and private procuring systems may remain unaffected, the major concern is with regard to entry of corporates into the field. Producers of commodities like pineapple that are mainly sold through markets in other states hope that the new system would help them to explore new markets and there by fetch a better price. With the absence of APMCs, the major channel of trade in Kerala is private agencies that procure from farmers and sell it in other states. Kerala government's agencies like state agriculture department's wholesale markets, Kerala State Horticultural Products Development Corporation (Horticrop) and Vegetable and Fruit Promotion Council Keralam are also procuring produce from farmers. Lack of production in bulk quantities is one reason why there was not much demand for implementing APMC in Kerala. Fruits like Pineapple and Mango from Kerala are widely sold in other states. Pineapple Growers Association of Keralam president Baby John said that 90 per cent of the pineapple produced in Kerala were sold out through APMCs in other states. There are lobbies in APMCs that fix low prices. Hence, flexibility in trading would obviously help the major producers explore fresh markets and demand more price. Steps like contract farming would help in venturing into more varieties of pineapple farming. At present 4.5 lakh tonnes of pineapple are in produced in Kerala. Meanwhile, M Thajudeen, a leading mango farmer at Muthalamada in Palakkad district, said that it would be difficult for the farmers to bargain in a corporate dominated market. Hence it was better to have a government managed marketing strategy. Most of the farmers as well as those associated with the industry feels that ensuring minimum support price could be the key to support the agriculture sector. Jyothi Kumar, a lawyer and agriculture entrepreneur, said that major chuck of famers in Kerala were financially weak and hence they could be easily influenced by corporates. Hence it was better that the government takes steps to empower farmers as well as to promote joint farming initiatives. Concerns of contract farming leading to over exploitation of the farm lands and doing away with the present cultivation patterns sound to be quite genuine as maximising profit would be the priority of corporates, he said. Former director of agriculture in Kerala R Hali said that the need of the hour was to constitute a committee of experts to see how Kerala could make use of the government schemes and laws for the betterment of the state agriculture sector. Of a total geographical area of 38.86 lakh hectares of the state, the net area sown is 53 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/farm-laws-may-have-limited-effect-on-keralas-existing-trade-systems-feel-farmers-899143.html
08-10-2020||South||Classes X, XII resumed in Puducherry only on trial basis: CM V Narayanasamy||Chief Minister of Puducherry V Narayanasamy on Thursday said classes for standards X and XII alone resumed here but only on a trial basis. He said students of X and XII would have public examinations in March or April 2021, hence they should be helped to prepare for the public exams. Therefore, the classes began from Wednesday, he said. "We will watch the situation for a week. In case any setback in the health of the students is seen, we will reconsider the decision to re-open the schools," the Chief Minister said. He brushed aside the protests by political parties against the re-opening of the schools as being 'politically motivated' and aimed at bringing a bad name to the government. The Chief Minister said not all classes were re-opened. Students are left with the option to attend the classes only after presenting letters of consent from their parents. He said attendance was not compulsory and the students attending the classes were doing so on their own volition. The pupils would be subjected to medical tests, he said adding: "All safety protocols will be followed." Narayanasamy thanked Union Minister Nitin Gadkari for inaugurating on Wednesday the Rs 35-crore road-over-bridge in neighbouring Arumbarthapuram. The Chief Minister said the Central Minister had approved a number of road development projects for Puducherry, including the four-lane proposed between Villupuram and Nagapattinam via Puducherry and Karaikal regions involving an investment of Rs 2,100 crore. "I thank the Union Minister and also Prime Minister for conceding to the Puducherry government`s requests for a number of road projects," the Chief Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/classes-x-xii-resumed-in-puducherry-only-on-trial-basis-cm-v-narayanasamy-899156.html
08-10-2020||South||Kerala gold smuggling accused Swapna Suresh amassed huge wealth: ED report||From gold to US dollars, Kerala gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh has amassed wealth worth crores over the last few years, the details of which were mentioned by the Enforcement Directorate in a report in a local court in Kochi. Swapna, who earlier worked as secretary at UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, was alleged to have facilitated smuggling of a total of 166.882 kilogram gold in 21 instances using diplomatic baggage cover and she earned Rs 39.6 lakh from this as a share. Swapna received USD 1.05 lakh as gift and other purposes from UAE embassy senior officials during 2018-19, including USD 20,000 during Kerala floods relief activities in 2018. She also received USD 1.35 lakh from various private agencies as commission for deals with the consulate, including the visa stamping services and the controversial housing scheme for homeless. Earlier investigation agencies had recovered gold ornaments weighing one kilogram and Rs one crore in cash from Swapna's bank locker. Meanwhile, the investigation agencies were learnt to have got more evidence for Kerala Chief Minister's former principal secretary M Sivasankar's links with Swapna in handling her funds through a chartered accountant. The customs have summoned Sivasankar, who is now under suspension, again on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-gold-smuggling-accused-swapna-suresh-amassed-huge-wealth-ed-report-899166.html
08-10-2020||South||Madras High Court directs Dalit AIADMK MLA A Prabhu to produce Brahmin wife over marriage row||Four days after their wedding, the Madras High Court on Thursday directed AIADMK MLA A Prabhu to produce on Friday his newly wed wife S Soundarya before it, acting on a habeas corpus petition filed by her father alleging that his daughter was kidnapped. A division bench of Justices M M Sundresh, and D Krishnakumar also asked the petitioner to appear before the court on Friday. Swaminathan, the girl’s father who works as a priest at a temple in Thiyagadurgam, 235 km from here in the newly formed Kallakurichi district, has alleged that Prabhu had married his daughter after kidnapping her. The bench directed Prabhu to produce his wife before the court when the matter came up for hearing on Thursday. The MLA, who belongs to the Scheduled Caste, married S Soundarya in a simple ceremony in the presence of his family members on Monday amid drama as the girl’s father attempted to self-immolate outside the venue. The father also moved the High Court on the same day. Even as the father levelled allegations, Soundarya released a video message saying that her wedding with the MLA took place with her “consent” and that she was neither abducted nor threatened. “MLA Prabhu and I have been in love for the past four to six months. Since my parents objected to my relationship with Prabhu, I stormed out of my house and have now married him. The marriage took place with my consent and not because of any threat. I was neither abducted nor threatened,” the 19-year-old said in her message. A Prabhu, a first-time legislator, is 36 years old, while the girl is 19. Prabhu was close to Soundarya’s family for the past 10 years and had enjoyed a good rapport with them and that is how the couple came to know each other. The MLA said though he had known Soundarya for the past 10 years, their relationship began only a few months ago. “The girl’s family did not accept our relationship, but the wedding took place with the consent of my family members. My wife is a major and she took the decision consciously. To say I abducted her is absurd,” the legislator said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-high-court-directs-dalit-aiadmk-mla-a-prabhu-to-produce-brahmin-wife-over-marriage-row-899223.html
08-10-2020||South||Bars in Kerala to remain shut for some more time as state govt rejects plea to allow operations||Bars and beer parlours in Kerala will remain shut for some more time as state government rejected pleas of bar hotel owners to allow bars and beer parlours to open shops. Owing to lockdown bars and beer parlours were allowed to carry out sale of liquor and beer in bottles only, which was normally restricted to state government agency run outlets. In view of the plea of bar and beer owners for permission to resume retail sales, Kerala Excise department gave a report that bars and beer parlours may be allowed to function by following social distancing norms. But the government on Thursday decided not to allow it considering the ongoing Covid-19 surge in Kerala. Health department and police raised strong objections against allowing bars and beer parlours to serve liquor to  customers, especially citing that it would be difficult to ensure social distancing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bars-in-kerala-to-remain-shut-for-some-more-time-as-state-govt-rejects-plea-to-allow-operations-899241.html
08-10-2020||South||IIT Hyderabad starts new BTech in Biomedical Engineering||The Indian Institute of Technology Hyderabad has announced the start of a new BTech course in Biomedical Engineering from this academic year. Medical imaging, cancer therapy, nanomedicine, 3D bio-printing, neuroscience are some of the modules of the undergraduate programme introduced for the first time among all the IITs. The course aims to help recognise and establish patterns in health and diseases, simulation and prediction of the spread of epidemics. The programme also provides training in the design of medical devices, developing 3D imagers and microscopes, healthcare data analysis, design of implants, regeneration of organs from stem cells etc. B S Murty, Director, IIT Hyderabad, said: “IIT-H has developed this robust programme in biomedical engineering to inculcate the interest in biomedical education and research among the young minds. We strongly believe that this will help in bringing out indigenous medical devices of high quality to aid medical treatment in the country.” One of the unique factors of the programme is an advanced module on biomedical product design, entrepreneurship, regulatory affairs, and clinical immersion, which brings in a core product design and development focus, IITH officials said. The curriculum is designed around four verticals – bio-imaging/sensing, biomechanics, biomaterials, and bio-intelligence/AI. IIT-H is already offering a master’s programme in Biomedical Engineering.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/iit-hyderabad-starts-new-btech-in-biomedical-engineering-899243.html
08-10-2020||South||Your fight on GST will not go in vain: Stalin to 10 CMs||DMK President MK Stalin on Thursday appreciated chief ministers of nine states and the Union Territory of Puducherry ruled by the Congress and other Opposition parties for opposing the borrowing options proposed by the Centre at the GST Council meeting, saying their fight will not go in vain. In letters written to chief ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Puducherry, Kerala, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Delhi, Jharkhand, and West Bengal, Stalin thanked them for declining to accept both the borrowing options proposed by the Union government at the GST Council meeting on the 5th of October. “Your efforts in standing united to uphold Federalism are greatly appreciated. When the Union has a moral and legal obligation to pay the states, proposing we should borrow to substitute for their non-payment is a travesty of both states’ rights and justice,” he wrote. He also accused the Tamil Nadu government of betraying its people by opting for one of the options given by the Centre. Quoting the CAG Report for 2018-2019 that showed that the Centre has “illegitimately transferred funds” of Rs 47,272 crores from the GST Compensation account to the Consolidated Fund of India during the 2017-18 and 2018-19 periods alone, Stalin said the possibility of such illegitimate transfers for the past fiscal year (2019-2020) remains. “In light of these facts, I urge you to hold the Union government to its duty and its commitment to the CAG, reimburse this amount immediately, and initiate states’ compensation payments from this deposit,” he said in the letter. The additional funds required to honour the Unions legal obligations for the year can be borrowed directly into the Compensation Account from the market or the RBI, with the Union government serving as guarantor for its eventual repayment, Stalin said. “On behalf of the people of Tamil Nadu, I truly appreciate your efforts so far and urge you to stand firm even as our own Tamil Nadu government continues to betray its people. Your solidarity with the other states in fighting for the rights of all states in India, will not go in vain,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/your-fight-on-gst-will-not-go-in-vain-stalin-to-10-cms-899244.html
08-10-2020||South||Goa BJP MLA seeks to scrap Hubballi-Vasco rail track doubling||A ruling BJP MLA in Goa said the doubling of tracks along the Hubballi-Vasco sector of the South Western Railway was being carried out to facilitate coal transport and demanded that as the coal cargo was to be used for steel plants based in Karnataka, the rail project in Goa should be scrapped. "The doubling of the Hubballi-Vasco railway track is to facilitate coal transportation for plants in Karnataka. Why should Goa suffer from coal, dust pollution and contamination of our natural resources on account of it?" former Environment Minister Alina Saldanha asked reporters on Thursday after meeting Chief Minister Pramod Sawant at the state Secretariat. "Karnataka can sustain this scale of development. It is 52 times bigger than Goa. They can handle such transportation of coal, tiny Goa cannot," Alina said. She said the chief minister had assured her that he would take a call on the finalisation of the rail track doubling issue in a week. The rail tracks are expected to ferry consignments of coal imported through Goa's Mormugao Port Trust to steel mills in Karnataka's Bellary district. Goa is home to two railway zones, operated by the Konkan Railway Corporation and the South Western Railway. The latter, which terminates at Vasco railway station, is used as a major transit route for transportation of coal and other cargo, which arrives by the sea at the Mormugao Port Trust, also located near the railway terminus. The sector is also used to transport iron ore extracted in Goa to Karnataka steel units. In Goa, the South Western Railway operates over a hilly track, which was laid nearly a century ago during the colonial Portuguese regime and was used for trade with neighbouring Karnataka region, which was under British control. The doubling of the rail track has however witnessed opposition, even within the Goa BJP. For months now, Alina has led protests against the doubling of railway tracks along the South Western railway route, which passes through her constituency of Cortalim in South Goa, claiming old heritage houses would be demolished if the double-tracking comes through and that it would also generate pollution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/goa-bjp-mla-seeks-to-scrap-hubballi-vasco-rail-track-doubling-899245.html
08-10-2020||South||Hyderabad woman dies as hair gets entangled in go-kart||An engineering student died of head injuries suffered when her hair got entangled in a wheel of a go-kart she was riding at a play zone here, police said. The woman, in her early 20s, died at a hospital on Thursday, a day after the incident, a senior official said. Following the freak mishap, the police booked a case of negligence against the management of the play zone and closed the premises as it's license expired, the official told PTI. The woman had gone to the play zone with her family members. She and another person were riding the go-kart when her hair got entangled in the rear wheel of the vehicle after the helmet she was wearing came out, resulting in serious head injuries, the official said, citing preliminary investigation. Police were informed about the incident on Thursday, the official said. The license of the play zone was accorded by municipal authorities for only one year in 2017, but its owners were operating it despite the expiry, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hyderabad-woman-dies-as-hair-gets-entangled-in-go-kart-899295.html
08-10-2020||South||Tamil Nadu's Covid-19 death toll breaches 10,000-mark, case tally touched 6.4 lakh||Tamil Nadu's Covid-19 death toll on Thursday crossed the 10,000 mark with 68 more fatalities, while the case tally touched 6,40,943 with 5,088 fresh infections. The 10,052 deaths as on date includes Chennai's 3,351, Chengelpet 584, Tiruvallur 573, Coimbatore 479, Madurai 395, Salem 365, Kancheepuram 341, a health department bulletin said, adding the remainder was spread across Tamil Nadu. With more recoveries (5,718) than fresh cases, the number of those cured increased to 5,86,454 and the active cases were 44,437, it said. As many as 87,341 samples were tested (RT-PCR) and cumulatively 80,44,447 specimens have so far been examined in 190 COVID labs in the state. Over a span of three months, Tamil Nadu has added 8,352 deaths and the death toll stood at 1,700 on July 8 and as on June 8 and May 8, the fatalities were 286 and 40 respectively. A 31-year-old woman and a 37-year-old man were among the 68 fatalities today and in total 60 had co-morbidities and eight no chronic illnesses. Out of 6,40,943 cases, the state capital accounted for 1,78,108, Chengelpet 38,487 and Coimbatore 35,933. Of the 5,088 new cases, Chennai logged 1,295, Coimbatore 448, Chengelpet 363 and Salem 362.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadus-covid-19-death-toll-breaches-10000-mark-case-tally-touched-64-lakh-899311.html
08-10-2020||State||Tamil Nadu CM Palaniswami asks Karnataka CM Yediyurappa to fill up vacancies of Tamil teachers in schools||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Thursday wrote to his Karnataka counterpart B S Yediyurappa asking him to fill up vacancies of Tamil teachers in government and government-aided schools in the state. Referring to a representation from Karnataka Tamil School and College Teachers Association, Palaniswami said he understands that the Karnataka Government has not given approval for opening of new private Tamil schools. He also noted that Tamils have contributed significantly to the all-round economic development of Karnataka. “In particular, Tamilians have made immense contributions in developing Kolar Gold Mines, Hutti Gold Mines, Sandur Manganese Mines, Coffee Estates in Chikkamagalur, Mangalore etc. They have also been playing a major role in construction sectors and agriculture sector in the State of Karnataka,” Palaniswami said. He requested Yediyurappa to fill up vacancies of Tamil teachers in government and government-aided schools in Karnataka, reopen such Schools that were closed recently, grant recognition or permission to open new private schools with Tamil as a medium of instruction, and restore Tamil Schools, which have been converted into other language schools.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/tamil-nadu-cm-palaniswami-asks-karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-to-fill-up-vacancies-of-tamil-teachers-in-schools-899024.html
08-10-2020||State||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa seeks report on developing tourist destinations||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday sought a comprehensive report on the development of tourism destinations in the state.  Chairing a review of the tourism department, Yediyurappa consented to take up the development of tourist destinations. When Tourism Minister C T Ravi pointed out that there were not enough officials to explore tourism opportunities in various districts, Yediyurappa said KAS officers can be made use of.  Encouraging tourism should be the aim of the department, Yediyurappa said, adding that identification of tourist spots, their management and protection should be prioritised. Yediyurappa also took stock of the Jog Falls project, which is estimated to cost Rs 120 crore for constructing ropeway, amphitheatre, parking facility and so on. The project will be implemented by the Karnataka Power Corporation Ltd. Additional Chief Secretary P Ravikumar told the meeting that the cost of the project will be finalised by the end of the month.  In September, the Cabinet approved the Jog Falls project by cancelling the earlier Rs 450 crore contract given to BRS Ventures.  During the meeting, Ravi said the responsibility of developing Kemmangundi and Nandi Hills should be given to the tourism department.  The meeting also discussed the development of Badami, which attracts foreign tourists. The APMC land there can be handed over to the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation (KSTDC) where infrastructure can be developed, the CM said. The development of Srirangapatna and Mysuru Haat was also discussed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-seeks-report-on-developing-tourist-destinations-899269.html
08-10-2020||State||MLC elections: BJP rebel candidate has zero assets||BJP’s rebel candidate D T Srinivasa, who is contesting as an independent from the South East graduates constituency, is an MBA graduate without a penny in his pocket, if his affidavit is anything to go by. Srinivasa, who had lobbied for a ticket from the saffron party has zero assets and liabilities, according to his affidavit, while his wife, Hiriyur BJP MLA Poornima, has assets worth Rs 112 crore. The declaration was in contrast with the one filed by Poornima for the 2018 election, where she revealed that her spouse had movable assets worth Rs 2.19 crore and immovable assets worth Rs 13.7 crore. Srinivasa is the only candidate with zero assets contesting the upcoming Legislative Council polls and is pitted against BJP’s Chidanand M, Congress’ Ramesh Babu and R Chowda Reddy of the JD(S), who is the sitting MLC from the constituency. Among the candidates from major political parties, Puttanna who jumped ship to BJP from JD(S) had the highest net worth. Contesting from Bangalore Teachers’ constituency, Puttanna has movable assets worth Rs 18.48 crore and immovable assets worth Rs 26.22 crore. Apart from Srinivasa, Timmayya Purle, contesting on a JD(S) ticket from Karnataka North East Teachers’ constituency had the least wealth. He has declared total wealth of Rs 27.98 lakh (Rs 14.98 lakh movable and Rs 13 lakh immovable) and liabilities ofRs 10.85 lakh. Meanwhile, former MLA and Kannada activist Vatal Nagaraj has filed his papers as independent from the North East Teachers’ constituency on Thursday. Thursday was the last day for candidates to file their nominations. Elections to these four Legislative Council seats are scheduled for October 28.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mlc-elections-bjp-rebel-candidate-has-zero-assets-899271.html
08-10-2020||State||Currency notes worth Rs 16.8 lakh found abandoned in farm in Chitradurga||Stacks of currency notes of Rs 50, 100 and 2,000 denominations, all worth Rs 16.8 lakh, were found abandoned in the bushes of a farmland at Buklorahalli in Challakere taluk of the district on Thursday. Acting on a tip-off, a police team led by circle police inspector Manjunath and sub-inspector Satish Naik rushed to the spot and recovered the cash. According to the police, Rs 36 lakh cash was stolen from the office of Dileep Buildcon Ltd, the contractors executing the widening of the Bidar-Srirangapatna highway, on October 3. The office is close to the farm where the cash was discovered. The police suspect that the cash found on the farmland could be the money stolen from the builders office. Investigations are underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/currency-notes-worth-rs-168-lakh-found-abandoned-in-farm-in-chitradurga-899280.html
08-10-2020||State||No darshan for public at Hasanamba temple this year||District in-charge minister K Gopalaiah made a formal announcement on Thursday that there will be no entry for devotees to the Hasanamba temple this year, in the wake of the Covid crisis. Hasanamba temple opens only once in a year, during Hasanamba Mahotsava, held during the Deepavali festival. Speaking to reporters, after holding a meeting with officials of various departments at the deputy commissioner's office here, he said entry to devotees to the Hasanamba temple will be restricted during the festival. The temple will be open as part of the festival from November 5 to 17. However, the district administration will instal LED screens at 12 vantage points in Hassan city for live darshan of the deity. Devotees from other districts and states can have online darshan, he said. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa would be invited to inaugurate the jatra mahotsava. Elected representatives would be allowed direct darshan on the first and the last day, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-darshan-for-public-at-hasanamba-temple-this-year-899282.html
08-10-2020||State||Karnataka High Court tells state govt to reconsider KSPCB appointment rules||The Karnataka High Court on Thursday directed the state government to reconsider the guidelines for appointment of chairperson, member-secretary and members to the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB). The court passed the order observing that the guidelines framed by the state government and subsequent modifications carried out during the pendency of the petitions are not in consonance with the Water Act, Air Act, Environmental Protection Act and also with the directions of the Supreme Court. A division bench, comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S Kinagi, asked the state government not to make any appointments to the board till that time. The bench issued rule nisi after hearing extensively on two PILs filed by R Anjaneya Reddy and Krishnaiah P Sreenath, challenging the June 19, 2020, guidelines issued by the state government. The bench said the KSPCB must consist of persons having good administrative capacity and also substantial technical knowledge in various fields, including air and water pollution, solid waste, biomedical waste and construction waste. During the hearing on the PILs, the state government had submitted modified guidelines based on the suggestion by a two-member committee of Additional Chief Secretary and Principal Secretary of Forest, Ecology and Environment. The bench observed that the guidelines propose to reserve the post of member-secretary only to an IAS or IFS officer, while the enactments clearly mandate a postgraduate degree in science/ engineering/ technology besides administrative experience in the field of environment science. The bench also said the guidelines for the post of chairperson also not in conformity with the enactments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-high-court-tells-state-govt-to-reconsider-kspcb-appointment-rules-899287.html
08-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Minority welfare: Karnataka's BS Yediyurappa govt cuts funding by 44%||The B S Yediyurappa administration has slashed funds for minority welfare schemes by 44%, or Rs 468 crore, as a result of which programmes that covered Muslims, Jains, Buddhists and Sikhs have been discontinued this financial year.  According to information tabled in the Legislative Assembly by Minority Welfare Minister Shrimant Patil, five schemes have been dropped in the 2020-21 financial year as no allocation was made for them: Construction of Muslim convention halls (Shaadi Mahals), skill development for minorities, Bidaai (Shaadi Bhagya), Chief Minister’s Minorities Development Scheme and financial assistance to Jain, Buddhist and Sikh communities.  Not just that, the state government has cut funds for several ongoing programmes aimed at minorities. They include funds for development of Christians, learning interventions in state-run minority schools, Vidyasiri stipend, training for competitive exams and new hostels.  In all, the allocation for minority welfare that was Rs 1,418.98 crore in 2019-20 has come down to Rs 950 crore this fiscal. Bidaai was launched by the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government in which a Rs 50,000 one-time marriage assistance was given to minority women, where it was originally intended only for Muslims. Over one lakh women have been covered under the scheme since inception. “There were 32,516 pending applications in 2019-20 and each one was given Rs 25,000 in a one-time settlement for which Rs 81.29 crore was released,” Patil told the Assembly in a written reply.  “The BJP’s attitude towards minorities is known. But, as a government, they have to take every community into confidence,” KPCC working president Saleem Ahmed said.   The government plans to set up a Maulana Azad Trust with a corpus of Rs 25 crore to provide modern education to backward Muslims.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/minority-welfare-karnatakas-bs-yediyurappa-govt-cuts-funding-by-44-898866.html
08-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Audio leak says Congress' Randeep Singh Surjewala was against fielding T B Jayachandra for Sira bypoll||“Do you have common sense?”  This was AICC general secretary in-charge of Karnataka Randeep Singh Surjewala’s question to the party’s state president D K Shivakumar over the choice of candidate for the November 3 Sira bypoll, according to a hush-hush conversation that was leaked on Thursday.  The Congress has announced former minister T B Jayachandra as its candidate for the Sira bypoll, but it now appears that Surjewala did not approve of this and wanted the ticket to be given to Dr C M Rajesh Gowda, who has now joined the BJP.  This conversation happened on Sunday between Shivakumar and Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah at the party’s office during the induction of some local Sira leaders. By then, the state unit had recommended Jayachandra’s candidature to the high command, which was yet to decide.   The conversation was caught on camera and aired by news channels.  “You should’ve given (ticket) to Rajesh Gowda and not Jayachandra. Since 1978, Jayachandra has contested nine times. Again, you’ve recommended his name. Do you have common sense?” Shivakumar is heard saying, quoting Surjewala. “I told him that we discussed it and that we can’t (do the election) without (Jayachandra). Still, he said we should reconsider,” Shivakumar says.  Siddaramiah points out that Gowda had already joined the BJP. “Yes, I told (Surjewala) that he has joined the BJP." "Last time, he tried for the ticket with JD(S) and not with us,” Shivakumar replies.  “He was asking for the ticket with the JD(S) and the BJP. For namesake, he asked with us also,” Siddaramaiah says. “Yes, yes, I told him that. But, now that he has seen our fax, he said we should reconsider and get back to him,” Shivakumar says.  The Congress high command formally announced Jayachandra’s name on Wednesday. Meanwhile, Gowda is likely to be the saffron party’s candidate.  Speaking to reporters, Siddaramaiah clarified that the Sira ticket choice was consensual. “(Surjewala) asked if there were other candidates. I said Jayachandra is a senior leader who has been a legislator since 1978. About Rajesh Gowda, I said he wasn’t in our party. He asked for the ticket and I told him, we can’t give it to him, because of Jayachandra,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/audio-leak-says-congress-randeep-singh-surjewala-was-against-fielding-t-b-jayachandra-for-sira-bypoll-899233.html
08-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Karnataka CM Yediyurappa tells authorities to decrease antigen tests, fatality rate||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday directed authorities to ramp up RT-PCR testing instead of the faster rapid antigen tests (RAT) even as Covid-19 cases continue to rise in the state.  Directions were also issued to take steps towards keeping mortality rate below 1%. The case fatality rate in Karnataka is 1.4%, according to the Covid-19 war room.  The CM reviewed ten districts that have emerged as Covid-19 hotspots: Udupi, Shivamogga, Hassan, Mysuru, Ballari, Uttara Kannada, Dakshina Kannada, Dharwad, Udupi and Tumakuru. These districts account for nearly 30% of the state’s active Covid-19 cases and 40% of all deaths because of the infection.  “The districts are doing more RATs. It was directed to reduce this and increase RT-PCR tests,” the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said in a statement. “RAT must be done only when it’s inevitable.”  Till date, Karnataka has conducted 55.24 lakh tests of which 20.5 lakh are RAT and 34.71 lakh are RT-PCR.  During the meeting, Yediyurappa found that the high positivity rate in RAT was adding to the state’s Covid-19 tally, showing poorly on the government’s efforts to regulate the spread of the virus.  Concerns were flagged over the number of Covid-19 deaths in the ten districts. When Yediyurappa reviewed the death audit, it was found that fatality was high in Dharwad (2.8%). He ordered a special team to visit the district to take stock of this.  “Audits must be done to determine the cause of deaths that occur within 72 hours of hospitalization,” Yediyurappa said. “Across the state, 50% of deaths have occured in the first 72 hours. So, it is crucial to conduct tests and identify infection.”  Speaking to reporters, Yediyurappa said officials from the ten districts had been asked to go on an overdrive. “The death rate should be brought down to 1%. It has come under control in some districts. In the next one week, whatever is necessary will be done to control this,” he said, adding that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had also asked the government to keep the fatality rate below 1%.  Dasara amid Covid Considering the high number of Covid-19 cases in Mysuru, Yediyurappa asked the district administration to submit an exclusive report ahead of the Dasara celebrations. “Let Dasara activities be held in the virtual mode and all precautionary measures should be take up mandatorily,” he told officials.  RAT must at Krishna All persons entering Krishna, the Chief Minister's home office, will be made to undergo a rapid antigen test (RAT). A kiosk has been set up outside Krishna where the tests will be done for visitors. Only those who test negative will be allowed inside, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-tells-authorities-to-decrease-antigen-tests-fatality-rate-899240.html
08-10-2020||West||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Mumbai cops to probe Congress complaint of Twitter campaign||The Congress in Maharashtra on Wednesday requested Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh to investigate what it called a "BJP-driven social media terrorism" aimed at defaming the state government and police in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death case. A senior police officer later said they are conducting an inquiry after state Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant submitted a complaint in this regard. Leaders of the ruling Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress have stepped up their attack on the BJP since an AIIMS medical panel ruled out "murder" in Rajput's death, which is currently probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The BJP has dismissed the allegations as "wild and baseless". "We met @CPMumbaiPolice with demand to probe the BJP driven Social media terrorism - Conspiracy against our democracy, a methodology designed to defame opp govt's by creating narrative based on artificial public rage. Our team dug into Twitter terrorism & found out following facts," Sawant tweeted after a delegation led by him met the city police commissioner. He alleged that "thousands" of Twitter accounts were opened after Rajput's death in June this year "just to run a campaign against Mumbai Police and the state government". Sawant said these accounts tweeted and retweeted hashtags suggesting that Rajput was killed. "The behavioural pattern of these twitter handles, history of their tweets and frequency of their retweets suggest that it was a well-thought planned conspiracy against the Maharashtra government," he alleged. The Congress spokesperson further claimed that some professional agencies were specifically hired to malign the image of the Mumbai police and the state government. He said the Congress had submitted the name of one such agency to the police. "The target of this campaign was to paint a picture that the Mumbai Police is trying to push the matter under the carpet as the CM is desperate to save his son," he added. Hitting back, Maharashtra BJP chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said, "the Congress and Sawant have the habit of making wild and baseless allegations..let the matter be probed". Taking a dig, he said instead of making "baseless" allegations, the ruling party should focus on the deteriorating law and order situation in the state including the safety of women. On Tuesday, Maharashtra Home Minister and NCP leader Anil Deshmukh said the state cyber department will probe who defamed the state in connection with the Rajput's death case on the social media. He had also told reporters that a US-based university's study in connection with the case revealed "BJP hand in hyping the conspiracy theory".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-singh-rajput-case-mumbai-cops-to-probe-congress-complaint-of-twitter-campaign-898823.html
08-10-2020||West||14,578 new coronavirus cases, 355 deaths in Maharashtra||Maharashtra's coronavirus tally on Wednesday rose to 14,80,489 with 14,578 fresh cases coming to light, a state health official said. With 355 new fatalities being reported, the death toll in the state reached 39,072, he said. But on the other hand, 16,715 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, taking the tally of recovered patients in the state to 11,96,441. There are 2,44,527 active cases in the state now. Mumbai city reported 2,848 new cases which pushed its overall case count to 2,19,961, while death toll in the city rose to 9,248 with 46 new fatalities. Pune city added 966 cases, which took its case tally to 1,62,096, while 13 deaths took toll to 3,662. The state has so far conducted 73,24,188 coronavirus tests. Out of 355 deaths reported on Wednesday, 211 deaths took place in the last 48 hours while 48 took place in the last one week. Remaining 96 deaths had taken place even before that, but were recorded only on Wednesday. The Mumbai division, which consists of Mumbai city and satellite towns, reported 5,401 new cases, raising the total count of the region to 5,11,524. A total of 16,559 people have died so far in the region, the official added. The total number of cases in the Pune division stood at 3,88,022 and deaths at 8,476, the official said. Nashik division's cumulative case tally stood at 1,98,836 and death toll at 3,874, he said. Kolhapur division has reported 99,656 cases and 3,114 deaths till now, while Aurangabad division's case tally stood at 55,511 and death count at 1,425. Latur division has reported 60,934 cases until now and 1,701 fatalities. Akola division has recorded 45,642 cases while 1,038 people have succumbed to the infection in the region until now. Nagpur division has recorded 1,18,668 infections and 2,735 fatalities so far. 1,696 COVID-19 patients from other states have been treated in Maharashtra so far while 150 such patients have died. A total of 22,48,741 people are currently under home quarantine in the state while 25,655 are in institutional quarantine. Maharashtra's coronavirus figures are as follows: Total cases: 14,80,489, New cases: 14,578, Death toll: 39,072, Discharged: 11,96,441, Active cases: 2,44,527, People tested so far: 73,24,188.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/14578-new-coronavirus-cases-355-deaths-in-maharashtra-898858.html
08-10-2020||West||Covid-19 cases surge in Mumbai amid relaxations||In the last seven days, the novel coronavirus cases have increased by an average of 2,200-plus though the death toll has remained below 50. On Wednesday, the new cases reached a record high of 2,848.  In Mumbai, the progressive total cases stand at 2,19,938 and deaths 9,245, according to data compiled by the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and Maharashtra’s Public Health Department. “The spike is because of the unlocking process, movement on the streets and opening of restaurants and market places. Industries and offices have also started in Mumbai,” BMC officials said on Thursday. It may be mentioned that from Friday, the Central Railway will start operating five inter-city trains including ones between Mumbai and Pune. With the unlock process and the Navratri/Dussera festival round the corner, there could be a surge in Covid-19 cases, say epidemiologists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-cases-surge-in-mumbai-amid-relaxations-898914.html
08-10-2020||West||India’s longest expressway to be ready by May 2022||The 701-km-long highway - Maharashtra Samruddhi Mahamarg - will be the longest expressway in India. The expressway will connect 10 districts, 26 talukas and 392 villages. The expressway has been named Hindu Hrudaysamrat Balasaheb Thackeray Maharashtra Samruddhi Mahamarg in memory of the Shiv Sena founder. “The land acquisition is fully complete. The construction has started. It is a big challenge. The project is being built in 16 packages,” said MSRDC Vice Chairman and Managing Director Radheshyam Mopalwar. The project cost is Rs 55,532 crore, Mopalwar said at a virtual media meet on Thursday during which he was accompanied by Joint Managing Directors Chandrakant Pulkundwar and Anil Gaikwad. The Nagpur to Shirdi leg – around 520 km - would be complete by May 1, 2021, while the Nagpur-Igatpuri – 620 km - would be ready by December 1, 2021. The full Mumbai-Nagpur project would be ready by May 1, 2022. It passes through 10 districts of Nagpur, Wardha, Amravati, Washim, Buldhana, Aurangabad, Jalna, Ahmednagar, Nashik and Thane. More than 20,000 persons are involved in the mega-project, which is unique in many respects. The design speed of the expressway will be 150 kmph. It will have 3+1 lanes on either side of the median, concrete pavement.  The expressway will have underpasses for wildlife/cattle to cross. Over 400 vehicular underpasses, over 300 pedestrian underpasses and cattle underpasses will be provided at every village/town and alignment will avoid passing through major town/city. It will have over 50 flyovers. There would also be flyover/interchange at major road crossings. All the recommendations of Wildlife Institute of India and the high-powered committee headed by Maharashtra’s Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) have been fully accepted. The government is also making 19 townships along the corridor. “We will be providing trunk services like road, power and water. We will open government offices. This is actually a long-term plan,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/india-s-longest-expressway-to-be-ready-by-may-2022-899005.html
08-10-2020||West||Man held for robbery at actor Nutan's bungalow in Thane||Police have arrested a person in connection with robbery at late film star Nutan's bungalow in Maharashtra's Thane district eight months back, an official said on Thursday. With this, two persons have till now been nabbed by police in connection with the crime that took place on February 3, he said. Three people had allegedly attacked two watchmen on duty at the bungalow in Parsik Hill area of Mumbra town here and stolen taps and pipes from there, a police spokesman said. One of the seriously injured watchmen died a couple weeks later, following which murder sections were also added in the case, an official from Mumbra police station said. On Wednesday, acting on a tip-off, the police laid a trap in Vitawa area of Thane and nabbed the accused, Ganpat Falanaswami Gullar (20), a resident of Kalwa township, the spokesman said. Earlier, a few days after the incident, the police had arrested one of the accused, Sanjay Bhandari, he said. A case has been registered against the accused under Indian Penal Code Sections 302 (murder), 397 (robbery, or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) and 34 (common intention), the official said. Search is underway for the third accused, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-held-for-robbery-at-actor-nutans-bungalow-in-thane-899101.html
08-10-2020||West||Mumbai police to summon Republic TV directors, owners of 2 other channels arrested for manipulating TRP ratings||The Mumbai Police on Thursday claimed to have unearthed a scam to manipulate Television Rating Points (TRPs) and named three channels, including the Arnab Goswami-headed Republic TV. The owners/directors of Box Cinema and Fakt Marathi channels were arrested on Thursday while those from Republic TV are being summoned on Friday, Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh said. TRP is a tool to judge viewers' choice and the popularity of a TV channel, thus directly linked to the advertisements it commands. The ratings are calculated on the basis of viewership in a confidential set of households through a device known as barometer.   The Broadcast Audience Research Council, which functions under the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, releases weekly rating points for channels. The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting notified the policy guidelines for television rating agencies in India on January 10, 2014, under which the industry-led body BARC was accredited to carry out the television ratings in India. The TRPs were allegedly manipulated by the former employees of Hansa Research Group Pvt Ltd, an agency which was given the contract for monitoring barometers. Investigations revealed that the accused had bribed people and asked them to keep some channels switched on even when they weren't watching.        “During investigations it has been found that ex-employees of Hansa were compromising the data and sharing with the channels,” he said. "The accounts of these channels could be frozen if it is established that they made advertising money using rigged ratings, Singh said.   “TRP is all about TV rating points….it commands Rs 30,000 to Rs 40,000 crore of the TV ad industry…how to fix the rate of advertisements depends on TRPs. Change of TRPs can impact hundreds of crores of revenue here and there,” he said. The accounts of the channels could be frozen if it was established that the channels made advertising money using rigged ratings, the Mumbai Police chief said. "Anyone involved in the channel, no matter how top management, how senior, will be questioned, and if involved they will be investigated," Singh asserted. "Household data were used by the channels for ratings manipulation and they received illegal advertising funds. This will be considered proceeds of cheating," he added. Arnab hits back Arnab Goswami said it was an attempt to target the channel, which was critical of the government and Mumbai Police in its coverage of the Sushant Singh case.    Hitting back at the Mumbai Police, Republic TV’s Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami said it was an attempt to target the channel for its coverage on the Maharashtra government vis-à-vis Palghar mob lynching and Sushant Singh Rajput cases. “Param Bir Singh’s investigation in the Sushant Singh Rajput case is under a cloud and this is a desperate measure because of Republic TV’s reportage on Palghar, the Sushant Singh Rajput case or any other case. This kind of targeting only strengthens the resolve of everyone at Republic TV to push for the truth even harder,” he said in a statement. “Param Bir Singh stands completely exposed today since BARC has not mentioned Republic in any single complaint. He should issue an official apology and get ready to face us in court,” said the channel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-to-summon-republic-tv-directors-owners-of-2-other-channels-arrested-for-manipulating-trp-ratings-899103.html
08-10-2020||West||Despite difficulties, Mumbai's Dabbawalas resume services||After being out of business for more than half a year, Mumbai's famed Dabbawalas are trying to make a comeback. On Thursday, 30 to 40 Dabbawalas started operating in local trains of Central Railways and Western Railways. With Unlock 5, the Dabbawlas have been allowed to travel in suburban locals in the Mumbai metropolitan region. Nutan Mumbai Tiffin Box Suppliers Charity Trust (NMTBSCT) and Mumbai Tiffin Box Suppliers Association (MTBSA) have expressed happiness over the re-starting of Dabbawala services. However, the days ahead are tough. “Finally after six months we have been able to start the service,” said Subhash Talekar, senior leader of the Dabbawala community. There are around 4,500 to 5,000 Dabbawalas who work in Mumbai. However, now most of them are back in Rajgurunagar (Khed) in Pune district, from where they hail. Many of them are earning livelihood from agriculture-related work or are hired by companies in the MIDC area. “We have been serving Mumbai for 130 years now. While this fills our stomachs, we have never considered this a business; it has always been to provide our service to the people of this city. We have put in a lot of hard work and labour to ensure that your dabbas (tiffins) reach you on time,” said Talekar. Mumbai Dabawala’s everyday deliver nearly 2 lakh lunch boxes to offices. The Dabbawalas, who have developed their own Unique Identity code, rarely misdeliever the lunch box. The Mumbai Dabbawalas are an example of time management – and the accuracy of delivering dabbas(tiffin boxes) has also been an example in the IIMs, IITs and other top institutes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/despite-difficulties-mumbais-dabbawalas-resume-services-899123.html
08-10-2020||West||Gujarat govt launches digital services programme for panchayats||The Gujarat government on Thursday launched the first phase of "Digital Seva Setu" programme, under which 2,792 village panchayats have been connected with optical fibre network to provide public welfare services online. While launching the initiative through video conferencing from Gandhinagar, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said the programme, under the Centre's BharatNet project, will reduce hardships faced by villagers. As per a government release, under this initiative, 27 different government services and welfare schemes will be available at panchayat offices and villagers won't have to go to taluka or district-level offices to procure forms, certificates and documents. These services include ration cards, affidavits and certificates for widows, residence, caste, senior citizen, language-based minority, religious minority and income certificates, it was stated. Talatis or revenue officers have been authorised to provide affidavits at the village level so that beneficiaries don't have to visit notary offices in towns and cities, the chief minister said. Apart from reducing hardships of villagers, the initiative will also eliminate middlemen from the system, the release stated. The move will change the administration's work culture and reduce crowding at government offices, besides helping save villagers' time and money by providing various services at their doorstep, Rupani said. By December this year, the state government aims to cover another 8,000 villages and all 14,000-odd village panchayats by 2021, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-govt-launches-digital-services-programme-for-panchayats-899192.html
08-10-2020||West||BJP will soon come to power in Maharashtra on its own: J P Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda on Thursday said his party was "cheated" out of the mandate in 2019 in Maharashtra, and will come back to power in the state on its own. He was speaking at a meeting of party workers here. "The mandate in the 2019 Assembly elections was for the BJP, but we got cheated. I assure BJP workers in Maharashtra that soon, all the three (ruling) parties will sit in opposition and the BJP will come to power on its own," he said. "We will oust this government lock, stock and barrel," he added. The BJP and Shiv Sena had contested 2019 elections as allies, but after the poll results, the Sena parted ways with the BJP and joined hands with the NCP and Congress to form government. "The situation is so bad that nobody knows who is in power in Maharashtra. The left hand doesn't know what the right hand is doing," Nadda said. "Many people want to see Devendra Fadnavis again as chief minister. Currently, we are the real opposition in Maharashtra and we are going to become the ruling party in the state soon," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-will-soon-come-to-power-in-maharashtra-on-its-own-j-p-nadda-899204.html
08-10-2020||West||CBI files chargesheet against Gujarat 'teacher' who eloped with 18-year-old girl||Fifty-year-old Dhaval Trivedi had promised a girl in Chotila, a temple town about 150 km away from Ahmedabad in Surendranagar district, that he would take her to a good school either in Nepal or Japan where he claimed he was working as the principal. He told her that, as per her horoscope, her future was in a foreign land and he could take her there since he was a rich man and teaching was his hobby, something that had brought him to Chotila. It took less than two weeks of 'dulcet tones' to convince the girl who was studying in a college in Rajkot, the nearest city, to leave her home with him to study. These were the findings of the CBI which recently filed a chargesheet against Trivedi in the case. The 400-page chargesheet includes statements of witnesses and other documents revealing how Trivedi, already convicted for life for luring two minor school girls and raping them in March 2018, 'brainwashed' the girl and took her to dozens of places across some north Indian states and Nepal. Trivedi, as per the allegations, raped and impregnated her.  The CBI chargesheet reveals that Trivedi, who was lodged at the Rajkot jail, filed two separate pleas for parole in the Gujarat High Court -- one through an advocate and another through the jail authority. Both the applications were heard by different judges who granted him parole for 15 days and seven days respectively. The investigation found that Trivedi had then gone to Chotila and stayed at a rest house where he faked his name as 'Dharmendra Trivedi'. One of the jail inmates, Jaydeep Dhadhal, helped him find a job as a teacher by introducing him to the principal of a high school.  According to the CBI, Trivedi got another two-week parole and went to Chotila again where he started spoken English classes in partnership with one Harshad Khakkhar and started coaching nine girl students on July 23, 2018. He returned to jail two days later and was out again on a 14-day furlough on July 28 and subsequently went to Chotila and started teaching. On August 11, he ran away with one of the girls whose parents lodged an FIR for kidnapping and rape at the Chotila police station. After the local police failed to trace them, the Gujarat High Court ordered a CBI probe into the case. The chargesheet says that between July 23 and July 31, Trivedi and the girl exchanged 80 SMSes and calls while 1,400 to 1,500 SMSes and calls were shared between them from August 1 to August 11, the day they eloped. The CBI said that the girl was "brainwashed" by the accused. The duo went to Delhi where Trivedi sold the girl's phone for Rs 4,000 at a shop where he introduced her as his daughter, claiming that the money was needed for her treatment. The mobile phone has been recovered by the police. The probe has revealed that they kept traveling from one city to another while he disguised himself as a Sikh man and faked his name as 'Satnam Singh, Mukhtiyar Singh, Surjeet Singh'. In January, 2019, the girl found out that she was pregnant and wanted to abort the child but failed to do so. She gave birth to a baby boy prematurely at the MGM hospital in Jamshedpur where she was admitted as the wife of "Mukhtiyar Singh".  In March 2020, the girl left Trivedi and wandered in various cities in states like Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Bihar with her child. She found refuge in Bihar's Muzaffarpur where she stayed with one Pancham Mishra during the coronavirus lockdown and reached home in June 2020. She told the CBI that Trivedi didn't marry her and had intercourse with her against her will. Trivedi was finally nabbed by a team of Delhi police last month from Solan in Himachal Pradesh. He is lodged at the Sabarmati Central Jail at present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cbi-files-chargesheet-against-gujarat-teacher-who-eloped-with-18-year-old-girl-899212.html
