09-10-2020||First Edit||Exposed, UP CM Yogi Adityanath resorts to authoritarianism||The Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh, which completely mishandled the horrifying crime in Hathras district, is now employing a diversionary ploy by slapping serious charges against those who criticised it and protested against its conduct in the case. It has found in the protests an international conspiracy to create caste conflict in the state and to destabilise the government. Adityanath has called the protesters “anarchists” and conspirators “who want to incite caste and communal riots’’ in the state. The police have filed a number of cases against the protesters under provisions relating to criminal conspiracy, promoting enmity between groups, violation of Section 144 and clauses of the IT Act. A journalist who went to Hathras to report is facing sedition charges, and hundreds of others are facing other serious charges. The UP police have also seen the hand of an extremist group, Popular Front of India (PFI), in the protests. The claim that there is an international conspiracy to destabilise the government is laughable. There is no evidence for any of these charges, and none has been seen in the public realm. The heinous crime against the 19-year-old girl has evoked strong emotions all over the country. The police and the administration were callous and insensitive in their handling of it. They destroyed evidence and are now trying to dilute the crime. The state government was seen to be eager to cover it up, though it took some delayed actions against some errant police personnel. Citizens and political parties have the right to protest against atrocities and the failure of a government to handle them in a way that ensures justice for the victims. In the Hathras case, the victims belonged to the weakest sections of society and so the government had a special responsibility to act justly and correctly. But it gave the impression that it was not on the victim’s side. The heavy-handed action against protesters merely confirms it. The Adityanath government has not shown any respect for democratic rights and for the law in dealing with critics and protesters in the past. It is now acting in the same intolerant and authoritarian manner in which it responded to the anti-CAA protests some months ago. It has sought to criminalise any protest against it. The trend is seen in other parts of the country, too, but UP leads in the suppression of dissent. The government wants to deflect attention from the Hathras outrage and send out the message that any protest and dissent would be crushed with the heaviest hand. But it will only succeed in keeping the incident in public focus and in demonstrating to the world how authoritarian and undemocratic it is.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/exposed-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-resorts-to-authoritarianism-899407.html
09-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||SC seeks NCPCR's response on direction to release children from shelter homes in Karnataka||The Supreme Court on Friday sought a response from the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights on its general direction issued to all district magistrates in Karnataka  for releasing the children from shelter homes to their families in view of Covid-19 pandemic.  A bench presided over by Justice L Nageswara Rao issued notice to the rights panel while hearing a Suo Motu matter related to contagion of Covid-19 in children protection home. The court said a general direction can't be issued as several other aspects like seeking parents' nod, health and education were to be considered. Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati agreed to seek instructions in the matter. Amicus curiae advocate Gaurav Agrawal agreed repatriation has to be on a case-to-case basis. He also submitted that the power to restore the child to the parents can be only after determining the suitability of the parents to take care of the child as provided in Section 40(3) of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015. On September 24, the NCPCR's Senior Consultant, Legal Division, to all the district magistrates of the State of Karnataka directing repatriation and restoration of children placed in the children homes. The panel had then stated that it is the right of every child to grow up in a familial environment. It had favoured for restoring children lodged in protection home with their parents within 100 days after a review by the child welfare committee. The bench, also comprising Justices Hemant Gupta and Ajay Rastogi, posted the matter for further hearing on November 24. In April, the court has Suo Motu directed the authorities to consider releasing on bail all those children, who were kept in observation homes on being found in conflict with the law, as Covid-19 was intensifying in the country. The court had also said that urgent measures need to be taken on priority to prevent the spread of the virus to Child Care Institutions (CCIs).  On June 11, the court asked all the state governments to spell out measures being undertaken to prevent infection of Coronavirus among juveniles kept at the protection homes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sc-seeks-ncpcrs-response-on-direction-to-release-children-from-shelter-homes-in-karnataka-899599.html
09-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||KPCC convences state-level farmers' meet in Mandya on Saturday||The Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) has convened a state-level farmers' conference against the alleged anti-farmer policies of the State and the Central governments at Dr B R Ambedkar Bhavan in Mandya, on October 10 at 11 am. State and national level Congress leaders are expected to participate in the conference and hold discussion with farmer leaders on the amendments brought to the Land Reform and APMC Acts. Farmer leader Kodihalli Chandrashekar, Prakash Kammaradi, Chamarasa Malipatil and Sunanda Jayaram will speak. KPCC in-charge Randeep Singh Surjewala, KPCC president D K Shivakumar, Congress Legislative Party leader Siddaramaiah, Mallikarjun Kharge, K H Muniyappa, Veerappa Moily and G Parameshwar will participate in the meeting. Former minister N Chaluvarayaswamy said more than 1,500 farmers are expected to participate. Due to Covid norms, 700 people would be accommodated at Ambedkar Bhavan, and seating arrangement is made for others outside the building. A signature campaign would be held, to be submitted to the President of India, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kpcc-convences-state-level-farmers-meet-in-mandya-on-saturday-899679.html
09-10-2020||Main Article||A do-little economic policy||While there is a clamour for fiscal stimulus and generous cash handouts to the poor to get over the Covid-19-induced economic disruption, the Modi government has been following its own tight-fisted plan, which in milder language can be called fiscal conservatism, of dealing with the medico-economic emergency. The Ministry of Finance had issued details on October 1 to show what the government has done to implement the Rs 20 lakh crore special economic package that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced under the Atmanirbhar Bharat programme. In the four months since May, Covid-19 positive cases have risen from about 100,000 to more than 6 million, and deaths from 5,000 to over a 100,000, even as there have been a series of measures to lift lockdown restrictions. In the same period, the ministry shows that loans have been given to the tune of Rs 4 lakh crore. For example, out of the Rs 3 lakh crore scheme of collateral-free, ‘automatic’ loans for MSMEs, Rs 1,86,469 crore have been sanctioned, of which Rs 1,32,246 crore has been disbursed to about 2.7 million borrowers. Under the Partial Credit Guarantee Scheme of Rs 45,000 crore, banks have approved the purchase of Rs 25,505 crore portfolio. Of this, Rs 16,401 crore of portfolio had been purchased as on September 25. Farmers have been provided Rs 30,000 crore Additional Emergency Working Capital Funding through the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), of which Rs 25,000 crore has been disbursed. Add to all this the continuing boast that the government has provided free rations to about 800 million people during these months from its buffer stocks and provided partial employment for migrant labourers who returned from the big cities to the villages through the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). But the migrant labourers, many of whom trekked hundreds of miles in the scorching summer months, are now headed back to the cities because the free rations and the limited employment do not offer much hope. Prime Minister Modi and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman are sure to cite with pride and satisfaction these figures and say that the government has been doing more than its bit to salvage the economy. They sincerely believe that they are building the sinews of the economy by providing credit lines through banks while keeping the government from dirtying its hands in doling out money to the people. There has also been the desperate attempt to show that the government itself is not in troubled waters by showing the Rs 95 lakh crore Goods and Service Tax (GST) collection for the month of September, the revival of exports in September compared to the figures for the same period last year, and Rs 1,18,324 crore tax refunds in the current financial year. Of course, every government has the right to clutch at straws and believe that things are looking up and they are not as bad as they seem to be. The curious thing is Modi and Sitharaman’s strong belief that it is the special economic package that is keeping the economy afloat. So, what did the government really do? It facilitated loans for businesses and farmers. The number of borrowers is a measly 2.7 million and the amount disbursed is less than a quarter of the special package of Rs 20 lakh crore. The accelerated fall of the economy because of the pandemic is unlikely to end anytime soon. It will take longer for the economy to get back to the growth trajectory, though the low base created by the pandemic will give a false glimmer of revival because the growth figures for the next year will look better than they really are. Basically, the government’s economic package helped a minuscule class of businesses and farmers, and this will not help revive the economy. Using the proxy of the banks and others to give out loans and saving itself the trouble of giving out money and incentives to the millions of people at the end of the tether, the Prime Minister hopes to stand tall as the man who averted an economic meltdown. It is as much an illusion as the holographic images of Modi that were used in the 2014 Lok Sabha election campaign. The government then has pulled off a veritable trick of making it appear that it has saved the ship of the economy from sinking. And the regular government press releases, which include the figures cited above, create the impression that a lot has been done when what has really been done is too little to make a difference. And there is reason to be skeptical about even the modest figures that are showcased in terms of loans approved and disbursed. Most of the businesses which have borrowed may not have generated any jobs or even increased output of any kind. And the granular detail needed to test the real activity taking place in the economy is not easily captured even through anecdotal evidence. The big picture of the economy remains elusive as well. At the end of the day, workers, businesses and farmers will have to struggle to get back onto their feet while a cynical government will wait and watch the agonies of a pandemic-hit economy. The Prime Minister has an escape clause: Covid-19. He can plead that he cannot be faulted for the economic havoc wrought by the coronavirus. That he did not do much seems to be of little consequence as people get busy finding their way through the economic debris. (The writer is a New Delhi-based political commentator)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/a-do-little-economic-policy-899405.html
09-10-2020||National||Sonia condoles ex-CBI director Ashwani Kumar's demise, hails him as outstanding officer||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday condoled the demise of former CBI director Ashwani Kumar, who was found hanging at his residence in Shimla, and hailed him as an outstanding officer who took his responsibilities with utmost seriousness. Kumar, who led the Aarushi murder investigation, was found hanging at his residence in Shimla on Wednesday, and officials suspect he died by suicide. The body of Kumar (69), a 1973-batch IPS officer, was found hanging at his residence in Brockhurst near Chhota Shimla in the evening, they said. In a letter to Kumar's wife A K Chandak, Gandhi said, "Words are of little consolation at this time of grief, but I wanted to tell you that I share your pain. May you, your son and your 'bahu' (daughter-in-law) find the strength to bear your cruel loss." "Ashwani Kumar was an outstanding officer with the highest standards, both professionally and personally. He took his responsibilities and duties, both to his job and his family, with the utmost seriousness, and was ready to make any sacrifice to uphold these. He lived his life with honour," the Congress chief said. Kumar was an excellent officer in every post he held, and he was widely admired and respected, Gandhi said. "We mourn his loss and will always honour his memory," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sonia-condoles-ex-cbi-director-ashwani-kumars-demise-hails-him-as-outstanding-officer-899348.html
09-10-2020||National||Yechury condoles demise of 'friend' Ram Vilas Paswan||CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury expressed his grief over the passing away of "friend" Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, who died at a private hospital here on Thursday. Paswan, the Lok Janshakti Party founder and Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution was admitted to the private hospital here for several weeks and had recently undergone a heart operation. "Deepest condolences on the passing of my friend Ram Vilas Paswan. We had been associated for many decades, in times when he stood with India's secular and democratic order. My solidarity with the family and @iChiragPaswan in their moment of grief," Yechury said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yechury-condoles-demise-of-friend-ram-vilas-paswan-899355.html
09-10-2020||National||Paswan's death irreparable damage to India, says Ramdas Athawale||Union minister Ramdas Athawale on Thursday condoled the death of his cabinet colleague Ram Vilas Paswan and said the country has lost a popular Dalit leader. The Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) founder died on Thursday in a Delhi hospital at the age of 74. Athawale, a prominent Dalit leader from Maharashtra, said Paswan's death was irreparable damage to the country. He was a popular parliamentarian and Dalit leader. The country has lost a popular leader and it is irreparable damage to the society and the country, said the Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/paswans-death-irreparable-damage-to-india-says-ramdas-athawale-899360.html
09-10-2020||National||India-US two-plus-two dialogue expected to take place in Delhi on Oct 26-27||The third edition of the two-plus-two dialogue between India and the US is expected to take place on October 26 and 27 here during which both sides are likely to carry out a comprehensive review of their strategic cooperation, people familiar with the development said on Thursday. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Defence Secretary Defence Secretary Mark Esper are scheduled to visit India for the dialogue, they said. The Indian side at the talks will be represented by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. The first two-plus-two dialogue was held in Delhi in September 2018 after the mechanism was approved by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Donald Trump. The second edition of the dialogue took place in Washington in December last year. The new framework of the ministerial dialogue was initiated in order to provide a forward-looking vision for the strategic partnership between the two countries. In the third edition of talks, both sides are also expected to delve into the situation in the Indo-Pacific region as well as in India's neighbourhood besides key bilateral issues. As the dialogue is taking place days ahead of the presidential election in the US, no major outcome is expected from it, said a source.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-two-plus-two-dialogue-expected-to-take-place-in-delhi-on-oct-26-27-899368.html
09-10-2020||National||IAF's aerial parade on Air Force Day features Rafale, other fighter jets||The Indian Air Force on Thursday conducted an aerial parade, which included a fly past by Rafale and other fighter jets, at the Hindon air base in Ghaziabad on the occasion of the 88th IAF Day. Various aircraft of the IAF like Tejas, Sukhoi-30, Jaguar, Mirage-2000, Bison, MiG-29 and the newly inducted Rafale took part in the fly past. Chinook, Apache, Mi 17 V5, Mi 35, ALH Mk IV and other helicopters of the IAF also took part in the aerial display. Military transport aircraft of the IAF like C17 and C130 were also featured along with vintage aircraft like Tiger Moth. Suryakiran and Sarang aerobatic teams were also part of the fly past at the Hindon air base. The Air Force Day is celebrated to mark the day the IAF was established in 1932. The force is celebrating its 88th anniversary this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iafs-aerial-parade-on-air-force-day-features-rafale-other-fighter-jets-899376.html
09-10-2020||National||Owaisi, Kushwaha float new front of six parties for Bihar polls||The Rashtriya Lok Samata Party and Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi-headed AIMIM on Thursday announced a new front of six parties for the Bihar polls whose chief ministerial candidate will be Upendra Kushwaha. Addressing a press conference in the presence of Owaisi, Kushwaha said the new grouping is named "Grand Democratic Secular Front" whose convenor will be former union minister Devendra Prasad Yadav. The constituents of the new front are-RLSP, AIMIM, BSP of Mayawati, Suhaldev Bhartiya Samaj Party, Samajik Janata Dal (Democratic) and Jantantrik Party (Socialist), they told media persons. Yadav and Owaisi said at the joint press conference that they were happy to announce that these parties have joined hands to give a "positive choice" to the people who are "fed-up" with the two coalitions- NDA and the Grand Alliance. "Upendra Kushwaha will be the chief ministerial candidate of the front," they said. Some candidates of the six parties have already filed nominations for the first phase of voting on October 28 in the state. Earlier, Owaisi and Yadav's parties had floated a separate front so was Kushwaha's RLSP which had launched a three-party front including that of Mayawati's Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). Except for the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) one legislator, none others had any MLA in the outgoing Bihar house.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/owaisi-kushwaha-float-new-front-of-six-parties-for-bihar-polls-899377.html
09-10-2020||National||Not target-driven, Covid-19 testing should be guided by number of positive cases: Expert group||The Covid-19 testing should not be target driven in Delhi rather it should be guided by the surveillance in containment zones, number of positive cases and their identified symptomatic contacts, an expert group has said in its report. The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has submitted its report prepared under the guidance of expert group chairman and NITI Aayog member Dr V K Paul. The report said an increase in the number of tests should be reflected in increased case finding. "Merely increasing the number of tests to reduce the positivity rate would not be appropriate...criteria for scaling up of testing should be based on positivity in each district, preferably ward vis-à-vis the total number of samples tested," the report stated. Last month, Lt Governor Anil Baijal had asked the expert group to suggest measures to control the Covid-19 situation. All high-risk contacts irrespective of symptoms, all symptomatic contacts, all elderly and those suffering from comorbidities in containment zones should be tested, it stated. There should be testing of a person between the 5th to 10th day (since the last contact) if asymptomatic or as soon as symptoms start, it stated. "Testing should not be target driven rather it should be guided by the surveillance in containment zones, the number of positive and their symptomatic contacts identified and the number of symptomatic persons identified at screening sites," it stated. At present, more than 80 per cent of tests are conducted by rapid antigen test and in few districts, it is up to 90- 95 per cent. Currently, test positivity is 4.3 per cent by RAT and 20.33 by RT-PCR as on September 24, 2020, it also stated. The Delhi government has augmented testing in the city. On Thursday, Delhi's Covid-19 tally crossed the three-lakh mark with 2,726 fresh cases, while the death toll due to the disease mounted to 5,653 with 37 fatalities recorded in the last 24 hours. On Wednesday, the case tally stood at over 2.98 lakh with 2,871 fresh cases, while the death toll was 5,616 with 35 fresh casualties. The fresh cases on Thursday were detected after 53,322 Covid-19 tests were conducted the previous day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-target-driven-covid-19-testing-should-be-guided-by-number-of-positive-cases-expert-group-899378.html
09-10-2020||National||Farmers’ outfits meet in Kurukshetra, call for nationwide 'chaka jam' on Nov 3||Farmers’ organisations from several states on Thursday gave a call for country-wide road blockades on November 3 to protest against the three central farm laws. A decision for the nationwide ‘chakka jam” next month was taken during a marathon meeting of farmers' outfits from various parts of the country. The meeting had been called by the Haryana Bhartiya Kisan Union here. Farmers' leaders from various parts including Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Utta Pradesh attended the meet. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of the meeting, Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh said the meeting was called here to discuss the fallout of the three central farm laws and the farmers’ future strategy to oppose them at the national level. He said while farmers' agitation is going on in Punjab and Haryana, “it needs to be energised in other states so that the Union government is forced to withdraw these black laws". Representatives of 30 farmers’ organisations attended the meeting here, he said. “We have given a call for nationwide 'chakka jam' from 10 am to 4 pm on November 3 during which we will block various highways and other roads to protest against the new farm laws,” Singh said. He alleged that the BJP-led government flouted all democratic norms to get the three 'black' farm bills passed “in a hurry”. “The farmers, arhtiyas (commission agents) and labour organisations are protesting against these laws, but it has had little impact on the BJP government. This shows that power has gone into their heads and they are refusing to listen to the farmers who are the backbone of the country's economy,” he said. He said the time has come for farmers and others associated with them to show their strength to the “power-blinded” BJP government. Ram Pal Jat, national president of Kisan Mahapanchayat, told reporters that “we discussed the strategy to be adopted to fight these three laws tooth and nail”. “We also discussed that various farmers' outfits need to have a common minimum programme to continue this struggle against the farm laws in a more effective way,” he said. He also said the farmers' bodies will ask legislators and parliamentarians to choose on which side they are. “We will ask them whether they are on the side of these anti-farmer laws or on the side of farmers, who are fighting against these legislations,” he said. Earlier, Gurnam Singh welcomed the decision of Shiromani Akali Dal's Haryana unit to join hands with Haryana BKU in its struggle against the farm laws. A delegation of SAD's Haryana unit, led by its resident Sharanjit Singh Sodha, reached the meeting venue of farmers at Kamboj Dharamshala here and conveyed his outfit’s decision. Sodha told reporters after the meeting that Shiromani Akali Dal, which came into existence over 100 years back, has always taken steps in favour of farmers. Gurnam Singh appealed to other organisations to join the farmers’ struggle, irrespective of their political affiliations. Farmers have expressed fears that the Centre's farm laws would pave a way for the dismantling of the minimum support price mechanism, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates. President Ram Nath Kovind recently gave assent to the three contentious bills – the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-outfits-meet-in-kurukshetra-call-for-nationwide-chaka-jam-on-nov-3-899398.html
09-10-2020||National||RIP Ram Vilas Paswan: Condolences pour in from across party lines||Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, one of the most prominent Dalit leaders of the country who had been a part of several governments headed by rival parties, died on Thursday at the age of 74. Paswan died at a hospital in Delhi, where he underwent a heart surgery recently. In a statement, Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy expressed deep grief over the passing away of the Dalit leader and Lok Janshakti Party (LSP) chief, saying he had over five decades of public life and been the voice of the downtrodden. Andhra Pradesh Governor Biswa Bhusan said Paswan always fought for the rights of Dalits and downtrodden sections of the society. I pray Lord Sri Jagannath and Lord Sri Venkateswara for his soul to rest in peace and offer my heartfelt condolences to members of the bereaved family," he said in a separate statement. He also recalled that Paswan had opposed the Emergency and was arrested. Telugu Desam Party President N Chandrababu Naidu tweeted, "Extremely saddened by the demise of senior leader Sri Ram Vilas Paswan ji. He was a towering leader who leaves behind a rich political legacy which will remain unparalleled for a long time. The nation will truly miss him and his selfless service." The chief ministers of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan also condoled the demise of the Union minister. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said, "Shocked to hear of the sudden demise of Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan Ji. My heartfelt condolences to the family in this hour of grief. May the Almighty grant him peace." Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar said he was deeply saddened by the untimely demise of Paswan. Pawan will always be remembered for his efforts to empower the poor and marginalised. He worked for the uplift of the poor and the backward classes, and contributed significantly to the development of the country while holding various ministerial posts, Khattar said, expressing his condolences to the bereaved family. Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot said, "My heartfelt condolences at the passing away of Union Minister & founder of Lok Janshakti Party, Ram Vilas Paswan ji. May God give strength to his family members and support to bear this loss. May his soul rest in peace." Expressing condolence over Paswan's demise, Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra said he will be remembered for his social and public welfare works. Former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and state Congress president Kumari Selja also condoled Paswan's demise. Former Rajasthan deputy CM Sachin Pilot said he is extremely saddened to learn about the demise of a political stalwart like Paswan. "His contribution towards the upliftment of the downtrodden will always be remembered. May his soul find eternal peace. My condolences to his family and followers. Om Shanti,” Pilot tweeted. "In a political career of five decades, he held the cause of the less privileged, close to heart. My heartfelt condolence to the bereaved family", Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan tweeted. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said he was deeply saddened to learn of the passing away of the Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Minister, who died at a hospital in Delhi. "Our heartfelt sympathies go out to his family & friends. On behalf of the people of Kerala, I offer our deepest condolences," he tweeted. Paswan had been in active politics for more than five decades and was one of the country's most noted Dalit leaders. Vijayan said Paswan came to politics in Bihar through socialist organisations and took firm stands in favour of social justice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rip-ram-vilas-paswan-condolences-pour-in-from-across-party-lines-899412.html
09-10-2020||National||DH Toon | Yale, Oxford campuses in India: 'We can reuse materials from JNU demolition'||India’s universities have produced chief executive officers at companies from Microsoft Corp. to Google -- now Prime Minister Narendra Modi thinks they can be even better with competition from global names like Yale, Oxford and Stanford.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-yale-oxford-campuses-in-india-we-can-reuse-materials-from-jnu-demolition-899416.html
09-10-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on October 9||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 68 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 6,971,208 as of October 9 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 107,346   
<!--
{C}<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->  No. of people discharged:  59,06,069      Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-october-9-899422.html
09-10-2020||National||Rural surge in Covid-19 cases may make India worst-hit nation||Sliding out of their rickshaw, masks on, fresh sanitizer smeared across their hands, a team of health workers approached one of the mud-walled homes in Masli, a remote village in northeast India surrounded by miles of mountainous rainforest. “Are you Amit Deb?” they asked a lean, shirtless man standing in his yard. Deb nodded cautiously. Five days earlier, he had tested positive for the coronavirus. Now his family members needed to be tested. They all refused. “We can’t afford to quarantine,” explained Deb, a shopkeeper. If anyone else in his family was found positive, they would all be ordered to stay inside, which would mean even more weeks of not working, which would push the family closer to running out of food. The medical team moved on to the next house. But they kept meeting more refusals. The defiance of the coronavirus rules is being reflected across rural India, and it is propelling this nation’s virus caseload toward the No. 1 spot globally. Infections are rippling into every corner of this country of 1.3 billion people. The Indian news media is calling it “The Rural Surge.” In the Indian megacities where the pandemic first hit, vigorous public awareness campaigns have left the populace mostly on guard. But when it comes to government efforts to contain the virus, rural India is resisting. In many villages, no one is wearing masks. There is no social distancing. People are refusing to get tested, and they are hiding their sick. Hospitals are straining; in the coronavirus ward of one hospital here in the state of Tripura, insects were left to crawl over corpses, according to photos from a former government official. In recent trips to more than a dozen rural areas spread across several states, from Tamil Nadu in the south to West Bengal in the far east, to Tripura, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh in the north, the reaction to the pandemic appeared to be completely different from that of the big cities like Delhi and Mumbai. Out in the rural areas, many people behave as if there is no coronavirus. Even many police officers who have been empowered to enforce the pandemic rules are not wearing masks. This intransigence has helped India catch up with the United States in terms of total infections. US cases are near 7.6 million, compared with India’s 6.8 million, according to a New York Times database. But India outpaces new US cases by 30,000 or so each day, putting it on a path to potentially surpass the United States in the coming weeks. Many people in Indian villages believe their government is overstating the severity of the pandemic and showing no sensitivity to the economic hardship that they are suffering. Government officials have tried to reassure them that they are containing the virus while striking the best possible balance between protecting lives and livelihoods. Officials say India’s caseload is rising because nearly 1 million tests are being performed each day, five times the number a few months ago. They also point to India’s relatively low death rate, about an eighth or ninth of those of the United States, Spain, Brazil and Britain. Scientists say this is mainly because India’s population is younger and leaner, though they caution that most deaths in India, from any cause, are not investigated. And India’s deaths are steadily ticking up, by about 1,000 a day, now totalling about 105,000. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has “spoken on all available platforms and underlined the need and importance of wearing masks and maintaining physical distancing,” said Manisha Verma, a spokesperson for India’s health ministry. The government’s focus, she said, has been on changing behaviour rather than enforcement. In fact, even as the coronavirus spreads through the rural regions, other parts of India are loosening containment restrictions to help the stricken economy. This month, the central government is allowing movie theatres to open. Schools can soon reopen if state governments agree. Modi locked down the country this spring, with four hours’ notice, to buy time for India to scale up its production of masks and other protective equipment and to open treatment centers. But the severe lockdown spawned an exodus of millions of migrant labourers who could not afford to stay in urban areas. Their movement to rural communities helped spread the virus to nearly every corner of India. “We are still in the first wave,” said Rajib Acharya, a New Delhi-based research associate at the Population Council, a nonprofit that works on health and development issues. “I don’t see any new strategy for the rural areas,” he added. Rural areas are not well-positioned to cope. Nearly two-thirds of all hospital beds in the country are in urban areas, which are home to only one-third of the population. Hospitals around the country are struggling to provide enough oxygen for the rising number of patients. Many people, both in cities and in the countryside, have struggled to find beds for sick family members. “Families in India are living in fear, grief, sadness, depression, anxiety and food insecurity, delaying their care from other health conditions,” said Bhramar Mukherjee, an epidemiologist at the University of Michigan. “It is a tragic time.” She attributed the spread of the virus to “habituation, desensitization, fatalism, fatigue, denial.” The remote northeastern state of Tripura, heavily forested and largely rural, is a case study in the virus’s spread. Before mid-June, the state of about 4 million people had reported a total of fewer than 1,000 infections. Now the total is 27,545, according to state data. Many experts believe that is a fraction of the true number. The state’s death rate is also steadily increasing, from its first reported death in June to more than 300 deaths now. In Tripura’s small towns and villages, many people are scared to get tested because of the social stigma. Neighbours shout at people believed to be positive to stay indoors and to not even look out the window. During a walk through one neighbourhood near Chawmanu, where many of the indigenous Tripuri people grow rice, tea and vegetables for a living, villagers pointed toward a small house with a rusty tin roof. One person inside was sick, they said. Aparna Saha, a woman with a penetrating gaze, opened the door. She acknowledged that her 72-year-old father had tested positive and had breathing problems. But, she was quick to add, in a shrill voice, “He’s absolutely fine.” A few days earlier, health workers had arrived to take Saha’s father to a coronavirus facility in a neighboring town. Saha blocked them. “Who knows what they will do to him?” Saha said. “There’s no corona.” Even the families that have followed the rules and taken loved ones to hospitals say the experience was horrifying. On a muggy September evening, Rupam Bhattacharyajee broke down outside the Govind Ballabh Pant Hospital, Tripura’s only critical care health facility, in the state capital of Agartala. Bhattacharyajee’s elderly father was inside, sprawled on a mattress on the floor — there were no spare beds — fighting for his life. “I am totally helpless,” Bhattacharyajee said. A local court is investigating Tripura’s pandemic response, following news reports about conditions at the hospital. A photograph believed to have been taken recently in the hospital’s coronavirus care center, which was shared with the Times by Sudip Roy Barman, a former state health minister, showed a dead body with insects crawling on it. Debashish Roy, the hospital’s medical superintendent, declined to comment. After seeing the conditions inside the hospital, Bhattacharyajee brought his father back home. He paid more than $200 for a private ambulance and made the bumpy six-hour journey sitting in the back, swapping out oxygen cylinders continuously to keep his father breathing. Bhattacharyajee said that his recovering father is lucky to be alive. “People are dying, one after another,” Bhattacharyajee said. “Nobody cares.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rural-surge-in-covid-19-cases-may-make-india-worst-hit-nation-899433.html
09-10-2020||National||Ram Vilas Paswan championed cause of poor, downtrodden: L K Advani||Expressing grief on the demise of Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, veteran BJP leader L K Advani on Thursday said he was a grassroots leader who championed the cause of the upliftment of poor and downtrodden. Paswan, the veteran Dalit leader, died on Thursday at the age of 74 at a private hospital here where he had recently undergone a heart operation. Recalling Paswan, who was his Cabinet colleague in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led government, Advani said the Lok Janshakti Party founder's connect with people was his biggest strength. "As my valued colleague in the Vajpayee government, I remember him as someone who very earnestly championed the cause of the upliftment of the poor and downtrodden," Advani said. Paswan was a grassroots leader in true sense, he added. "Paswanji’s passing away is indeed a big loss to the nation," the veteran BJP leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ram-vilas-paswan-championed-cause-of-poor-downtrodden-l-k-advani-899454.html
09-10-2020||National||India's soybean farmers demand help as rains and pests wipe out crops||Soybean farmers in central India are seeking compensation from the government after a popular locally developed seed variety proved unable to withstand the erratic rains and pest attacks that hit the region this monsoon season. Hundreds of farmers who lost huge swathes of their crops around the state of Madhya Pradesh protested for nearly two weeks in August - some banging metal plates and blowing conch shells, while others set fire to their ruined crops. As climate change brings more erratic weather - and as popular high-yielding crop varieties prove unable to stand up to climate extremes - such protests are likely to grow around the world, and crop swaps will be necessary, climate experts said. Santosh Nagar, who for 15 years has grown soybeans on his 8-hectare (20-acre) farm in Hinoti, north of the Madhya Pradesh capital of Bhopal, said his yield has never been as poor as it was this year. Heavy rains in August combined with a widespread infestation of white fly and stem fly devastated his crop, which his immediate family, his parents and his brother's family rely on for food and income, he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. "We are going through a very difficult time. We've lost whatever we had invested," the farmer said, noting he has seen about 100,000 Indian rupees ($1,360) losses on this harvest and still had to spend to prepare the fields for winter crops. "Now it will be impossible for us to make ends meet," he said, as he walked through his fields, surveying the damaged plants. Hinoti, with a population of about 2,000, has 700 acres of farmland, about 95% of it used to grow soybeans, according to government data. Farmers in different parts of Madhya Pradesh told the Thomson Reuters Foundation they had lost as much as 90% of their soybean crop. Estimates by the Soybean Processors Association of India (SOPA) put the total damage in the state at about 20%. But SOPA's executive director D.N. Pathak confirmed that heavy rains followed by a burst of hot weather badly affected the crops and created an ideal environment for pests to breed. The crop losses, on top of the coronavirus pandemic, which has caused job losses and illness, have been particularly devastating for the region's soybean farmers, he noted. "The farmers had planted an early-ripening variety of the crop. But this variety cannot withstand adverse climatic conditions and is more prone to pest and disease attack," Pathak said over the phone. Fast-growing, but vulnerable Government figures show Madhya Pradesh, known as the "Soybean State", produces more than half of India's soybeans. Over the past decade, a growing number of farmers in the state have been turning to the early-maturing JS-9560 variety, agricultural experts said. Developed at the the state's Jawaharlal Nehru Agricultural University, the crop is ready for harvest in about 90 days, compared with 100 days or more for other varieties. That means farmers can harvest their soybeans and then plant other crops - such as potatoes, onions and garlic - in the same season, bringing in more income. But while quick to grow, the variety is less tolerant of pests and extreme weather variations, said Surapaneni Koteshwara Rao, vice chancellor of the state's Rajmata Vijayaraje Scindia Agricultural University. After a long dry spell, two bouts of heavy rain hit most areas of Madhya Pradesh in August, each lasting several days, Rao explained. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), this August was the state's wettest in 44 years. At the same time, Madhya Pradesh also experienced much warmer-than-normal weather. Fields became waterlogged, especially in low-lying areas, while humidity caused by the high temperatures encouraged the spread of pests, Rao said. The early-maturing soybean variety has been a reliable choice for years, he said, but it was no match for this year's heat and heavy rains. "New varieties of soybean have been developed, which offer higher yields and would be able to stand up against erratic weather," he said. "Farmers should adopt those varieties for better results." Big blow The Madhya Pradesh agriculture minister, Kamal Patel, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation that the state government is looking at the possibility of compensating farmers for their lost crops. "Right now, the damage is being assessed (and) the government is ready to provide all possible help," he said. Deepak Nagar, a farmer in Hinoti who participated in the protests in August, said the government needs to help farmers soon, otherwise it will be difficult for their families to get by. Like many farmers in the state, he lost nearly all of his soybean crop this year. "This year farmers of the state have only suffered losses. It is a big blow for the state's farming community," he lamented, as he plucked a yellowed, dead leaf off one of his soybean plants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-soybean-farmers-demand-help-as-rains-and-pests-wipe-out-crops-899457.html
09-10-2020||National||Tripura reports 223 new Covid-19 cases, 7 fatalities||At least 223 more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Tripura on Friday, pushing the tally in the state to 27,982, a health department official said. The Covid-19 death toll rose to 308 with seven more persons succumbing to the infection, he said. West Tripura district, of which state capital Agartala is a part, has accounted for 166 of the 308 Covid-19 deaths, the official said. Tripura currently has 4,200 active coronavirus cases, while 23,451 people have recovered from the disease and 23 patients have migrated to other states, the official said. At least 408 patients were discharged from G B Pant hospital, the main referral hospital for the Covidpatients on Thursday as they had recovered from the disease. As many as 4,09,040 samples have been tested for Covid-19 in the state so far, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tripura-reports-223-new-covid-19-cases-7-fatalities-899481.html
09-10-2020||National||Coronavirus infections in India surge past 69 lakh in 24 hours, active cases below 9 lakh||India's Covid-19 tally of cases went past 69 lakh with 70,496 infections being reported in a day, while active cases of infection fell below 9 lakh after a month, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 69,06,151. The death toll climbed to 1,06,490 with 964 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The total recoveries have surged to 59,06,069 pushing the recovery rate to 85.52 per cent, while there are 8,93,592 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 12.94 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The Covid-19 case fatality rate due to the coronavirus infection was recorded at 1.54 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16 and crossed 60 lakh on September 28. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 8,46,34,680 samples have been tested up to October 8 with 11,68,705 samples being tested on Thursday. The 964 new fatalities include 358 from Maharashtra, 101 from Karnataka, 68 Tamil Nadu, 63 from West Bengal, 45 from Uttar Pradesh, 42 from Andhra Pradesh, and 37 from Delhi. A total of 1,06,490 deaths have been reported so far in the country includes 39,430 from Maharashtra followed by 10,052 from Tamil Nadu, 9,675 from Karnataka, 6,245 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,128 from Andhra Pradesh, 5,653 from Delhi, 5,439 from West Bengal, 3,741 from Punjab and 3,538 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-infections-in-india-surge-past-69-lakh-in-24-hours-active-cases-below-9-lakh-899483.html
09-10-2020||National||US is a critical partner in transforming India's development aspirations to reality, says Ambassador Sandhu||India sees the US as a very close friend and a strong partner critical to transforming the development aspirations of the country's people into reality, Ambassador Taranjit Singh Sandhu told Indian American leaders in the IT sector. In a roundtable with The IndUS Entrepreneurs (TiE) Global and TiE DC on Thursday, he said the scale and size of India offers a huge opportunity to entrepreneurs, investors and corporate leaders. "One thing you cannot miss about India is its size and scale. A huge domestic market of 1.3 billion people, the ability to leapfrog in technology, and large skilled workforce. That's India for you," Sandhu said. Asserting that India would need around USD 4.5 trillion for investment in infrastructure by 2030, the envoy said, "Whatever we do is not enough, given the sheer scale. This is a challenge as well as a huge opportunity." India has launched an information repository of about 7,000 projects, identified under the National Infrastructure Pipeline. Both public and private investment would be the key to financing infrastructure investments, he said. "There are immense opportunities for investment across sectors in India. Be it hydrocarbons or renewable energy, health and pharma, IT and digital services, or electronics manufacturing, food processing. You can make in India, and make for the world," Sandhu told members of TiE and entrepreneurs from across the globe. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi is a great believer in technology as an important tool for socio-economic empowerment. "The social welfare programmes that have made an actual difference to citizens in India have been made possible, only through technology. "Be it the world's largest biometric programme Aadhaar or the largest financial inclusion programme Jan Dhan Yojana or the largest health assurance programme Ayushman Bharat, all have technology and innovation, embedded in them," Sandhu said. PM Modi addressed two major virtual global summits this week and the US was a lead partner in both. One was on science and technology and the other on Artificial Intelligence for social empowerment, Sandhu said. "These summits underline an important message: the spirit of collaboration and cooperation. India has always believed in sharing its resources, expertise and skills to the world. At the same time, we have also been open to new ideas from all corners," he said. "We have always believed, the world is one family," Sandhu said. In the post-Covid world, a concerted and focused effort is needed to advance the remarkable business and people-to-people linkages between India and the US, he underlined. "We have indeed a come a long way, but we do have a long way to go given the true potential of relations," the Indian ambassador said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-is-a-critical-partner-in-transforming-indias-development-aspirations-to-reality-says-ambassador-sandhu-899491.html
09-10-2020||National||Jharkhand reports 784 new Covid-19 cases, 8 more fatalities||At least 784 more people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand, which pushed the tally to 90,486, while eight fresh fatalities raised the toll to 775, a health department official said on Friday. Five deaths were recorded in Ranchi, and one each in Palamu, Ramgarh, and Bokaro, he said. Of the 784 new cases, Ranchi accounted for 247 cases, followed by East Singhbhum at 233. Altogether 80,439 have recovered from the disease so far, the official said. Jharkhand currently has 9,272 active coronavirus cases, he said. As many as 32,092 samples were tested for Covid-19 in Jharkhand on Thursday, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jharkhand-reports-784-new-covid-19-cases-8-more-fatalities-899495.html
09-10-2020||National||Bharat Biotech seeks drug regulatory authority nod to start phase-III trials of Covaxin: Report||The Hyderabad-based company was asked to resubmit the protocol for its phase-III trials after a subject expert committee decided that some parts needed more clarification.  The expert committee after deliberation decided that while the design of the phase-III study was in principle satisfactory, some clarification on the definition of asymptomatic, etc was required, the report stated, citing minutes of the exper committee meeting.  Bharat Biotech had presented its phase-III trial protocol to the drug regulatory authority with interim data from the phase-I and phase-II trials.  The expert committee also said that the phase-III trials "should be initiated with appropriate dose identified from the phase II safety and immunogenicity data." Bharat Biotech also asked to submit safety and immunogenicity data from the phase II trial to the committee, in addition to the interim data it had submitted before. The vaccine company has already approached several states including Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Maharashtra, Punjab and Assam for initating phase-III trials.  The Uttar Pradesh Government on September 23 had given its nod for conducting phase-III trials for Covaxin in Lucknow and Gorakhpur starting October.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotech-seeks-drug-regulatory-authority-nod-to-start-phase-iii-trials-of-covaxin-report-899508.html
09-10-2020||National||Sena can contest in about 50 seats in Bihar Assembly polls, says Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena can contest in around 50 seats in the upcoming Bihar Assembly elections 2020, Sanjay Raut said on Friday.  He added that Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray and state minister Aaditya Thackeray will address virtual rallies.  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sena-can-contest-in-about-50-seats-in-bihar-assembly-polls-says-sanjay-raut-899512.html
09-10-2020||National||Examine witnesses in money-laundering case involving KPCC president D K Shivakumar: HC to ED||The Delhi High Court Friday asked the Enforcement Directorate to examine some relatives and associates of Karnataka Congress leader D K Shivakumar, accused in a money-laundering case, via video conferencing due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The high court said the interest of justice will suffice if the petitioners, who are residents of Karnataka, join the inquiry. Justice Yogesh Khanna asked the investigating officer (IO) of the case to share the time of video conferencing with the petitioners so that there is no inconvenience in joining it. The court was hearing seven separate petitions by relatives and associates of Shivakumar challenging the summons issued by the ED seeking their presence here for enquiry as witnesses, at this stage. The petitions were filed by Rajesh H, Gangasaran, Jayasheela, Chandra G, K V Lakshmamma, Meenakshi and Hanumanthaiah G. Senior advocate Mohit Mathur, representing the petitioners, said the summons was issued in violation of provisions of the CrPC and contended that these are arm-twisting tactics because they are the relatives of the main accused. He submitted that the petitioners will cooperate in the inquiry. Central government standing counsel Amit Mahajan, representing the ED, said documents were earlier called from the petitioners but now their presence is being sought as clarification is needed in certain documents. He submitted that the agency will not insist on the presence of appearance of petitioners till the next date of hearing, November 19. Shivakumar, 58, a seven-time MLA in Karnataka, was arrested by the ED on September 3 last year under the PMLA. He was granted bail by the High Court in October last year. The ED had in September last year registered the money laundering case against Shivakumar, Hanumanthaiah -- an employee at Karnataka Bhavan in New Delhi, and others. The case was based on a charge sheet (prosecution complaint) filed by the Income Tax Department against them last year before a special court in Bengaluru on charges of alleged tax evasion and 'hawala' transactions worth crores. The I-T department has accused Shivakumar and his alleged associate S K Sharma of indulging in transactions involving huge amounts of unaccounted money on a regular basis through 'hawala' channels with the help of three other accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/examine-witnesses-in-money-laundering-case-involving-kpcc-president-d-k-shivakumar-hc-to-ed-899522.html
09-10-2020||National||With 70,496 new cases, India's Covid-19 tally crosses 69 lakh||India's total coronavirus cases rose by 70,496 in the last 24 hours to 6.91 million on Friday morning, data from the health ministry showed. Deaths from Covid-19 infections rose by 964 to 106,490, the ministry said. India's death toll from the novel coronavirus rose past 100,000 on Saturday, only the third country in the world to reach that bleak milestone, after the United States and Brazil, and its epidemic shows no sign of abating.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-70496-new-cases-indias-covid-19-tally-crosses-69-lakh-899523.html
09-10-2020||National||Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad to represent central govt at Ram Vilas Paswan's funeral||Law and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad will represent the central government at the funeral of Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, sources said on Friday. At a specially convened meeting of the Union Cabinet on Friday morning, it was decided that Prasad would represent the government of India and the Union Council of Ministers at the funeral of the veteran leader who died here on Thursday evening, they said. The funeral is likely to take place in Patna on Saturday. Paswan's mortal remains would be flown to Patna in a special aircraft, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-minister-ravi-shankar-prasad-to-represent-central-govt-at-ram-vilas-paswans-funeral-899526.html
09-10-2020||National||Priest burnt alive over land dispute in Rajasthan||A priest died after being set on fire allegedly by five people who wanted to encroach on temple land in Rajasthan's Karauli district, police said on Friday. The five accused allegedly poured petrol on Babu Lal Vaishnav and set him on fire in Bukna village on Wednesday. He was referred to the SMS hospital in Jaipur in a critical condition. Vaishnav succumbed to injuries on Thursday night. “Two accused have been rounded up and are being interrogated,” SP, Karauli, Mridul Kachhawa, said. Police said the accused wanted to encroach upon the land of the temple. “A case of attempt to murder was registered yesterday and now it will be converted into a murder case after the death of the priest,” the SP said. Targeting the state government over the incident, the opposition BJP charged that the law and order situation has worsened in the state under Congress rule. “There is no fear of law among criminals who are roaming freely under Congress rule. People are living in fear while criminals have no fear. This is the situation when the chief minister himself is holding the home portfolio,” BJP state president Satish Poonia told reporters. Condemning the incident, former chief minister Vasundhara Raje said in a statement that the way the crime graph is increasing in the state, it is clear that no woman, child, elderly person or Dalit is safe in the state. “The Congress government of the state should now wake from slumber and should get the family justice by getting strict punishment to the culprits,” she said. PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra said the police have already caught the main accused. Vaishnav's family members have demanded action against the SHO, investigation by a deputy rank official, compensation, and government job to a family member.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/priest-burnt-alive-over-land-dispute-in-rajasthan-899528.html
09-10-2020||National||HAL employee held for sharing sensitive information to Pakistan's intelligence agency||In a top-secret operation, the Anti-Terrorism Squad of Maharashtra police arrested a person in Nashik for passing information about fighter aircraft to Pakistani spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), a Pakistani intelligence agency. The accused is an employee of the Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL) in Nashik district. "Sustained interrogation has revealed that the accused was passing on sensitive information about aircraft and its confidential details," ATS  officials said. The man works with the aircraft manufacturing division at Ozar.  An offence under sections 3, 4 and 5 of the Official Secrets Act, 1923 has been registered against the accused and three mobile handsets with five SIM cards and two memory cards have been seized from his possession.   The same is being sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory for examination. He has been remanded to police custody for ten days. Meanwhile, a HAL spokesperson said: "As the investigation is on we have no comments to offer." The HAL Aircraft Manufacturing Division is nearly 200 km away from Mumbai. It manufactures MiG variants MiG-21 M,  MiG21 BIS,  MiG 27 M and Su-30 MKI.  Its facility is the mainstay for Russian-origin aircraft in terms of life extension, modifications, site repairs and investigations.  It also exports MiG spares to Egypt, Syria, Vietnam, Malaysia,  Algeria,  Poland and Russia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hal-employee-held-for-sharing-sensitive-information-to-pakistans-intelligence-agency-899531.html
09-10-2020||National||PM Modi to launch physical distribution of property cards on October 11||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch the physical distribution of property cards under the 'SVAMITVA' (ownership) scheme on October 11 via videoconferencing, his office said on Friday, describing it as "a historic move set to transform rural India". The move will pave the way for villagers to use property as a financial asset for taking loans and other financial benefits. The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said the launch will enable around one lakh property holders to download their property cards through an SMS link sent on their mobile phones, and this would be followed by the physical distribution of property cards by the respective state governments. These beneficiaries are from 763 villages across six states, including 346 from Uttar Pradesh, 221 from Haryana, 100 from Maharashtra, 44 from Madhya Pradesh, 50 from Uttarakhand and two from Karnataka. The beneficiaries from all these states except Maharashtra will receive the physical copies of their property cards within a day, the statement said. Maharashtra has a system of recovering a nominal cost of property cards so it will take a month's time. This is the first time that such a large-scale exercise involving the most modern means of technology is being carried out to benefit millions of rural property owners, the PMO said in a statement. The prime minister will also be interacting with some of the beneficiaries during the event. 'SVAMITVA' is a Ministry of Panchayati Raj scheme which was launched by Modi on the National Panchayati Raj Day on April 24. The scheme aims to provide the 'record of rights' to village household owners in rural areas and issue property cards. It is being implemented across the country in a phased manner over a period of four years (2020-2024) and would eventually cover around 6.62 lakh villages, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-launch-physical-distribution-of-property-cards-on-october-11-899536.html
09-10-2020||National||PM Modi lauds IFS officers for their work towards serving nation, furthering national interests||Greeting Indian Foreign Service officers on IFS day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that their work towards serving the nation and furthering national interests globally are commendable. Their efforts during the Vande Bharat Mission, which was launched to bring Indians home from abroad during the Covid-19 pandemic as international travel came to a halt, and other related help to our citizens and other nations is noteworthy, Modi added. In a tweet, the prime minister said, "On IFS day, greetings to all #IndianForeignService officers. Their work towards #ServingTheNation, furthering national interests globally are commendable. Their efforts during Vande Bharat Mission and other Covid related help to our citizens and other nations is noteworthy."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-lauds-ifs-officers-for-their-work-towards-serving-nation-furthering-national-interests-899542.html
09-10-2020||National||Railways to restore pre-Covid-19 reservation system, allow tickets to be booked 5 minutes before trains depart||Railway passengers can book tickets just five minutes before the departure of trains from Saturday (October 10) onwards as the national transporter is restoring the pre-Covid-19 period reservation system. The railways said that it has decided to restore the earlier system of preparation of second reservation charts issued between 30 minutes to 5 minutes before the scheduled train departure time from October 10. Due to Covid-19 pandemic, the railways when started operating special trains, it used to prepare second chart 2 hours for special trains before the departure of trains. Now the railways decided to restore the earlier system of releasing second chart between 30 to 5 minutes before the departure of trains. The first chart is prepared at least four hours before the scheduled departure of the train. If seats become vacant owing to cancellation, same can booked through ticket booking counters and online till the preparation of the second chart. Cancellation of already booked tickets was also permitted during this period as per provisions of refund rules, the statement said. Due to festival rush, the railways is planning to operate around 200 trains between October 15 and November 30. The Railways has currently suspended all regular passenger trains indefinitely. Regular trains have remained suspended since March 22. It started operations of 15 pairs of premium Rajdhani special trains connecting Delhi with different parts of the country on May 12, and 100 pairs of long-distance trains on June 1. It also started 80 trains additionally on September 12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-to-restore-pre-covid-19-reservation-system-allow-tickets-to-be-booked-5-minutes-before-trains-depart-899543.html
09-10-2020||National||3,951 km highways constructed from April to September: Centre||The Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways on Friday said that despite Covid-19 pandemic challenges, 3,951 km of highways were constructed in the first six months of the current fiscal year. The Ministry also said that they have achieved a road-building rate of 21.60 km per day. "The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has successfully completed construction of road length of 3,951 km during the first six months of this fiscal year (April-September). It has achieved a construction pace of 21.60 km per day despite Covid-19 difficulties," the ministry said in a statement. It has set an ambitious target of constructing an 11,000 km of the road during this fiscal year. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) earlier this week said that it awarded projects for building 1,330 km of highways in April-September, up 60 % from the year-ago period despite the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic. The projects awarded by NHAI were valued at Rs 47,289 crore. Recently, NHAI agreed to implement various suggestions made by different industry bodies towards improving national highways. In March 2020, NHAI disbursed Rs 10,000 crore through online payments and ensured that no payments remain pending due to the closure of the office during the lockdown. In the first quarter of 2020-21, NHAI disbursed more than Rs 15,000 crore to the vendors, it said adding that additionally, steps such as monthly payment to the contractors were taken to ensure cash flow to them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3951-km-highways-constructed-from-april-to-september-centre-899550.html
09-10-2020||National||Centre allows export of Bangalore Rose, Krishnapuram onions||Under pressure from farmers in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, the Centre on Friday granted permission for export of 10,000 metric tonnes each of Bangalore Rose and Krishnapuram varieties of onions. As onion prices shot up in the domestic markets, the Centre had banned exports of all varieties of onions, including Bangalore Rose and Krishnapuram onions, which have very little demand locally, but are primarily sold the far east countries. “Export of Bangalore Rose onions and Krishnapuram onions … up to quantity of 10,000 MT each, has been allowed for the period up to March 31, 2021 with immediate effect,” a notification y the Directorate General of Foreign Trade said. BJP leaders from Karnataka had taken up the issue with Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal soon after the Centre announced the ban to rein in rising prices. The exports of the two varieties of onions will be through Chennai ports on furnishing certificates from Horticulture Commissioner, Karnataka, for Bangalore Rose onions and Assistant Director, Horticulture, Kadapa for Krishnapuram onions. “Thank you so much Piyush Goyal ji for helping Karnataka farmers, you have always given priority to our requests,” Bhartiya Janata Yuva Morcha President and South Bangalore MP Tejasvi Surya said. Surya had taken up the issue with the Central government and demanded reversal of the export ban.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-allows-export-of-bangalore-rose-krishnapuram-onions-899555.html
09-10-2020||National||Indo-Israel rapid Covid-19 testing research to fructify in 'matter of days': Israeli envoy||A game-changer rapid Covid-19 testing technology being jointly developed by India and Israel should be ready for rollout in "a matter of days" and it will be able to give test results in less than a minute by simply requiring an individual to blow into a tube, the Israeli envoy to India has said. Ambassador Ron Malka also said Israel would want India to become the manufacturing hub for this rapid testing kit and the two countries will also collaborate on vaccine development for this dreaded disease with India taking a key role in production given its "very strong relative advantage in manufacturing". He said the work on the rapid Covid-19 testing project is in a very advanced stage. "I think it is a matter of days. What I hear from those involved in the process, it should not take more than 2-3 weeks to finalise that one reliable and accurate technology or a combination of more than one from amongst the four different technologies being analysed," Malka told PTI in an interview. Indian and Israeli researchers have conducted trials after collecting a large number of samples in India for four different kinds of technologies, including a breath analyser and a voice test, that have the potential to detect Covid-19 rapidly. There is also isothermal testing that enables identification of the novel coronavirus in a saliva sample and a test using poly-amino acids that seeks to isolate proteins related to Covid-19. Malka said he has been told by the scientists that tens of technologies were tested to short-list these four technologies, which have now gone through different stages as per different demands to reach the last stage. "I am optimistic as all threshold conditions have already been passed," he said. The envoy said this new rapid test is going to be a game-changer and is "a shining example of how fruitful collaboration in science and technology between Israel and India can be." "It will be good news for the entire world. Until we manage to immunise the entire population, this joint operation, which we had named 'open skies', would literally open the skies in terms of international travel and other economic activities as this can be used at airports and other places by requiring a person just to blow into a tube and the result would be available in 30-40-50 seconds," he said. In addition, this will be very cheap cost-wise as it gives the result locally without the logistical baggage of sending the sample to laboratories, Malka said. Asked about collaboration on vaccine development, Malka said the two countries were always sharing research and technologies. Noting that India has a "very strong relative advantage in manufacturing", Malka said once the vaccine is ready, Israel is hopeful to get the advantage of that. "We are helping and supporting each other," he added. "We understand that once there is a reliable vaccine that is safe and effective, it will be mostly produced in India," Malka said. Israel understands that when India will manufacture a vaccine, it will also take into consideration the needs of Israel, he added. The Israeli Ambassador also thanked authorities in India for the help and assistance they provided after the virus outbreak to evacuate thousands of Israelis stranded all over India.  Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu also spoke to each other recently on the collaboration in combating the pandemic, he noted. During their telephonic conversation earlier this month the two leaders had assessed the progress in bilateral cooperation in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic, especially in the fields of research, field trials of diagnostic tools and vaccine development. They agreed on the importance of close cooperation in these important areas not only for the benefit of the people of the two countries but also for the greater good of humanity. Malka said healthcare has become an immediate priority area of collaboration between India and Israel due to the pandemic. Asserting that healthcare will be one of the main pillars of collaboration between Israel and India going forward, Malka said he has also been working closely with Ayushman Bharat CEO Indu Bhushan to explore ways to collaborate on the mission. Malka said Israel has always focussed on multi-use technologies and in the case of healthcare also it has been using some technologies used in security areas. He said India was the obvious choice for collaboration when Israel's defence research organisation decided to focus on rapid Covid-19 testing technology. The rapid testing is being jointly developed in cooperation with the Defense Research and Development Directorate of the Israeli Ministry of Defence, India's Defence Research and Development Organisation, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research and Principal Scientific Advisor, India -- coordinated by the ministries of foreign affairs of Israel and India. The samples were collected when a multi-pronged mission from Israel visited India to cooperate on Covid-19 research and development around July-end and early August. "The joint research (on rapid testing) is a very successful operation. It was something remarkable to analyse 25,000 samples in nine days. It shows the great potential of the collaboration, expanding the mutual commitment, chemistry and trust between the two countries. Otherwise, we could not have succeeded in such a challenging operation," Malka said. If good results are obtained on rapid testing, the manufacturing hub for such Covid test kits would be India, he said. He said that the special plane on which the Israeli research team had visited India had also brought advanced medical equipment developed especially for fighting Covid-19 in Israel. Malka said he personally collected the useful equipment from leading hospitals in Israel and brought them with him on board the special plane. "We also brought respirators at that time, though there was an export ban on them," the Israeli envoy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indo-israel-rapid-covid-19-testing-research-to-fructify-in-matter-of-days-israeli-envoy-899560.html
09-10-2020||National||PM Modi pays tributes to Sikh martyr Bhai Taru Singh ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday paid tributes to Sikh martyr Bhai Taru Singh, who chose to sacrifice his life instead of compromising with his religious beliefs, on his 300th birth anniversary.  He died in 1745. Modi said Singh's name will always be synonymous with courage and fearlessness.  "On the special occasion of his 300th birth anniversary, I bow to the great Bhai Taru Singh Ji. His name will always be synonymous with courage and fearlessness. Always proud of his culture as well as ethos, he never bowed to injustice. He continues to inspire millions," he tweeted.    On the special occasion of his 300th birth anniversary, I bow to the great Bhai Taru Singh Ji. His name will always be synonymous with courage and fearlessness. Always proud of his culture as well as ethos, he never bowed to injustice. He continues to inspire millions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-pays-tributes-to-sikh-martyr-bhai-taru-singh-899565.html
09-10-2020||National||Govt allows exports of Bangalore rose onions, Krishnapuram onions||Easing ban on exports, the government on Friday allowed shipments of Bangalore rose onions and Krishnapuram onions with certain conditions. On September 14, the government had banned the export of all varieties of onions to increase availability and to check the price of the commodity in the domestic market. "Export of Bangalore rose onions and Krishnapuram onions up to quantity of 10,000 tonnes have been allowed for the period up to March 31, 2021, with immediate effect," the Directorate General of Foreign Trade said in a notification. DGFT, an arm of the commerce ministry, deals with exports and imports-related issues. It said that the exports will be allowed only through Chennai port. An exporter of Bangalore rose onion will have to get a certificate from the Horticulture Commissioner, Government of Karnataka, certifying the item and the quantity. An exporter of Krishnapuram onions will have to obtain the certificate from the government of Andhra Pradesh. Karnataka farmers had urged the Centre to allow shipment of 10,000 tonnes of Bangalore rose variety of onions as there is no demand in the domestic market. This variety has demand in Southeast Asian countries such as Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand and Taiwan. Generally, Krishnapuram onions are not used for consumption in India due to their size and pungency. The onions are imported by Thailand, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Sri Lanka and Singapore. The exports of other varieties of onions remain banned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-allows-exports-of-bangalore-rose-onions-krishnapuram-onions-899573.html
09-10-2020||National||DGGI busts exporter cos for availing fraudulent Input Tax Credit of Rs 61 crore||The GST intelligence arm DGGI has busted fraudulent availment of Input Tax Credit (ITC) and cash refund of about Rs 61 crore by certain exporter companies, an official statement said on Friday. The Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) had inputs that few exporter companies were engaged in the fraudulent availment of Input Tax Credit (ITC) on the invoices of non-existing and fictitious firms or such firms, which apparently do not have any purchases themselves. "The ITC so availed was utilized to pay IGST on the export goods, which was thereafter claimed as cash refund. Thus, the government exchequer was put at double loss – on one hand ITC was obtained on goods where no tax was paid, and on the other hand IGST paid from such fraudulently availed ITC was obtained as cash refund. "The amount of IGST refund obtained is estimated to be approx Rs 61 crore," the statement said. DGGI, Headquarter, searched the exporter companies and residence of their owners as well as premises of various supplier companies on March 6, 2020. These supplier companies were found to have supplied only bills to these exporters, without the supply of goods. The exporters had taken ITC on these fake bills and had taken refund of the same as the goods were shown to be exported. The controllers of the export firms were arrested on March 6 by the DGGI. However, Ludhiana-based owner of the supplier firms was untraceable. He was not appearing for investigations even after various summons, the statement noted. It said based on inputs received that the said person was hiding in Shimla, a team of officers arrested him on October 7. Subsequently, he was produced before the competent Court and was sent to judicial custody at the Tihar Central Jail for 14 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dggi-busts-exporter-cos-for-availing-fraudulent-input-tax-credit-of-rs-61-crore-899575.html
09-10-2020||National||India successfully test fires first indigenously developed anti-radiation missile Rudram-1||India on Friday successfully tested a new air-to-ground missile capable of destroying enemy radar and other communication equipment providing tactical advantage to the armed forces in a conflict. A Su-30 MKI fighter jet of the Indian Air Force fired the missile named Rudram, which destroyed a target on Wheeler Island off the coast of Odisha. This is the first such indigenous missile developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation. The missile has been integrated with a Su-30 MKI fighter aircraft, which would be used as a launch platform because of its ability to fire from varying ranges based on launch conditions. An anti-radiation missile is of immense advantage in an air raid because by destroying the radar sources it minimises the possibility of a counter strike by the enemy on the combat jets. This can also be used to quickly shut down unexpected surface-to-air missile sites. An official said the missile with a speed of Mach 2 or twice the speed of sound was capable of bringing down a wide-range of enemy radars, communication networks and air defence systems within a range of up to 250 km. In a statement, the defence ministry said Rudram hit the radiation target with "pinpoint accuracy" and that the test established India's capability to develop long-range air-launched anti-radiation missiles. The missile carries a passive homing head that can detect, classify and engage targets over a wide band of frequencies. Once inducted, it would be a potent weapon for IAF to suppress enemy air defence effectively from large stand-off ranges. “With this, the country has established indigenous capability to develop long-range air-launched anti-radiation missiles for neutralising enemy Radars, communication sites and other radio-frequency emitting targets,” said the defence ministry statement. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh congratulated the DRDO on the successful test-firing of the missile, calling it a "remarkable achievement".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-successfully-test-fires-first-indigenously-developed-anti-radiation-missile-rudram-1-899577.html
09-10-2020||National||'Dedication, diligence appreciated during Covid-19', S Jaishankar wishes 'Team MEA' on IFS Day||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar wished 'Team MEA' on the Indian Foreign Services (IFS) Day on Friday, saying their dedication and diligence is especially appreciated in Covid-19 times. He further said that they must remain focused on enhancing global understanding of India and its interests. "On #IFSDay, extend my best wishes to Team MEA. We have always risen to the occasion; current challenges call on us to do even more. Your dedication and diligence is especially appreciated in the COVID times. Our adapting to virtual diplomacy has also been commendable," Jaishankar tweeted. "We must remain focused on enhancing global understanding of India and its interests," he said in another tweet. Russian ambassador to India Nikolay Kudashev congratulated Indian diplomats on the occasion. "Congratulations to Indian diplomats #ServingTheNation on the occasion of the #IndianForeignService (IFS) Day!" he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dedication-diligence-appreciated-during-covid-19-s-jaishankar-wishes-team-mea-on-ifs-day-899580.html
09-10-2020||National||Cabinet condoles demise of former Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan||Union Cabinet on Friday condoled the sad demise of Consumer Affairs and Food Minister Ram Vilas Paswan. As per convention, the Cabinet passed a resolution, condoling the demise of the Lok Janshakti Party founder and veteran Dalit leader from Bihar. "In his passing away, the nation has lost an eminent leader, a distinguished parliamentarian and an able administrator," the Cabinet said. Paswan was the voice of the oppressed and always championed the cause of marginalized sections of the society, it said. "The Cabinet extends its heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family on behalf of the government and the entire nation," it added. The Cabinet observed silence for two minutes in the memory of Paswan, an official statement said. The Cabinet also approved a state funeral to Paswan. When towering leaders pass away, the Cabinet meets to condole their demise and pass a resolution. Paswan, 74, died on October 8, in a Delhi hospital following cardiac ailments and kidney failure. An eight-time Lok Sabha MP, Paswan was a minister in central governments headed by parties of different ideologies ranging from the Janata Dal to the Congress and the BJP since 1989.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-condoles-demise-of-former-union-minister-ram-vilas-paswan-899581.html
09-10-2020||National||NIA files chargesheet against 8 people in Bhima Koregaon case||The National Investigation Agency on Friday filed the third charge sheet in the Elgar Parishad-Koregaon Bhima case against eight persons including the Teltumbde brothers. Those who have been charge-sheeted have been accused of being members or linked with the CPI (Maoist) and/or the Kabir Kala Manch. It may be recalled two earlier charge sheets have been filed by the Pune Police against 15 persons in the case before the case was taken over by the NIA after a tussle between the Maharashtra government and the Centre. Those named in the charge sheet include Prof Anand Teltumbe, his brother Milind Teltumbde, Gautam Navlakha, Hany Babu, Stan Swamy, Sagar Gorkhe, Ramesh Gaichor and Jyoti Jagtap. Among the eight, Milind, a dreaded underground Naxal, has been shown as a wanted accused. “NIA investigation revealed that the accused persons viz. Anand Teltumbde, Gautam Navlakha, Hany Babu, Sagar Gorkhe, Ramesh Gaichor, Jyoti Jagtap and Stan Swamy conspired with other accused persons to further the ideology of terrorist organisation CPI (Maoist) and abetted violence, brought into hatred and incited disaffection towards the Government established by law and promoted enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, caste and community,” the NIA stated. The absconding accused Milind Teltumbde organised training camps for imparting weapons training to the outlawed. The investigation also revealed a systematic network of Maoists operating for the supply of arms and ammunition having close nexus with other banned proscribed organisation within and outside India.  “The strategy and tactics adopted by Maoists to carry out a so-called urban revolution with their frontal outfits has also been revealed during the investigation. Besides this, funding activities of Maoist cadres and their sympathisers to carry out Maoist work in rural as well as urban areas came to the fore,” the NIA stated. On 15 November 2018, the  Pune police filed the first charge sheet against Surendra Gadling, Prof Shoma Sen, Sudhir Dhawale, Rona Wilson, and Mahesh Raut On 21 February 2019, the Pune police filed a supplementary charge sheet against Varavara Rao, Sudha Bharadwaj, Vernon Gonsalves, Arun Pereira.   It may be mentioned that Stan Swamy (83) works with tribals in Jharkhand and faces health issues like Varavara Rao (81).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-files-chargesheet-against-8-people-in-bhima-koregaon-case-899584.html
09-10-2020||National||Supreme Court stays recovery of penalty on NTPC's Vindhyachal Super Thermal Power Station in Singrauli||The Supreme Court has stayed the recovery of penalty of over Rs four crore from NTPC Vindhyachal Super Thermal Power Station in Singrauli and Sonebhadra districts for damaging the environment. A bench headed by Justice R F Nariman issued notices to the Centre, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh governments, Central Pollution Control Board and others on the appeal filed by the plant against the National Green Tribunal order. “Issue notice. There shall be stay of the recovery in the meantime,” the bench, also comprising Justices Navin Sinha and K M Joseph, said. The thermal power plant had approached the top court against NGT's 2019 order imposing an environmental compensation of Rs 4.16 crore, Rs 27 lakh and Rs 45.90 lakh on three plants. The tribunal had levied penalty noting that violation of environmental norms was resulting in damage caused to water bodies, including Rihand Reservoir.  “Surface and underground water were polluted affecting rivers like Son, Renu, Bijul, Kanhar, Gopad, Pankagan, Kathauta Kachan, etc. and streams/nalas like Ballia Nala, Chatka Nala, Kahuwa Nala, Tippa Jharia, Dongia Nala, etc.  “Water has been contaminated by toxic effluents discharged, chemicals and fly ash and was not fit for consumption,” the tribunal had noted while directing the Uttar Pradesh and the Madhya Pradesh State pollution control boards to recover compensation from the identified polluters, after following due process of law. The green panel had passed the order after perusing the report filed by a committee which recommended that environmental carrying capacity in Singrauli area must be worked out to make a decision on new / expansion projects and also to devise an environment-friendly strategy on pollution control by the industries in the area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-stays-recovery-of-penalty-on-ntpcs-vindhyachal-super-thermal-power-station-in-singrauli-899585.html
09-10-2020||National||Fact Check | Old photo shared as Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi ‘laughing’ en route Hathras||हाथरस जाते विपक्ष के नेता, अत्यधिक दुःख चेहरे पर साफ़ दिखाई दे रहा हैं #ड्रामेबाज_भाईबहन   We performed a reverse image search and found that the photo was taken in April 2019 when the Congress leaders were campaigning for the Lok Sabha elections. The two had arrived at Kanpur airport from their own private planes at the same time. They had a light-hearted chat before heading off to their respective destinations. Congress’s Twitter handle had shared several pictures from this meeting on April 27, 2019. The viral image has been taken from this set of images. In fact, pictures and videos from the siblings’ meeting had gone quite viral on social media at the time. In the video below, the duo can be seen laughing while talking to each other. Rahul Gandhi says, “Let me tell you what it means to be a good brother. I am doing these massive long flights and I am travelling in a little helicopter, squeezed up. And my sister is doing short flights and she’s going in (incomprehensible) helicopter. But I love her.” After saying this, both of them can be seen heading towards their helicopters. They posed for a picture after requests from bystanders. This clip was broadcast live on Rahul Gandhi’s official Facebook page.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-old-photo-shared-as-rahul-and-priyanka-gandhi-laughing-en-route-hathras-899589.html
09-10-2020||National||Explained: What is TRP? How can the data be manipulated?||Mumbai police on Thursday claimed to have busted a Television Rating Points (TRP) manipulation racket, with four persons arrested in this case. Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh told reporters that Republic TV channel, facing flak over its attack on Mumbai police and Maharashtra government in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case, was also involved in the "false TRP" racket. What is TRP? TRP is a tool to judge which TV programmes are viewed the most and also indicates the viewers' choice and popularity of a particular channel. Simply put, TRP denotes how people, from which socio-economic categories, prefer watching shows or channels and for what amount of time they continue to stay on it. The duration can be for a particular timing of a show, or for an hour, even for an entire day. A consultation document about TV audience measurement and ratings in the country floated by the TRAI in 2018 defined its value as: “On the basis of audience measurement data, ratings are assigned to various programmes on television. Television ratings in turn influence programmes produced for the viewers. Better ratings would promote a programme while poor ratings will discourage a programme. Incorrect ratings will lead to the production of programmes which may not be really popular while good programmes may be left out.” It is based on these TRPs that marketers place advertisements, which serve as the revenue for the television network. What is BARC? BARC is an industry body set up to design, commission, supervise and own an accurate, reliable, and timely TV audience measurement system and is guided by recommendations of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India and the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. It helps provide data points to plan media spends more effectively. There are over 2,000 barometers installed in Mumbai to monitor TRPs. BARC releases weekly rating points for TV channels in India How is TRP calculated? ‘BAR-O-meters” have been installed in over 45,000 empanelled houses by BARC. The households are chosen on the basis of education level of the main wager and the ownership of consumer durable. While watching a show, consumers of the house register through a special ID, which is different for every member of the household. The meter captures the time consumed on one channel and by whom, providing data on viewership habits. Can TRP data be manipulated? The broadcasters can find these 45,000 households and bribe them to watch their channels. They can also bribe the cable operators to make their channel as ‘landing page’, making the channel first thing to appear after the TV is switched on. Manipulated TRP ratings result in the miscalculated targeted audience for the advertisers which results in losses of hundreds of crores of rupees because of such manipulations and fake statistics of TRPs. In the recent TRP scam, it was revealed that these persons had manipulated the sampling metering services by inducing the barometer users through periodical payments to watch particular TV channels. Many people in whose homes these barometers have been installed have accepted that they were getting monetary benefit for keeping their TV sets on even when they did not watch it, an IPS officer told PTI. The Mumbai police are now investigating how many TRP points were manipulated and what effect it had on advertisements. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-what-is-trp-how-can-the-data-be-manipulated-899596.html
09-10-2020||National||India's active Covid-19 cases fall below 9 lakh after a month, comprise 12.94% of total caseload||The number of active Covid-19 cases in the country has fallen below the nine lakh-mark for the first time in a month and it comprises merely 12.94 per cent of the total caseload, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. The declining trend of the percentage of active cases is commensurately supported by the rising percentage of recovered cases. Recoveries in India have exceeded new cases for three continuous weeks, it said. "Presently, the active cases stand at 8,93,592 and comprise merely 12.94 per cent of the total positive cases of the country, demonstrating a steady falling percentage of the total cases," the ministry said. The country had 8.97 lakh active cases on September 9, it said. A total of 59,06,069 people have recovered from Covid-19 in the country so far and recoveries exceed active cases of infection by 50,12,477, according to the ministry. The higher number of recoveries has aided the national recovery rate to further improve to 85.52 per cent, the ministry said. A total of 78,365 patients recovered and were discharged the previous day, while 70,496 fresh infections were reported, according to official data updated at 8 am. "New recoveries in India have exceeded the new cases of Covid-19 for three continuous weeks. The new cases during these three weeks have displayed a steady trend of decline," the ministry underlined. This is the result of collaborative action by states and union territories under the Centre's strategy of comprehensive testing, tracking, quick hospitalisation and adherence to the standard treatment protocol which has ensured a standardised quality of medical care across public and private hospitals and for home isolation cases. The ministry said 78 per cent of the 70,496 new cases registered the previous day were reported from 10 states and UTs -- Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Delhi. Maharashtra continues to report a very high number of new cases with more than 13,000 cases, followed by Karnataka with more than 10,000 cases, it said. Also, 964 case fatalities were reported the previous day. Of these, nearly 82 per cent are concentrated in 10 states and UTs -- Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Kerala, it added. More than 37 per cent of the new fatalities were reported from Maharashtra (358 deaths), according to the ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-active-covid-19-cases-fall-below-9-lakh-after-a-month-comprise-1294-of-total-caseload-899598.html
09-10-2020||National||Amazon expands network in north east ahead of festive sale||E-commerce major Amazon India on Friday announced the expansion of its delivery network in the eight states of North East India ahead of its annual mega festive sale. With close to 60 Amazon-owned and delivery service partner stations in the region, the company has added several new pin codes to its delivery footprint ahead of the festive season this year, including remote towns such as Champhai, Kolasib, Lumding, Pasighat and Mokokchung, the company said in a statement. "Amazon has partnered with local entrepreneurs as part of the Delivery Service Partner program, enabling these small businesses with growth opportunities and helping Amazon India to penetrate into tier 3 and tier 4 locations in the North East with its own delivery services," the e-tailer said. This expansion is in line with Amazon India's focus to extend its reach to customers and sellers across every part of the country. Analysts said both Flipkart and Amazon are deepening their base into rural India to tap the growing popularity of online shopping. "In line with our vision of making e-commerce a part of everyday life, we have strengthened our delivery network in North East India. With the festive season right around the corner, we look forward to strengthening our presence in the region to reach a wider customer base and creating more work opportunities," Amazon India director, last mile operations, Prakash Rochlani said. Last month, the company announced the addition of close to 200 Amazon operated and delivery service partner stations, with a delivery network of 1,700 stations across the country this festive season. The company has touched more than 28,000 neighbourhoods and kirana in close to 350 cities, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amazon-expands-network-in-north-east-ahead-of-festive-sale-899604.html
09-10-2020||National||PIL in Delhi High Court says Arnab Goswami's reportage of Sushant Singh Rajput death case misleading||A PIL has been moved in the Delhi High Court alleging that journalist Arnab Goswami and his channel were reporting "distorted and misleading facts" on the death of actor Shushant Singh Rajput resulting in infringement of the right to fair trial of actor Rhea Chakraborty. The plea has sought directions to the Centre to frame rules, regulations or guidelines to govern reporting or broadcasting of all news related to criminal investigations.  The petition was listed for hearing on Friday before a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan which asked the petitioner to come on the next date - November 27 - with his suggestions on the kind of rules that can be framed to regulate media reporting of criminal probes. The plea has also sought initiation of contempt of court proceedings against Goswami and his channel for the alleged "prejudicial reporting" of the Rajput death case. The petition has alleged that the journalist and the TV channel are on a "witch hunt" against Rajput's friend Chakraborty and are behaving as "judge, jury and executioner" to sway the public opinion against her.    "Interestingly, no investigating agency is probing any charge of murder in the present criminal investigation. Even the FIR registered by the Patna police on the complaint received by the father of the deceased (Rajput) is for abetment to suicide and other penal provisions. Moreover, as per the report of AIIMS, the cause of death is suicide and not murder," the petition has claimed. It has also sought a direction restraining the journalist and the channel from "publishing or broadcasting any information or news related to any criminal investigation in the name of investigative journalism and/or information received from anonymous sources".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-in-delhi-high-court-says-arnab-goswamis-reportage-of-sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-misleading-899617.html
09-10-2020||National||Will take legal action against large sites repeatedly violating dust control norms: Gopal Rai||Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Friday said the Delhi government will take legal action against contractors at large construction and demolition sites which have been violating dust control norms despite several warnings. It is mandatory to install anti-smog guns at construction and demolition sites larger than 20,000 square metres, he told reporters during an inspection of one such site at FICCI Auditorium. There are 39 sites having 20,000 sqm of area. Six of these sites do not have anti-smog guns and have been told to stop work, he said. "Serious violations were observed here. The demolition waste is lying uncovered and there is no anti-smog gun. We have issued directions to stop work. If they still go ahead with it, legal and financial action will be taken against the contractor,” he said. "Similar action will be taken against contractors at large sites violating dust control norms despite several warnings. No one will be spared,” he said. The minister said directions have been issued to prevent dust pollution at all sites irrespective of their size.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-take-legal-action-against-large-sites-repeatedly-violating-dust-control-norms-gopal-rai-899618.html
09-10-2020||National||Home Minister Amit Shah pays last respects to Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan||Union Home Minister Amit Shah visited the residence of his late cabinet colleague Ram Vilas Paswan and paid his last respects to the departed leader on Friday. Paswan, 74, passed away at a private hospital here on Thursday. The Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution had recently undergone a heart surgery. "Paid tributes to our senior Union Minister Shri Ram Vilas Paswan ji. Paswan ji will always be remembered as a person with gentle behaviour and for his work related to public welfare. May the grace of God be on him and may his family have the strength to bear this loss," Shah tweeted in Hindi. An eight-time Lok Sabha MP, Paswan was one of India's most prominent Dalit leaders. He was part of several BJP-led NDA and Congress-led UPA governments. At a meeting of the Union Cabinet this morning, it was decided that Paswan will be accorded a state funeral. Law and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad will represent the central government and the Union Council of Ministers at the funeral in Patna on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/home-minister-amit-shah-pays-last-respects-to-union-minister-ram-vilas-paswan-899627.html
09-10-2020||National||India has lost one of the greatest Dalit & socialist leaders in Ram Vilas Paswan, says Manmohan Singh||Former prime minister Manmohan Singh on Friday said the country has lost one of the greatest Dalit and socialist leaders in Ram Vilas Paswan. Paswan (74), the Union minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, died at a hospital in Delhi on Thursday, days after he underwent a heart surgery. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi also paid his last tributes to the departed leader and visited the latter’s place. Gandhi said Paswan raised voice for the most marginalised sections in society and left a lasting imprint on politics and public service in both Bihar and the country. In a letter to Chirag Paswan, son of the late Union minister, Manmohan Singh described him as an important Dalit face in the central government. "In his death our country has lost one of its greatest Dalit and socialist leaders, who always stood for the cause of the poor and downtrodden people of the society," Singh said in his condolences. "Ram Vilas Paswan ji was a very important Dalit face in the central government, of many parties. I have very warm recollections of my association with Shri Paswan ji as a member of the UPA Government which I led in 2004. "The veteran socialist leader, Paswan ji was also a very efficient administrator who worked very closely with me as Minister of Chemicals and Fertilisers, and also served as minister in various ministries," the former PM said. Singh said Paswan was a mass leader which is evident from the fact that he won Parliament elections with a record majority from his constituency. He said Paswan was also a leader who was loved and respected by all with whom he came into contact with, irrespective of their political leniency. Rahul Gandhi, in a letter to Chirag Paswan, said he was deeply saddened by the sudden demise of his father. "We have lost a veteran leader who left a lasting imprint on politics and public service in both Bihar and our nation. "In an illustrious public life spanning over five decades, he was the voice of the most marginalised sections of our society and defended the rights of the poor and the vulnerable," he said in his letter. Gandhi said as a Member of Parliament and Union minister, Paswan voiced the interests and concerns of the poor with passion. "His unwavering commitment to social justice and equality is particularly relevant in these times. His enduring legacy will continue to inspire people dedicated to public service," the Congress leader added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-lost-one-of-the-greatest-dalit-socialist-leaders-in-ram-vilas-paswan-says-manmohan-singh-899632.html
09-10-2020||National||'Attacks on officers impacting morale of SBI staff': Union demands action||The SBI Officers' Association on Friday said a series of deadly attacks on bank staff is "adversely affecting their morale and faith" on the state administration and urged for immediate steps to ensure safety. The officers' union of the country's largest bank opined that the recent spate of physical and verbal attacks on their officers across branches have left the staff in a "state of shock and awe besides affecting their morale." In a letter to the Assam Chief Secretary, the State Bank of India Officers' Association (SBIOA) General Secretary (North Eastern Circle) Rupam Roy expressed "dissatisfaction" over delayed justice in the murder case of their colleague Junu Sharma. "We feel crestfallen while we invite your attention towards the cold blooded murder of Comrade Junu Sharma in broad daylight while she was returning from her office at SBI Dadara Branch in October 2018. "Justice has still not been delivered to her family and their agony is beyond our imagination," he added. The prevailing fear amongst the bankers fraternity regarding the attacks is "adversely affecting their morale and faith" on the state administration, Roy said. "Therefore, I most humbly request your esteemed authority to initiate immediate measures so that a conducive and sanative and fearless environment is created for our fellow bankers to serve the interest of the society at large," he added. The senior SBI employee also said that his colleague Hemant Kumar Chutia of Soneswar Branch at Beltola area in Guwahati was brutally attacked earlier this month. "The victim was assaulted so brutally that his left arm got completely shattered and that he may have to live the rest of his life with infirmity," he added. Acknowledging that the assailants have already been nabbed, the SBIOA office bearer said they have "full faith" in the investigation and hope that "harshest possible" punishment is meted out to those found guilty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/attacks-on-officers-impacting-morale-of-sbi-staff-union-demands-action-899637.html
09-10-2020||National||Jaishankar assures Abdullah India's full support for peace in Afghanistan||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Friday assured Afghan peace negotiator Abdullah Abdullah that India remained committed to peace, prosperity and stability in Afghanistan. Jaishankar and Abdullah held extensive talks on various aspects of the ongoing peace talks between the Afghan government and Taliban, and on bilateral cooperation. "Pleased to meet Chairman HCNR @DrabdullahCE. A good discussion on our bilateral cooperation and regional issues. Welcomed his insights and perspectives on recent developments. As a neighbour, India remains committed to peace, prosperity and stability in Afghanistan," Jaishankar tweeted. On his part, Abdullah said the external affairs minister assured him of India's "full support" for peace in Afghanistan. "As always pleased to meet HE @DrSJaishankar, the External Affairs Minister of India. We exchanged views on the #AfghanPeaceProcess, bilateral relations, & regional support for peace efforts. He assured me of India's full support for peace in Afghanistan," Abdullah said on Twitter. In a meeting on Thursday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi conveyed to Abdullah, the chairman of the High Council for National Reconciliation, that India will always support people of Afghanistan in their quest for peace and meeting their developmental aspirations. Abdullah arrived here on Tuesday on a five-day visit as part of his efforts to build a regional consensus and support for the Afghan peace process. The visit of the influential Afghan leader to India comes in the midst of peace talks between the Afghan government and the Taliban in Doha. The Taliban and the Afghan government are holding direct talks to end 19 years of war that has killed tens of thousands of people and ravaged various parts of the country. India has been a major stakeholder in peace and stability of Afghanistan. It has already invested $2 billion in aid and reconstruction activities in the country. India has been supporting a national peace and reconciliation process which is Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled. On September 12, an Indian delegation attended the inaugural ceremony of the intra-Afghan negotiations in Doha while S Jaishankar joined it through video conference. India has been keenly following the evolving political situation after the US signed a peace deal with the Taliban in February. The deal provided for the withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan, effectively drawing curtains to Washington's 18-year war in the country. The US has lost over 2,400 soldiers in Afghanistan since late 2001. India has also been maintaining that care should be taken to ensure that any such process does not lead to any "ungoverned spaces" where terrorists and their proxies can relocate. India has been calling upon all sections of the political spectrum in Afghanistan to work together to meet the aspirations of all people in that country including those from the minority community for a prosperous and safe future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-assures-abdullah-indias-full-support-for-peace-in-afghanistan-899639.html
09-10-2020||National||Elgar case: Father Stan Swamy gets judicial remand till October 23||A special NIA court here on Friday remanded 82-year-old human rights activist Father Stan Swamy, arrested in connection with the Elgar Parishad-alleged Maoist links case, in judicial custody till October 23. He was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) from his Ranchi residence of Thursday evening. He was produced before the special court here on Friday. The court remanded him in judicial custody as the probe agency did not seek his remand. Swamy, who had been questioned twice earlier by the Pune police and the NIA, was placed under arrest for his alleged links with the banned CPI (Maoist), NIA officials have said. The cleric is the 16th person to be arrested in the case, in which people have been booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the anti-terror law UAPA. Violence had erupted in the vicinity of a war memorial in Koregaon Bhima near Pune on January 1, 2018, allegedly after provocative speeches were made during the Elgar Parishad conclave held a day earlier at Shaniwarwada in Pune city. NIA officials said investigations established that Swamy was actively involved in the activities of the CPI (Maoist). The NIA also alleged that he was in contact with "conspirators" - Sudhir Dhawale, Rona Wilson, Surendra Gadling, Arun Ferreira, Vernon Gonsalves, Hany Babu, Shoma Sen, Mahesh Raut, Varavara Rao, Sudha Bharadwaj, Gautam Navlakha and Anand Teltumbde to further the group's activities. The agency alleged that Swamy had also received funds through an associate for furthering the agenda. Besides, he is convenor of the Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee (PPSC), a frontal organisation of the CPI(Maoist), the officials claimed. They said literature, propaganda material of the CPI (Maoist) and documents related to communications for furthering the group's programmes were seized from him. In January this year, the Centre had transferred the probe into the Elgar Parishad case from Pune Police to the NIA. Meanwhile, the central probe agency filed its supplementary charge-sheet against Swamy and six other arrested accused- Navlakha, Teltumbde, Hany Babu and three members of Kabir Kala Manch Jyoti Raghoba Jagtap, Sagar Gorkhe and Ramesh Gaichor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/elgar-case-father-stan-swamy-gets-judicial-remand-till-october-23-899648.html
09-10-2020||National||New 'Maharajas' in Congress should explain their wealth: Jyotiraditya Scindia||BJP MP Jyotiraditya Scindia on Friday hit back at Congress leaders for accusing him of encroaching on land in the Gwalior area and said these new `royals' should explain how they acquire their own wealth. "The Congress leaders who have become new Maharajas (royals) are making allegations about the land which is with my family for 300 years. If it is wrong to be born into such a family, then I admit my mistake," he said. Scindia, a scion of the former royal family of Gwalior, was here to take part in various programmes ahead of by-polls for 28 Assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh. "Those who have become new Maharajas should answer how (they became so rich)," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-maharajas-in-congress-should-explain-their-wealth-jyotiraditya-scindia-899650.html
09-10-2020||National||I&B ministry asks private satellite TV channels to adhere to Programme Code||The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting on Friday asked all private satellite television channels to adhere to the Programme Code and emphasised that no programme should criticise, malign or slander any individual or certain groups. The advisory comes in the wake of actor Rakul Preet Singh's plea in the Delhi High Court alleging defamatory programmes being run against her in connection with a drugs probe related to the Sushant Singh Rajput death case. In its advisory, the ministry said on various occasions in the past, it has issued advisories to private satellite TV channels to broadcast content strictly adhering to the Programme and Advertising Codes as prescribed under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995 and the rules framed thereunder. Attention is drawn to the provisions of the Programme Code as per which no programme should contain anything obscene, defamatory, deliberate, false and suggestive innuendos and half-truths, the advisory said. As per the Code, no programme should criticise, malign or slander any individual in person or certain groups, segments of the social, public and moral life of the country, the ministry said. “All private satellite TV channels are requested to ensure compliance with the directions above,” it said. The high court had, in its September 17 order, said, “It is hoped that the media houses and television channels would show restraint in the reporting and abide by the provisions of the Programme Code as also the various guidelines, both statutory and self regulatory, while making any report in relation to the petitioner.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ib-ministry-asks-private-satellite-tv-channels-to-adhere-to-programme-code-899664.html
09-10-2020||National||SC refuses to stay counselling for admission to National Law Universities through CLAT||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to stay the counselling of candidates for admission to 23 National Law Universities through the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) on ground of wrong questions and technical glitches. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and M R Shah allowed the petitioner Lavanya Bhatt and others to approach the grievance redressal committee with a fresh representation within two days, saying we cannot pass any interim order. The court also noted a retired Chief Justice of India-headed panel would look into grievances. Senior advocate P S Narasimha, appearing for Consortium of the National Law Universities, pointed out that out of 2,600 seats, 1800 seats have already been filled, while the counselling is on for the rest of seats. He maintained that the examination has been conducted excellently well on September 28 and all Vice Chancellors have participated in the process. One question in the examination was if defamation is a crime or not, the objection was answer is not as per what Google said, the counsel added. Senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan, appearing for the petitioner contended that this year has been the worst ever in conducting CLAT. Other online examinations were also held this year. The Consortium said it had received 21,000 objections. "In lot of questions, wrong model answers were given. The cut off in this exam is not even 0 but -4. This must not have happened in this exam but in the history of any other examinations," he said, alleging the Consortium was incompetent to hold the all India test. The students who have got marks as -4, they have been called for counselling, he said. Narasimha, for his part, said retired Chief Justice would look into these objections. The list, shown by the counsel, was only for the SC/ ST candidates and they have been only called for the interview, which made no difference. He said during the pandemic, there cannot be unending counselling. The counsel also pointed about five questions were dropped by the experts panel on recommendation of experts panel. So far as software glitches was concerned, this was an extraordinary examination. Even a movement of mouse by the student was recorded, he maintained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-stay-counselling-for-admission-to-national-law-universities-through-clat-899668.html
09-10-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Leaders pay last respects to Ram Vilas Paswan; NIA court remanded 82-year-old human rights activist||In your evening news brief, From the Newsroom, A special NIA court in New Delhi on Friday remanded 82-year-old human rights activist Father Stan Swamy; A priest died after being set on fire allegedly by five people who wanted to encroach on temple land in Rajasthan's Karauli district, police said on Friday; President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid tributes to Union minister and LJP leader Ram Vilas Paswan.  A special NIA court in New Delhi on Friday remanded 82-year-old human rights activist Father Stan Swamy. He was arrested in connection with the Elgar Parishad case for alleged Maoist links. He will be in judicial custody till October 23.  Violence had erupted in the vicinity of a war memorial in Koregaon Bhima near Pune on January 1, 2018, allegedly after provocative speeches were made during the Elgar Parishad conclave held a day earlier at Shaniwarwada in Pune city. ---------------------------------------------------------------------- The NIA on Friday filed a charge-sheet against eight people, including social activist Gautam Navlakha, Delhi University associate professor Hany Babu and tribal leader Father Stan Swamy, for their alleged involvement in inciting a mob to violence in Bhima Koregaon on January 1, 2018, officials said. NIA spokesperson and Deputy Inspector General of Police in the agency Sonia Narang said the charge-sheet was submitted before a designated court here. The eight people were arrested during the course of the investigation.  --------------------------------------------------------------------- A priest died after being set on fire allegedly by five people who wanted to encroach on temple land in Rajasthan's Karauli district, police said on Friday. The five accused allegedly poured petrol on Babu Lal Vaishnav and set him on fire in Bukna village on Wednesday. He was referred to the SMS hospital in Jaipur in a critical condition. Vaishnav succumbed to injuries on Thursday night.  --------------------------------------------------------------------- External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Friday assured Afghan peace negotiator Abdullah Abdullah that India remained committed to peace, prosperity and stability in Afghanistan. Jaishankar and Abdullah held extensive talks on various aspects of the ongoing peace talks between the Afghan government and Taliban, and on bilateral cooperation. On his part, Abdullah said the external affairs minister assured him of India's "full support" for peace in Afghanistan.  --------------------------------------------------------------------- President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid tributes to Union minister and LJP leader Ram Vilas Paswan at his residence here on Friday. Senior BJP leaders including Amit Shah, JP Nadda, Giriraj Singh, Ravi Shankar Prasad, Rajnath Singh, Ashwini Kumar Choubey, also paid tributes to the departed leader. Others who offered condolences and prayers at Paswan's residence included BJP MPs Pragya Thakur and Ramesh Bidhuri, NCP President Sharad Pawar, Union minister Ramdas Athawale, RJD MP Misa Bharti and senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor. ------------------------------------------------------------------- Former Chief Ministers Siddaramaiah and H D Kumaraswamy on Friday urged the Karnataka government not to reopen schools, citing the spurt in COVID-19 cases. While Siddaramaiah, who is the leader of the opposition, has written to Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar, urging him not to consider reopening schools until the situation comes under control, Kumaraswamy said he would speak to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa personally on the matter. The government too has said that any decision would be taken after considering the situation and consulting experts and parents. -----------------------------------------------------  The World Bank has trebled its projection for India's economic contraction in 2020-21 – from 3.2% earlier to 9.6% due to covid-related lockdowns and a decline in household income. In its latest South Asia Economic Focus report ahead of the annual meeting of the World bank and International Monetary Fund, the global lender said the country's economic situation is "much worse" than ever seen before. It said half the Indian households are vulnerable to shocks post Covid. The slowdown in India is expected to depress manufacturing and exporting industries, and the construction sector is also likely to experience a protracted slowdown due to a limited pipeline of public sector infrastructure projects. ------------------------------------------------------------------- The SARS-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, may linger on human skin for nine hours, much longer than the flu viruses can, according to a study. The influenza A virus (IAV), in contrast, remained viable on human skin for nearly two hours, said the researchers including those from Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine in Japan. -------------------------------------------------------------------||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-leaders-pay-last-respects-to-ram-vilas-paswan-nia-court-remanded-82-year-old-human-rights-activist-899669.html
09-10-2020||National||CBSE class 12 compartment exam results declared||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Friday announced the result for class 12 compartment examination with 59.43 per cent of the candidates clearing the exam. "Class 12 compartment result has been announced as planned by October 10, to enable students apply for further studies in the current academic year. The result has been declared in record time of eight days," a senior board official said. A total of 1.16 lakh candidates had registered for the exam out of which 1.05 lakh had appeared including 87,849 compartment candidates while rest had appeared for improving their performance. The Supreme Court had last month suggested that the CBSE declare the results of the compartment examinations expeditiously and asked the UGC to ensure that students get admission in colleges, saying "these are exceptional times". As per the latest calendar, the session for freshers will begin on November 1 and the admission process will be winded up in October. The compartment examination for classes 10 and 12 began on September 22 at 1,268 centres across the country amid strict precautions in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The board had also given a chance to class 12 students to appear for the exam if they were unsatisfied with the marks awarded to them on the basis of an alternate assessment scheme after the exams were cancelled due to the spread of COVID-19. However, class 10 students had not got any option to improve their performance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-class-12-compartment-exam-results-declared-899701.html
09-10-2020||National||Navy cancels Reliance Naval's Rs 2,500-cr NOPV contract||The Indian Navy has cancelled Reliance Naval and Engineering Ltd's (RNEL) Rs 2,500-crore naval offshore patrol vessels (NPOVs) contract, owing to delay in delivery of the vessels, according to sources aware of the development. The contract was cancelled two weeks ago due to the delay in the delivery of the vessels, they said. The contract to build five warships was signed with the company in 2011, much before the Reliance Group took over the Gujarat-based shipyard from its erstwhile owner Nikhil Gandhi. The Reliance Group took over Pipavav Defence And Offshore Engineering Ltd in 2015 and later renamed it as Reliance Naval and Engineering Ltd (RNEL). RNEL did not offer comments on the issue. The cancellation of the NOPV contract has cast a shadow over the bidding process of RNEL, which is currently going through the debt resolution process in the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). IDBI, the lead banker of the consortium of lenders of RNEL, had taken the company to the NCLT Ahmedabad due to the default in loan repayment. RNEL has an outstanding debt of over Rs 11,000 crore. In August, 12 companies had submitted expressions of interest (EOI) for RNEL. These included APM Terminals, United Shipbuilding Corporation (Russia), Hazel Mercantile Ltd, Chowgule Group, Interups (USA), Next Orbit Ventures, ARCIL, IARC, JM ARC, CFM ARC, Invent ARC and Phoenix ARC. These companies are required to submit their final bids by October 31. The sources said that out of the 12 companies, three major players with experience in the business, APM Terminals, United Shipbuilding Corporation (Russia), and Chowgule Group have opted out of the bid process of RNEL. APM Terminal has conveyed to the resolution professional (RP) of RNEL that it is not interested in submitting any bid as the Gujarat Maritime Board's (GMB) approval is not for the terminal business and the company is not into the shipbuilding business. Another company, United Shipbuilding of Russia, is also not keen on bidding because its management believes that pipeline of new defence naval business is not clear and the government has also cancelled the NOPV contract of RNEL. Hence, in the absence of any clear future visibility of the business, it does not make any sense to bid for RNEL shipyard. Another company with experience in this sector, Chowgule Group, has reservations over the bid condition of furnishing a Rs 5 crore bid bond and Rs 75 crore personal guarantee, and hence, opted out of the process. In the event of these three companies walking away, only nine asset reconstruction companies (ARCs) are left in the fray. According to the sources, with these key companies walking away, the last date for bid submission is likely to be extended. RNEL may meet the same fate as two other private shipyards -- ABG Shipyard and Bharati Shipyard. Both, ABG Shipyard, with a debt of over Rs 19,000 crore, and Bharati Shipyard, with a debt of over Rs 13,000 crore, are already under liquidation, and lenders are likely to get less than Rs 800 crore and Rs 600 crore, respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/navy-cancels-reliance-navals-rs-2500-cr-nopv-contract-899705.html
09-10-2020||National||Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi writes to Amit Shah, demands social media firms be held accountable||The Shiv Sena on Friday raised the issue of social media platforms being used to target Mumbai Police in connection with the Sushant Singh Rajput case, and demanded that the Centre hold these firms accountable. In a letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Information Technology Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, Sena spokesperson Priyanka Chaturvedi said these platforms are being used to spread lies and hate to destabilize governments and undermine constitutional institutions. "In the context of the suicide of an actor in Mumbai, numerous social media accounts were used to spread conspiracy theories and cast aspersions on the efficiency of the Mumbai police," Chaturvedi, a Rajya Sabha member, said in the letter. "80,000 fake and illegitimate accounts were created with specific intent to malign the Maharashtra government and the Mumbai police force especially at a time when all efforts were directed to battle Covid-19," she said. She also mentioned a study by the University of Michigan about how conspiracy theories about Rajput's death were pushed through social media, and a report in a foreign newspaper about Facebook's operations in India. Guidelines should be formulated to hold social media companies accountable, she said. "When the head of Facebook, Twitter can be called by the US Congress to answer questions and are being investigated in an open forum, then why is that the Indian government is even hesitating to ask them to explain their role in our nation," she asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shiv-sena-mp-priyanka-chaturvedi-writes-to-amit-shah-demands-social-media-firms-be-held-accountable-899709.html
09-10-2020||National||India, Nepal discuss increased flight connectivity and tourism circuits||Nepal's Culture and Civil Aviation Minister Yogesh Bhattarai met Indian Ambassador Vinay Mohan Kwatra on Thursday and discussed ways to promote tourism in both countries, including increased flights to remote locations and revival of historically important tourism circuits. Kwatra, who was appointed India's envoy to Nepal earlier this year, met Minister Bhattarai at the Tourism Office here on Friday. Bhattarai told Kwatra that enhanced air connectivity would boost tourism in both countries. Nepal had earlier sent a letter to the Indian authorities regarding new air-gateways to Bhairahawa, Nepalgunj and Mahendranagar. In the meeting on Friday, the resumption of flights between Kathmandu and Indian cities -- currently under suspension due to Covid-19 outbreak -- was also discussed. The two sides said 'Ramayana Circuit' concept must be implemented at the earliest, as part of which travel itineraries would cover historically important religious sites in India and Nepal. Pashupatinath, Lumbini and Janakpur are religious tourism destinations of note which do not fall under the 'Ramayana Circuit', said Bhattarai, who also heads Nepal's tourism ministry. Ambassador Kwatra told the minister that the Indian government looks forward to developing religious sites in Nepal and pledged assistance to revive the tourism sector in the country which is hit by the coronavirus outbreak. Sources said the meeting ended on a positive note but no final decision was taken.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-nepal-discuss-increased-flight-connectivity-and-tourism-circuits-899722.html
09-10-2020||National||Indian Muslims most content in world: RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat||Indian Muslims are the most content in the world, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat said while asserting that people from all faiths have stood together whenever it has been about the essence of India. He also said any kind of bigotry and separatism are spread only by those whose self-interest gets affected. Citing that many Muslims fought in Mewar king Maharana Pratap's army against Mughal emperor Akbar, Bhagwat suggested that in India's history people from all faiths stood together whenever there was an attack on the country's culture. "Most content Muslims are only in India," Bhagwat said and wondered if there is any example world over wherein a foreign religion that ruled over the people of a country still exists there. "Nowhere. It is only in India," he said in an interview to 'Vivek', a Hindi magazine based in Maharashtra. Unlike India, Pakistan did not give rights to followers of other religions and it was created as a separate country for Muslims. "Our Constitution did not say that only Hindus can stay here; hereafter only Hindus will be heard here; if you want to stay here, then you have to accept the superiority of Hindus. We created a space for them. This is the nature of our nation, and that inherent nature is called Hindu," he said. Elaborating his views, the head of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the ideological mentor of the ruling BJP, said Hindu has nothing to do with whom does one worship. Religion should be connecting, uplifting, uniting everyone in one single thread. "Whenever the devotion for India and its culture awakens and feeling of pride arises for the ancestors, the distinctions between all religions disappear and people from all faiths stand together," Bhagwat said. Talking about the Ram temple in Ayodhya, Bhagwat said it is not meant for mere ritualistic purpose, the temple is a symbol of national values and character. "The reality is that temples were destructed to crush the morale and values of the people of this country. That is why Hindu society from a long wished to reconstruct the temples. Our life was corrupted, and we were humiliated by destructing the temple of our ideal Shri Ram. We want to rebuild it, enhance it and therefore, this grand temple is being constructed,” he said. The 'bhoomi pujan' ceremony for the Ram temple in Ayodhya was performed in August, after the Supreme Court's verdict in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid title suit paved the way for its construction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-muslims-most-content-in-world-rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-899723.html
09-10-2020||National||Rajasthan Congress headed for big division, Ashok Gehlot will prove its Bahadur Shah Zafar: Satish Poonia||Rajasthan BJP president Satish Poonia said on Friday that the state Congress was headed for a “big division” and Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot would prove to be its Bahadur Shah Zafar, a reference to the last in the line of Mughal emperors. “Congress is united only by hands and not by hearts. The MLAs of the party have constantly been accusing the ministers of not listening to them,” Poonia told the media at the Circuit House here. The entire party is divided and its organisational structure has crumbled with no district units, he said, adding there was a huge chasm among Congress leaders in the state which cannot be bridged. Poonia had come to Jodhpur to pay tribute to the deceased BJP leader Jaswant Singh. “On the basis of the developments in the Congress in the past some time, I can say this is the last government of the Party in the state and Gehlot will prove to be its Bahadur Shah Zafar,” he said, apparently referring to the perceived differences between Gehlot and party leader Sachin Pilot that played out recently. “There are so many cracks in the Congress that they cannot be repaired now. I am not an astrologer, but can say that the Congress in Rajasthan is heading for a big division,” he said. He also attacked the Congress government for an alleged spurt in cases of crime in the state, especially those against women and girls. “It is pathetic that the state had shot up to the second place in the country in terms of crime against women and the first in the country on the index of rape/gang-rape with minor girl,” he said. “Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot passes comments over crime in other states but not on crimes in his state. Controlling crime was not among the priorities of his government and the motto of the police now is to create 'trust in criminals, fear in common persons,” Poonia alleged. He also questioned the chief minister’s ability to deal with increasing cases of crime. He said the chief minister himself holds the home portfolio and the Congress has not been able to find a suitable person in two years to succeed him. Sharing the crime date of the state, Poonia said the BJP would ask the government to release a white paper on criminal cases and also seek clarification about all the incidents of crimes against women, police action on them and steps taken for the protection and rehabilitation of victims.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-congress-headed-for-big-division-ashok-gehlot-will-prove-its-bahadur-shah-zafar-satish-poonia-899727.html
09-10-2020||National||Pakistan army shells 3 sectors along LoC in Poonch||The Pakistani army resorted to heavy firing and mortar shelling in forwarding areas in three sectors along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district Friday, inviting a strong retaliation from the Indian Army, officials said. "At about 1730 hours today Pakistan Army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms along LoC in Shahpur, Kirni & Qasba sectors in district Poonch", a defence spokesman said. He said the Indian Army retaliated befittingly. On October 1, an Army jawan was killed and another injured when the Pakistani army violated the ceasefire along the LoC in Krishnagati area of Poonch district. On September 5, army personnel was killed and two others, including an officer, were injured in Pakistani firing in Sunderbani sector of Rajouri district. On September 2, one JCO was killed in a ceasefire violation in the Keri sector of Rajouri.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-army-shells-3-sectors-along-loc-in-poonch-899728.html
09-10-2020||National||Whose body? Bombay HC says sex work a woman’s choice||A police sting that busted a prostitution ring and triggered a back-and-forth in the courts has revealed a conflict in Indian law over a woman's right to sell sex and a state's right to stop her. It all comes down to female choice, according to a landmark legal ruling last month that hands a rare victory to prostitutes in a land which affords women scant sexual freedom. "You cannot rehabilitate anyone against their will. There has to be consent," the women's lawyer Siddharth Jaiswal told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. The case began last year when a Mumbai court prevented three sex workers from leaving the protective home they were forcibly moved to after police rescued them from prostitution. Despite their opposition, the court said they should be counselled against sex work, learn new skills and find fresh jobs. It said the trio needed state "care and protection". That order was overturned last month by the Bombay High Court, which upheld the women's right "to choose their own vocation", a judgment campaigners say should help other adult sex workers break free from enforced protection. "The consent of the victim is never taken before they are taken into shelters. The victim themselves are not aware of their rights," said Jaiswal. "There has to be consent. It becomes punishment otherwise."  RIGHT TO CHOOSE The case is key as India's Immoral Traffic Prevention Act - applied in brothel raids and sex worker rescues - fails to distinguish between victims of trafficking and women doing sex work out of choice, lawyers and campaigners said. Adult sex workers rounded up by police are housed in shelters for 21 days for verification and medical tests, among other formalities, according to the law. After the 21 days, courts can impose a further detention of up to three years, based on a woman's family background and the circumstances that led them into prostitution. "The belief is that no woman can take sex work by choice, that they are all trafficked... they infantilise adult women," said Smarajit Jana, founder of Durbar Mahila Samanwaya Committee, a collective of 65,000 sex workers in Kolkata. "But (the high court) did not confuse morality with livelihood... it distinguished between trafficking and sex work," said Jana. "It is very rare." HOME It took a year for the three women to win their freedom after they were rounded up for selling sex at a guesthouse in suburban Mumbai after police acted on a tipoff. "We have come out with great difficulty," one of them told the Thomson Reuters Foundation after her release last month. The trio - all in their early 20s, two of them sisters - declined an interview request for fear of being identified and alienated from their extended families. The women said they were taken to a shelter, could see their parents and make a phone call home once a month. "We had thought we will be out in 21 days... but then we got a year," one of them told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. "We are relieved to be back with our family now," she said. The mother of the two sisters said she hoped the order would help other women in shelters get out. A 2018 study of about 250 adult sex workers found that about 80% returned to prostitution after getting out of a shelter. It found many of the women had to take out loans to engage lawyers and help dependent families. Campaigners have mounted protests on behalf of sex workers and many have tried to escape. At the 100+ shelters in operation nationwide, thousands of women undergo mandatory counselling, as well as help with cleaning and cooking and learn skills if they so wish. Only a few have access to legal help, campaigners said, and even fewer challenge their fate. "Most don't since they don't have access to lawyers or resources to engage a lawyer. They end up staying in these homes," said Tripti Tandon, executive director, Lawyers Collective, that takes up cases of marginalised communities. 'GAP' Pramila Sharma of non-profit Kshamata records the testimonies of rescued women at eight shelters in Mumbai and explains how they can learn a skill during their lockdown. The charity is among a host of non-profits that offer women training - be it in tailoring, beauty care, nursing or housekeeping - and has placed sex workers in related jobs. "Nobody likes staying in a shelter. Everybody has the right, the choice to do what they want to, but then there is a big gap between what the high court has said and the societal mindset about women," said Sharma, a senior field coordinator. "The society will not recognise women doing sex work as a right. Women are not allowed to think for themselves."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/whose-body-bombay-hc-says-sex-work-a-woman-s-choice-899740.html
09-10-2020||National||Parliament's Public Accounts Committee to visit Ladakh on October 28, 29||Parliament’s Public Accounts Committee, chaired by Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, is likely to visit Ladakh to get a first-hand report on the stand-off with China. The Committee has been granted permission by Lok Sabha Speaker to visit the Army camp in Ladakh and also certain forward areas to understand the working condition of soldiers posted in the icy heights where temperatures dip below zero degree celsius during winter months. The Committee is planning to visit Ladakh on October 28 and 29, Parliament sources said. Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat has already appeared before the PAC twice to apprise the committee about the preparedness of the Armed Forces in dealing with the stand-off with China. Rawat had told the committee that the Armed Forces were prepared for the long haul, even during harsh winter months, as diplomats and military officials were engaged in discussions to reduce tensions along the LAC. Congress has been targeting the Modi government over its handling of the tensions with China. At a rally in Haryana, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had claimed that had the UPA government been in power, it would have evicted and thrown out China from Indian territory in 15 minutes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliaments-public-accounts-committee-to-visit-ladakh-on-october-28-29-899744.html
09-10-2020||National||Priyanka Gandhi pays tribute to BSP founder Kanshi Ram on death anniversary||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday paid tributes to Bahujan Samaj Party founder Kanshi Ram on his death anniversary, hailing him as a pillar of the politics of social justice. Kanshi Ram, who died on this day in 2006 at the age of 72, had founded the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) in 1984. "Tributes to Kanshi Ram ji, who raised the voice of Dalits-deprived, a strong pillar of the politics of social justice and one who strengthened constitutional values," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. Priyanka Gandhi is the Congress general secretary incharge Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/priyanka-gandhi-pays-tribute-to-bsp-founder-kanshi-ram-on-death-anniversary-899749.html
09-10-2020||National||India avoids joining US, UK, others at UN in slamming China over human rights violations||Though India-China border stand-off strained the relations between the two neighbours, New Delhi of late avoided joining France, Germany, Japan, Australia, the United Kingdom, the United States and 33 other nations in criticizing Beijing for violation of human rights in Xinjiang, Hong Kong and Tibet. As many as 39 nations recently closed ranks at the United Nations, to express grave concern over reports of gross violations of the human rights of the Uighurs at Xinjiang in northwest China, the crackdown on the democracy activists in Hong Kong and continued repressive measures in Tibet. Christoph Heusgen, Berlin’s envoy to the United Nations (UN), read out a statement on behalf of Germany and the 38 other nations during a meeting of the “Third Committee” of the international organization last Tuesday – calling on China to respect human rights, particularly the rights of persons belonging to religious and ethnic minorities, especially in Xinjiang and Tibet. They also expressed concern over the new National Security Law, which President Xi Jinping’s government in Beijing imposed on semi-autonomous Hong Kong. The “Third Committee” of the UN deals with social, humanitarian and cultural issues. The 39 nations particularly expressed concern over “the existence of a large network of political re-education camps (at Xinjiang in China)”, where “credible reports” cited by them indicated that over a million people had been arbitrarily detained. India, however, did not jump on the bandwagon and stayed away from the move at the UN led by the US and other western nations to condemn China. The 39 nations called on China to allow “immediate, meaningful and unfettered access to Xinjiang for independent observers including the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights and her office” as well as the “relevant special procedure mandate holders” of the international organization. But New Delhi stuck to its old stand against the use of aggressive and overly intrusive methods by the international community to respond to the allegation of human rights violations by any particular country.    “While we remain continuously engaged in promotion and protection of human rights worldwide, we need an honest appraisal of whether the international community has managed to achieve genuine improvement in human rights, by undertaking aggressive and overly intrusive methods without consultation and consent of the country concerned,” Ashish Sharma, First Secretary of India’s permanent mission at the UN headquarters in New York, said while delivering the national statement of India at the Third Committee of the UN. Cuba, on the other hand, led a group of 45 nations to present a counter-statement, extending support to China's counterterrorism and deradicalization measures in Xinjiang. Though Russia, Pakistan, Myanmar and Sri Lanka joined the group led by Cuba and opposed “politicization of human rights issues and double standards”, India stayed away from it too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-avoids-joining-us-uk-others-at-un-in-slamming-china-over-human-rights-violations-899751.html
09-10-2020||National||Maoists killing their own in Bastar: Retaliation for Operation 'Samadhan' or a fratricidal war?||The Maoists claimed to have executed 25 people recently in Bijapur district, including some of their key associates, labeling them as secret agents, coverts and informers operating for the Chhattisgarh police. While the outlawed insurgent group has accused the state police of building such operatives network to sabotage their movement, Chhattisgarh police attribute “the unprecedented killing of six Maoists by their own to “the turmoil among the senior and local cadres over the violence unleashed on innocent tribals.” In a statement, Vikalp, official representative of the Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee, CPI (Maoists) said that 12 secret agents, five coverts and eight informers in Gangaloor area of Bijapur district were eliminated in the people’s court, “based on credible evidence.” “The central, state governments planned operation “Samadhan” to eliminate our leadership and movement by 2022. As part of this tactic, Bastar IGP Sundarraj and Bijapur SP Kamalochan Kashyap have enlisted secret agents, coverts, and informers on a large scale in the district. Monthly salaries were credited into the bank accounts opened in their name,” Vikalp said in the statement dated 7 October released to the press. SAMADHAN is the strategy to deal with Left-Wing Extremism announced in 2017 by the then-Home Minister Rajnath Singh. Vikalp alleged the network of recruits as involved in various atrocities and killings in the forest villages, terrorizing the locals. The Maoists said that “during their pursuit to crack the secret agent net, one of their key operative Modiyam Vijjalu, who became a divisional committee member in 2012, was also revealed as a covert from the last two years.” The Maoist letter does not mention the period when the assassinations took place. However, speaking to DH, Bastar Inspector General of Police Sundarraj Pattilingam said that most of the civilian, Maoist killings took place during August and September. Senior Maoist Modiyami Vijja, carrying a Rs 10 lakh reward on him, was killed in the Pediya jungles of Bijapur on October 1 by his deputy Dinesh Modiyami and senior Pappa Rao over their disagreement about the civilian killings, the IGP said. “There is much dissent among the senior and local cadres about the mindless violence against the innocent tribals. We received reliable information about the killing of five more Maoists by their own cadres in the last one month in West Bastar Division area of Bijapur,” Sundarraj told DH. About the accusations on him, the official said, “The locals killed in the name of informers etc. are normal villagers. It is Maoists’ typical modus operandi of blaming the police to justify their slayings.” Six Naxals killed by their own cadres in last one month, police say - 1. Modiyami Vijja, divisional committee member in-charge of Gangaloor Area Committee in West Bastar Division. Rs ten lakh reward declared on him 2 Sandip alias Budharam Kursam, Jan Militia platoon section commander. Rs one lakh reward 3 Lakhu Hemla, Maoist Janatana school in-charge. Rs three lakh reward 4 Santosh, Dandakaranya Adivasi Kisan Mazdoor Sangathan range committee president. Rs three lakh reward 5 Dasru Mandavi (Jantana Sarkar President). Rs one lakh reward 6 Kamlu Punem, Militia Platoon Commander, Pidiya Area. Rs one lakh reward QUOTE Sundarraj Pattilingam, Inspector General of Police, Bastar: "Out of their frustration of losing public support, Naxals have killed innocent tribals labeling them as informers. Through this release they themselves admitted to killing their own cadres. With its leadership becoming clueless and directionless, the Naxal movement is nearing its end."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maoists-killing-their-own-in-bastar-retaliation-for-operation-samadhan-or-a-fratricidal-war-899761.html
09-10-2020||National||2010 bomb attack on UP Minister: SC seeks response from accused Samajwadi Party leader||The Supreme Court Friday granted two weeks time to Samajwadi Party leader Dilip Mishra to respond to a plea seeking cancellation of bail granted to him in a case related to the sensational bomb attack on then BSP leader and minister Nand Gopal Gupta in 2010 in Allahabad in which two persons had died of injuries. It was argued that after Mishra was granted bail, 28 witnesses have turned hostile during the trial and there are sufficient material on record to show that he has allegedly committed various offences and has been threatening the witnesses in the case. Gupta, who was in the Mayawati cabinet later joined BJP, and is presently a Minister of Civil Aviation, Political Pension, Minority Welfare, Muslim Waqf and Haj in Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government of Uttar Pradesh. The apex court was hearing the appeal against the Allahabad High Court order of May 17, 2019 by which it had refused to cancel the bail granted to Mishra on May 19, 2014 by the trial court. A charge sheet against Mishra and others under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code, the Explosive Substances Act and the UP Gangster and Anti-social Activities (Prevention) Act was filed for offences including murder and attempt to murder for the incident of July 12, 2010. Besides Mishra, there were around a dozen accused in the case. Gupta along with his security guard and others was going to a temple when a bomb exploded near him in which he was seriously injured and two persons including a journalist from an English daily died later of injuries. An apex court bench comprising Justices Ashok Bhushan and M R Shah, which heard the matter through video conferencing, was told by advocate Sharan Thakur, appearing for the complainant and cousin of Gupta, that the Allahabad High Court erred in granting bail to Mishra. Advocate Ritu Reniwal appeared for Mishra and the bench “allowed two weeks' time to her to file vakalatnama and counter affidavit” while listing the matter in the week commencing from November 2 for hearing. Thakur, who represented Kamal Kumar, complainant and cousin of Gupta, has contended that the high court did not cancel the bail “despite there being sufficient material on record showing that the accused has committed various offences and has been threatening the witnesses thereby violating the conditions on which bail was granted to him.” “The high court erred in not considering the fact that the accused is a history-sheeter, a habitual offender and has committed as many as six offences after getting bail in the present case thereby violating the condition on which the bail was granted by the high court,” the plea said. Even in the present case, the attack on the complainant's brother was planned and executed by the accused while being inside jail, in which Gupta was seriously injured and two others died “thereby showing the power and reach of the first respondent /accused,” the plea said. “The high court has failed to note the mischievous conduct of the accused in threatening the witnesses and violation of conditions of bail by the accused by absenting himself from the trial proceedings and by indulging in criminal activity,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2010-bomb-attack-on-up-minister-sc-seeks-response-from-accused-samajwadi-party-leader-899776.html
09-10-2020||National||NRI quota in PG medical & dental courses in Private colleges is not sacrosanct: SC||The Supreme Court on Friday held that NRI quota in PG Medical and Dental courses is not “sacrosanct” in any given academic year and private medical colleges are not obligated to earmark such seats for admissions. The top court said that if a medical college or institution or the state regulating authority decides to do away with such quota, then a reasonable notice of such a decision be issued to enable those aspiring for such seats to choose elsewhere.   The verdict by a bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat upheld the decision of the division bench of Rajasthan High Court which had ruled that private colleges are not obligated to earmark NRI quota upto the extent of 15 per cent of total seats.   The top court referred to the seven-judge verdict of 2005 in P A Inamdar versus State of Maharashtra and said that a plain reading of the judgement reveals that “a provision for 15 per cent NRI quota was not compulsory; it was only potential”. “As a result of the discussion, it is evident that the NRI quota is neither sacrosanct, not inviolable in terms of existence in any given year, or its extent”, it said.   It said, “if a medical college or institution or, for that matter, the state regulating authority, such as the board, decides to do away with it, reasonable notice of such a decision should be given to enable those aspiring to such seats to choose elsewhere, having regard to the prevailing conditions”. The top court said that a combined effect of the provisions of the Medical Council of India Act and regulations with respect to admissions and the decisions of this court, is that private colleges and institutions which offer such professional and technical courses, have some elbow room; they can decide whether, and to what extent, they wish to offer NRI or management quotas.   It said that there is nothing in the 2005 verdict to say that a 15 per cent NRI quota is an unqualified and unalterable part of the admission process in post graduate medical courses.   “It was, and remains within the discretionary authority of the management of private medical colleges, within their internal policy making domain,” the bench said. The top court said that the court is of the opinion that the discretion of private managements, who set up and manage medical colleges cannot be left to such an untrammelled degree as to result in unfairness to candidates.   “Undoubtedly, these private institutions have the discretion to factor in an NRI or any other permissible quota. Yet that discretion should be tempered; if the discretion to have such a quota is exercised, it should be revised or modified reasonably, and within reasonable time,” the bench said. The top court's verdict came on a batch of petitions filed by students including those aspiring to take admissions under NRI quota, challenging the decision of a division bench of the Rajasthan High Court, which had set aside the findings of a single judge. The single judge had held that the change of seat matrix for admission to PG medical and dental seats in colleges in Rajasthan, for the academic year 2020-21, by eliminating the Non-Resident Indian (NRI) quota was unsustainable in law.   Some students, who appealed against the division bench verdict, were admitted pursuant to the direction issued by the single judge, who had ruled that the deletion of such quota was contrary to law.   The NEET PG 2020 examination had been held in January, and the results were declared on January 31, 2020. Some of the students had applied for admission under the NRI quota.   The original notice giving the admission schedule said that verification of documents of status of NRI applicants was to be held on March 30 but the process was postponed later to April 14, 2020. However, on April 13, 2020, the State NEET PG Counselling board published a seat matrix in which the NRI quota was shown as zero. Aggrieved by the decisions of fixing zero seats for NRI quota, the students had approached the High Court and then the top court.   The top court noted that the break up of seats published on March 17, 2020, stated that 15 percent of the total intake in PG medical courses were to be filled by NRI/management quota aspirants. It noted that the sequence to be adopted was that the NRI candidates’ applications would be considered first for counselling and admissions and the ‘left over’ seats would then be filled from amongst merited management quota applicants, in addition to the 35 per cent management seat candidates.   “The colleges, however consciously decided not to go-ahead with the NRI quota - a decision, the basis of which is explained as the assessment by such private colleges offering MD courses, that there was a likelihood that many NRI seats would go unfilled,” it said, adding that the reason may be of Covid-19 pandemic. The top court said that in the circumstances of this case and to do justice to all the parties, this court is of the opinion that a special counselling session should be carried out by the board, confined or restricted to the seats in respect of which admissions were made pursuant to the single judge's directions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nri-quota-in-pg-medical-dental-courses-in-private-colleges-is-not-sacrosanct-sc-899780.html
09-10-2020||National||IAF personnel skydive in Leh on 88th IAF Day||Two Indian Air Force personnel carried out skydiving from a C-130J aircraft at a high altitude location in Leh under challenging circumstances, the IAF said Friday. Wing Commander Gajanad Yadava and Warrant Officer AK Tiwari carried out the exercise at Khardungla Pass in Leh to celebrate the 88th IAF Day on October 8, it said in a statement. The IAF said it is a new record of the highest skydive landing. Khardungla pass is situated at an altitude of 17,982 feet. "The landing at such an altitude is extremely challenging due to low oxygen levels combined with low air density and rough and inhospitable hilly terrain," said the IAF statement. "Both the air warriors have shown excellent professionalism, grit and determination in overcoming adverse conditions and achieving the grand success of setting a new IAF record", the statement noted. Indian and Chinese troops are engaged in a five-month bitter border standoff in eastern Ladakh and the IAF has made significant deployment in the region. The Indian Air Force has "clearly" demonstrated its resolve, operational capability and will to effectively engage with the adversary whenever the need arises, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria said on Thursday at Hindon air base during the IAF Day parade, referring to his force's prompt deployment and combat readiness along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. Talking about security challenges in eastern Ladakh, the Chief of Air Staff commended the air warriors for their "prompt response" in the recent standoff on the northern frontiers and talked about rapid deployment of combat assets along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) at short notice to handle any eventuality.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-personnel-skydive-in-leh-on-88th-iaf-day-899781.html
09-10-2020||National||Talks on for ropeway in Ayodhya for ease of devotees; donations cross Rs 100 crore since Ram temple's 'bhoomi pujan'||According to the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra trust, which is overseeing the construction of the temple, it has collected over Rs 100 crore in donations since the August 5 'bhoomi pujan' ceremony. Authorities are in talks with a couple of European firms for the construction of a ropeway to ensure easy access of devotees to the Ram temple under construction in Ayodhya, a municipal official said on Friday. Ayodhya Municipal Corporation commissioner Vishal Singh said, "We are talks with a couple of European ropeway makers for the installation of a ropeway in Ayodhya." One point of the ropeway will be on the temple premises or an adjoining place and the other point will be in a "suitable" location in the city for convenience of devotees, Singh said. "We will soon select a suitable place to make the out-station," he added. Ram Janmabhoomi trust office in-charge Prakash Gupta said that in addition to Rs 100 crore in its bank accounts, it has got donations in foreign currencies that are yet to be exchanged and accounted for, 200 kg silver and other precious metals. Gupta said the pace of the construction of the temple has picked up and carved marbles are being moved to the premises from a workshop three km away. The work to move the marbles to the temple premises began on Friday with three cranes, 10 trucks and 50 labourers having been engaged for the work, Gupta said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi performed the 'bhoomi pujan' ceremony to begin the construction of the temple at a site where many devout Hindus believe Lord Ram was born. The Supreme Court, in its verdict in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid title suit in November last year, had paved the way for the temple construction. It also directed the government to allocate a five-acre plot for the construction of a mosque in the city in Uttar Pradesh||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/talks-on-for-ropeway-in-ayodhya-for-ease-of-devotees-donations-cross-rs-100-crore-since-ram-temples-bhoomi-pujan-899785.html
09-10-2020||National||Activists condemn Father Stan Swamy's arrest; call him kind man||Activists have called the arrest of Father Stan Swamy by the NIA a "condemnable act" against a "kind" man fighting for the rights of tribals. The 82-year-old was arrested by the central probe agency on Thursday from his Ranchi (Jharkhand) home for his alleged involvement in inciting a mob to violence in Bhima Koregaon near Pune on January 1, 2018. "Shocking and condemnable act on the 83-year-old priest who has spent all his life serving the poor," Swaraj India party president Yogendra Yadav said in a tweet. Activist and lawyer Prashant Bhushan described Father Swamy as a nice person. "Just got the news that the NIA has forcibly taken octogenarian Father Stan Swamy from his ashram at Ranchi. It would be difficult to imagine a gentler and kinder person." "It is the sign of the venality of the NIA that they are trying to implicate him under UAPA! (Unlawful Activities Prevention Act)," Bhushan tweeted. "Like Sudha Bharadwaj, Stan Swamy has spent a lifetime fighting for the rights of Adivasis." "That is why the Modi regime seeks to suppress and silence them; because for this regime, the profits of mining companies take precedence over the lives and livelihoods of Adivasis," historian Ramchandra Guha said in a tweet. Activist Harsh Mander too expressed his support for Swamy. "Father Stan Swamy in his 80s has served India's tribal people selflessly, struggled with them peacefully against injustice. One by one, the state is hounding India's finest sons & daughters. Why is it so frightened of those who speak for the most oppressed? #IStandWithStanSwamy," Mander tweeted. Journalist and filmmaker Pritish Nandy said it was "very tragic to see an 83-year-old priest fighting for Adivasi rights being arrested in the midst of a raging pandemic." However, BJP's national secretary and Tripura in-charge Sunil Deodhar endorsed the NIA action. "It's good that NIA arrested Stan Swamy, a Jharkhand based Jesuit priest and member of banned outfit CPI(Maoist), in Bhima Koregaon case. "This may further reveal links between the Christian missionaries and Urban Naxals," he said on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/activists-condemn-father-stan-swamys-arrest-call-him-kind-man-899789.html
09-10-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi extends best wishes to Kuwait's emir||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday offered his best wishes to Sheikh Nawaf Al-Ahmed Al-Jaber Al-Sabah for assuming charge as Kuwait's emir and also to the new crown prince, and expressed confidence that India-Kuwait friendship will be further strengthened. "Congratulations and best wishes to His Highness Sheikh Nawaf Al-Ahmed Al-Jaber Al-Sabah for assuming charge as the Amir of the State of Kuwait. I also congratulate His Highness Sheikh Mishaal Al-Ahmed Al-Jaber Al-Sabah on his taking charge as the Crown Prince," Modi tweeted.  He added, "I am confident that the State of Kuwait will continue to play an important global role under their leadership, and the historic India-Kuwait friendship will be further strengthened." The royal family in Kuwait has moved swiftly to assure a smooth transition of power in the tiny oil-rich nation following the death last week of ruling emir Sheikh Sabah Al Ahmad Al Sabah, a unifying figure in the country who deftly navigated the region's stark political and sectarian divides.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-extends-best-wishes-to-kuwaits-emir-899795.html
09-10-2020||National||Karti Chidambaram asks Shashi Tharoor to take up TRP issues in Standing Committee||Congress MP Karti P Chidambaram on Friday wrote to the Chairman of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology asking him to take up the issue of manipulations in Television Rating Points (TRPs) by some television channels. In the letter, Karti said the recent Issues surrounding Television Rating Points (TRPs) of Television channels have cast doubts on the legitimacy and reliability of the system. To produce essential data on television audiences in India has become the primary basis for advertising decisions,” he said. Government advertising expenditure depends on this system, but public spending should not be based on flawed data, he added. “There is a need for further understanding this situation. In light of this, it is important that the Standing Committee on Information Technology take up this Issue. Therefore, I request you to call before the Committee concerned officials of the responsible ministry, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, to seek necessary clarification on the current situation and remedial measures,” he wrote in the letter. Karti, who is a member of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology, wrote on Twitter that governments (Centre & State) and Businesses (Public & Private) base their advertising allocations to TV channels based on TRPs. “So, flawed or manipulated TRP cannot be the basis of ad spend. TV companies also base their valuations on TRP. Those valuations are questionable now,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karti-chidambaram-asks-shashi-tharoor-to-take-up-trp-issues-in-standing-committee-899796.html
09-10-2020||National||PwC, Save the Children study highlights how climate change is impacting households, children||At least 60 per cent of the over 630 households that participated in a survey across three states said extreme weather conditions have impacted their economic situation, while up to 58 per cent of the respondents said their children faced health issues due to climate crises. The 'Protect a Generation: Climate security for India's children' report by PwC India and Save the Children India is based on a year-long study of 636 households in Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal, covering three different hazard-prone ecosystems – floods, droughts and cyclones, the report says. The study aims to understand the impact of climate change on children, identify risk and mitigation strategies and develop a roadmap for a climate-resilient future. The growing instances of extreme weather events like floods, cyclones, erosions in disaster-prone areas increase the socioeconomic and psychosocial vulnerabilities of the children living in these geographies and threaten their fundamental rights, the report said. The key findings of the study include: three in four households in most districts said that rainfall had decreased, at least 60 per cent of the households said climate crises impacted their economic situation, up to 90 per cent saw a negative impact of climate crises on drinking water and up to 75 per cent of the households saw their houses damaged by climate crisis-related events. "Up to 14 per cent of the respondents knew at least one family member that migrated because of a climate-related disaster,” the study report said. “In some areas, up to 20 per cent of the respondents intended to migrate.” Depending on the region, up to 58 per cent of the respondents said that their children faced health issues such as dehydration, skin diseases and allergies due to rising temperatures, it said. In several districts, more than 50 per cent of the respondents said that children could not play outside due to the heat, according to the report. “The climate and environmental crisis is an intergenerational child rights crisis that threatens children's survival, learning and protection around the world today and tomorrow with the most marginalised and deprived children at greatest risk. “The report highlights the impact of such disasters on marginalised and vulnerable children,” said Sudarshan Suchi, the CEO of Save the Children. PwC India said in a tweet, “Climate change is real & it's already impacting the fundamental rights of our children.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pwc-save-the-children-study-highlights-how-climate-change-is-impacting-households-children-899798.html
09-10-2020||National||BJP takes out candle light march demanding CBI probe into Manish Shukla's murder||The BJP on Friday took out a candle light procession from Barrackpore to Titagarh in North 24 Parganas district to press for a CBI probe into the murder of its youth wing leader Manish Shukla. The rally proceeded from Barrackpore to a BJP party office at Titagarh, in front of which Shukla was killed on Sunday. Shukla, known to be a close associate of BJP MP from Barrackpore Arjun Singh, was shot dead by motorcycle-borne assailants when he was talking to some party workers. Leading the procession, Singh claimed that the district police and the CID would not be able to arrest the accused since the allegations were against those from the ruling Trinamool Congress. "An investigation only by an independent agency like the CBI will ensure a free and fair probe," he said. BJP MLAs from Bhatpara and Noapara Pawan Singh and Sunil Singh also participated in the rally. Singh alleged that the real culprits would not be brought to book if the investigation is carried out by the state CID. The state government has handed over the investigation to the state CID from the district police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-takes-out-candle-light-march-demanding-cbi-probe-into-manish-shuklas-murder-899808.html
09-10-2020||National||India's massive digital footprint biggest strength for AI development: Kant||India's digital footprint marks its biggest strength for AI development, and established platforms like Aadhaar, UPI along with massive digital infrastructure create a "unique opportunity" for this futuristic technology to be leveraged to enhance transparency and improve governance, NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said on Friday. Speaking at the closing session of RAISE 2020 Summit, Kant said India optimally leveraging Artificial Intelligence (AI) to solve its developmental challenges will not only lead to a societal transformation within but will also benefit other nations in the world, who face similar issues. "Data lies at the core of development of AI technologies. India's digital footprint is its biggest strength for AI development," he said. Noting India's digital prowess - humongous amounts of data generated at "cheapest possible cost", rising smartphone penetration and rapid adoption of digital modes of payment -- Kant said, "India's digitisation efforts through platforms such as Aadhaar, UPI, GST, public finance management system and digital infrastructure has created a unique opportunity for AI to be leveraged to increase transparency and improve governance". India's resolve to successfully leverage AI to solve various developmental challenges will not just transform the lives of 1.4 billion population here, but, in fact, also holds out a promise for billions of people across the world, who are moving from poverty to middle class. "Actually, when India solves using AI for people of India, it is not solving for 1.4 billion people of India but for the next 7 billion people of the world who are moving from poverty to middle class," he said. Kant further said that India's 'National program on AI' will be dedicated towards the rightful use of the technology in solving societal problems. "...therefore, we will ramp up our computing facilities... we will take big leap forward in quantum computing and we will, in a very big way, skill our people...for AI world of tomorrow," he said. AI for social empowerment can define a new era of co-operation and prosperity, thus ushering the next level of progress. "We are still in the AI 'spring', we are still at its beginning era. And this summit has cemented India's position in AI world," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-massive-digital-footprint-biggest-strength-for-ai-development-kant-899809.html
09-10-2020||National||Opposition parties nurtured mafia elements during their 15-year rule in UP: Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday accused the Opposition parties of having nurtured mafia elements during the 15 years of their rule in the state and said his government was taking decisive action against them. Addressing BJP workers of the Malhani Assembly constituency in Jaunpur ahead of the November 3 by-election, Adityanath said a major difference between the ruling BJP and the Opposition could be assessed from the fact that his government has launched a decisive action to eliminate the mafia from the state. "It is no secret that during the past 15 years, the Opposition parties in the state have only nurtured these mafias. The mafia elements grabbed land of the poor and set up their empire with the help of political parties," he said in the virtual address. Stressing that the "sabka saath, sabka vikas" mantra of Prime Minister Narendra Modi should remain the motto of the party, he said, "There is no alternative to development and the nefarious designs of the Opposition can be countered only through development." The chief minister said those who have no faith in development are hell-bent on vitiating the atmosphere through their politics of caste, religion and region. He exhorted the party workers to spread the message of development and also to insulate people from such negativity. He lauded the welfare workers of the state government during the COVID-19 pandemic, saying its performance has been beyond ordinary. He also cited various works undertaken by his government during the pandemic. The BJP's Uttar Pradesh unit president Swatantra Dev Singh stressed that mass contact and communication are the most important factors required in the campaigning during the trying times of COVID-19. "It is very important to motivate people to vote in large numbers because a high voter turnout will always help," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-parties-nurtured-mafia-elements-during-their-15-year-rule-in-up-adityanath-899810.html
09-10-2020||National||CPI(M) flags concerns over funding, social media, and EVMs ahead of Bihar polls||The CPI(M) on Friday raised concerns over funding and the use of social media and electronic voting machines in the upcoming assembly polls in Bihar. In a letter to the Election Commission, the party said that it had earlier raised these issues but did not get a response from the poll body. The Commission had on September 25 issued a detailed note of information and directions on the conduct of the Bihar polls. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) (CPI-M) said in addition to the pending questions were three issues that needed to be flagged ahead of the state polls. The first issue raised by the party was on the question of funding, particularly in the light of the electoral bond scheme. The letter quoted the Election Commission’s (EC) affidavit in the Supreme Court where the poll body had stated that electoral bonds would signal “serious repercussions on the transparency aspect of political funding of political parties”. “Since the matter is now pending with the Supreme Court, the question is, how the Election Commission will discharge the mandate of Article 324 in ensuring a free and fair poll in Bihar and a level playing field. The guidelines issued on September 25 do not throw any light on this vital question,” the letter said. The second issue raised by the Left party was concerning an effective mechanism to ensure a level playing field on mass media and social media. “The experience in recent times clearly shows that BJP, armed with its enormous money power, enjoys a disproportionate advantage over all other political parties,” it said. The letter said the BJP has “kicked off a virtual election campaign by putting up 72,000 LED TV monitors for Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s speech” ahead of the Bihar assembly polls. “After holding 60 virtual rallies, the BJP has claimed that its election campaign efforts would involve 9,500 IT Cell heads who will coordinate 72,000 Whatsapp groups, one for each polling booth, of which 50,000 have been formed in the last two months. “The amount of expenditure that would be involved to put together such manpower for a technology driven system is simply mind boggling,” it said, adding that the “anonymous corporate funds without any upper ceiling will certainly be the death knell for electoral democracy”. The Left said the use of social media by political parties had assumed new significance in the “light of the exposure on BJP’s involvement in the spread of misogyny and hate on social media”. “The report in The Wall Street Journal has opened the floodgate of more factual details about how Facebook and Twitter have been complicit in turning a blind eye to BJP’s divisive campaign on the strength of its substantial investment through advertisement in the social media platform along with its associates. This is in addition to its use of Whatsapp messages to build a narrative based on fake news,” the party alleged in the letter to the Election Commission. Also raising concerns over the functioning of electronic voting machines (EVMs), the CPI(M) said, “… contrary to Supreme Court direction, the safeguard regime for eliminating the possibility of a foul play, the VVPAT has been used not for ensuring transparency but to introduce a new element of uncertainty.” “We hope that these three concerns will be addressed by the Election Commission of India and appropriate official directions issued. Such appropriate direction must be available to all the political parties which are in the election process in the upcoming elections to the Bihar Assembly,” the party added. The voting for Bihar assembly elections will be held in three phases -- first on October 28, second on November 3 and the third on November 7 -- while counting of all votes will take place on November 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cpim-flags-concerns-over-funding-social-media-and-evms-ahead-of-bihar-polls-899813.html
09-10-2020||National||No significant benefit of Umifenovir in Covid-19 treatment: Glenmark||Drug firm Glenmark Pharmaceuticals on Friday said that the addition of antiviral Umifenovir did not demonstrate any significant clinical benefit over Favipiravir alone in moderate Covid-19 patients. The clinical study evaluated the possible superiority of the combination's efficacy against Favipiravir monotherapy, Glenmark said in a statement. As per the results that Glenmark presented to the regulator, the study showed no superior clinical outcomes with the addition of Umifenovir, it added. This was the second clinical study after the successful Favipiravir monotherapy trial earlier this year that led the company to receive the Emergency Use Authorisation for Favipiravir, Glenmark said. "These latest findings confirm that the addition of Umifenovir does not show any incremental benefit in clinical outcomes. Thus Favipiravir therapy along with supportive care remains a suitable and effective choice for mild to moderate Covid-19 infection," Monika Tandon Senior VP & Head, Clinical Development, Global Specialty/Branded Portfolio, Glenmark Pharmaceuticals said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-significant-benefit-of-umifenovir-in-covid-19-treatment-glenmark-899833.html
09-10-2020||National||Six members of Mukhtar Ansari gang booked under UP Gangsters Act||The UP Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act has been invoked against six members of gangster-turned-legislator Mukhtar Ansari's gang here, police said. The Act has been invoked against six members of Ansari's gang in the district, Mau Superintendent of Police Sushil Ghule said on Friday. Besides these six people, the Act has also been invoked against 19 other criminals in the district, the SP said. A campaign has been launched in the district against criminals and suitable action will be taken against all of them, the SP added. According to Section 14 of the Gangsters Act, a district magistrate can order attachment of a property, whether movable or immovable, if there is reason to believe that it has been acquired by a gangster as commission for an offence triable under this law. Under the provisions, the booked person will be required to prove to the administration that their attached properties are not ill-gotten and they need to present evidence for their claims.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/six-members-of-mukhtar-ansari-gang-booked-under-up-gangsters-act-899837.html
09-10-2020||National||DGGI arrests one person for passing fake ITC of over Rs 190 cr||The GST intelligence arm has arrested one person on charges of creating and operating fictitious firms on forged documents and passing fake input tax credit of over Rs 190 crore by issuing invoices. The Gurugram unit of the Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) has arrested one Shamshad Saifi - resident of New Delhi - on charges of creating and operating fictitious firms on forged documents and passing fake input tax credit (ITC) by way of issuance of invoices without any actual receipt or supply of goods or services, an official statement said. "A total fake ITC of more than Rs 190 crore has been thus passed by the accused," it added. As per the investigation, Md Saifi created two companies by the name of M/s Techno Electrical and M/s Lata Sales based in New Delhi on the basis of bogus and forged documents in the name of non-existent persons at addresses not even pertaining to firms. M/s Techno passed on fraudulent ITC of Rs 98.09 crore to M/s Lata, which further generated fake ITC of Rs 69.59 crore to various non-existent firms. Md Saifi is also responsible for creating four more fake non-existent firms, namely M/s Galaxy Enterprises, M/s Moon M/s Sidharth Enterprises and M/s Sun Enterprises based at New Delhi. It was ascertained that all the above-mentioned firms have only supplied invoices without the actual supply of goods, the statement said. The investigation spanned multiple locations in Delhi and based on documentary evidence and statement recorded, it was ascertained that Md Saifi is a key person in orchestrating this racket of making fake firms on forged documents. Accordingly, he was arrested today, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dggi-arrests-one-person-for-passing-fake-itc-of-over-rs-190-cr-899838.html
09-10-2020||National Politics||Bihar polls: JD(U) denies ticket to former DGP Gupteshwar Pandey||“I am not contesting any election...Please don’t make phone calls to enquire about it,” former DGP of Bihar, Gupteshwar Pandey, posted an emotional post on Facebook, a day after he was denied ticket. Sharing his thoughts, he dwelt at length that ever since he took VRS and joined the JD(U) in October, speculations were rife that he would be contesting the ensuing Assembly election as Nitish’s nominee, “but, in politics, there are certain compulsions...However, Nitish Kumar has not let me down. He never deceives anyone... I will work for the party like an ordinary worker.” Incidentally, the 1987 batch IPS officer, Pandey has been denied poll ticket twice since 2009. Eleven years ago, when he was an IG-rank officer, he took VRS on the eve of 2009 Lok Sabha election. He was speculated to contest the parliamentary poll from Buxar as the BJP candidate in place of party’s veteran parliamentarian Lalmuni Choubey. However, Choubey, managed to get the BJP ticket from Buxar and the IPS officer had to beat a hasty retreat and withdraw his VRS application. In 2020, the clock turned a full circle when Pandey met a similar fate. The Director General of Police of Bihar, who was to retire in February 2021, opted for voluntary retirement in September. Within a fortnight of his VRS, he joined the JD(U) amid much fanfare. It was speculated that he might be fielded from either Buxar, his birthplace, or Shahpur in Bhojpur. Incidentally, both the seats went to the BJP under the seat-sharing pact.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bihar-polls-jdu-denies-ticket-to-former-dgp-gupteshwar-pandey-899417.html
09-10-2020||National Politics||BJP likely to treat Chirag Paswan with kid gloves after Ram Vilas Paswan’s demise, feel experts||Two days back, the BJP issued a veiled threat to the LJP chief Chirag Paswan that it would lodge a complaint with the Election Commission if the LJP used Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s photograph during the election rallies in Bihar. The BJP’s logic was that those (read: LJP) leaders, who were not ready to accept Nitish Kumar as the NDA chief ministerial candidate, were actually not part of the BJP-led alliance and, as such, should desist from using PM’s photograph. The BJP also issued a stern warning to all those BJP rebels, who are now contesting as LJP candidates, that strong disciplinary action would be taken against them for going against party line. “In fact, the BJP, pulling out all the stops for Bihar polls, will now, in all probability, treat Chirag Paswan with kid gloves,” feel political experts. “Paswan’s death may not influence the entire state poll but it is also an undeniable fact that he was one of the most towering Dalit leaders with a fan following through out the country. It is also true that Ram Vilas Paswan was a leader of Dushad community (Paswans) which comprises six per cent of the total 16 per cent Dalits and Mahadalits in Bihar,” averred veteran journalist Ashok Mishra. “In most of the large Assembly segments, you will find 8,000 to 12,000 Paswans in every constituency who have always stood by the LJP. Following Ram Vilas’ death, it remains to be seen whether these loyal voters will repose their faith in the LJP headed by Chirag Paswan, who is more urbane and not rooted like his father, but can still connect well with his constituency through his oratorial skills,” Mishra, who has covered elections in Bihar since 1989, told Deccan Herald here on Friday. Another political scientist from Jagjivan Ram Institute of Parliamentary Studies concurred: “The BJP is now unlikely to target Chirag. It will no more react adversely when the LJP chief will hit the campaign trail and attack Nitish Kumar during campaigning.... By the time polling takes place, the emotive issue of Paswan’s death will subside, but it will have certain influence in Paswan’s fiefdom - Vaishali, Samastipur and his birth place, Khagaria. In a fiercely-fought election, each seat matters. And if there is a swing of six per cent votes either way, it would change the entire equations. This is precisely why BJP will now treat Chirag with kid gloves,” the political commentator, refusing to be identified, told DH. POLLS APART Nov 2000: LJP formed. Feb 2005 : LJP contested 178 seats. Won 29. Oct-Nov 2005: Contested 203 seats. Won 10. 2010: LJP contested 75 seats. Won 2. 2015: Contested 40 seats. Won 3 2020: LJP to field its nominees against all the JD(U) candidates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-likely-to-treat-chirag-paswan-with-kid-gloves-after-ram-vilas-paswan-s-demise-feel-experts-899591.html
09-10-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi takes a dig at PM on wind turbines suggestion, BJP hits back||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday took a jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over his suggestion that wind turbines can be used to generate clean drinking water, oxygen and energy, evoking sharp reactions from BJP leaders who said he needs to read scientific papers. "The real danger to India isn't that our PM doesn't understand. It's the fact that nobody around him has the guts to tell him," he said on Twitter, as he posted a video of the prime minister's interaction with a CEO of a wind energy company. The prime minister is heard suggesting the CEO make use of wind turbines to produce not just energy but also oxygen and clean drinking water from thin air. Hitting back at Gandhi, union minister Piyush Goyal said, "Nobody around Rahul Gandhi has the guts to tell him that he doesn't understand. He mocks PM Narendra Modi's ideas when the CEO of the world's leading company endorses them." He also tagged a news report with his tweet that says wind turbines create water from thin air. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra also attacked Gandhi in a tweet, saying, "Rahul ji tomorrow morning please get up at night and read the two scientific papers that I have attached herewith. Though I'm sure you won't understand the complexity of the subject..." He also attached news reports that said wind turbines create water from thin air and another saying wind turbine makes 1000 litres of clean water a day in the desert. BJP's head of social media department Amit Malviya also attacked Gandhi. "There is no cure for ignorance and entitlement. Entitled brat Rahul thinks everyone around the world is as clueless as he is... He mocks PM's ideas when CEO of world's leading wind energy company terms them inspirational! Watch the last bit of the video he himself has posted...," he said in a tweet. Gandhi has often attacked the prime minister for his remarks and suggestions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-takes-a-dig-at-pm-on-wind-turbines-suggestion-bjp-hits-back-899644.html
09-10-2020||National Politics||Mahadayi row: Goa's contempt petition against Karnataka an exercise in futility, says AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party in Goa on Friday punched holes in the BJP-led coalition government's legal strategy to file a contempt petition against Karnataka in the ongoing conflict between the two states over the waters of the Mahadayi (Mhadei in Goa) river. Addressing a press conference in Panaji, AAP Goa spokesperson Suren Tilve said that the move was a belated one and only to fool the people of Goa. "The contempt petition filed by the Goa government now is an exercise in futility. The Goa government's delay in taking action against Karnataka was a bit too late. This delay is dubious," Tilve said. "Karnataka has already built a dam and canals and the Goa government did nothing. Karnataka has already diverted the water. The central government has given permission to Karnataka via gazette notification. Karnataka ministers say we do not need permission from the Goa government. So how will the contempt petition help now," Tilve said, adding that for the BJP and the National Democratic Alliance, Karnataka, as compared to Goa, was a more politically significant state with more clout and more number of MPs. On Tuesday, the Goa government had filed a contempt petition in the apex court, which accused Karnataka of illegally diverting water from the inter-state river basin via the Kalasa-Banduri canal. Sawant has also said that the state government had evidence to back the contents of the petition. The Chief Minister Pramod Sawant ruling dispensation is already facing flak from the Opposition as well as civil society groups, which have accused the BJP-led coalition government of mishandling the ongoing river water sharing dispute, for broader political gain for the saffron national party. The Congress has demanded that the Goa government release a white paper on the efforts taken by the administration to safeguard the state's interests in the dispute, while Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has said that erstwhile Congress-led coalition governments were responsible for derailing Goa's interests in the contest against Karnataka. Goa Karnataka are battling out a two decade-long dispute over the sharing of the Mahadayi (also called Mhadei in Goa) river in the Supreme Court, after both parties expressed reservations about the award by the Mahadayi Water Dispute Tribunal in 2018. Goa has also opposed the diversion of water from the Mahadayi river basin through the Kalasa-Banduri project claiming it would cause “ecological devastation” in Goa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mahadayi-row-goas-contempt-petition-against-karnataka-an-exercise-in-futility-says-aap-899651.html
09-10-2020||National Politics||Ramdas Athawale sole representative of NDA allies in Modi govt after Ram Vilas Paswan's demise||Following the death of LJP leader and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, the Union Cabinet is left with no representation from NDA allies, while Ramdas Athawale of Republican Party of India (RPI) is the only member in the Union Council of Ministers from an ally party in the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre. Arvind Sawant (Shiv Sena), Harsimrat Kaur Badal (Shiromani Akali Dal) and Ram Vilas Paswan (Lok Janshakti Party) were representatives of NDA allies in the Union Cabinet when the Modi 2.0 government returned to power in 2019 following Lok Sabha elections. While the Shiv Sena quit the NDA in late 2019, SAD left the alliance recently over farm bills. Athawale is a Minister of State in the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. Another key NDA ally, the JD (U) had kept itself out of the government. Besides Prime Minister Modi, a total of 57 ministers -- 24 Cabinet, nine Ministers of State (with Independent charge) and 24 Ministers of State -- had taken oath as members of the Union Council of Ministers on May 30, 2019. Following the resignations of Sawant and Badal and the death of Paswan, there are 21 Cabinet ministers. With the recent death of Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi, the number of ministers of state has also come down to 23. As per the Constitution, the total number of Union ministers, including the Prime Minister shall not exceed 15 per cent of the total number of members in the Lok Sabha. PM Narendra Modi can have as many as 80 ministers in the 543-member Lok Sabha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ramdas-athawale-sole-representative-of-nda-allies-in-modi-govt-after-ram-vilas-paswans-demise-899658.html
09-10-2020||National Politics||Was manhandled by cops in Kolkata: Tejasvi Surya||BJYM national president and Bengaluru South MP Tejasvi Surya alleged on Friday that he and two other BJP MPs were manhandled and abused by officials of a police station in Kolkata. He said that that the police officials behaved in an offensive manner with them when they requested them to lodge an FIR over alleged crude bomb attack on BJYM workers and threatened to move a breach of privilege motion against them in Lineament. “We waited for more than 2 hours, well into midnight, for police to register FIR upon our complaint. They instead manhandled 3 Members of Parliament. We will file a motion for breach of privilege & teach Mamata’s police a lesson in constitutional propriety,” tweeted Surya.  We waited for more than 2 hours, well into midnight, for police to register FIR upon our complaint. They instead manhandled 3 Members of Parliament. He also said that the incident took place at the Jorasanko Police Station in Kolkata where he went with two other BJP MPs Nisith Pramanik and Jyotirmay Singh Mahato. The incident took place after the Bengal BJP’s March to Nabanna (as the West Bengal State Secretariat is called) during which violent clashes took place between police and BJP workers. Speaking to journalists after the incident late on Thursday night, Surya said that they would show the concerned police officials the power of the Narendra Modi government. “Police officials here (in this police station) don’t know how to perform their duties as per the Constitution. When three MPs came here and requested them to lodge an FIR even then they refused to do it,” said Surya. “They also pushed and insulted them. We will move a breach of privilege motion against the police officials at this police station and will show them the power of the Narendra Modi government,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/was-manhandled-by-cops-in-kolkata-tejasvi-surya-899731.html
09-10-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi taunts PM Modi; ministers, scientists come to the rescue||Rahul Gandhi on Friday taunted Prime Minister Narendra Modi over remarks on using wind turbines to extract water from air moisture to solve drinking water problems in coastal areas, prompting his ministerial colleagues to school the Congress leader on Danish technologies. “The real danger to India isn't that our PM doesn't understand. It's the fact that nobody around him has the guts to tell him,” the former Congress president said sharing a video of Modi’s interaction with the top executive of a turbine maker. In the video, the Prime Minister is heard saying that if wind turbines could collect moisture from the air, besides producing power, it could help address the problem of shortage of drinking water. Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal took to schooling the Congress leader on emerging technologies and hit back at him for mocking the Prime Minister. “Nobody around Rahul Gandhi has the guts to tell him that he doesn’t understand. He mocks PM Narendra Modi’s ideas when CEO of the world’s leading company endorses them,” Goyal said on Twitter and shared a link about use of turbine to generate drinking water from humid air. S&T Minister Harsh Vardhan wondered how a parliamentarian, who claimed to have been to the world’s best university, does not know that PSU Bharat Electronics Limited had unveiled an atmospheric water generator at Aero India 2019. The minister added that the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research had developed this technology and commercialised it long ago. “They say ignorance is bliss, but rarely in Indian politics has an individual made a conscious effort to sustain his ignorance. It seems the real danger to the Congress flourishes unabashedly and no one seems to have the guts to tell the Yuvraj otherwise,” Textiles Minister Smriti Irani said. M Rajeevan, Secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences, without any reference to Rahul’s comments, said that the Prime Minister’s ideas using the wind turbines in generating water from moisture in the air for coastal areas and separating oxygen from the air were technically feasible. “Ministry of Earth Sciences would like to work on some of these technologies for deriving water from the atmosphere,” Rajeevan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-taunts-pm-modi-ministers-scientists-come-to-the-rescue-899742.html
09-10-2020||National Politics||Sukhbir should refrain from commenting on new farm laws: Amarinder Singh||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday asked Sukhbir Singh Badal to refrain from commenting on the new farm laws till the SAD chief answers why Harsimrat Kaur Badal "didn't oppose" the ordinances when they were approved in the Union Cabinet. Amarinder Singh also alleged that Sukhbir Singh Badal was trying to “hijack the farmers' agitation to push his own party's agenda”. The chief minister asked him to reply to three questions, "Why did Harsimrat Kaur Badal not oppose the farm ordinances when they were first approved by the Union Cabinet, of which she was then a member? "Why did Sukhbir not support the state government at the all-party meeting he (Amarinder) had convened to evolve a consensus against the blatantly anti-farmer legislations? “Why did the Akalis boycott the Punjab Vidhan Sabha session in which the other parties (barring BJP) had voted in favour of the resolution on the agricultural laws?”. Amarinder Singh said he had been asking these questions to Sukhbir Singh Badal and Harsimrat Badal for the past several weeks but the Akali leaders had been persistently ignoring it. The chief minister said, "It was clear the duo had no justification for their actions, which had brought the situation to such a pass, where the very survival of the farmers was at stake." Harsimrat Kaur Badal had recently resigned from the Union Cabinet and her party had snapped ties with BJP-led NDA on the issue of the farm bills. Reacting to Sukhbir Singh Badal's "request" to the prime minister to talk to farmer organisations and listen to the voice of the people, the chief minister asked why he did not remind the PM of his responsibility towards farmers all those years he was “colluding with the BJP to ruin the farming community”. "And what about your responsibility? Or are you admitting that you never had any sense of duty towards the people of Punjab, especially the farmers,” Singh asked. On Sukhbir Singh Badal's comments about forming a national pro-farmer front with “like-minded parties”, the chief minister quipped that the SAD had ostensibly already quit the coalition of "like-minded parties". "Had he any interest in the welfare of the farmers, he would have come supported the Punjab government's battle against the agricultural laws of the Union government,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sukhbir-should-refrain-from-commenting-on-new-farm-laws-amarinder-singh-899827.html
09-10-2020||North and Central||37-year-old yoga enthusiast from US raped in Rishikesh||A 37-year-old yoga enthusiast from the US was allegedly raped here several times by a local resident, police said on Thursday. As per the case registered by the victim, Rishikesh resident, Abhinav Roy, sneaked into her room through her balcony and raped her on October 5, Muni ki Reti police station in-charge R K Saklani said. He had established sexual contact with her by calling her to his flat several times before the October 5 incident, the official said. The woman's love of drug and yoga brought her close to Roy, he said. The woman complained that pressure was being mounted on her by the father of the accused to withdraw the case, said police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/37-year-old-yoga-enthusiast-from-us-raped-in-rishikesh-899369.html
09-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi's air quality 'poor' due to spike in farm fires, unfavourable weather||Delhi's air quality was recorded in the "poor" category on Thursday and is likely to deteriorate further due to unfavourable meteorological conditions and a spike in farm fires. The city recorded a 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) of 208, which falls in the "poor" category. The national capital's air quality turned poor on Wednesday, the first time since June 29, with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recording a 24-hour average AQI of 215. The AQI was 230 on June 29.   An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". The Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, said the AQI is likely to be recorded in the "poor" category on Friday as well. However, it is expected to improve to the "moderate" category thereafter. A gradual increase was observed in farm fires around Punjab, Haryana and the border regions of the national capital on Wednesday. The fire count was 399, the SAFAR said. "The boundary layer wind direction and speed are favourable for the transport of pollutants towards Delhi at present, but a shift in the wind direction is predicted," it said. On Thursday morning, Delhi's minimum temperature settled at 19.1 degrees Celsius. The wind speed was 12 kilometres per hour and the direction was northwesterly. Low temperatures and stagnant winds help in the accumulation of pollutants near the ground, affecting the air quality. High levels of air pollution is a year-round problem in Delhi, which can be attributed to unfavourable meteorological conditions, farm fires in the neighbouring regions and local sources of pollution. According to an analysis by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water, a Delhi-based think tank, transportation contributes the most -- 18 to 39 per cent -- to Delhi's air pollution. Road dust is the second-largest source of air pollution in the city (18 to 38 per cent), followed by industries (two to 29 per cent), thermal power plants (three to 11 per cent) and construction (eight per cent). The Delhi government launched a massive anti-air pollution campaign on Monday. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said he himself will review the situation on a daily basis. A "green" war room was also inaugurated at the Delhi Secretariat by Environment Minister Gopal Rai to monitor the steps being taken to deal with the high levels of air pollution in winters. The government will also start spraying the "Pusa bio-decomposer" solution in the non-basmati rice fields of the national capital from October 11. The solution, experts say, can turn the stubble into manure in 15 to 20 days and therefore, can prevent stubble burning. Starting October 15, stricter measures to fight air pollution will also come into force in Delhi and its neighbouring areas as part of the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP), which was first implemented in Delhi-NCR in 2017. These measures include increasing the frequency of bus and metro services, hiking parking fees and stopping the use of diesel generator sets when the air quality turns poor. When the situation turns "severe", the GRAP recommends a closure of brick kilns, stone crushers and hot-mix plants, sprinkling of water, frequent mechanised cleaning of roads and maximising power generation from natural gas. The measures to be followed in the "emergency" situation include stopping the entry of trucks in Delhi, a ban on construction activities and introduction of the odd-even car-rationing scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-air-quality-poor-due-to-spike-in-farm-fires-unfavourable-weather-899375.html
09-10-2020||North and Central||Allahabad High Court rejects habeas corpus plea filed on behalf of Hathras rape victim’s kin||The Allahabad High Court on Thursday dismissed a habeas corpus petition filed by a Valmiki community organisation seeking production before of the family members of the alleged gang-rape victim of Hathras before it. A bench of justices Pritinker Diwaker and Prakash Padia dismissed the petition by Akhil Bharatiya Valmiki Mahapanchayat saying it would be against the judicial propriety to take up the plea when the Supreme Court has already taken cognisance of the issue. “The apex court is hearing the entire case and the matter has been taken as a Public Interest Litigation by it. The state of Uttar Pradesh has already been directed to file an affidavit clarifying its stands,” said the bench. Accordingly, “judicial propriety demands that it will not be proper for this court to entertain the present petition on merits, especially when the security has been provided” to the family members” of the victim’s family on the apex court’s observations and also on the directions of the Lucknow bench of this high court, the bench said. “If the petitioners have any grievance, they are at liberty to file an appropriate petition before the apex court,” said the bench while dismissing the plea. The bench added that it was not adjudicating the merit of the plea. Akhil Bharatiya Valmiki Mahapanchayat had moved the Allahabad High Court on Wednesday claiming that the Hathras administration was keeping the family members of the alleged gang-rape victim confined to their house and not allowing them to move freely and meet people. The petitioner had claimed in its petition that it approached the court on behalf of the victim’s family members. The petition had also named the victim’s father, mother and her brothers as plaintiff.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/allahabad-high-court-rejects-habeas-corpus-plea-filed-on-behalf-of-hathras-rape-victim-s-kin-899429.html
09-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi needs to be prepared for around 15,000 new Covid-19 cases per day in winter: NCDC report||Delhi needs to be prepared for about 15,000 fresh cases of Covid-19 per day taking into account the upcoming winter season-related respiratory problems, large influx of patients from outside and festive gatherings, a report drafted by the NCDC has warned. The report drafted by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) under the guidance of the expert group under the chairmanship of NITI Aayog member (Health) Dr V K Paul has recommended the Delhi government to make arrangements for hospitalisation of about one-fifth of these patients with moderate and severe disease. The NCDC in its Revised Strategy for control of Covid-19 version 3.0 also observed that the overall Covid-19 case fatality rate in Delhi is 1.9 per cent, which is higher than the national average of 1.5 per cent. It stated that reducing mortality to the extent possible should be one of the key objectives of managing the pandemic. According to the report submitted to the Delhi government, there are three reasons to worry that may cause excessive pressure on healthcare services such as winter months that make respiratory illnesses severe and with festive gatherings there could be a sudden rise in cases. Also, patients may come from outside Delhi in large numbers. Patients coming from distant areas are likely to be more serious, the report underlined. "Therefore, it is recommended that Delhi should prepare for a daily surge of ~15,000 positive cases and make arrangements for inpatient admissions of patients with moderate and severe disease roughly amounting to 20 per cent of this surge," the report said. According to it, till date 2,324 health care workers (HCWs) are affected due to Covid-19 in Delhi of which 23 per cent are doctors, 34 per cent nurses, 15 per cent paramedics, 18 per cent Group D staff and 10 per cent others. "A total of 75 deaths are reported in HCWs of which 14 are of doctors which may be underreported. "The increasing mortality in HCW and doctors is detrimental for maintaining the morale of these Covid warriors, hence all efforts should be undertaken to prevent the health care-associated infection in all the hospitals, labs and field workers engaged in active survey in containment zones," the report said. Delhi has reported a total 5,401 deaths till date, the committee said, adding the average daily reported mortality ranges between 30 and 40 from 15 September onwards. The higher mortality in the co-morbid (66.6 per cent) and the elderly is inevitable and reported all over states and globally, the report said. "However the concern is reported mortality in under 15 (1.5 per cent approx) and young age groups 16-44 years of age group ( 17 per cent). The mortality in this age group could be prevented with promoting early recognition of symptoms, timely testing, increased awareness in the younger population to adopt Covid-19 appropriate behaviour" it highlighted. The report also recommended the Delhi government to launch a massive campaign for 100 per cent compliance with masks, citing this would be the single-most important measure to prevent the spread of the virus. "With the resumption of economic activities and unlock, the changing community perception about Covid-19 and laxity in practice of social distancing, wearing of mask etc is significantly leading to increase in case count. If unchecked, this may lead to further increase during upcoming festive seasons in Delhi," the report said, stressing on the need for stringent implementation of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. "A two-fold strategy -- persuasion and enforcement -– should be followed," it underlined. Further stating that large gatherings are super-spreading events, the report suggested making these events very low key, and essentially centred around family celebration. It also recommended the Delhi government to reach out to opinion makers, opposition, religious leaders and people at large to develop a consensus to have these festivals with little or no gatherings. "Coming festivals (Chhat, Puja, Dussehra, Deepavali, Id, Xmas, New year) pose a huge challenge in the pandemic control. It has been seen that Onam in Kerala and Ganesh Chaturthi in Maharashtra escalated the pandemic seriously. This must not be allowed to happen in Delhi," the report stated. "Our emerging gains in reduction in cases will be reversed because of these festivities and the rush in markets /localities. Such a setback that is potentially avoidable will dent the image of the capital and the country. It is very important to take a rational view to make these events very low key, and essentially centred around family celebration. "Next three months are crucial in our battle against the coronavirus, the report underscored. It also recommended conducting a sero-survey which can be tentatively planned during 1st week of November. "After review of sero-survey by NCDC in July and subsequent survey by the Delhi government in August and September, it will be appropriate that next sero-survey to be conducted after a reasonable interval and can be tentatively planned during 1st week of November, 2020," the report said. The report also stressed on focused efforts for timely referral of patients from lower to higher facilities or from home isolation, in case of deterioration of clinical condition by ensuring timely ambulance services, reviewing ambulance system and plug gaps and scaling up of critical care facilities such as oxygen beds, ICU beds and ventilators in pace with rising number of cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-needs-to-be-prepared-for-around-15000-new-covid-19-cases-per-day-in-winter-ncdc-report-899437.html
09-10-2020||North and Central||No more posters outside houses of Covid-19 patients in Delhi||There will be no poster outside the houses of Covid-19 patients under home isolation in the national capital, official sources said on Thursday. They said the move is aimed at minimising the stigma resulting from the affixing of such posters at the front doors of such patients. "There will be no poster outside the houses of Covid-19 patients who are under home isolation," a source said. According to authorities, there are currently 12,890 Covid-19 patients under home isolation in Delhi. Those having mild symptoms or are asymptomatic are suggested to stay under home isolation under the Delhi government's policy. Until now, posters were affixed at the entrance of of their homes. On Thursday, Delhi's Covid-19 tally crossed the three-lakh mark with 2,726 fresh cases, while the death toll due to the disease mounted to 5,653 with 37 fatalities recorded in the last 24 hours. On Wednesday, the case tally stood at over 2.98 lakh with 2,871 fresh cases, while the death toll was 5,616 with 35 fresh casualties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-more-posters-outside-houses-of-covid-19-patients-in-delhi-899442.html
09-10-2020||North and Central||NCDC asks to rationalise contract tracing in Delhi as workplaces become Covid-19 hotspots||The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in its revised strategy for Covid-19 control in Delhi has recommended rationalising contact tracing in the wake of workplaces emerging as hotspots of the virus spread in the city. The strategy has been revised under the guidance of the Centre's expert group chaired by the NITI Aayog member V K Paul. With the gradual opening up of offices and economic activities, the workplaces are becoming hotspots of infection that is reaching from workplaces to the families, stated the revised strategy drafted by the NCDC. "Hence, in view of the widespread spread of infection of COVID-19, contact tracing strategy need to more rationalised," it said.  The contact tracing activities in Delhi has been very limited since the beginning. The number of contacts traced per positive cases on an average remained only up to seven to 10 per contact, said a report on the revised strategy for Covid-19 control in Delhi. The report also recommended that the guidelines for selection of cases to be put under home isolation need to be strictly followed and all symptomatic positive cases reported from densely populated areas should be isolated only in Covid Care Centres to ensure optimal utilisation of these facilities. Contact tracing could be restricted to ''forwards contact tracing'' only for immediate family contacts, neighbourhood contacts and close workplace contacts should be traced and tested as per ICMR guidelines on a priority basis, it stated. "The criteria of testing of asymptomatic high-risk contacts between 5 to 10 days since the last exposure should be followed rigorously. Identification of workplace clusters for saturation testing after risk assessment should be undertaken on priority by all districts," stated the report. All workplace contacts in offices or workplaces being run in the closed settings should be enlisted and districts should keep a database of positive cases reported from workplaces, it recommended. The report stated that the proportion of cases in the containment zones in various districts has ranged from 15-20  per cent (80 per cent of the cases are being reported from areas outside containment zones).  The proportion of active cases in the various facilities and home isolation is observed to the extent of 30 per cent and 50-55 per cent respectively, it added. "It is worth noticing that very few cases are reported from the containment zones which were formed in the beginning of the pandemic in April and May. This indicates the containment strategy adopted in the beginning (large zones) and measures inside the containment zones have been fairly successful in limiting the number of cases," the report said. After progressive unlocking and as economic activities have resumed, the community perception for Covid-19 has changed and hence the administration is encountering a lot of resistance for establishing and implementation of the recommended strategy for containment zones, particularly the perimeter control, it added.  For administrative feasibility, the Delhi government has adopted the micro contaminant strategy and it is observed that the overall size of the containment zones has significantly reduced and now restricted to cover only a few houses in and around the reported positive case.   At many places, micro containment zones were limited to 2-3 houses only and in some instances, even single houses are listed as containment zones and practically there is no difference in cases labelled as home isolation or containment zone, noted the report.  It said COVID-19 cases are being reported from all areas of all the districts in Delhi and hence existing containment zone strategy needed to be revised. The report recommended revamping the containment zone strategy. "With progressive unlock and resumption of economic activities, cases are bound to increase in all districts.  "The periodic sero-surveys also indicated the prevalence of infection has reached beyond 30 per cent. In the present scenario, the containment strategy needs to be revamped." The formation of new containment zones could be restricted only for highly dense localities such as resettlement colonies and JJ clusters and slum areas, the report stated. Containment zones in these highly dense areas, entire affected area and mohallas should be contained, it added. A containment zone should be formed in areas where clustering of cases occurs - at least three cases from three different houses or as per epidemiological analysis by local authorities.  For planned colonies, big apartments, RWA-governed localities, the strategy of micro containment zones or home isolation may be continued, the report said.  It recommended the enlisting of high-risk groups (elderly, co-morbid, pregnant women) for intensified focus and follow-up in containment zones and potential hotspot areas for an active house to house surveillance.  "Initial active house to house search to detect all suspected cases should be completed in three days (and 100 per cent first time testing to be by rapid antigen tests only) with a focus on the high-risk population.  "After initial 100 per cent house to house search, active searches should be undertaken every 3rd to 5th day to cover all houses in containment zones and all those detected as symptomatic should be re-tested only by RT-PCR," the report stated said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ncdc-asks-to-rationalise-contract-tracing-in-delhi-as-workplaces-become-covid-19-hotspots-899447.html
09-10-2020||North and Central||Teenage girl gang-raped in Greater Noida, 3 detained||A 13-year-old girl in Uttar Pradesh's Greater Noida has been allegedly raped by three persons, following which the accused were taken into police custody, officials said on Thursday. The three accused and the girl belong to the same neighbourhood in Dadri and were known to each other, the police said. Gautam Buddh Nagar Deputy Commissioner of Police (Women Safety) Vrinda Shukla said the incident had taken place on Tuesday and the girl's mother approached the police on Thursday after which an FIR was lodged and the suspects detained. "The girl was allegedly raped by the three persons who live in her neighbourhood, according to her mother. During the probe it emerged that the accused already knew the girl and they had asked a 12-year-old boy to call the girl to their house, where the incident took place," Shukla said. The girl has been sent for a medical examination and further proceedings in the case were underway, the officer said. According to officials, the FIR has been lodged under IPC section 376D (gang-rape) and under relevant sections of the Protection of Children against Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. DCP Shukla said the Gautam Buddh Nagar police is trying to ensure investigations in all cases related to POCSO Act take place via the fast track route and it would be ensured in this case as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/teenage-girl-gang-raped-in-greater-noida-3-detained-899465.html
09-10-2020||North and Central||UP: Man beheads wife suspecting infidelity, carries head to police station||In a horrifying incident, a man on Friday decapitated his wife suspecting infidelity and walked with her severed head to the police station where he surrendered. According to police, the accused -- Chinnar Yadav had a quarrel with his wife Vimla (35) at around 7.30 am in their Netanagar locality house. In a fit of rage, Yadav chopped her wife's head with a sharp edged weapon and carried it to the Baberu Police Station where he surrendered, Superintendent of Police, Mahendra Pratap Singh Chauhan said. A video of the accused walking on the road holding his wife's chopped head has gone viral on social media, police said. Police have arrested Yadav and recovered the weapon used for the murder. The body of the victim has been sent for postmortem, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-man-beheads-wife-suspecting-infidelity-carries-head-to-police-station-899488.html
09-10-2020||North and Central||BJP leader shot dead in UP's Azamgarh||A BJP leader was shot dead in Haripur village in Powal area here, police said on Friday. Arjun Yadav (46), who is also a Kshetra Panchayat member, was attacked by unidentified people on Thursday night when he was returning home after closing his shop, they said. He was taken to the hospital by villagers and family members but was declared brought dead, they said. "Information is being sought from the family... the cause of the murder has not been ascertained yet. Those involved in the incident will be caught soon," Superintendent of Police Sudhir Kumar Singh said. Police force was deployed in the village as tension prevailed due to the killing, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-leader-shot-dead-in-ups-azamgarh-899494.html
09-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi's air quality improves slightly, still in moderate category||The national capital's air pollution levels reduced slightly and were recorded in the "moderate" category on Friday morning. The city recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 198 which falls in the "moderate" category.  The 24-hour average AQI was 208 on Thursday. Delhi's air quality had turned poor on Wednesday, the first time in since June 29, with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recording a 24-hour average AQI of 215.  The AQI was 230 on June 29.   An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. The Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, said the AQI is likely to improve to the "moderate" category by Saturday. A gradual increase was observed in farm fires around Punjab, Haryana, and neighbouring border regions, it said. The boundary layer wind direction and speed are favorable for the transport of pollutants towards Delhi but a shift in the wind direction is predicted which will keep air quality in the "moderate" category, SAFAR said. On Friday morning, Delhi's minimum temperature settled at 19.2 degrees Celsius. The maximum wind speed was 15 kilometers per hour and the direction was northwesterly. Low temperatures and stagnant winds help in accumulation of pollutants near the ground, affecting air quality. High levels of air pollution in Delhi is a year-round problem, which can be attributed to unfavorable meteorological conditions, farm fires in neighbouring regions and local sources of pollution. According to an analysis by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water, a Delhi-based think tank, transportation contributes the most -- 18 to 39 percent -- to Delhi's air pollution. Road dust is the second largest source of air pollution in the city (18 to 38 percent), followed by industries (2 to 29 percent), thermal power plants (3 to 11 percent) and construction (8 percent). The Delhi government on Monday launched a massive anti-air pollution campaign. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said he himself will review the situation daily. A "green" war room was also inaugurated by Environment Minister Gopal Rai at the Delhi Secretariat to monitor the steps being taken to deal with high levels of air pollution in winters. The government will also start the spraying of 'Pusa bio-decomposer' solution in non-Basmati rice fields in the national capital, starting October 11. The solution, experts say, can turn stubble into manure in 15 to 20 days and therefore, can prevent stubble burning.  Starting October 15, stricter measures to fight air pollution will also come into force in Delhi and its neighbourhood as part of the Graded Response Action Plan, which was first implemented in Delhi-NCR in 2017. These measures include increasing bus and metro services, hiking parking fees and stopping use of diesel generator sets when the air quality turns poor. When the situation turns "severe", GRAP recommends closure of brick kilns, stone crushers and hot mix plants, sprinkling of water, frequent mechanised cleaning of roads and maximising power generation from natural gas. The measures to be followed in the "emergency" situation include stopping entry of trucks in Delhi, ban on construction activities and introduction of the odd-even car rationing scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-air-quality-improves-slightly-still-in-moderate-category-899525.html
09-10-2020||North and Central||Hathras exists in Jharkhand as well: HC over 'shoddy' probe in rape-murder case||The Jharkhand High Court has pulled up the state police for its "lacklustre and shoddy investigation" into the alleged rape and murder of a 15-year- old girl earlier in the year, and said Hathras-like places not just exists in Uttar Pradesh but in this state as well. The court also directed DGP M V Rao to constitute a special investigation team to look into the case. According to an FIR filed on March 30, the accused had poured kerosene oil on the girl, a resident of Giridih, and set her on fire. Her father said that the family had caught hold of the accused when he was trying to escape, but his relatives came to his rescue. Justice Ananda Sen, while hearing a writ petition filed by the father on Thursday, said the post-mortem report has suggested that the girl sustained 100 per cent burns, her body was charred, but the investigation in the case was carried out in a "casual" manner. He also said that the shocking incident has prompted the court to say that "Hathras (like places) is not only in the State of Uttar Pradesh but also is in the State of Jharkhand." "Surprisingly, rather shockingly the swab of the victim was sent to the laboratory only on May 20. In the entire case diary there is no explanation about the delay caused," Justice Sen observed. The court cannot keep its eyes shut and ignore this type of "lacklustre and shoddy" probe, he said. "This heinous incident needs immediate investigation to bring to light the correct fact and to book the accused. The way this investigation proceeded is absolutely unsatisfactory. "I think this is a fit case where a special investigation team (SIT) be constituted. I, therefore, direct the Director-General of Police, Jharkhand, to immediately constitute a SIT to investigate the case," Justice Sen added. A 19-year-old Dalit woman was gang-raped in Hathras district, Uttar Pradesh, allegedly by four upper-caste men. After fighting for her life for two weeks, she died in a Delhi hospital. The woman's family alleged that her body was "forcefully" cremated at an ungodly hour by the police. The incident sent shockwaves across India, and protests seeking justice were staged in several states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hathras-exists-in-jharkhand-as-well-hc-over-shoddy-probe-in-rape-murder-case-899532.html
09-10-2020||North and Central||CCTV cameras installed, 60 cops deployed to ensure security of Hathras victim's family: Police||Sixty security personnel have been deployed and eight close circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed at the house of the alleged gangrape victim in her village in Bulgarhi area here to ensure the safety of her family members, police said on Friday. DIG Shalabh Mathur, who has been sent to Hathras from Lucknow as a nodal officer, told PTI that if needed a control room will also be established there. "Sixty personnel, including women, have been deployed on 12 hours shifts for the security of the victim's family. A gazetted officer will also be deployed to monitor these personnel. With the help of CCTV cameras, the house of the victim will be monitored round-the-clock"  . Hathras Superintendent of Police (SP) Vineet Jaiswal said that a register of visitors is being maintained by policemen at the entry of the house. Two security personnel have been provided to each family member and witness for their personal security, he said, adding that a team of fire department and two local intelligence unit personnel are also deployed there. "At the main gate of the house, a metal detector has been installed and quick response teams are also in place. With the help of eight CCTV cameras, security is being ensured," the SP said. The 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly gangraped on September 14 following which she was admitted to the J N Medical College Hospital in Aligarh with serious injuries. She was referred to Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital on September 28 after her condition showed no signs of improvement. She died the nest day at Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital where she had been brought for treatment. The victim was cremated in the dead of the night near her home on September 30. Her family alleged that they were forced by the local police to hurriedly conduct her last rites. Local police officers, however, had said the cremation was carried out "as per the wishes of the family". The state government has already recommended a CBI probe in the matter and quoting FSL reports, it has denied the rape charges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cctv-cameras-installed-60-cops-deployed-to-ensure-security-of-hathras-victims-family-police-899544.html
09-10-2020||North and Central||NIA arrests Father Stan Swamy in Bhima Koregaon case, will move him to Mumbai||The National Investigation Agency has arrested 82-year-old human rights activist Father Stan Swamy from his Ranchi home in connection with the violence in Bhima Koregaon near Pune in December 2017 and will shift him to Mumbai, officials said on Friday. Swamy, who has been questioned twice earlier by Pune Police and the NIA, was taken from his residence Thursday evening and placed under arrest for links with the banned CPI(Maoist), the NIA officials alleged. He will be moved to Mumbai where the agency will ask for his remand before the designated court, they said. The cleric is the sixteenth person to be arrested in the case, in which people have been booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the anti-terror law UAPA. NIA officials said investigations established he was actively involved in the activities of the CPI (Maoist). The NIA also alleged that he was in contact with “conspirators” -- Sudhir Dhawale, Rona Wilson, Surendra Gadling, Arun Ferreira, Vernon Gonsalves, Hany Babu, Shoma Sen, Mahesh Raut, Varavara Rao, Sudha Bharadwaj, Gautam Navlakha and Anand Teltumbde – to further the group's activities. The agency alleged that Swamy had also received funds through an associate for furthering the agenda. Besides, he is convenor of the Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee (PPSC), a frontal organisation of the CPI(Maoist), the officials claimed. They said literature, propaganda material of the CPI(Maoist) and documents related to communications for furthering the group’s programmes were seized from his possession. In a video posted hours before his arrest, Swamy said the NIA had been interrogating him and had questioned him for 15 hours during a span of five days. "Now they want me to go to Mumbai, which I have said that I won't go," he said, citing the pandemic. The video, posted on YouTube, was recorded two days before his arrest. "I have never been to Bhima Koregaon for which I am being made an accused," he said. He added that he had asked for questioning through video conference and hoped that better "human sense" would prevail. "...what is happening to me is not something unique happening to me alone, it is a broader process taking place all over the country. We all are aware how prominent intellectuals, lawyers, writers, poets, activists, student leaders are all put in jail because they have expressed their dissent or raised questions about the ruling powers of India,” Swamy said in the video. He said he is part of “the process” and in a way happy to be so because he is not a silent spectator and is part of the game. “I am ready to pay the price whatever be it," Swamy said. The Bhima Koregaon case was taken over by the NIA on January 24 this year. Pune Police has alleged that the violence was caused following speeches given by members of the group Elgar Parishad a day before.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nia-arrests-father-stan-swamy-in-bhima-koregaon-case-will-move-him-to-mumbai-899564.html
09-10-2020||North and Central||Mayawati warns party cadre against casteist political propaganda||BSP supremo Mayawati on Friday asked her party cadre to remain alert against propaganda of political parties having casteist, capitalist and narrow mindset, saying emphasis should be given to strengthen the party at each level. The former UP chief minister also said that unlike the Congress, BJP and other parties her party always took financial support from her own community to run the party as per the path shown by B R Ambedkar and Kanshiram. "My party alway took financial support of 'apne varg' (own community) and 'apne log" (own people) and not from capitalists like Congress, BJP and other parties otherwise when voted to power we have to run government to benefit them," she said in New Delhi on the occasion of the death anniversary of party founder Kanshiram. She said that the party took financial support of its own community every year to run the party but other parties conspire and present it in a "wrong way". Mayawati also said that Kanshiram wanted to provide power to backwards, adivasis and other neglected class so that they can live with self respect. "Ambedkar used to say that he had given rights to them in the Constitution but for getting the benefits, they have to unite and take master key of government in their hands with their own political party," she said. Without naming any party, Mayawati said these parties and their governments can put pressure on influential people within the party and conspire to make them inactive. "We dont have to get afraid from this and take help of the court in such a situation," she said. In an apparent attack on the Bhim Army, Mayawati said "These parties could use greedy persons and get political parties constituted to confuse Dalit votes but field their candidates to botch political prospects of the BSP." "Though due to our alertness, they could not get any success yet. For this I am proud of my 'varg'," she said. "In the name of Baba Saheb's mission, other organisations and parties constituted by opponents are trying to weaken BSP movement at each level," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mayawati-warns-party-cadre-against-casteist-political-propaganda-899572.html
09-10-2020||North and Central||Man arrested for sharing pictures of security installations in J&K's Samba||A man has been arrested for sharing on social media pictures of security installations in Jammu and Kashmir's Samba district, police said on Friday. Police are probing the angle of spying in this connection, they said. According to the police, there was information that the 22-year-old man, identified as Kuljeet, was sharing pictures of vital security installations and receiving payment in return, they said. Investigation in the matter is underway, the police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-arrested-for-sharing-pictures-of-security-installations-in-jks-samba-899588.html
09-10-2020||North and Central||BJP MLA's relative shot dead in Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh||A 60-year-old relative of a BJP MLA was shot dead on Friday morning here, police said. The victim identified as Naresh Tyagi was the maternal uncle of BJP legislator from Muradnagar Assembly constituency Ajit Pal Tyagi and brother-in-law of former minister Raj Pal Tyagi. Naresh Tyagi, a contractor, was going for a morning walk at around 5.30 am when two assailants on a scooter opened fire at him in Lohiya Nagar officer's colony under Sihani Gate Police Station area, police said. One of the bullets hit Tyagi in the head, the police said. Senior Superintendent of Police Kalanidhi Naithani told PTI that four empty bullet cartridges were recovered from the spot near the park where the victim went daily for a walk. The park is situated opposite the house of Janata Dal (United) leader K C Tyagi, police said. According to Naithani, the victim was attacked near the JD(U) leader's house and taken to a private hospital where the doctors declared him dead. Five police teams have been formed to solve the case and all angles are being probed. CCTV footage from the area have been obtained and are being analysed, the SSP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-mlas-relative-shot-dead-in-ghaziabad-in-uttar-pradesh-899607.html
09-10-2020||North and Central||Suspecting an affair, Uttar Pradesh man beheads wife, walks to police station with severed head||Suspecting his wife of having an affair with his neighbour, a man allegedly beheaded her and walked to the police station with the severed head. The shocking incident happened in Uttar Pradesh's Banda district, about 175 kilometres from here, police sources said. Police said that the man, identified as Kinnar Yadav, a resident of Baberu area in the district, suspected his wife of having an illicit affair with their neighbour. The couple would often quarrel over the matter, according to the local residents. On Thursday, Kinnar again had heated arguments with his wife. An enraged Kinnar, carrying an axe in his hands, rushed to the house of the neighbour in a bid to kill him. Police said that the accused attacked his wife, when the latter tried to intervene and save the neighbour. Kinnar allegedly hit her with the axe, severing her head. He then walked to the Baberu police station, about two kilometres away, carrying the severed head in one hand and the axe in another, sources said. He was arrested. Police said that Kinnar showed no remorse over the incident and justified the killing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/suspecting-an-affair-uttar-pradesh-man-beheads-wife-walks-to-police-station-with-severed-head-899611.html
09-10-2020||North and Central||Youths molest minor in Uttar Pradesh's Bareilly, upload video on social media||A 12th standard student was allegedly molested by around half a dozen youths in Uttar Pradesh's Bareilly district, about 250 kilometres from here. The offenders also made a video of their act and uploaded the same on social media. According to the police sources here, the incident had happened in Sheeshgarh area in the district last month but it came to light on Friday after the video went viral on social networking sites. The video shows the youths pouncing on the girl, groping the minor and trying to snatch her 'dupatta' (a scarf with which the girls cover themselves) as she struggles to free herself. Police said that the minor was talking with her boyfriend outside her village, when she was surrounded by the youths and molested. The victim did not tell her parents about the incident as the youths had threatened to make the video viral, police said. The father of the victim approached the cops, when the video went viral on social media. A case was registered in this regard. A senior district police official said in Bareilly that five youths had been arrested in this connection. ''We are trying to identify the other two offenders,'' the official said. Earlier also a similar incident had happened in the state's Rampur district, when around a dozen youths had molested two women. Then also the culprits had made a video of their act and uploaded it on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/youths-molest-minor-in-uttar-pradeshs-bareilly-upload-video-on-social-media-899638.html
09-10-2020||North and Central||Jain woman recovers from Covid-19, embraces 'sanlekhna' death||A 64-year-old woman who recently recovered from the coronavirus infection in Indore in Madhya Pradesh but decided to stop treatment for a lung infection and intake of food and water in order to sacrifice her life as per Jain traditions has died, her kin said on Friday. On Tuesday, the woman, who was being treated for a severe lung infection at a private hospital, expressed a desire to visit Pushpgiri, a Jain pilgrimage in Dewas in MP, said her relative Jitendra Jain. "She followed the age-old practice of 'sanlekhna', (which entails giving up food and water in order to sacrifice one's life) in Pushpgiri. She died on Wednesday, which was also her birthday. She is survived by two married sons while her husband died earlier," Jain said. Anil Dongre, in charge of the health department's screening committee for the prevention of Covid-19, said the woman was admitted to a private hospital with Covid-19 but then tested negative for the infection after treatment. "Her lungs were severely affected and she was finding it difficult to breathe. She had also undergone heart surgery a few years ago. Her family got her discharged from hospital on Tuesday," a doctor at the private hospital said. Sanlekhna is also called sallekhna, santhara or samadhi maran, as per Jain religious traditions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jain-woman-recovers-from-covid-19-embraces-sanlekhna-death-899647.html
09-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi HC asks Prisons dept to prepare updated list of cases pending against Jagtar Singh Hawara||The Delhi High Court Friday asked the Department of Prisons to prepare an updated list of cases pending against Jagtar Singh Hawara, undergoing life sentence for conspiring to assassinate former Punjab chief minister Beant Singh. Hawara has approached the high court seeking direction to the authorities to update his case details in the prison records, alleging that their inaction is preventing him from exercising his legal rights like parole, furlough and suspension of sentence pending appeal. Delhi government standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra, representing the Department of Prisons, submitted before Justice A J Bhambhani that as per the information available with the Delhi Prisons, there are 37 cases against Hawara. Mehra along with advocate Chaitanya Gosain said best efforts will be made to collate the list of cases along with their present status after collecting information from various courts outside Delhi and sought four weeks time for the purpose. The judge said, “Accordingly let an updated list be prepared and supplied to the petitioner (Hawara) before the next date of hearing.” A copy will also be placed before the court which listed the matter for further hearing on December 11. Advocate Mehmood Pracha, representing Hawara, said due to the prisoner’s incarceration, he is unable to track other cases in which he is implicated and hearings are going on. He said due to this he has faced adverse orders in cases outside Delhi and he is unable to be present in the hearings. He added that since dates of hearings are not available with Hawara, who is lodged in Tihar Jail and he may suffer from adverse consequences. Mehra also submitted that they do not have information of all the cases pending against Hawara as most of them are pending in Punjab. Hawara, in his petition filed through advocates Rudro Chatterjee and Shariq Nisar, said neither the authorities are updating the prison record of the cases against him on the basis of documents sought to be supplied by him nor they are making any efforts to procure information about the cases against him. The plea said this has resulted in preventing him from exercising any of his remedies in respect of release from the prison. It added that this is a mandatory duty of the authorities to keep up to date record of all the cases pending against an inmate. Babbar Khalsa International (BKI) terrorist Jagtar Singh Hawara, the mastermind in the killing of Punjab Chief Minister Beant Singh in 1995, was sentenced to death penalty on July 31, 2007 by a Punjab court. The Punjab and Haryana High Court had on October, 12, 2010 commuted the death penalty of Hawara and sentenced him to life imprisonment "till death" in the chief minister's murder case. 17 persons, including the then CM, were killed and 15 others were injured in the incident. Hawara, along with five others, had also been awarded seven years jail term in the 2005 Liberty and Satyam cinema in Delhi blasts case of May 22, 2005. In 2004, Hawara had escaped from maximum security jail at Burail in Punjab along with 2 other Sikh prisoners by digging a 90-feet tunnel with his bare hands.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-asks-prisons-dept-to-prepare-updated-list-of-cases-pending-against-jagtar-singh-hawara-899661.html
09-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi taking lead in fight against pollution, but neighbouring states still not serious: Gopal Rai||The AAP government is taking the lead in the fight against air pollution in Delhi-NCR, but neighbouring states are still "not serious" about the issue despite it becoming "more dangerous" due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai has said. He said the AAP government wants cooperation not confrontation with other states on the issue of air pollution. “The land has been divided into states but the sky is one.” He said the “Pusa bio-decomposer” initiative as a solution to stubble burning will benefit Haryana and Punjab more, and Delhi's benefit is that it will get rid of the smoke from farm fires that make the city a gas chamber every year. Stubble burning, which contributes significantly to the rise in pollution levels in Delhi and the National Capital Region, has started in Haryana and Punjab. In view of air quality in Delhi-NCR hitting 'poor' level, a Supreme Court-mandated body Thursday announced implementation of the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) from October 15 and a ban on the use of diesel generators, except for essential and emergency services in Delhi and the neighbouring cities of Ghaziabad, Noida, Greater Noida, Faridabad and Gurgaon. “We are the only government which is serious about it (pollution level). We are working on a mission mode. Many states in India have been battling severe air pollution, but they don’t seem very active despite it being a major challenge, especially in the times of coronavirus,” Rai told PTI in an interview on Thursday. “We are very concerned about our 13 hotpots and are working hard to reduce pollution levels there, but other states have hotspots as well. They have not been making enough efforts,” the minister said. Rai said the Delhi government has been taking action against dust, biomass burning, stubble and vehicular pollution. “We have been doing all that we can, but we become helpless when pollution from other regions affects Delhi’s airshed. “The land has been divided into states but the sky is one. Our geographic location is such that pollutants from all directions converge here,” he said. But air pollution in Delhi hit “severe” levels only when stubble burning is at its peak. The city becomes a gas chamber then, the minister asserted. The crop residue burning has not stopped despite the Supreme Court issuing strict directions in this regard, Rai said. “The issue concerns Punjab and Haryana, but Delhi is working more on it. Stubble burning is minimal in Delhi, still we are taking steps to deal with it,” he said. “We are working with Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Pusa… took an initiative. We want to take the lead and set an example for other states. “What we are working on will benefit Punjab and Haryana more. Delhi’s benefit is that it will get rid of smoke from farm fires,” he said. The environment minister said Delhi “wants cooperation (of other states) and not confrontation” on the issue of pollution. Rai also questioned why the Centre was not taking any action against the 11 coal-fired power plants within 300 kilometers of Delhi, which have missed two deadlines to meet new emission norms. “We had two thermal power plants and we shut them. Why have these 11 power plants not been able to reduce emissions? What’s the reason? Why action is not being taken against the brick kilns operating in nearby areas using outdated technologies,” he said. There are more than 1,640 such brick kilns in Uttar Pradesh, 161 in Haryana and 164 Rajasthan within 300 kilometers of Delhi. “Action can be taken overnight when governments are willing to do anything. I mean to say they are not serious about this issue,” the minister said. On the issue of smog towers, he said, “There is no fixed solution to the air pollution problem. One needs to take whatever options are available. Two smog towers are being set up (in Connaught Place and Anand Vihar). We will analyse the results and then a decision (for more towers in the future).” Earlier this week, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal launched a mega anti-air pollution campaign -- “Yuddh Pradushan ke Viruddh”. As part of it, Rai inaugurated a 'green war room' at the Delhi Secretariat Thursday to monitor steps being taken to bring down pollution levels in the city this winter. The minister said a 10-member team has been set up under senior scientists Mohan George and B L Chawla to monitor the levels of primary pollutants, measures taken to curb pollution and status of complaints received through Green Delhi mobile application. Satellite data related to farm fires in the neighbouring states will also be analysed in the green war room. The SC-mandated Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority Thursday said told the governments of Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan to "try and avert" the need to take emergency measures, such as a ban on construction and industries using fuels other than piped natural gas, as the economy is already under stress post-lockdown. Delhi's air quality had turned poor Wednesday, the first time since June 29, with the Central Pollution Control Board recording a 24-hour average air quality index of 215. An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. Air pollution in Delhi is majorly attributed to unfavourable met conditions, farm fires in neighbouring regions, local sources of pollution, and low temperatures during winters and stagnant winds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-taking-lead-in-fight-against-pollution-but-neighbouring-states-still-not-serious-gopal-rai-899684.html
09-10-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir eye travellers from West Bengal to revive tourism industry||They discussed activities in Dal Lake and mountain biking as tourism attractions. The tour operators were informed about activities lined up for the coming days, including a golfing event in Pahalgam next week and a Saffron festival in Pampore by October-end. "As various sectors of the economy are being unlocked for their normal activity, Jammu and Kashmir government is planning the revival of tourism in a gradual manner with SOPs and precautions. In this connection a team of officers of Directorate of Tourism, Kashmir, is in Kolkata these days for tourism promotion activities," the government said in a statement on Friday. The officers comprising Deputy Directors Ideel Saleem and Ahsanul Haq Chishti held a series of meetings with various tourism stakeholders of West Bengal and apprised them about the measures being taken by the J&K government. The officers told the tour operators about various "unlocking" measures being taken by the J&K administration for the gradual and safe revival tourism in the UT. "Thrust is being laid on responsible tourism and outdoor activities. The delegations were informed that Directorate of Tourism recently celebrated World Tourism Day which comprised activities in Dal Lake and mountain biking with all Covid-19 protocols," the statement said. "The tour operators exhibited keen interest in the efforts of J&K Government for the revival of tourism and the necessary SOPs being drawn up for that. They recalled their close coordination with tourism stakeholders of J&K and assured to further strengthen it in future. They thanked the Tourism Department for choosing West Bengal to start the revival campaign," it added. It said a large number of queries have been received from prospective tourists from West Bengal for visiting J&K in the December-January winter tourism window. West Bengal accounts for the third-largest chunk of tourists to J&K, after Gujarat and Maharashtra, who largely visit the autumn season coinciding with Durga Puja holidays.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-eye-travellers-from-west-bengal-to-revive-tourism-industry-899714.html
09-10-2020||North and Central||Parents of DPS schools students approach Delhi High Court against fees hike||Parents of nearly 150 students studying in various branches of Delhi Public School (DPS) have approached the Delhi High Court against the increase in annual and tuition fees in alleged contravention of AAP government orders. The application has been moved by the parents seeking to intervene in a plea filed by DPS Society against the Delhi government's orders of April 18 -- which directed all the private unaided schools not to charge fee, except tuition fees from the parents during the lockdown period --  and August 28 -- which directed them to refund or adjust the amounts other than the tuition fees charged by them. The DPS Society has also challenged the Delhi government's September 1 notice threatening to take punitive action against it for charging annual and operational charges along with tuition fees from August and directing it to comply with the August 28 order. The institution, in its petition, has contended that it complied with the April 18 order till July, but thereafter, it was compelled to charge operational and annual charges from August as a "huge gap had arisen between the amount collected from students as tuition fees and the establishment expenses incurred by the school on account of salary, provident fund of the staff, internet charges." The DPS Society further claimed that it had incurred losses which were pushing it towards shutting down the schools and that is why it decided to charge the operational and annual charges along with tuition fees. It had also said in its plea that announcing of the 'unlock' phases by the Centre, restrictions have been relaxed and most businesses and professional activities have become operational and therefore, the parents are gainfully employed and in a position to pay the school fees, including annual and operational charges. The application, filed through advocate Kushal Kumar, has contended that the DPS society in September decided to defer the emoluments of staff members by 20 per cent for the year 2020-21.  "The petitioner (DPS Society) has directed its schools to withhold the requisite amounts for the next seven months. Further, the petitioner has also decided not to pay the medical allowance to the employees," the application has claimed and added that in such a situation the rationale behind increasing the tuition fees, or levying other forms of fees under various heads was not justified. The application on behalf of the parents has also claimed that according to the bye-laws of the DPS Society, its schools have to maintain a reserve fund.  The society's schools maintain two kinds of reserve funds -- reserve fund according to CBSE guidelines and a contingency fund.  "It is further respectfully submitted that, reserve fund and contingency fund are kept and maintained from the fees of the parents and these funds are maintained only to meet the exigencies of time, like the present pandemic," the application, also filed through advocates R K Singh and Akash Deep Gupta, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/parents-of-dps-schools-students-approach-delhi-high-court-against-fees-hike-899718.html
09-10-2020||North and Central||Farm laws: Akali Dal says will initiate national pro-farmer front||Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal said Friday that his party would take the lead to form a "national pro-farmer front" of regional parties against the three pieces of farm legislation passed by Parliament, asserting the laws won't benefit the farmers. Badal, whose SAD quit the NDA over the laws, said he would personally be involved in the initiative and soon begin meeting representatives of other regional parties in Delhi. He also urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to hold direct talks with the farmer organisations who are against the laws and address their grievances with a solution "acceptable to all". The Akali Dal, a founding-member of the ruling National Democratic Alliance exited it in September, accusing the Central government of ignoring the sentiments of farmers. A section of farmers, mainly in Punjab and Haryana, are opposing the new laws, saying they are against their interest. The farmers also fear the laws would the pave the way to end the MSP regime. However, the government has reiterated that the mechanism of procuring the produce of farmers at a guaranteed minimum rate would continue. It has accused some opposition parties of misleading farmers and said the laws would free them to sell their produce outside APMC market yards. “Farmers need guaranteed MSP. The new agri Acts will leave farmers at the mercy of big corporates. Those with small land holdings cannot take their produce to far off places or store it for months. In such a situation they will not have any bargaining power with private players,” he said in a statement here. "Farmer organisations have rightly rejected the secretary-level talks offered by the agriculture ministry as a bureaucrat cannot offer anything on the table and had called the farm leaders only to explain the Centre's point of view,” Badal said. On Wednesday, several farmers' bodies in Punjab rejected the agriculture department's invitation for a meeting, saying they will not talk to anybody less than the Union agriculture minister as an "officer does not have to tell them if these laws are beneficial for farmers". Badal said the SAD stood for a written assurance on continuation of Central government procurement of food grains as per the MSP followed by a legislation making this a statutory law. “We also stand for constitutional guarantees banning trade in food grains below the MSP,” said the Akali leader, adding the prime minister should listen to 'jan ki baat' (people's voice) “which he had also reflected as the Chief Minister of Gujarat when he had recommended making MSP a statutory right as head of the consultative committee of chief ministers”. In his meetings with like-minded regional parties, he added, he would stress to them that the farm laws were aimed at "safeguarding the interests of corporates and not farmers”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farm-laws-akali-dal-says-will-initiate-national-pro-farmer-front-899734.html
09-10-2020||North and Central||IPL betting racket busted in Indore; five arrested||Five persons, including two women, have been arrested for allegedly accepting bets on the ongoing Indian Premier League matches, in Madhya Pradesh's Indore district, police said on Friday. Based on a tip-off, a police team on Thursday raided an apartment in Lasudia area and arrested Saurabh Raghuvanshi, Jitendra Raghuvanshi, Ravi Narwaria, Gaura Saket and Prerna Uppal, additional superintendent of police Guruprasad Parashar said. The accused, who hailed from Guna, Shivpuri and Jabalpur districts, were staying here to accept bets on IPL matches, he said, adding that the gang had been operating for the past three years. The police have recovered Rs 9,500 cash and details of bets running into more than Rs 10 lakh placed on the ongoing tournament, the official said. Apart from this, six mobile phones, a laptop, a LED TV and some liquor bottles were also recovered from the scene, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ipl-betting-racket-busted-in-indore-five-arrested-899745.html
09-10-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir bamboo clusters to provide employment to 25K people||The Centre is planning to set up bamboo clusters across the country and first, such initiative will be taken in Jammu and Kashmir, thereby providing direct employment opportunities to about 25,000 people in the union territory, Union minister Jitendra Singh said on Friday. Singh, Union Minister for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), said around 35 per cent areas in the northeastern states are under the bamboo cultivation and the potential of the grass in the region was not fully utilised till restrictions on its movement were lifted by the Modi government by amending the century-old Indian Forest Act last year. The DoNER ministry plans to set up bamboo clusters across India, beginning from Jammu and Kashmir, he said presiding over a high-level meeting here. Singh said three bamboo clusters will be developed in Jammu, Katra and Samba for making bamboo basketry, incense sticks and bamboo charcoal, which will provide direct employment opportunities to about 25,000 people and an MoU in this regard is at the final stage. He said soon a team of DoNER ministry officials will visit Jammu and explore a field training programme for bamboo farming in the region. The minister said the experience of northeastern states will help implement such a scheme in Jammu and Kashmir and it will strengthen the economic conditions of the artisans and also assist in the commercial exploitation of bamboo grown in this region. The minister said a workshop-cum-exhibition was organised in January last year in collaboration with the Jammu and Kashmir administration for the promotion of bamboo. He said the sensitivity with which the Modi government views the importance for the promotion of bamboo is evident from the fact that it has amended the Indian Forest Act by taking home-grown bamboo out of the purview of the Forest Act, in order to enhance livelihood opportunities. Another major reform, Singh said, was to increase the import duty on bamboo sticks from 10 per cent to 25 per cent. This decision has paved the way for setting up of new incense sticks' manufacturing units to meet the ever-growing demand of incense sticks (agarbatti) in India. There has been no import of the raw material since September 2019 and local bamboo produce is being used for this, he said. Singh said there are huge reserves of bamboo spread across Jammu and Kashmir, which have remained unexplored and largely unutilised so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-bamboo-clusters-to-provide-employment-to-25k-people-899760.html
09-10-2020||North and Central||BJP holds 'tractor rallies' in Haryana in support of farm laws||The BJP took out 'tractor rallies' in various parts of Haryana on Friday in support of the new farm laws, with party's state unit chief O P Dhankar saying the Congress was trying to create "fear psychosis" among farmers. The rallies were taken at various places including Gohana in Sonipat, where Dhankar addressed a gathering, Hansi in Hisar and Bhiwani, in support of the farm laws, which have triggered protests from farmers in various parts. Hitting out at the Congress during his address, Dhankar accused the opposition party of doing politics and spreading "lies" on the issue of the farm laws. He said they were trying to mislead farmers and were "trying to create fear psychosis" among them about these laws, which he claimed were for peasants' benefit. "These reforms give farmers greater freedom, the wider choice to sell their crop anywhere and at best prices, but Congress has a problem in this. They are trying to mislead the farmers. "We want to assure farmers that there are enough safeguards for them in these laws," he said. Further hitting out at the Congress, he said, "misleading people and creating hue and cry is their old habit". "You will recall the hue and cry they made when we revoked Article 370, they tried to project as if the country will disintegrate. They made the same hue and cry when we brought the law against triple talaq and nobody has forgotten what they used to say about the Citizenship Amendment Act. "Likewise, now they are trying to drill this fear into the minds of farmers on the new farm laws, but they will not succeed," said Dhankar addressing the gathering during 'Kisan Dhanyavad Yatra'. Taking a further dig at the Congress, he alleged that everyone knows who implemented the M S Swaminathan Commission report and which party only kept making tall claims of doing so. "Everyone knows who snatched the land of farmers at peanuts and then handed it over to their favourites. Farmers have not forgotten the time when they used to get cheques in few rupees only as crop damage compensation. Today, these very people are trying to project themselves as well-wishers of farmers whereas the reality is they are only doing politics on the issue," he said. BJP MP from Bhiwani-Mahendergarh, Dharambir Singh addressed a gathering in Bhiwani while party MP from Hisar, Brijendra Singh addressed a gathering in Hansi, where both asserted that MSP regime will continue, 'mandis' are here to stay and government procurement too will remain unchanged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-holds-tractor-rallies-in-haryana-in-support-of-farm-laws-899803.html
09-10-2020||North and Central||PM Modi asked Jammu and Kashmir LG to convey to Rajouri families that they will get justice||Reaching out to the families of the three youths of Rajouri district who were killed in an alleged fake encounter by the Army in Jammu and Kashmir's Shopian district in July, Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha has said he was told by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to convey to them that they will get justice. Expressing his condolences, the Lt Governor said the UT administration will extend full support to the families and ensure that they will get justice. He also conveyed to the family members of the three slain men the "message" of the prime minister that the government stands with them in this hour of grief. "I visited the families. I have expressed my sympathies (to them). I have assured them that the Prime Minister of India has asked me to convey to the families that there will be justice and they will be taken care of," Sinha told reporters in Rajouri after vising the families of the slain youth on Thursday. On July 18, the Army had claimed that it killed three militants in an encounter in Amshipura village in the higher reaches of south Kashmir's Shopian district. Later, it initiated an inquiry after reports appeared on social media that the three men were actually labourers from Rajouri district and had gone missing in Amshipura. The families of the trio had also filed a missing complaint with the police. The probe by the Army was completed in a record four-week time and on September 18, the force said it has found "prima facie evidence" that its troops "exceeded" powers under the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) during the encounter. Disciplinary proceedings were then initiated. Police also launched its investigation and collected the DNA samples of the families, which matched with the slain persons. The bodies of the three men were exhumed Friday last and laid to rest in their hometown in Rajouri district by the family members the next day. The exhumation was done hours after Director General of Jammu and Kashmir Police Dilbag Singh had said the legal process to exhume and handover the bodies to their families was on and would be completed soon. Earlier, speaking at a back to village event in Peeri in Rajouri, the LG said, "I am here to put before you the clear-cut intentions of the government of India. The Constitution is supreme. It will not be right to take the law into your hands. The Constitution of India ensures justice to the poorest of the poor." "The process of justice has started. The UT administration and government of India will take care of them (families of victims)," he added. Sinha said the main objective of his visit to the remote village was to assure the people that the Constitution of India is supreme and the government is with the people and justice will be ensured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-asked-jammu-and-kashmir-lg-to-convey-to-rajouri-families-that-they-will-get-justice-899807.html
09-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi Cabinet approves tree transplantation policy, smog tower installation in Connaught Place||The Delhi Cabinet on Friday approved a tree transplantation policy to prevent the felling of trees due to development works in the national capital, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said, asserting that it will be a first-of-its-kind policy in the country. Addressing an online media briefing here, he said the Cabinet has also approved a proposal to install a 'smog tower' in Delhi's Connaught Place to deal with air pollution. The government has sanctioned Rs 20 crore, and the tower will come up in 10 months, the chief minister said, claiming that it will also be the first of its kind in the world. Both measures have been taken as part of the Delhi government's ongoing "Yuddh, Pradushan Ke Viruddh (Battle against pollution)" campaign in the national capital. Under the new policy, which will help preserve trees for a clean and green Delhi, agencies concerned will have to transplant 80 per cent of the trees affected by their projects to a new location, Kejriwal said. A dedicated panel of government agencies with track record and experience of tree transplantation is being formed under the policy, he said. "Any department requiring removal of a tree for some development work will seek help from any agency on the panel for transplantation," the chief minister said. "The agency concerned will have to ensure that 80 per cent of the total transplanted trees survive. Payments for transplantation will be made after one year to ensure this, and if less than 80 per cent of the transplanted trees survive, payment will be deducted," Kejriwal added. The government will also form local committees, which will include citizens, for checking, monitoring and certification of the tree transplantation exercise. There are old, big shady trees in the city that are like a blessing, but sometimes, due to various development works, trees have to be cut, the chief minister said. The tree transplantation policy passed by the Delhi government is the first by any state in the country, officials said. Under this, 10 saplings will be planted in addition to the whole tree being dug up with the root intact and scientifically transplanted at another location instead of being felled. The chief minister said Delhi will be the second city in the world to have smog towers. The central government is installing a smog tower in Anand Vihar, while the Delhi government will install another in Connaught Place, he said. "The technology of this tower will be different from the one in China. It will suck polluted air from the top and release clean air from the bottom part of the tower. In China, the tower releases clean air from the top," Kejriwal said. The chief minister added that the smog tower will be installed on a pilot project basis, and if successful, more such towers will come up in Delhi. On Friday, Delhi's air quality was recorded in the 'poor' category but a government agency said it could improve by Sunday because of a likely change in the wind direction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cabinet-approves-tree-transplantation-policy-smog-tower-installation-in-connaught-place-899812.html
09-10-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir may soon secure Rs 25,000 crore industrial investment: LG||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Friday said that Rs 25,000 crore industrial investment is in the offing and the union territory is going to secure this huge investment after the announcement of a historic industrial policy soon. The LG admitted absence of governance and inaccessibility of officers have long marred villages and said that the 'back to village' is an attempt to bridge this gap. “Rs 25,000 crore industrial investment is in the offing and J&K is going to secure this huge investment after announcement of a historic Industrial soon”, Sinha said during his visit to the border Panchayat of Pallanwala in Jammu district. "My objective is maximum utilisation of industries, manufacturing, services sector, village industries, handicraft, tourism and technology to create more jobs in rural areas of Jammu & Kashmir because I believe there is vast yet untapped talent pool in our villages waiting for an opportunity," the Lt Governor affirmed. He called for 100 per cent saturation in four different employment-related schemes of the government, besides all social security schemes including scholarships and pensions etc. "With this ambitious Back to Village initiative of the Government, Rural-Urban divide will be minimized," Sinha added. "I am not here to make new promises, but for optimum implementation and utilisation of funds. Let the public and the government meet and discuss their priority projects and begin a new era of rapid development. I believe in action-based implementation", said the Lt Governor. Sinha said that the absence of governance and inaccessibility of officers have long marred our villages. "Back to Village is an attempt to bridge this gap and during the past one month, officers and the public have displayed bilateral enthusiasm in it. It is the duty of the officers to take up the responsibility and help eliminate the lacunae. Dialogue along with public's feedback is the bedrock equitable, inclusive development and transparent governance", he added. He advised the officers to examine the crucial growth drivers in that particular region during their visits to villages. "Since we need to bring equity, growth and inclusion in our villages and also sustain it, we must focus on basic services, infrastructure facilities to kick start a growth process which increases citizen participation while fixing the accountability from top to the bottom", the Lt Governor maintained. "Development is not possible without 'funds, functions and functionaries' and we have enough of them. With dedication, all of these could be implemented on ground for the betterment of the public," he added. Being an agriculture-oriented region, it would be ensured that all nine farmers-oriented schemes of the government reach the workforce here, said the Lt Governor. Expressing his resolve of doubling farmers' income in the coming two years, the Lt Governor said that the same could not be achieved without sincere efforts in implementation of government's schemes on ground. Highlighting the problems faced by farmers with smallholdings, the Lt Governor observed that they could be eliminated with infusion of new technology at the block level. The LG observed that two aspiring entrepreneurs from each panchayat are being identified, provided handholding and monetary assistance to start their business venture. "Even if 8500 such youths are supported," said the Lt Governor, "and if they each provide livelihood to at least five others, we could have at least 40,000 jobs under the initiative". Speaking on the New Education Policy, he laid stress on the evolution of a students-teachers' feedback system. "To enable youngsters to participate in the mainstream economy, it is crucial that all governmental schemes of education sector are implemented properly on ground", said the Lt Governor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-may-soon-secure-rs-25000-crore-industrial-investment-lg-899822.html
09-10-2020||North and Central||351 arrested in Haryana in 4 months for sending people abroad through fraudulent means: Anil Vij||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Friday said 351 people have been arrested in the state in the past four months for sending people abroad through fraudulent means and 370 FIRs registered in this connection. Earlier, a Special Investigation Team (SIT) was constituted to monitor and investigate such cases to put an end to immigration frauds in the case, he said. The SIT, headed by an inspector general of police, includes six SP-level officers. "There are several fraudsters in the state who were sending youth to various countries by illegal means," Vij said in a statement. "The police have arrested 351 people in this regard and recovered cash worth Rs 1.04 crore from them," he said. The police received 646 complaints in the last four months. Out of these, 370 FIRs have been filed and 276 complaints have been sent to the concerned districts for further investigation, Vij said. Karnal registered the maximum number of FIRs at 175. Eighty FIRs were registered in Kurukshetra, 51 in Kaithal and 44 in Ambala, he said. FIRs were also registered in Bhiwani, Dadri, Sirsa and Narnaul districts, the minister said. In May this year, 160 Indians were deported for illegally trying to enter the USA. Among those who were deported, the maximum 76 were from Haryana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/351-arrested-in-haryana-in-4-months-for-sending-people-abroad-through-fraudulent-means-anil-vij-899836.html
09-10-2020||North and Central||DU likely to announce first cut-off; applicants asked not to visit colleges||The Delhi University is likely to release its first cut-off list on Saturday for admission to nearly 70,000 seats up for grabs. Varsity officials warned students against visiting colleges for the admission process, saying no one will be allowed entry. The admission process this year will be entirely online due to the coronavirus pandemic. "Students will be able to apply for admission on October 12 from 10 am onwards but the entire process will be online. They should not visit colleges or departments since they won't be allowed entry," an official at the university said. DU received over 3.54 lakh applications this year, the highest till now, and officials have said that the cut-offs are likely to be higher than the last year as more students have scored over 90 per cent in CBSE Class 12 examinations and the majority of the applicants are from the Board. Last year, Hindu College had pegged the highest score of 99 per cent for Political Science Honours. Lady Shri Ram (LSR) College came a close second with a cut-off of 98.75 per cent for BA programme and Psychology Honours. At 98.3 per cent, Hindu College also had the highest cut-off for Physics Honours. College principals said they are in the process of finalising cut-offs. Last month, St Stephen's College released its first cut-off list for undergraduate courses, with the highest cut-off being announced at 99.25 per cent for BA (Hons) Economics. Since classrooms will be able to accommodate a select number of students due to social distancing norms, the cut-offs will have to be higher, the principal said. According to a principal who requested anonymity, DU has asked all the principals to finalise and upload cut-offs by 1 pm on Saturday. The new session is scheduled to commence on November 18.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/du-likely-to-announce-first-cut-off-applicants-asked-not-to-visit-colleges-899858.html
09-10-2020||Panorama||Don’t hold your breath, UNSC reform isn’t imminent   ||At the opening of the 75th session of the UN General Assembly, Prime Minister Narendra Modi made a passionate pitch for a permanent seat for India in the UN Security Council (UNSC). He decried the fact that 18% of the world population doesn’t have a representation in the UNSC.  In line with Article 24 of the UN Charter, the Security Council’s mandate is peace and security. At present, less than 25% of the world’s population has a representation in the UNSC. If one excludes China, the other four UNSC members -- the US, UK, Russia and France -- comprise 7% of the world’s population. The UK and France, the two UNSC members from Europe, comprise 1.5% of world population. While discussing the advantages that accrue on account of UNSC membership, the debate should be tempered with realism. Security Council reform requires an amendment to the Charter of the United Nations. In the first stage, the General Assembly must approve the reform by a two‑thirds majority. After approval from the GA, the Charter of the United Nations is amended during the second stage. The amended Charter must then be ratified by at least two‑thirds of the member states, including the five permanent Security Council members. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has been outspoken in saying that “the makeup of the Security Council must reflect the current realities, not the world as it stood at the end of World War II.” There are obvious advantages that a Member-State derives on account of its entry into the UNSC. Firstly, a seat in the Council helps a Member-State to shape the Council’s peace and security agenda, particularly on issues on which it is expected to have a greater relative domain or regional expertise. Apart from the fact that a permanent member can exercise veto, in contrast to the E-10 (Elected-10), a P-5 (Permanent-5) has the advantage of institutional memory of various files. Right now, information relating to UNSC closed-door meetings that may be relevant to a non-Security Council member comes through secondary sources. There are some direct stakes. The mechanisms available with a non-UNSC member to trigger the Council’s immediate action are rather slow when the interest of a UNSC member is not directly involved. A case in point was the 10 years it took to list Bahawalpur-born Masood Azhar in the 1267 Sanctions UNSC Committee list. Established in 1999 in relation to Taliban, the mandate of 1267 Sanctions Committee has been broadened over the years. Subsequent SC resolutions in the last 20 years have made it possible to list associations of individuals with Al Qaeda and ISIL (Da’esh) related issues. Some of the evidence against Azhar was already in the public domain. After his infamous release from Kot Lakhpat jail (in J&K) in 1999 as part of the swap-deal in Kandahar with the hijackers of IC-814, he returned to Pakistan to create Jaish-e-Mohammad. Jaish has allegedly been responsible for many terrorist attacks in the nearly 20 years of its existence, including the attack on Parliament House on December 13, 2001.   In the period that his case was under review, as per informed Pakistani scholars’ accounts, Jaish continued to raise funds and recruit in the southern part of Pakistan’s Punjab province; the 2016 Pathankot Air Base attack took place; on February 14, 2019, Jaish’s Kashmiri recruit Adil Ahmad Dar rammed his vehicle, armed with explosives, with a CRPF vehicle, killing 40 soldiers. Dar claimed his allegiance to Jaish in a video which was shot before the suicide attack. China, one of the P-5 members, had delayed Azhar’s listing all this while by invoking myriad procedural questions. Azhar was finally listed in May 2019. However, undue expectations of UNSC expansion in the near-future should be resisted. Every year, since February 2009, as part of the Intergovernmental Negotiations (IGN) on the question of equitable representation on and increase in the membership of the Security Council, diplomats from various countries ritualistically make their respective statements, but nothing changes. One of the impediments is also the geopolitical rivalries in various regions. Though not directly, China opposes India and Japan’s case in the Asian context. In the Latin American context, Brazil’s neighbour Argentina may challenge its claim. Given the prevailing structural constraints, aspirant Member-States will have to advance their agenda within the present UNSC architecture in the foreseeable future. All is not lost. The non-UNSC membership enables Member-States not to take sides. The UNSC is presently divided between the P-3 (US, UK and France) and P-2 (Russia and China). This is particularly useful for a Member-State that is aiming to grow its economy. Without earning the wrath of any Member-State or regional group, a developing non-UNSC Member-State can strike multiple political and economic relationships with opposite camps. Apart from this, a UNSC member has to devote extensive diplomatic manpower. For instance, every Elected-10 member has to temporarily beef up its capacity for two years and quickly get acquainted with various issues on the Security Council’s agenda. All the issues may not always be in sync with the national political and economic priorities of a Member-State. Moreover, a realistic look at India’s peace and security goals, as we have seen in the case of counterterrorism, indicates that they are more or less in sync with those of P-3. The end of the Cold War, 9/11, and a host of other factors have brought this rare convergence that may not have existed before. One cannot ignore either the present structural reality that prevents India from becoming a permanent member of the Security Council in the near future. Faced with this reality, India should continue leveraging its convergence with P-3 on issues of common interest. Presently, India’s diplomatic capital will be better expended by focusing on a few issues of the country’s interest and presenting them in a fashion that finds broader resonance in the Security Council. (The writer is a former member of the UN Secretary-General’s Good Offices on Myanmar)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/don-t-hold-your-breath-unsc-reform-isn-t-imminent-899403.html
09-10-2020||Second Edit||Delhi must step up activities in Myanmar||The recent visit of Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla and Army chief Gen MM Naravane to Myanmar saw the two sides sign agreements that will strengthen bilateral bonds. However, a third country—China—is likely to have dominated the thoughts of the visiting Indian officials as they engaged Myanmar’s civilian and military leaders. In addition to proposing the construction of a $6 billion petroleum refinery near Yangon, India discussed progress in ongoing infrastructure projects, including the Trilateral Highway, the Kaladan Multi-Modal Transit Transport Project and the Sittwe port project. It also presented Myanmar with 3,000 vials of the antiviral Remdesivir, symbolic of the support India is extending to Myanmar in its efforts to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. Relations between India and Myanmar have grown over the past decade and India has sought to engage Myanmar’s rulers, military or civilian, in a bid to counter China’s enormous presence in that country. However, its efforts have lacked the energy that characterizes China’s engagement of Myanmar. India’s infrastructure projects are running way behind schedule; the Kaladan project has moved at a snail’s pace. Meanwhile, China’s role in Myanmar’s economy and military has grown by leaps and bounds. Myanmar has always had enormous strategic significance for India. Not only does it share borders with India and China but also, it abuts India’s restive North-Eastern states and several tribal communities living in India have ethnic kin on the Myanmar side of the border. Its importance to India’s national security is immense and this significance has increased in the context of rising tensions between India and China along their disputed border. Keeping Myanmar on India’s side is essential to India’s security and territorial sovereignty. The possibility of China ramping up pressure on India by supporting anti-India insurgents in the North-East cannot be ruled out. In this regard, India will be hoping for Myanmar’s continued support for its counter-insurgency operations in the North-East. Shringla and Naravane discussed security issues in the border areas. It is heartening that Myanmar’s leaders reaffirmed commitment to not allow their soil to be used against Indian interests. It is well known that China has stoked and supported ethnic conflicts in Myanmar and has provided weapons and sanctuary to ethnic militias. Myanmar’s civilian and military leaders are deeply suspicious of Chinese intentions in their country. But deep economic dependence on China has kept Myanmar in Beijing’s grip. It could make it vulnerable to Chinese pressure on strategic issues. This is a dependence that India must break.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/delhi-must-step-up-activities-in-myanmar-899408.html
09-10-2020||South||DMK's M K Stalin condoles Ram Vilas Paswan's death||DMK president M K Stalin on Thursday condoled the death of Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, hailing him as a crusader of social justice. Expressing shock and grief over his demise, he said Paswan had been a crusader of social justice all his life. "A pillar of social justice has fallen today. A voice of oppressed people in Parliament has fallen silent," he said. During his stint as a Minister at the Centre, he sanctioned various projects for Tamil Nadu, Stalin said in his condolence message.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmks-m-k-stalin-condoles-ram-vilas-paswans-death-899399.html
09-10-2020||South||Covid-19: 1,891 new cases, 7 more deaths in Telangana||Telangana logged 1,891 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 2.08 lakh while seven more deaths pushed the toll to 1,208. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 285, followed by Medchal Malkajgiri 195 and Rangareddy 175 districts, a government bulletin said on Friday, providing data as of 8 PM on October 8. The cumulative recovered cases stood at 1.80 lakh, while 21,801 are under treatment. As many as 53,086 samples were tested on October 8. Cumulatively,34.49 lakh samples have been tested. The samples tested per million population was 92,690, the bulletin said. The Covid-19 case fatality rate in the state was 0.57 per cent, while it was 1.5 per cent at the national level. The recovery rate in Telangana was 86.77 per cent, while it was 85.5 per cent in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-1891-new-cases-7-more-deaths-in-telangana-899478.html
09-10-2020||South||Covid-19: Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple in Kerala closed for devotees till Oct 15||While the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple in Kerala was gearing up to reopen for devotees from next week after a gap of six months, the Sree Padmanabha Swamy temple in the state has been closed as 12 persons associated with the temple, including 'Periyanambi' (chief priest) got Covid-19 infection.  The annual 'Alpashi' festival of the Sree Padmanabha Swamy temple scheduled to be held from this month has been also put off, while regular poojas would be conducted by the temple priests without allowing devotees. The temple reopened for devotees after the lockdown by the end of August. The executive officer of the temple V Ratheesan told DH that adequate precautions like testing the temperature of devotees and ensuring social distancing were made. The maximum number of devotees daily was restricted to 650. He further said that temple employees and priests getting the infection through flowers used for rituals could not be ruled out. The spread of Covid-19 at Sree Padmanabha Swami temple, which is known for its priceless treasure, is likely to trigger concerns over reopening Sabarimala Ayyappa temple for devotees from next week, especially since the number of devotees at Sabarimala would be higher than that of Sree Padmanabhaswami temple. N Vasu, president of Travancore Devaswom Board that manages the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple, said that it was in view of the risk of Covid-19 spread that adequate precautionary measures like insisting on no-Covid certificates was being made. As per the present plan devotees will be allowed from October 16 at Sabarimala when the temple opens for monthly pooja. The two-month-long annual pilgrimage season will begin on November 15. The number of pilgrims daily would be restricted to 1,000 on weekdays and 2,000 on weekends. The entry of devotees would be strictly restricted though the existing virtual queue system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-sree-padmanabhaswamy-temple-in-kerala-closed-for-devotees-till-oct-15-899487.html
09-10-2020||South||CM Palaniswami thanks PM on inclusion of Tamil as qualification criteria for ASI course||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Friday thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for heeding his plea to include Master's degree in Tamil as a minimum qualification criteria for a two-year Post-Graduate Diploma in Archaeology course in a Noida institution. The chief minister had earlier written to Modi on the matter, seeking that Tamil be included as one of the minimum qualification criteria for the course at the Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya Institute of Archaeology in Noida, Uttar Pradesh. "I would like to express my heartfelt thanks for the immediate response to my request to include Master's degree in Tamil as one of the minimum qualification criteria for the two-year Post-Graduate Diploma in Archaeology course," Palaniswami said in a letter to the PM. On Thursday, citing a recent ASI advertisement listing Pali, Prakrit, Arabic or Persian too under the classical language category alongside Sanskrit, Palaniswami had pointed out to Modi that among the listed languages, only Sanskrit was declared a classical language in 2005 by the Centre. "Tamil, which was the first language in India officially recognised as a classical language in 2004, has been completely ignored (in the admission process)," he had alleged. Meanwhile, DMK President and Leader of Opposition, MK Stalin, also welcomed the inclusion of Tamil. In a Facebook post, he said languages are the cultural base in pluralistic India and warned the BJP against showing "step-motherly treatment" in dealing with them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cm-palaniswami-thanks-pm-on-inclusion-of-tamil-as-qualification-criteria-for-asi-course-899593.html
09-10-2020||South||Dr C K Rajkumar: The ‘Velvette’ man who pioneered the sachet revolution||Dr C K Rajkumar, an entrepreneur credited with pioneering sachet revolution in this part of the world, had an innate connection with the word innovation. He passed away here on October 7. Hailing from a rich trader family in the coastal town of Cuddalore in Tamil Nadu, Dr Rajkumar began experimenting with marketing shampoo and other products manufactured by his father since his college days and emerged successful. From stuffing powder in a piece of paper in the name of Vel shampoo to packing the liquid in tiny polythene covers to their current form of fool-proof sachets, it was all Dr Rajkumar’s idea that earned him the sobriquet “sachet king.” Dr Rajkumar, who is survived by his wife, two daughters and a son, manufactured and marketed Velvette shampoo, Nivaran 90 cough syrup, and memory-enhancer tablet Memory Plus, which were household names in the 1990s. Not just in India, the doctor-turned-entrepreneur spread his wings in countries like Singapore, Malaysia, and Sri Lanka as well. “If not for his (Rajkumar’s) risk-taking abilities, we would have remained as a small trader family from Cuddalore. If today the CK (Chinni Krishna) family is known across India, it is only because of my elder brother,” C K Kumaravel, CEO of Naturals salon and Rajkumar’s brother, told& Deccan Herald. FMCG major Cavinkare is owned by Rajkumar’s another brother C K Ranganathan. “My brother lived Bernard Shaw’s quote that the unreasonable man persists in trying to adapt the world to himself and therefore all progress depends on the unreasonable man. We saw him bring about the sachet revolution which made products affordable to the common man. Today we get everything in a sachet, but the seed for it was sown by my brother,” Kumaravel added. Dr E S S Raman, a diabetologist and college mate of Dr Rajkumar, said: “He began marketing shampoo powder in the 1970s when we were pursuing medicine at the Kilpauk Medical College Hospital. The powder stuffed in a piece of paper was available only at a tea shop outside our hostel. It is the same powder that was later converted into shampoo in the name of Velvette.” Though the entrepreneurial nature never left his mind and heart, Dr Rajkumar pursued higher studies and became an ophthalmologist but his father’s sudden death in 1979 forced him to take over the family business which he transformed into an empire. The company that he took over was doing business only in three to four districts in Tamil Nadu, but Dr Rajkumar wanted the Velvette brand to reach the nook and corner of India that he approached industrialist Adi Godrej for marketing his brand. The partnership with Godrej changed the fortunes for Velvette which became a national brand in just about a year. When the first consignment valued at Rs 4.5 lakh was sent to Godrej, Rajkumar got a phone call from Bombay (now Mumbai) informing that the sachets were leaking. “The episode could have jeopardised our relationship with Godrej, but my brother Rajkumar solved the problem by spending sleepless nights for about two months. He literally stayed at the factory. Once the problem was solved, there was no looking back for him,” Kumaravel said. After Velvette became popular, Dr Rajkumar and a few of his friends formulated an herbal cough syrup and named it Nivaran 90 as it was introduced in the year 1990. “It was the first time a cough syrup was coming in a sachet and not in a bottle. I was the one who made the presentation before Adi Godrej about Nivaran 90 and he was impressed with the product,” Dr Raman told Deccan Herald. Likewise, Memory Plus, was also an herbal-based product which was quite popular, and Dr Rajkumar hired Indian chess grandmaster and former World chess champion Viswanathan Anand as its brand ambassador. In 2008, Dr Rajkumar signed cricketing sensation M S Dhoni to promote Memory Vita, a memory enhancer health drink. “He was always future oriented. Even when I met him two weeks back, he was talking about how one’s action should have the future in mind. His singular focus was innovation and his powerful brain helped him achieve his goals,” Kumaravelu said, adding that his brother’s last advice to a close friend was “believe in the impossible and defeat the undefeatable.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dr-c-k-rajkumar-the-velvette-man-who-pioneered-the-sachet-revolution-899606.html
09-10-2020||South||Four held for IPL betting in Bengaluru||Four people were arrested here for allegedly betting on IPL cricket matches, police said on Friday. Acting on a tip-off, the gang was arrested on Thursday near the RTO office under Yashwanthapura police station limits. The accused were betting on the ongoing IPL cricket matches, they said adding cash Rs three lakh and four mobile phones were recovered from them||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/four-held-for-ipl-betting-in-bengaluru-899616.html
09-10-2020||South||Gold smuggling case: M Sivasankar appears before Customs||Suspended IAS officer M Sivasankar on Friday appeared before the Customs, investigating the sensational Kerala gold smuggling case. Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate probing the case had interrogated Sivasankar twice earlier after his alleged links with Swapna Suresh, prime accused in the gold smuggling, surfaced. Central agencies, including National Investigating Agency, Customs and the Enforcement Directorate, are conducting separate inquiries into the seizure of gold worth nearly Rs 15 crore from a "diplomatic baggage" at Thiruvananthapuram International airport on July 5. Several people, including two former employees of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, Swapna Suresh and Sarith P S, have been arrested by the central agencies in connection with the case. The Enforcement Directorate, probing the money trail in the smuggling case, has said a thorough investigation of Sivasankar is required in the gold smuggling case as he allegedly facilitated opening a locker for Swapna Suresh. The locker with a nationalised bank was used by Suresh to keep the profits from the smuggling, the ED had said on Tuesday in an interim charge-sheet submitted in the Special Court for PMLA cases against three accused including Suresh, Sarith P S and Sandeep Nair.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/gold-smuggling-case-m-sivasankar-appears-before-customs-899621.html
09-10-2020||South||Ecologists raise concerns over Wayanad tunnel project||Greens in Kerala have raised concerns and doubts over the much-hyped tunnel road announced by the Kerala government as an alternative to the ghat roads to Wayanad. Attempts to exploit the granite resources, ecological impact posed by the 6.8 kilometre long tunnel, and a pre-poll gimmick are some of the concerns and allegations being raised by the environmental activists of Wayanad against the project that was formally announced by Kerala Chief Minister the other day. The proposed tunnel between Anakkampoyil in Kozhikode and Meppadi in Wayanad, expected to be the third-longest tunnel in the country, was mooted as a solution to overcome the difficulties being faced in developing the ghat road. Moreover, it would also bring down the distance between Wayanad and Kozhikode by around 30 kilometres, which would be beneficial for scores of vehicles frequently moving between Kerala and Karnataka along this route. Wayanad Prakruthi Samrakshana Samathi has raised concerns over the project which is in the initial stages of a survey by the Konkan Railway Corporation Limited. According to a social media post of the Samathi, the project involved a plot to procure lakhs of cubic metric quarries stone. Moreover, the tunnel is proposed through parts of the Chembramala-Vellarimala Camel Hump complex which was one of the ecologically sensitive areas of Western Ghats. The Samathi also accused that the project was being initiated without obtaining clearance from the environment ministry and detailed project report or technical study were also not yet conducted. The Samathi also termed as an election gimmick the announcement of Kerala Chief Minister that it would be completed in three years. Work on the recently commissioned Atal tunnel began way back on 2002 and a 900 metre Kuthiran tunnel at Thrissur in Kerala is yet to be commissioned even more than six years after the work began, the Samathi pointed out. Referring to criticisms that the greens were opposing development work, the Samathi pointed out that many development projects launched in Wayanad over the last few decades were yet to materialise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ecologists-raise-concerns-over-wayanad-tunnel-project-899676.html
09-10-2020||South||Southern Rlys clarifies: No Nilgiris Mountain Rail service from October 10||The Salem division of Southern Railway on Friday clarified that Nilgiris Mountain Rail (NMR) services between Coonoor and Udhagamandalam would not resume from Saturday as was reported in a section of the media. There were news items that NMR services were set to resume from October 10. The date of resumption of services would be notified to the public through the media by the railway administration, a press release from the division said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/southern-rlys-clarifies-no-nilgiris-mountain-rail-service-from-october-10-899685.html
09-10-2020||South||Kerala women who manhandled vlogger get strictures from court, denied anticipatory bail||Three women, including known Malayalam dubbing artiste Bhagyalakshmy, who received  appreciations from various quarters for assaulting and abusing a vlogger for posting derogatory posts, faced strictures from court for taking law into their hands. A local court in Thiruvananthapuram also denied anticipatory bail to the three. Bhagyalakshmy, activists Diya Sana and Sreelakhmsi Arackal assaulted and abused vlogger Vijay P Nair in Thruvananthapuram on September 26 and posted a video of the same on social media. Posts of Vijay making insulting remarks against women was the provocation. A case for trespassing, theft, manhandling and abusing was registered against the women on the basis of a complaint given by Vijay. With the act of the women being hailed by many, the government was also learnt to have directed the police not to make swift actions against the women. However a section also flayed the act of the women taking law into their hands. Consider the anticipatory bail plea of three accused, the court maintained that if anticipatory bail was allowed to the accused it might sent wrong message to the society in favour of those breaking law. Meanwhile, Vijay P Nair was earlier arrested by the police in connection with cases registered against him for making the derogatory comments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-women-who-manhandled-vlogger-get-strictures-from-court-denied-anticipatory-bail-899695.html
09-10-2020||South||High Court allows 19-year-old girl to go with her 36-year-old MLA husband||19-year-old S Soundarya and her husband A Prabhu, an AIADMK MLA, can now enjoy their wedlock peacefully. The Madras High Court on Friday allowed Soundarya to go with Prabhu after the girl categorically said that she married the legislator after being in love with him for four months. Soundarya appeared before the division bench of justices M M Sundresh and D Krishnakumar during a hearing of the habeas corpus petition filed by her father who alleged that his daughter was kidnapped by the MLA from Kallakurichi constituency. The girl’s father Swaminathan, working as a priest at a temple in Thiyagadurgam, 235 km from here, in the newly-formed Kallakurichi district, also appeared before the court on Friday. The MLA, who belongs to Scheduled Caste, had married Soundarya at a simple ceremony in the presence of his family members on Monday amid drama as Swaminathan attempted to self-immolate outside the venue. During the hearing, Soundarya told the judges that she married Prabhu on her own will and that there was no force involved. The 19-year-old, who is pursuing a degree course, also said that she was neither abducted nor threatened by Prabhu as alleged by her father. “I want to go with my husband,” Soundarya told the judges who allowed her to go with Prabhu as both are adults and they entered into the wedlock willingly. Therefore, the case filed by the father does not hold, the judges ruled. However, the father indicated he might appeal against the order of the High Court as he feels his daughter is not mature enough to make decisions on her own. The priest maintained that he is opposed to the marriage only because of the age difference between the two. While Prabhu is 36 years old, Soundarya is just 19. Prabhu was close to Soundarya’s family for the past 10 years and had enjoyed a good rapport with them and that is how the couple came to know each other. “Since we treated him like our son, we never thought he would do this to us,” Swaminathan said. Prabhu told DH, “My wife made it categorical to the judges that she married me at her own will and that there was no force. She went to the court alone and expressed her wish to continue living with me. I stand vindicated today. I never forced or kidnapped Soundarya.” He maintained that his father-in-law was “playing into the hands” of people who want to use their marriage to settle political scores with him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/high-court-allows-19-year-old-girl-to-go-with-her-36-year-old-mla-husband-899698.html
09-10-2020||South||Political violence stigmatising Bengal; police should be neutral: Dhankhar||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Friday said that political violence is stigmatising the state and asked the police and bureaucrats to work as "public servants, not political servants". He maintained that his recent Twitter post saying more than one rape or kidnapping took place in West Bengal every hour in August was based on official data, though the state Home Department, which is under Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, termed it as "baseless". "West Bengal is the cultural epicentre of the world. Political violence is stigmatising the state," Dhankhar said while addressing a press conference here in North Bengal. His statement came days after Manish Shukla, a BJP leader of Titagarh in North 24 Parganas district, was shot dead, with the saffron party claiming that the TMC was behind it. The ruling party has denied the charge. "We have an unrivalled heritage. Why should our face be blackened by such kind of political violence, political vendetta, targeted killings with no space for the opposition? This is not a democracy," he said. The governor, who has been at loggerheads with the state government over a range of issues, asserted that he means it if he says that the state will have free and fair polls. Assembly elections in West Bengal are likely to be held in April or May next year. Holding that more than one rape or kidnapping took place in West Bengal every hour in August as per data provided to him officially, Dhankhar said that by bringing the information in public knowledge, he sensitised people on crime against women. He said that reports containing data on crime for August were sent to him by divisional commissioners, which they had simultaneously sent to the chief secretary of the state. "In the month of August, in the state of West Bengal there were 223 rapes, there were 639 kidnappings; if we go by the hour, there were more than one rape or kidnapping during each hour of August, 2020," he said. It was authentic official information with the signature of district magistrates and divisional commissioners, but the state Home department termed the data as incorrect, the governor said. "I have put both the chief secretary and the home secretary on caution. I am yet to get their response," he said. The Raj Bhavan and the Trinamool Congress government had on October 6 crossed swords over statistics of rapes and kidnappings with the state Home Department questioning the authenticity of the figures quoted by Dhankhar. After the department tweeted that the "Allegations are baseless, ill-founded, and misguiding", the governor asked the chief secretary and additional chief secretary in-charge of Home Department to withdraw it. "All bureaucrats, in administration and police, must never forget that they have to be politically neutral. They are public servants, they are not political servants," Dhankhar said in the press conference. Describing the situation as grim and alarming, he said, "The long arm of the law will catch up with them. We cannot have bureaucracy and police that is politicised." Posters and festoons decrying the governor and alleging that he is acting on behalf of a particular political party appeared at various places on the roads through which he travelled to Alipurduar on Friday morning to pay homage to Galwan martyr Havildar Bipul Roy. In his Twitter handle, however, Dhankhar shared a video clip of a group of people who were standing by a village road, waving at his convoy. Several of them were holding printed message welcoming the governor. The governor said that he will spend the month of November at the Raj Bhavan in Darjeeling and will visit various districts of North Bengal. He said that the region has great potential for tourism and the tea industry, Dhankhar said that rail tracks between Haldibari in North Bengal's Jalpaiguri district and Chilahati in neighbouring Bangladesh will be functional from March next year after 56 years. According to a North East Frontier Railway spokesman, work on relaying of tracks on the route is almost complete and other construction work will also be completed by December. He said that the Asian Highway connecting several countries in South East Asia will have a significant impact on the development of the North Bengal region of the state along with the north-eastern states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/political-violence-stigmatising-bengal-police-should-be-neutral-dhankhar-899720.html
09-10-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh to step up activities to inculcate Covid Appropriate Behaviour||Coronavirus cases in Andhra Pradesh have been on a declining trend over the past couple of weeks but the state government has decided to step up Information, Education and Communication activities to inculcate Covid-Appropriate Behaviour (CAB) among people as "we have to live with the virus for a year or more". The state government has also decided to continue the behavioural change communication strategy to make the communities more resilient for any future epidemic, according to Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney. Besides, immunity-boosting activities like yoga and meditation would also be promoted. In an official order here on Friday, the Chief Secretary listed out a set of activities to be undertaken to promote CAB to contain and control the infection. "The Risk Communication and Community Engagement strategy needs to be further strengthened, continued and scaled up," Sawhney said. Intensive measures, including multiple lockdowns, enabled the state to reach a stage where the number of Covid-19 cases declined on a day-to-day basis. "But we have to live with the virus for a year or more. Hence there is a need to inculcate CAB like wearing of (facial) mask, maintaining physical distancing and frequent hand washing as the new normal to keep the virus away," the Chief Secretary added. As most of the economic activity has been opened up, CAB must be reinforced at every given opportunity, she stressed. All shops have been mandated to display posters on CAB. Under the RCCE strategy, 1.06 crore households in the state have been covered in one round so far and another house-to-house campaign would be taken up every month until the pandemic is over. The Chief Secretary said the Department of Ayush would take the lead in organising yoga and meditation classes in all villages and (urban) wards as part of immunity-boosting measures. "Covid-19 has brought out many doubts and fears among the citizens and it is important to educate them with correct information. Building trust, reducing fear and stigma and providing psycho-social support are the critical elements to address the stigma," Sawhney said. The Chief Secretary said there were around 77 lakh Arogya Setu mobile application users in the state now as against the estimated 1.3 crore smartphone users. She directed the Village and Ward Secretariats Department to sensitise people on the Arogya Setu App and facilitate its downloading through the volunteers' network.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-to-step-up-activities-to-inculcate-covid-appropriate-behaviour-899738.html
09-10-2020||South||Deendayal Upadhyaya Institute of Archaeology adds Tamil as requirement for PG course||After outrage from various quarters, the Noida-based Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya Institute of Archaeology on Friday included master’s degree in Tamil as a minimum qualification for a two-year Post-Graduate Diploma in Archaeology. The institute carried a corrigendum regarding qualification criteria for the PG diploma course on Friday by including Tamil. The classical language was left out in the notification issued earlier this well, evoking protests from various political parties in Tamil Nadu. Madurai Lok Sabha MP and award-winning author Su. Venkatesan was the first to raise the issue, followed by DMK President M K Stalin and Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami who dashed off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his intervention. “I appreciate the prompt response and once again thank you for the immediate action in the matter,” Palaniswami told Modi in a fresh letter sent on Friday. The corrigendum by the institute was issued on Friday, hours after the Chief Minister’s letter reached the Prime Minister’s Office. "Tamil, which was the first language in India officially recognised as a classical language in 2004, has been completely ignored (in the admission process)," Palaniswami had told Modi on Thursday. The corrigendum also evoked a positive response from Stalin who said languages are the cultural base in pluralistic India and warned the BJP against showing "step motherly treatment" in dealing with them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/deendayal-upadhyaya-institute-of-archaeology-adds-tamil-as-requirement-for-pg-course-899741.html
09-10-2020||South||Tamil Nadu records 5,185 new Covid-19 cases||Tamil Nadu on Friday reported 5,185 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 6,46,128, while the death toll mounted 10,120 with 68 fatalities. Testing of samples inched towards the one lakh mark with 97,087 being done, aggregating to 81,41,534 so far. The number of recoveries outnumbered new infections. The active cases stood at 44,197, with 5,357 patients getting discharged from various hospitals and cumulatively 5,91,811 people have got cured, the health department said in a bulletin. Of the fresh infections, Chennai had 1,288, Coimbatore 397, Chengalpet 343, Salem 295, Thanjavur 240 and Thiruvallur 226, followed by others all over the state, the bulletin said. Of the total of 6.46 lakh cases, Chennai's tally was the most at 1,79,424, while eight districts saw the number of infections going up by 100 cases each. Among the 68 fatalities reported today, four had no comorbidities. The death toll at 10,120 till date includes Chennai's 3,373. Nineteen of those who tested positive today were returnees from other states, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-records-5185-new-covid-19-cases-899801.html
09-10-2020||South||Covid-19 positive persons vote in Telangana Legislative Council bypoll||Recording a unique first, Covid-19 positive persons exercised their franchise wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) kits in a bypoll to the Telangana Legislative Council from Nizamabad Local Authorities constituency on Friday. Three candidates, including Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao's daughter and former MP K Kavitha, are in the fray. Representatives of local bodies are the voters in the bypoll. The total number of voters in the election was 824, but one person passed away, according to official sources. Out of the remaining 823 voters, 821 people cast their vote, while two others used postal ballots, the sources said. A total of 15 voters, who tested positive for Covid-19, exercised their franchise, they said. The administration made some special arrangements for the Covid-19 positive voters, providing PPE kits and arranging ambulances. Out of the 15 Covid-19 positive voters, 13 turned up at the polling stations to vote wearing PPE kits, while two availed of postal ballot, the sources said. Some people came to the polling stations in their own vehicles. Counting of votes will be taken up on October 12. The bypoll is necessitated due to the disqualification of sitting TRS MLC Bhoopathi Reddy after he switched over to the Congress at the time of the 2018 assembly elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-positive-persons-vote-in-telangana-legislative-council-bypoll-899811.html
09-10-2020||State||B S Yediyurappa condoles Ram Vilas Paswan's death, calls him voice of poor and underprivileged||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, former prime minister H D Deve Gowda among other leaders condoled the demise of Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, remembering him as a leader who gave voice to the poor. Paswan (74), who was the Lok Janshakti Party patron, had undergone a heart surgery at a hospital in Delhi a few days ago and died on Thursday evening. "Deeply anguished by the passing away of Union Minister and veteran leader Shri Ram Vilas Paswan ji. He will be remembered as a leader who gave voice to the poor, underprivileged, and marginalised. My heartfelt condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti," Yediyurappa tweeted. Deve Gowda, in whose cabinet Paswan worked as Railway Minister, said he was deeply saddened. "I am deeply saddened by the demise of Union Minister and 8-term MP Shri. Ram Vilas Paswan ji. He was very dear to me and had worked as the Railways Minister in my cabinet. Losing a very senior leader like him is a great loss for our country," the JDS leader tweeted. Paswan was the Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution in the current government. Karnataka BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel also expressed grief over the passing away of Paswan. He had been in active politics for more than five decades and was a senior Dalit leader, he said. Congress legislature party leader Siddaramaiah in a tweet said, "Saddened by the demise of Union Minister Shri. Ram Vilas Paswan. He was one of the finest leaders of our country and his work speaks for his commitment. My deepest condolences to his family members and well-wishers." JD(S) leader and former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy also condoled Paswan's death, saying he was the voice of the underprivileged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/b-s-yediyurappa-condoles-ram-vilas-paswans-death-calls-him-voice-of-poor-and-underprivileged-899374.html
09-10-2020||State||How this dance haven near Bengaluru shuts out the world||The other day, I took a tour around Nrityagram. This small community near Bangalore, in southern India, is an oasis of calm and utter devotion to an ancient art: classical Indian dance. Birds were calling, and around the low, earth-colored buildings containing dance studios, living quarters and a small temple, stood hundreds of vibrantly green trees, dripping with moisture. (It is the end of the wet season.) As I rounded a bend in the path, I saw little girl wearing bright orange and yellow, daydreaming in a banyan tree. She slid down from her perch and joined the walkabout. This early morning scene — the trees, the gray sky threatening rain, people sitting at breakfast — unfolded as I peered into a screen on my phone late at night in my New York apartment. The tour was virtual, conducted on WhatsApp. That is more or less the only way you can visit Nrityagram these days, since it closed its doors to the outside world at the beginning of the pandemic. “We have been living our lives exactly as if nothing has happened,” Surupa Sen, Nrityagram’s artistic director of 23 years, said later in an interview on Zoom. Under her leadership, Nrityagram continues to be what it always has been, but more so: a dance haven, self-contained and single-minded in its focus, at a remove from a chaotic and sometimes frightening world. The virus has spread widely in India. As I write this, it is second only to the United States in total number of cases, its official death toll surpassing 100,000. But within the 10 acres that make up Nrityagram, life has remained remarkably unchanged. Even before a general lockdown was declared in India, Nrityagram limited access. The dance students — nearly 150 from nearby villages and as far as Bangalore attend classes — have been asked to stay away, for fear of introducing COVID-19 into this small, intimately entwined community. Because there is so little communication with the outside world, the people who live within this self-contained hamlet don’t wear masks, and training continues unperturbed, in studios that are open on the sides to the elements, allowing the breeze to blow through year-round. The only people who come and go are a small group of women from the nearby village, who help with daily chores. Upon arrival, they are asked to change into clothes that have been washed on-site and to don masks. The form practiced by Sen and her dancers is Odissi, which originated in the eastern state of Odisha. It is one of India’s eight official classical dance forms, with movements and shapes that evoke the sculptures and bas-reliefs on medieval temples. In its origins, it is a devotional form, dedicated to the deity Jagannath, whose name means lord of the universe. “The idea is that you submit yourself to a universal something,” Sen said. Her works have extended the form, while remaining true to its underlying drive, the search for transcendence. Sen and her dancers devote most of their waking hours to perfecting this art, refining and strengthening their bodies through exercise, and perfecting their dancing through technique classes and rehearsals in which they learn traditional Odissi choreography as well as new works by Sen. For now, the group is all women; the sole male dancer returned to Mumbai to visit his family early in the pandemic and has not yet returned. Life here has continued to follow a routine. For this piece, we asked the dancers to document their day, from dawn to dusk, capturing moments and places with disposable cameras. At 6 a.m., they rise for a morning run. Then, each woman is responsible for cleaning some part of the hamlet and for placing flowers on the small altars in the dance studios. These rituals are “part of the practice, part of giving back to the guru,” or teacher, “and to the school.” And “it’s part of their training,” said Lynne Fernandez, Nrityagram’s executive director. Next, they warm up by doing yoga or practicing the Indian martial art form Kalaripayattu. At 10:30 a.m., dance class begins, starting with exercises that target one kind of movement and then another — sharp and fast, slow and supple, low to the ground, up in the air, and more. In its gradual, almost scientific progression from one part of the body to the next, it is not dissimilar to a ballet class. After lunch — “our favorite moment of the day!” one of the dancers, Abhinaya Rohan, said during our WhatsApp tour — they return to the studio for another three or four hours, more if Sen is creating a new dance. In the evenings, they teach. These days, that happens over Zoom, though everyone agrees that it’s not good for conveying the nuances of dance. “It’s not the same kind of energy,” said Pavithra Reddy, who has been at Nrityagram for 30 years. “And we have to slow down a lot, so that the dancers can understand what we’re looking for.” Still, it’s something. That makes for at least six hours of dancing each day (except Mondays, their day off), plus conditioning. It sounds exhausting, but Rohan said: “The strange thing about dance is that it energizes you. I never feel tired.” Besides the dancers and Aishani Dash, the little girl in the tree, there are six other members of the community, whose work allows the dancers to devote themselves to their art: Two office workers and two volunteers who are helping to set up a Food Forest, a haphazard-looking but productive and low-maintenance agricultural system that produces most of the community’s food; And there are Fernandez and her mother, whom everyone refers to as nani, or grandmother. Nani makes meal plans and prepares pickles to last them through the year. Usually, Nrityagram survives almost exclusively on performance fees brought in by its dance ensemble, which tours the world for several months each year and has been a not-infrequent visitor to New York. (The dance classes are priced too low to bring in significant income.) With all performances canceled for the foreseeable future, that income has disappeared completely. Recently, they were forced to hold an emergency fundraiser online. Aishani, 11, is the only child living among adults, as well as a devoted student of dance who takes daily class and rehearses with the members of the ensemble. In a rehearsal I watched remotely, she considered every correction Sen gave her with diligence and gravity. “We discovered her dancing by herself when she was 4 or 5,” Sen said after the class. “She was making up her own dances to the music coming from the studio. So we had her join the weekend class with the other kids.” In their absence, she has graduated to working with the adults. One day, she said, she hopes to become a professional dancer. No longer able to tour or hold performances for locals, the dancers have taken to performing for one another. “It helps us keep that performance drive,” said Dhruvatara Sharma, a member of the ensemble. “Actually, there is even more pressure. You have to be perfect, because you’re performing for a really well-educated audience.” Afterward, they talk into the night, offering minute critiques and observations. It’s something they would normally have neither the time, nor the occasion, to do. Sen performs, too, and the intimate, informal setting allows her to try things she would hesitate to in a conventional performance. “Last time,” she said, “I danced four pieces I would never normally do together. They were all on the sad side, about longing. Normally this would just be too much, too much intensity.” After two decades of teaching, choreographing and touring, Sen has been able to slow down and rediscover her own dancing. “I feel like I’m looking at myself as a dancer for the first time in my life,” she said. “And I’m discovering that this color is also there, and that color.” All this, she says, will be reflected in whatever she chooses to create next. This has been true for the other dancers as well. For one, they’ve had much more uninterrupted, concentrated time to work with their guru — but also to think about their dancing outside of the pressure of preparing for a performance. “The fact that you are able to do it in an environment of sheer focus and consistency, it brings a certain purity to it,” Sen said. “There is the sense of extending yourself beyond just yourself.” What the dancers of Nrityagram have gained, most of all, is time. Even here, the dimension of time has changed in the pandemic, opening up spaces in the dancers’ schedule and their minds. “Odissi comes from an era when people had more time, when you could live in a moment much longer,” Sen explained. “Finding that sense of longing, of yearning for something, takes time. You have to stay with it for a while, sit in it and experience all the colors of it.” Now, protected from the storm that surrounds them, that time has come for the dancers of Nrityagram.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/how-this-dance-haven-near-bengaluru-shuts-out-the-world-899521.html
09-10-2020||State||Technical team visits Mysuru to examine Dasara preparations||A technical team, appointed by the Karnataka government, to examine and ensure precautions were in place for Mysuru's Dasara celebration arrived in the city on Friday. The team was constituted to ensure Dasara celebrations went hand in hand with Covid-19 protocols. The team, comprising three officials, is discussing the recommendations with officials at the Office of Deputy Commissioner. The team will visit Chamudi Hill where Dasasra celebrations will begin on October 17 and also inspect Mysuru Palace premises where the jumbo savari will be held on October 26. The team is likely to submit a detailed report recommending measures to be taken.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/technical-team-visits-mysuru-to-examine-dasara-preparations-899540.html
09-10-2020||State||Don’t panic, Karnataka government will decide carefully: BS Yediyurappa assures parents||Amid a raging debate on reopening schools, Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday requested parents of schoolchildren not to pay heed to speculation and assured them that a decision will be taken only after weighing the pros and cons. “Keeping in mind the health and future of children, a meeting of all leaders from all political parties, experts and senior officials will be held to discuss the pros and cons of reopening schools,” Yediyurappa said in a statement. “Until then, I request parents not to pay heed to rumours or speculation over reopening of schools,” he said. Yediyurappa noted that there were differing views on reopening schools during the Covid-19 pandemic. “I have seen media campaigns on this. Also, several political leaders have taken a stand on this,” Yediyurappa said. The Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has recommended opening schools and declaring the 2020-21 academic year as exam-free. The commission said children could be forced into child labour or marriage if schools did not open. Earlier in the day, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah penned a 3-page letter to Primary & Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar asking the government not to reopen schools until the situation was brought under control. Citing government data, Siddaramaiah pointed out that 20,256 children aged below 10 years and 47,061 aged 11-20 were infected with Covid-19, leaving 61 dead. “There is no doubt that child marriage, child labour and other such social evils could increase. But, if district administrations are woken up from their slumber, these problems can be tackled. In order to face one problem, it is unimaginable to push children into the mouth of death,” the Congress leader said. Urging the government to provide the necessary infrastructure for online classes, Siddaramaiah said: “I suggest that all the students be promoted to the next class this academic year and schools can be reopened after consulting everyone, once the situation comes under control.” Former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy of the JD(S) also asked the government not to open up schools yet. “Everybody’s opinion, especially parents, is against opening schools. Life is important. Only if there’s life, one can think about the future,” he told reporters, adding that he would personally talk to Yediyurappa on this.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/don-t-panic-karnataka-government-will-decide-carefully-bs-yediyurappa-assures-parents-899707.html
09-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Former CMs H D Kumaraswamy and Siddaramaiah urge Karnataka govt not to reopen schools due to spurt in Covid-19 cases||Former Chief Ministers Siddaramaiah and H D Kumaraswamy on Friday urged the Karnataka government not to reopen schools, citing the spurt in Covid-19 cases. While Siddaramaiah, who is the leader of the opposition, has written to Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar, urging him not to consider reopening schools until the situation comes under control, Kumaraswamy said he would speak to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa personally on the matter. The government too has said that any decision would be taken after considering the situation and consulting experts and parents. "Regarding opening of schools...opinions of everyone, especially parents, is that they are hundred per cent against opening schools. I urge the government, on behalf of the parents, that lives are important... only if there is life can one think about the future," Kumaraswamy told reporters here. He said the government should not be adamant on this issue or bow to pressure from some people who want to make money and play with the lives of the children and parents. "I will speak to the Chief Minister personally and request him not to budge to any pressure," he added. Siddaramaiah too, in his letter to Education Minister Suresh Kumar said that under no circumstances should schools be reopened until the situation was brought under control. Pointing out that several private schools in urban areas have started online classes, he said this was necessary for all students in the state, and urged the government to provide the necessary amenities for it. "I suggest that all the students be promoted to next class this academic year and schools can be reopened after consulting everyone, once the situation comes under control," Siddaramaiah added. Noting that students cannot be expected to follow Covid- 19 protocol measures like wearing masks, sanitising hands and maintaining social distancing when elders themselves don't follow it at most times,he said if students are infected, they may pose risk to adults at home, especially senior citizens. He cited government data, as per which 20,256 children aged below 10 and 47,061 aged between 11 to 20 have been infected by virus, and 61 have died from both age groups. Chief Minister Yediyurappa, who chaired a meeting of administrations of 10 districts with high positive cases on Thursday, had said a decision on reopening schools would be taken keeping the situation in mind and after taking the consent of parents.  In the guidelines issued at the beginning of this month, the government had said the Department of Primary and Secondary Education may take a decision on re-opening schools and coaching institutions after October 15 in a graded manner. It further said the decision shall be taken in consultation with the respective managements of the schools/institutions, based on their assessment of the situation and laid out certain conditions for it. However, according to reports, due to the recent spurt in cases, the Education department has decided to wait for another one month before taking any decision. As of October 8 evening, cumulatively 6,79,356 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 9,675 deaths and 5,52,519 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. The state has been reporting over 10,000 fresh positive cases daily during the last couple of days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/former-cms-h-d-kumaraswamy-and-siddaramaiah-urge-karnataka-govt-not-to-reopen-schools-due-to-spurt-in-covid-19-cases-899640.html
09-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Important to take care of mental health during Covid-19 pandemic, says Karnataka Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar||People should take care of their mental health, apart from their physical well being, during the Covid-19 pandemic, Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said here on Friday. He also suggested that the public could avail of personal counselling provided by the state government in case they needed it. "Citizens should concentrate more on their mental health during this pandemic period. Suicide, madness, stress and other such things are the result of mental depression," Sudhakar was quoted as saying by his office in a release. Noting that WHO reports around 7.5 per cent people in India are victims of mental depression and the country contributes 15 per cent of global mental illness, he cited a survey which said that by 2020, 20 per cent of people in India would suffer from mental illness In view of such factors, people should prioritise mental health, he said. Pointing out that Karnataka has a separate mental health authority, the Minister said over 7.13 lakh people had already availed of personal counselling facility. "Our doctors and nurses are boosting the morale of the patients, apart from rendering regular treatment," he said October 10 is observed as world mental health day to create awareness about mental health. Highlighting the hardships caused by the pandemic,he said many people had lost their jobs due to the economic crisis, others have had salaries deducted, while those who have jobs are mostly working from homes. These were some causes for mental depression, he said, adding that family members should support the victims in such difficult times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/important-to-take-care-of-mental-health-during-covid-19-pandemic-says-karnataka-medical-education-minister-k-sudhakar-899693.html
09-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka bypolls: 6.76 lakh voters in Sira, RR Nagar, says poll panel||A total of 6.76 lakh people, including more than 7,000 first-timers, are eligible to vote in the November 3 Sira and Rajarajeshwari Nagar bypolls, the Election Commission said in its official notification on Friday.  Chief Electoral Officer Sanjiv Kumar also released general guidelines for the conduct of bypolls during the Covid-19 pandemic, which state that only five people, including the candidate, will be allowed to go for door-to-door campaigns.  According to the notification, there are 2.15 lakh voters in Sira and 4.60 lakh in Rajarajeshwari Nagar. Of the total 1,008 polling stations, Sira has 330 and Rajarajeshwari Nagar 678.  Authorities will deploy 2,034 electronic voting machines with voter-verified paper audit trail (VVPAT) systems.  Three categories of voters will be allowed to vote through postal ballot: Persons with disabilities, those aged above 80 years of age and those who are suspected to have Covid-19 or are under quarantine.  At the polling station, every official will be given a kit comprising a mask, sanitizer, face shield and gloves. Thermal scanning will be done for every voter and social distance will be maintained with 6-feet distance.  For political parties to hold road shows, the convoy should be broken after five instead of ten vehicles. “The interval between two sets of convoy vehicles should be half an hour instead of a gap of 100 metres,” Kumar said in a release.  At rallies or election meetings, the political parties and candidates should ensure that all Covid-19 requirements - masks, sanitizers, thermal scanning and so on - are fulfilled, Kumar said . The election model code of conduct is being enforced through 42 flying squads and 35 static surveillance teams. While authorities have not seized cash till date, 251 litres of liquor worth Rs 1.15 lakh have been caught.  In Sira, authorities have removed 887 wall writings, posters and banners from public and private properties, whereas the figure stands at 593 in Rajarajeshwari Nagar.  The last date for candidates to file nominations is October 16. The nominations will be scrutinized on October 17 and they can be withdrawn before October 19. The date of poll is November 3 and votes will be counted on November 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bypolls-676-lakh-voters-in-sira-rr-nagar-says-poll-panel-899694.html
09-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka court directs police to register FIR against Kangana Ranaut for 'anti-farmer' tweet||A court in Tumakuru district of Karnataka on Friday directed the police to register an FIR against actress Kangana Ranaut on her recent tweet allegedly targeting farmers protesting the farm laws. Based on a complaint by a lawyer L Ramesh Naik, the Judicial Magistrate First Class (JMFC) court directed the inspector of Kyathasandra police station to register an FIR against the actress. The court said the complainant had filed an application under section 156(3) of the CrPC for investigation. "The office is hereby directed to issue intimation to the circle police inspector of Kyathasandra police station along with (a) photostat copy of the complaint for report," it added. Naik, who hails from Kyathasandra, told PTI that in connection with his criminal case against the actress,the court had directed the jurisdictional police station to register an FIR and inquire.  The actress had tweeted on September 21 from her Twitter handle @KanganaTeam: "People who spread misinformation and rumours about CAA that caused riots are the same people who are now spreading misinformation about Farmers bill and causing terror in the nation, they are terrorists. You very well know what I said but simply like to spread misinformation." Naik said this tweet had hurt him and prompted him to file a case against Ranaut.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-court-directs-police-to-register-fir-against-kangana-ranaut-for-anti-farmer-tweet-899716.html
09-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Filing of nominations begins for Assembly bypolls in Karnataka||The process of filing of nominations for the November 3 bypolls to Sira and Rajarajeshwari Nagar (RR Nagar) Assembly constituencies in Karnataka began on Friday, with issuing of election notification. Congress' T B Jayachandra was the lone candidate who filed his nomination on Friday, the first day to so, from Sira; while no candidate filed papers from R R Nagar segment. The by-elections have been necessitated for Sira following the death of JD(S) legislator B Sathyanarayana in August; while the Rajarajeshwari Nagar seat fell vacant following the disqualification of Congress MLA N Munirathna under the anti-defection law last year. While the Congress has fielded Jayachandra, a former Minister, who had represented the seat in the past as the candidate from Sira, JD(S) with an eye on sympathy votes has fielded Ammajamma, the wife of late Sathyanarayana as the candidate. The ruling BJP is yet to announce its candidate and speculation is rife that radiologist Dr C M Rajesh Gowda, the son of former Congress MP C P Mudalagiriyappa, who had recently joined the party, may get the ticket. In R R Nagar, the Congress has fielded a fresh face in the form of Kusuma H, wife of IAS officer DK Ravi, who died in March 2015. The 31-year old holds an MS degree in information technology from the University of Massachusetts, Boston, and is currently an assistant professor of computer science engineering at Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering. The JD(S) has shortlisted three probables -- party city unit chief R Praksah, RR Nagar President Bettaswamy Gowda and a leader from the Jnananbharathi ward Krishnamurthy; while the ruling BJP is also yet to announce its candidate. There is speculation that the BJP may field Munirathna, whose disqualification has necessitated the bypolls, from the seat, but there are also reports about strong resistance within the party against his candidature, as a section of the party has pitched for fielding Tulsi Muniraju Gowda, the party's defeated candidate in the 2018 elections. The last date for the filing of nomination is October 16, the scrutiny of papers will take place the next day. The last date for withdrawal of candidature is October 19 and results of the bypolls will be declared on November 10. As per the general guidelines issued by the office of the Chief Electoral Officer-Karnataka, a group of 5 people including candidates will be allowed for a door-to-door campaign. Election meetings like public gathering/ rallies may be conducted subject to adherence to Covid-19 guidelines, it said, adding that a kit with masks, sanitiser, face-shield and gloves will be provided to every polling official and security personnel. The election model code of conduct is in force and for it to be enforced 42 flying squads and 35 static surveillance teams have been activated, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/filing-of-nominations-begins-for-assembly-bypolls-in-karnataka-899804.html
09-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka records 10,913 new infections, Bengaluru reports over 5,000 Covid-19 cases||Karnataka on Friday reported 10,913 new cases of Covid-19 and 114 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 6,90,269 and the death toll to 9,789. This is the third consecutive day that the state has reported over 10,000 new infections in a single day. The day also saw 9,091 patients getting discharged after recovery. The total number of recoveries, as on October 9, stands at 5,61,610. Bengaluru Urban saw yet another single-day tally of 5,000-plus infections.  Friday's case count swelled the state capital's tally to 2,72,371. Of which, 62,104 are active cases. Mysuru continued to see a surge in Covid cases with 826 new infections on Friday. Hassan recorded 489 fresh cases followed by Davangere 450 and Chitradurga 418.  A total of 57,39,530 samples have been tested, so far. A record 1,09,980 tests, including 49,618 rapid antigen tests, were carried out across the state in the last 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-records-10913-new-infections-bengaluru-reports-over-5000-covid-19-cases-899840.html
09-10-2020||West||Disabled persons, cancer patients, accredited scribes can take Mumbai trains||Disabled persons, cancer patients and accredited journalists can travel by special trains in the Mumbai suburban network, railway officials said on Thursday. In view of the coronavirus pandemic, only essential services staff could travel by local trains till now. A release issued by the railways said that on the Maharashtra government's request, the Railway Ministry has granted permission to accredited press reporters, differently abled persons and cancer patients to travel by suburban trains in Mumbai. They will have to carry a valid identity card or certificate, the Central Railway release stated. On Wednesday, the railway authorities permitted the famous `dabbawalas' or tiffin carriers and the staff of foreign consulates and high commissions in Mumbai to board the suburban locals. Accredited press reporters should obtain QR code from the Maharashtra government at the earliest and until then they can travel on the basis of identity cards, the release said. P||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/disabled-persons-cancer-patients-accredited-scribes-can-take-mumbai-trains-899413.html
09-10-2020||West||Will be BJP's face for 2022 Assembly polls, says Goa CM Pramod Sawant||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday said he would be his party BJP's face for the 2022 state Assembly elections. Sawant said the BJP's state executive, at its meeting, has decided to project him as the chief ministerial face for the 2022 elections. During the state executive meeting, Goa BJP president Sadanand Tanavade has announced that the next elections would be fought under my leadership, he said. The Chief Minister, who assumed office in March 2019, claimed the BJP will win more than 30 out of the 40 assembly seats based on the performance of his government. He said the state government has done "commendable" job during the Covid-19 outbreak and provided adequate health infrastructure to tackle the virus. Sawant (47) said medical facilities offered by the state are the "best" in the country. The CM said he has been periodically analysing the performance of his ministers and they have done good job in their respective portfolios. Sawant said the Goa government will not allow Karnataka to divert water of the Mahadayi river, which has been a bone of contention between the two states. "I will put in more than 100 per cent efforts to ensure that the Mahadayi river water is not diverted by Karnataka, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-be-bjps-face-for-2022-assembly-polls-says-goa-cm-pramod-sawant-899440.html
09-10-2020||West||With Unlock 5, horse-riding club in Mumbai opens for non-members||With the government announcing Unlock 5.0, the Amateur Riders' Club (ARC), a civilian horse-riding club located at Mahalaxmi Race Course, has opened its doors for non-members by offering riding and training packages.  With over 150 people on their waitlist for the past few months, the club was obliged and eager to start the riding and equestrian-training packages. With all sporting functions coming to a halt and the loss of sponsorships and daily activities, the club faced lack of revenues for the past six months.  The riding packages now open to the public will act as a means to generate income for the club. ARC will permit a limited number of non-member applicants per month to enrol for riding packages of 10 sessions each. There will be fixed timings -- from 6 am to 8 am and 5 pm to 7 pm. The club has allocated 10 horses and two trainers, especially for this activity. While one out of the four arenas has been reserved exclusively for the same, the other three arenas (including the Olympic-level training ground) remain for members and athletes to train for future tournaments. While the club has addressed the social-distancing problem with the limited-riding entries, other safety measures like masks and sanitisers, along with all standard operating procedures, will be followed as per government regulations given the revival process. While riding packages and other outdoor activities have resumed, the clubhouse still remains under lockdown. Shyam Mehta, president, Amateur Riders’ Club says, “Given the limited outdoor activities in the city, we hope the riding and equestrian-training packages offer people the much-needed respite and fitness opportunity post the extensive lockdown. We will look to increase the number of non-member entries based on. the easing of restrictions and the nature of the virus spread.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/with-unlock-5-horse-riding-club-in-mumbai-opens-for-non-members-899464.html
09-10-2020||West||Goa govt to rope in AYUSH doctors to treat Covid-19 patients||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said that starting next week the state government will rope in AYUSH doctors in providing treatment to Covid-19 patients with mild to moderate symptoms. AYUSH is an acronym for five traditional systems of medicine- Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy. "From next week, the government will involve AYUSH doctors in treating Covid-19 patients with mild to moderate symptoms, along with other government doctors," Sawant said. "They would also be involved in post-Covid management of patients in the state," he added. The Chief Minister was speaking at the launch of home isolation kits. "There are 3,500 patients in the state, who have opted for home isolation. They would be provided these kits," Sawant said. He claimed that Goa's recovery rate of 85.98 per cent is the best in the country, while the number of tests being conducted is also the highest among states. "Goa has set up a robust infrastructure to tackle Covid-19 pandemic and there are sufficient number of beds in the state-run hospitals to admit infected persons," he said. The total number of beds available in different Covid Care hospitals in the state is 756, he said. The home isolation kit will help in treatment of patients, he said, adding, "It will eventually reduce the burden on hospitals." Till Thursday night, Goa has recorded 37,102 coronavirus positive cases, while 484 people have died. A total of 31,902 patients have recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-govt-to-rope-in-ayush-doctors-to-treat-covid-19-patients-899551.html
09-10-2020||West||Maratha groups stage protests over job reservation issue||Members of Maratha organisations hit the streets in different parts of Maharashtra on Friday to protest against the inept handling of the issue of quota for the community in jobs and education by the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. In Osmanabad district in central Maharashtra, protesters held a demonstration near the famous Tuljabhavani temple over the quota issue. BJP MP Sambhaji Chhatrapati also took part in the protest. Another protest was held at Parliin Beed district, also in central Maharashtra. The protesters accused the Shiv Sena-led government of adopting a lackadaisical attitude towards the quota issue. Because of an indifferent attitude by the three-party alliance government, the 2018 quota law was stayed by the Supreme Court, they alleged "We oppose the government going ahead with the police recruitment and Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) exams," they said. Maratha groups say these exams should not be conducted till there is a clarity on reservation for candidates from the community in government jobs. Meanwhile, BJP Rajya Sabha MP Udayanraje Bhosale, the direct descendant of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, supported the demand to postpone the October 11 MPSC exams. In a Facebook post, he said the Maratha Kranti Morcha and student organisations have demanded postponement of the MPSC exams, but the state government is going ahead with the them, which is unfair. "If there is any flare up, the state government will be held responsible," Bhosale said. Early last month, the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the 2018 Maharashtra law granting reservation to Marathas in education and jobs. It referred to a larger constitution bench the batch of pleas challenging the validity of the law granting reservation to Marathas in education and jobs. The Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018, was enacted to grant reservation to people of the Maratha community in jobs and admissions. The Bombay High Court, while upholding the law in June last year, had held that 16 per cent reservation was not justifiable and said that quota should not exceed 12 per cent in employment and 13 per cent in admissions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maratha-groups-stage-protests-over-job-reservation-issue-899558.html
09-10-2020||West||No one will be spared in TRP scam: MVA govt||With the Mumbai police unearthing two back-to-back scams – creating fake social media handles and manipulating TRPs – the Maharashtra government on Friday assured thorough probe in both the cases to take it to a logical conclusion. The constituents of the Maha Vikas Aghadi - Shiv Sena, NCP, and Congress – said that the social media profiles were created to target the Uddhav Thackeray government in wake of the Palghar mob lynching case and the Sushant Singh Rajput episode. “There would be detailed probes into both the cases,” state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said. On the TRP scam and the role of Republic TV and its Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami, he said, “We will not spare anyone if anything wrong has happened.” Asked whether the role of opposition BJP will be examined, Deshmukh, who is a senior NCP leader, said, “The investigations are being carried out…let the investigations continue…it would not be proper to comment.” Meanwhile, journalist-politician and Shiv Sena’s Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut said that the TRP scam is shocking. "Journalism is one of the four pillars of our democracy and a scam in this sector running into crores of rupees is shocking. Electronic media is also very important. But this is really unfortunate," he said, adding that the Mumbai Police is being lauded for the investigations.  Raut, the Shiv Sena chief spokesperson, said that Thackeray, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, Deshmukh, and himself were the targets of the channel.  Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant added, “It's neo terrorism - an attempt to sabotage democracy by artificially creating a narrative. Republic TV enjoys support from the Modi government. It's a criminal conspiracy of BJP against the country in which this channel is an accomplice.” Meanwhile, Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP Priyanka Chaturvedi has written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Information Technology Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad to probe into the creation of fake accounts to destabilise a government.   “The Mumbai Police in its investigation found around 80,000 fake social media accounts specifically created to target Maharashtra government and Mumbai Police. This issue of social media platforms being used to spread lies and hate to destabilise governments as well as undermine constitutional institutions needs to be investigated,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-one-will-be-spared-in-trp-scam-mva-govt-899592.html
09-10-2020||West||Goa government to tie-up with top industrial body to tap private job avenues||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said his government will tie-up with the states apex industry body to generate job opportunities in the private sector for local youths. Sawant said the state government, for the first time, has shared Employment Exchange data with the private sector to enable industries to recruit the best professionals available in Goa. Talking to PTI, the Chief Minister said at least 250 youths were gainfully employed in the private sector during the last 3 to 4 months through the state's Employment Exchange. He said youths registered with the Employment Exchange will get career counselling from the Goa Chamber of Commerce & Industry (GCCI) which will also help them get jobs under a tie-up with the government. Expressing unhappiness over frequent opposition to development initiatives in the state, Sawant said some people are opposing a marina project, which has the potential to change the face of tourism in Goa. A private investor has proposed setting up a marina (a specially designed harbour for small boats & yachts) at Nauxim village near Panaji, which is being opposed by locals. Once the marina comes up, locals would be able to earn more than what they are earning now, Sawant said. The chief minister also referred to the opposition being faced from local residents to the proposed IIT at Melavali village in Sattari taluka. If the IIT comes up at Melavali, it will benefit all residents of the village, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-government-to-tie-up-with-top-industrial-body-to-tap-private-job-avenues-899597.html
09-10-2020||West||No garba in Gujarat this Navratri due to coronavirus||The pomp and grandeur associated with Navratri in Gujarat will be largely missing this year as the state government on Friday banned organisation of any 'garba' event during the upcoming festival due to the coronavirus pandemic. The government said it will not allow any type of garba event in the state during Navratri, starting from October 17, and also released a set of guidelines for the festive season, which usually sees large gatherings, a fertile ground for Covid-19 spread. For the upcoming festivals, the BJP government released standard operating procedures (SOPs) which stress on Covid-19-appropriate behaviour by citizens to curb the infection. No big, medium or small scale garba event will be allowed in the state during the nine-day festival, the government said. Garba is a popular folk dance of Gujarat and is performed with passion and fervour during the Navratri festival. The government, however, will allow collective prayers to Goddess Durga where number of people should not be more than 200, it said in a release. The time limit of prayers will beof one hour, but nobody can perform garba at such gatherings, it said. Prior permission of government authorities has been made mandatory for organisation of community prayer programmes during Navratri. At prayer gatherings, Covid-19-related norms such as social distancing, covering of face with masks and use of sanitisers will be mandatory, the release said. The government said citizens above 65, children below 10 years, pregnant women and people with comorbidities should avoid participating in any public programme during the festivals. Navratri is one of the most popular festivals of Gujarat and is called the longest dance festival of the world. Revellers dance to the tune of traditional music and songs for nine nights. The government said event such as burning of effigies of Ravana, Ramlila yatras, rallies, melas (congregations), exhibitions would not be allowed during the festive season (from Navratri to Diwali). It advised people to celebrate festivals like Dussehra, Durga puja, Diwali, Gujarati New Year, Bhai dooj and Sharad Poornima at their homes with their families. In the SOPs, the government said up to 100 people can attend functions such as marriage and the same number will be allowed at funerals. During any event, the organisers will have to do floor marking with minimum distance of 6 feet, it said. Thermal scanners are compulsory at Navratri community prayers and other events, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-garba-in-gujarat-this-navratri-due-to-coronavirus-899646.html
09-10-2020||West||Rajasthan govt directs officers to stand up and show respect to MPs, MLAs||The Rajasthan government has asked its officers to stand up to show respect when an MP or MLA visits their office. Chief Secretary Rajeeva Swarup has issued a detailed circular to all departments issuing instructions to officials to stand up to welcome the MPs and MLAs and do the same when they leave the premises. The senior official also fixed the accountability of officials regarding the letters of MPs and MLAs sent to them. The officers will have to dispose of the matter raised by the MPs and MLAs and will have to give a final reply within 30 days and messages dropped by them on phone will also have to be taken seriously. In the order issued on September 23, the chief secretary said whenever an MP or MLA writes a letter for public welfare works to any department, the department concerned should send an acknowledgement of the letter and if any matter raised by them is pending, then the department should apprise them of the progress from time to time. The chief secretary mentioned in the circular that it was brought to the notice of the government that directions issued earlier for sending replies to letters of MPs/MLAs were not being followed properly. The circular states that they should be treated humbly and with respect. It says that whenever MPs/MLAs come to meet them, they should stand in respect during welcome and farewell and should also take appropriate action on their grievances/suggestions. Swarup said the Rajasthan government's first priority is on delivering good governance and is serious on the reply to the letters of MPs/MLAs, therefore, the fresh circular was issued.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rajasthan-govt-directs-officers-to-stand-up-and-show-respect-to-mps-mlas-899655.html
09-10-2020||West||Maharashtra: 5 fishermen rescued after boat capsizes mid-sea||Five fishermen were rescued when their boat capsized mid-sea near Dandi village in Maharashtra's Palghar district, police said on Friday. The incident took place on Thursday evening when some rope got caught in the propeller of the boat and an attempt to pull it out caused the vessel to develop a breach and capsize, an official said. The fishermen on board raised an alarm and sent a message from their mobile phones to other fishermen from the village, who arrived at the scene with two boats and rescued them, he said. The boat was severely damaged and was brought back to shore late in the evening, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-5-fishermen-rescued-after-boat-capsizes-mid-sea-899671.html
09-10-2020||West||Mumbai corporation asks Navratri mandals to arrange online darshan of idols||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday issued guidelines for the upcoming Navratri festival, in which it suggested the 'sarvajanik (community) mandals' in the city to arrange online darshan of goddess idols for public in view of the pandemic. The Maharashtra government has already issued guidelines and capped the height of the goddess Durga idols to four feet for the 'mandals' and two feet for the household ones. In its guidelines, the civic body has kept the same height restrictions for the idols. In a statement, the BMC said that it has also asked the 'mandals' to sanitise the pandals properly and follow all the social distancing norms strictly. The civic body also asked the citizens to wear masks, maintain at least two feet of distance between each other and wash hands regularly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-corporation-asks-navratri-mandals-to-arrange-online-darshan-of-idols-899711.html
09-10-2020||West||Mumbai police summons Republic TV CFO in connection with TRP manipulation scam||Mumbai Police on Friday issued a summons to Republic TV's Chief Financial Officer (CFO) in connection with the Television Rating Points (TRP) manipulation racket it is probing, an official said. Shiva Subramaniyam Sundaram, CFO of Republic TV, was asked to join the investigation on Saturday morning, he said. Besides him, the police also summoned accountants of Marathi channels `Fakt Marathi' and `Box Cinema' and those of a couple of advertising agencies, he said. Milind Bharambe, Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime), confirmed that Republic TV's CFO has been called. The summons to Sundaram said there are reasonable grounds to believe that he is "acquainted with certain facts and circumstances of the matter and the same are required to be ascertained". He was asked to come to the city police's headquarters around 11 am, an official said. The Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of Mumbai Crime Branch is investigating the fake TRP racket. On Thursday, the police arrested four persons including owners of Fakt Marathi and Box Cinema in the case. Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh claimed that three channels including Republic TV manipulated the TRP. The racket came to light when BARC, an organization which measures TRP, filed a complaint in this regard through Hansa Research Group Pvt Ltd, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-summons-republic-tv-cfo-in-connection-with-trp-manipulation-scam-899733.html
09-10-2020||West||Maharashtra postpones MPSC exam scheduled for Oct 11||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday announced that the MPSC exam scheduled to be held on October 11 has been postponed. Thackeray announced the decision after meeting Maratha outfits and the cabinet sub-committee on Maratha quota. This is for the third time the government has postponed the Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) exam since the outbreak. The chief minister said there was a demand from the candidates that they needed more time to prepare for the exam as libraries in the state are still shut due to COVID-19. "After discussing with all the stakeholders, we have decided to postpone the MPSC exam scheduled for October 11," he said. "There was a demand (from candidates) for more time to study as educational institutes and libraries are still shut due to the pandemic. We are coming out of the lockdown now, but the number of cases are still rising," Thackeray said, adding that this exam for 200 posts had been postponed twice earlier. "All the students who were eligible to appear for the exam on October 11 will be allowed to do so whenever it is held in future," he said. Maratha outfits, protesting against the Supreme Court's stay on implementation of quota for the community, had been demanding that these exams be postponed. However, state PWD minister and head of cabinet sub-committee on Maratha quota Ashok Chavan said the decision to shift the date was due to the coronavirus outbreak and not "any pressure", adding that the CM had made it it clear this postponement would be final. Meanwhile, BJP MP Sambhaji Chhatrapati welcomed the state government's decision to postpone the exam. "We hope that by the time the exams are held, a decision will be taken by SC on the implementation of the (Maratha) quota," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-postpones-mpsc-exam-scheduled-for-oct-11-899737.html
09-10-2020||West||Maharashtra govt has no 'post Covid-19' economic plan: Mungantiwar||Senior BJP leader Sudhir Mungantiwar on Friday attacked the Uddhav Thackeray government over its fiscal policies and accused it of not having any "post-Covid-19 plan" to rejuvenate Maharashtra's economy. Mungantiwar, finance minister in the previous BJP government under Devendra Fadnavis, said the state can approach the Reserve Bank of India to take a loan on the basis of gross state domestic product (GSDP) to give relief to people hit by the economic downturn due to the outbreak and lockdown. He said Maharashtra can take a loan of up to Rs 1.6 lakh crore on the basis of its GSDP. "Around 20,000 crore can be taken as a loan to give relief to common citizens," he added. "The government does not have any post-Covid-19 plan focusing on development projects, farming sector, industries, MSMEs etc, or creation of jobs," Mungantiwar alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-has-no-post-covid-19-economic-plan-mungantiwar-899754.html
09-10-2020||West||Maharashtra Covid-19 tally crosses 15 lakh mark||The total number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra crossed the 15-lakh mark on Friday. The casualties during the ongoing viral pandemic in the worst-affected state in India is likely to cross 40,000-mark on Saturday. On Friday, the state reported 12,314 cases and 302 deaths. This took the total cases and casualties to 15,06,018 and 39,732, respectively. On Friday, 17,323 patients were discharged, taking the total to 12,29,339. The recovery rate in the state is 81.63 per cent, while the case fatality rate is 2.64 per cent  Out of 74,87,383 laboratory samples, 15,06,018 have been tested positive (20.11%) for Covid-19 until date. Currently 23,00,588 people are in home quarantine and 24,972 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-covid-19-tally-crosses-15-lakh-mark-899774.html
09-10-2020||West||Coronavirus not near plateau in Maharashtra, numbers can go up around Diwali: Expert||Even as the daily spike in coronavirus cases in Maharashtra has come down to 15,000 or less in the last few days, a medical expert warned on Friday that the numbers could surge again during Diwali. As the increase in cases has declined, the number of tests conducted each day too has gone down, an official pointed out. As of Thursday evening, the caseload in Maharashtra was 14,93,884, and the death toll 39,430. While the spike in cases on Thursday was 13,395, it had crossed 24,000 earlier. Dr. Subhash Salunkhe, member of the state's technical committee on Covid-19, said, "Many health officials including me are of the opinion that we should not expect any relief till the Diwali festival is over. Because people tend to go out more during this period, increasing the chances of exposure as well as spreading infection. "The slight decline in daily cases in the last few days should not be interpreted as the beginning of a plateau or a peak period getting over. Forget about a second wave, the first wave would not be over till Diwali," he told PTI. "We need at least 15 straight days of decline in Covid-19 cases to talk about a plateau (a stage before the number of new infections begins to fall)." However, asked about his view on more and more establishments reopening, he said, "We can not ask people to stay at home any longer. Several jobs are at stake and the economy needs to move as well. "If we increase tests, it will help check the spread of the infection," Dr. Salunkhe added. "There are some technical challenges that have brought down the daily testing figures. We were conducting around 80,000 to 90,000 tests in September but now it is around 70,000," said a senior health department official. Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Devendra Fadnavis said the state government had failed to ramp up testing. "The infection in Mumbai has jumped from 13.63 per cent in August to 17.5 per cent in September. The average daily testing in Mumbai was merely 11,796 in September," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-not-near-plateau-in-maharashtra-numbers-can-go-up-around-diwali-expert-899814.html
09-10-2020||West||Man arrested for duping flat buyers with fake documents||A 30-year-old man has been arrested for duping people by promising to sell flats seized by banks in the city at low rates, the police said on Friday. Sachin Borde, the accused, was arrested from Nashik where he was hiding out by Unit-12 of the Mumbai crime branch. Borde had collected Rs two crore from gullible buyers by offering to sell 18 flats, located in Andheri, Goregaon, Malad, Kandivali, Borivali, Dahisar, Mira Road, Vasai and Virar, the official said. These flats had been seized by banks from loan defaulters. Borde cheated people by showing fake title documents of these flats, said inspector Mahesh Tawde of Unit-12. After collecting the money he ran away from Mumbai and was living in Nashik for the last few months, Tawde said. A case under IPC sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) was registered against him at MHB Police Station here. Questioning revealed that in Nashik Borde had cheated people by promising to sell two-wheelers at less than the market price, he said, adding that further probe was on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-arrested-for-duping-flat-buyers-with-fake-documents-899835.html
09-10-2020||West||Tripura-cadre IAS officer dies of Covid-19 in Maharashtra||A 35-year-old IAS officer of the Tripura-cadre died of Covid-19 on Friday, authorities at a private hospital here said. The official, who was being treated at a hospital in Aurangabad in central Maharashtra, was shifted to Pune but was declared `brought dead' on arrival at Ruby Hall Clinic here on Friday afternoon, they said. The 2015-batch IAS officer who hailed from Maharashtra had recently returned to his home in Parbhani district on leave. Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb took to Twitter to condole the officer's death||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tripura-cadre-ias-officer-dies-of-covid-19-in-maharashtra-899847.html
09-10-2020||West||I-T dept seizes Rs 1.5 crore worth cash, jewellery after raids on Ahmedabad business group||The Income Tax department has seized cash and jewellery worth about Rs 1.5 crore after it raided an Ahmedabad-based group engaged in the business of real estate, construction and land trading, the CBDT said on Friday. The searches were conducted on Thursday at 27 residential and business premises of the group and their associates. "Unexplained cash of around Rs 69 lakh and jewellery of around Rs 82 lakh have been seized till now. Besides, 18 bank lockers have been placed under restraint," the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said in a statement. A large number of incriminating documents and digital data in mobile phones, pen drives and computers have also been seized, it said. The CBDT, the administrative authority for the I-T department, did not identify the business group. "The group had around 96 companies at a few common addresses, which were being used for routing money and for land holding. "Most of the companies were found to have no real business and very few returns of income have been filed. Many have not filed returns with ROC (registrar of companies)," it said. Some directors of these concerns, other than the main family members, have accepted to be dummy directors with mere signing roles, it added. The CBDT said tax sleuths have detected "innovative methods of tax evasion by increasing the cost of properties through intra-group transactions, on which tax is not paid." "Substantial evidences of transactions outside the regular books of accounts, unaccounted cash expenses, and cash advances received and interest paid in cash have been found. "Evidences of on-money transactions and corresponding unaccounted investments of about Rs 100 crore in real estate projects-flats, shops and land deals have also been found," it claimed. The statement said tax officials have seized a large number of documents relating to properties, held in the names of several cooperative societies, from a secret location. "The real owners of these land holdings are being investigated and applicability of the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988 is also being examined. "Registered and notarised sale-purchase agreements of agricultural lands with substantial cash component have also been found," it said. Evidences pertaining to unaccounted property transactions of about Rs 150 crore have been found at a location, the CBDT added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/i-t-dept-seizes-rs-15-crore-worth-cash-jewellery-after-raids-on-ahmedabad-business-group-899859.html
