10-10-2020||First Edit||Rhea Chakraborty's bail: Court order exposes motivated charges||The grant of bail by the Bombay High Court to actor Rhea Chakraborty in a drugs case related to actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death may not mean the end of all charges against her in the case. The order might only show the court’s view that she need not be kept in custody and that her freedom would not jeopardise the case in any way. The court has also imposed conditions to ensure that she does not leave the country or try to influence the witnesses. But the observations made by the court are important because they completely knock down the basis of the charges made against her. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had accused her of procuring drugs for Rajput and called her an “active member of a drug syndicate.’’ She was arrested on September 8 and had to spend about a month in jail on charges which now appear to be flimsy.  The court said that the actor was not a drug dealer and had not forwarded the drugs allegedly procured by her to somebody else for any benefit. It also said that there were grounds to believe that she was guilty of any offence punishable under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS Act) and made it clear that providing money for a particular transaction would not amount to financing illegal trade. It also rubbished the allegation that she had “harboured’’ Rajput. All other related charges were also rejected, and the observations made by the court brought out the absurdity of those charges. Some of the clarifications and interpretations made by the court only made common sense and should have been clear to the investigating agency. But it made a mountain of what may even have been less than a molehill of a drug, bought in good faith by the actor for her friend, and then tried to implicate her in a made-up case, though she had no record of any crimes.   The important question is who will compensate for the loss of freedom and reputation of a person who was projected as a drug dealer and a perpetrator of several illegalities. Rhea Chakraborty is a public personality and has an image and reputation to protect. If a government agency causes her freedom to be taken away and her reputation to be tarnished without basis and evidence, wilfully as it has turned out, what is the protection for the ordinary citizens of the country? The NCB cannot even be given the benefit of doubt for acting in a bona fide manner in this case. It should be held responsible for this gross abuse of power and made to pay for it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/rhea-chakrabortys-bail-court-order-exposes-motivated-charges-899907.html
10-10-2020||In Perspective||Wakeup call for NGOs||The recent amendment to the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act has evoked several responses from people within and outside the sector. While there are differing lenses through which these amendments can be looked at, it is no secret that it will impact the NGO sector.  Though organised and unorganised voluntary action in India has been recorded from the time of the first war of independence in 1857, it was the erstwhile Planning Commission’s Eighth Plan document that formally recognised it. It was Indira Gandhi who first expressed suspicion about the sector and wanted to regulate it. Successive governments were equally wary and the momentum to control the sector gathered impetus when P Chidambaram was the Union Home Minister. While several NGOs are known for their constructive activities, it is no secret that a few black sheep have violated several laws of the land and have behaved with ulterior motives. A few others have had their agenda dictated by powerful global forces and have brought discredit to the entire sector, forcing the government to respond with kneejerk changes in the law. The primary responsibility of a government in any country is to ensure that its citizens are taken care of and provided with the basic goods and services. When nation-states failed in this minimal obligation, organised voluntary efforts emerged to provide services, mostly in the health and education sectors. With several countries moving away from their social agendas, it fell on these organisations to move into other areas like poverty alleviation, livelihood creation, protection of human rights and preservation of democratic ideals. They were called NGOs to distinguish their activities from that of government agencies. This itself is a misnomer as it tends to describe civil society action in a negative construct as ‘not being the government’. They are, in fact voluntary organisations and should be seen as another critical sector contributing towards societal progress.  The strength of such socially relevant NGOs is four-fold. Operating mostly at the grassroots, they can understand the needs expressed by communities the best. They can then fashion appropriate responses to these needs and think through solution frameworks. NGOs can then combine their talent, passion and community mobilisation strengths to translate intent into implementable interventions. And finally, they mobilise resources, including  finances, to ensure that these interventions are actually implemented on the ground.  Credible NGOs that understand and appreciate this will not make a mountain of a molehill of the current changes in the regulations. One also needs to be pragmatic and cognisant of the reality that prevails today. Out of the 3.2 million NGOs that are currently listed, only 10% of them are known to be filing their returns and submitting audited copies of their balance sheet. Less than a few hundred are accredited with Credibility Alliance, a consortium of Voluntary Organisations committed towards enhancing accountability and transparency.  One must bear in mind that the number of NGOs in India is twice the number of schools that exist and the FCRA amendment will only impact around 19,000 NGOs registered under this act. And for most of them, the only change that will sound incomprehensible will be the need to open a bank account in a notified SBI branch in New Delhi. In a world of digital and core banking, this will not pose any operational challenges, but the government needs to clarify its intent in this regard. While NGOs themselves have long demanded that the transaction costs of government be brought down, the argument that 20% of the expenses being permitted for administration is restrictive, may not be morally tenable. One also needs to wait and see how the rules framed regarding the definitions will affect a few organisations whose activities could be primarily research or advocacy, where much of the expenses will be on salaries and classified as administrative expenses.  While regulations and control will choke the financial pipeline of NGOs primarily depending on foreign contributions, one must also bear in mind that tens of thousands of small and medium-sized NGOS are promoted and supported by philanthropy from within the country. It is also pertinent to note that the trend of ‘giving’, especially from amongst the millennial generation is steadily increasing and this will enable greater voluntary action. It is also a fact that NGOs represent on several government committees both at the state and national level, including the NITI Aayog, where the sectoral and community interests can be articulated and protected. Honest introspection will reveal that the NGO sector has failed in self-regulating itself. This is the opportune time for NGO leaders to come out with codes of conduct with respect to funding, accountability, impact measurement and governance standards. Society can ill-afford a situation of NGOs vs government; what is needed is a healthy respect for each other’s strengths while constantly working to mitigate their structural weaknesses. Development cannot and should not be the monopoly of any single sector, be it the government, the private sector or NGOs. It should emerge from a synergistic partnership amongst all the stakeholders.  (The writer is the founder and president of Swami Vivekananda Youth Movement)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/wakeup-call-for-ngos-899909.html
10-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||MADB rejects exclusion of coastal districts from board limits||The first general body meeting of Malnad Area Development Board (MADB) comprising 13 districts, on Saturday, rejected the proposal to exclude coastal districts such as Dakshina Kannada, Uttara Kannada and Udupi from the board limits. Speaking on the issue, MADB Chairman K S Gurumurthy said the meeting decided to submit a proposal to the government not to exclude these districts from the board as Malnad taluks such as Sirsi and Karkala taluks are part of the coastal districts. He said the state government has approved the continuation of 845 development works in the current financial year and the board requires grant of Rs 33 crore for the completion of remaining works. Of the 845 works, 348 works are completed at a cost of Rs 23 crore. Besides, 497 works are in progress. The board aims to complete all the ongoing projects by the end of the current financial year. Though the government had sanctioned Rs 1 crore to each assembly constituency coming under the purview of the board in 2019-20, it has not been released yet. Referring to the issues of Malnad region, he said Malnad region has issues related to land encroachment, areca growers and many others. The board has decided to implement schemes that would prove beneficial for farmers in the coming days. He also made it clear that the board wants to provide technical assistance to farmers after consulting agricultural scientists. MLAs Sunil Kumar and Kumar Bangarappa said as per the bylaw of the board, loans could be borrowed from financial institutes. So, the board has to submit a proposal to the government seeking approval to get loans from Nabard or world bank. The board can't rely on grants from the government alone. Shivamogga Zilla Panchayat President Jyothi S Kumar and Uttara Kannada Zilla Panchayat President Jayashri Mogaveera appealed to the board chairman to sanction grants to zilla panchayats coming under the purview of the board under discretionary quota. Tourism Minister C T Ravi, Malnad Area Development Board Secretary Mani, MP B Y Raghavendra, MLCs Prasanna Kumar, Ayanur Manjunath, MLAs of 13 districts coming under the purview of MADB, zilla panchayat presidents and Deputy Commissioner K B Shivakumar and others were present in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/madb-rejects-exclusion-of-coastal-districts-from-board-limits-900066.html
10-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka attracted Rs 1.38 lakh crore investment this year: Jagadish Shettar||Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar claimed that Karnataka has attracted Rs 1.38 lakh crore investment since January this year. Addressing the party workers during inaugurating of election office of West Graduates Constituency BJP candidate S V Sankanur here on Saturday, he said of the Rs 2.86 lakh crore investment that India attracted during the first six months of the year, Karnataka alone attracted Rs 1.16 lakh crore, which is 41% of the total investment that the country attracted during the Covid-19 pandemic. The state stands first in the county in terms of attracting investment in the industrial sector, he said and added that this was possible because of the various land and APMC reforms that the state government has brought. He said, unlike in the past where the majority of the investment was limited to Old-Mysuru region or Bengaluru, our current government has ensured that districts such as Belagavi, Dharwad and Raichur are also benefited. Reforms in Land Acquisition Act and APMC Act is the need of the hour and opposition leaders are unnecessarily creating hurdles for the development of the state. Since the setting up of Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board (KIADB) in 1996, the board has acquired nearly 1.58 lakh of agriculture land for setting up of industries. However, that is only one per cent of the total agriculture land in Karnataka. The opposition leaders are making a hue and cry over scarping of section 79A (acquisition of land by certain persons prohibited) and 79B (prohibition on holding agricultural lands by certain persons) of the Karnataka Land Reforms Act. However, none of the previous state governments could recover even a single acre out of the 1.7 lakh acres of land that was acquired by violating those sections, he said and added that reforms made to the Act have helped the state get better investments. Belagavi LS by-polls Shettar also clarified that party has not started any discussion over the candidate for the Belagavi Lok Sabha by-polls that has been necessitated due to death of Union Minister of State for Railway Suresh Angadi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-attracted-rs-138-lakh-crore-investment-this-year-jagadish-shettar-900151.html
10-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Three die after accident on NH-4||Three members of a family were killed in a road mishap on the Chitradurga-Bengaluru stretch of NH-4 near Balenahalli village in Hiriyur taluk on Saturday. According to police, the deceased have been identified as Nagamani (47), her son Venu (25) and Prabhakar (35), brother of the woman. Vishalakshamma, wife of Prabhakar has sustained severe injuries and she is undergoing treatment in a general hospital in Hiriyur town. The incident took place when a speeding car rammed into a lorry coming from the opposite direction and they were heading towards Bengaluru in the car. Hiriyur rural police registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-die-after-accident-on-nh-4-900161.html
10-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Basavaraj Patil Sedam tests Covid-19 positive||Kalyana Karnataka Human Resource, Agriculture and Cultural Society President Basavaraj Patil Sedam tested positive for Covid-19. He is undergoing treatment at Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences(GIMS). Sedam who fell ill at his office near Aiwan-E-Shahi Guest House on Saturday and soon contacted a doctor.  When he was tested for Covid-19, the report came back positive for the infection. In a video clip, the president said he may have caught the virus while on Kalyana Karnataka tour. Hence, those who came in his contact should undergo Covid-19 testing, he appealed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/basavaraj-patil-sedam-tests-covid-19-positive-900214.html
10-10-2020||Main Article||Humanity in healthcare||An 18-year-old girl had been brought out of one of the country’s best-known public hospitals and left at the kerb. She had been ‘discharged’ from the hospital because “there was nothing more to be done”. The girl had a huge swelling from incurable cancer in her lower limb, with a foul-smelling unsightly ulcer and maggots crawling over them. She was writhing in pain.  A kind-hearted doctor who was walking by, a private practitioner, stopped to take note. While everyone else had walked away or had looked on with empty sympathy, this man took her to his own consultation room. It turned out that the girl was a tsunami-orphan. She and her younger brother had since made a living on the streets, she working at odd jobs and the boy going out on deep-sea fishing boats, each trip for weeks at a time. In short, she had no family at all. The doctor sent requests for help all over the country, looking for an institution that would accept the girl for care. When Pallium India heard about it and established contact with a palliative care team in the girl’s city, two days had elapsed. A palliative care doctor and medical student in the neighbouring city hired an ambulance the next day and drove for three hours. They found the girl in agonising pain, maggots still thriving and feeding on her legs. They gave her morphine in enough dose to take care of her pain. They knew that the right dose of morphine does not cause significant sleepiness. They took her to a palliative care centre in another city. The girl, now pain-free, started calling the medical student ‘Anna’ (elder brother) and the doctor ‘uncle'. On the way, she wanted them to stop for her favourite fizzy orange drink and an omelette – the ultimate of luxuries for her. She got them. At the palliative care centre, the maggots were taken care of. The treatment for maggots is simple but something that is not taught in medical and nursing colleges, except in theory. It is much easier and less smelly to get rid of the patient. With the maggots gone, the wound clean and free of pain, the girl was chatty. It was clear that she was near the end of her life. She wished to see her brother again; but the boy was out deep at sea. She wanted to watch TV; a television set was brought to her room. It was a vegetarian institution, but when she wanted chicken curry, they had it brought to her. The girl died a week after reaching the place. But she got pain relief and life without the maggots and foul smell for five days. She got her simple wishes. And she got love and affection. All that mattered. They mattered not only to her, but to us also, if we are to take pride in belonging to a cultured society. We work with two burdens in India. One, we do not understand or promote palliative care. Second, we think it should be only for the end of life. This girl, even before the diagnosis of the cancer, should have got pain relief. Her physical, mental and social well-being should have been attended to. All through her treatment in hospital, she had no family; society should have taken responsibility to care for a duo of orphans both in health and in sickness. It would be easy to point fingers at the doctors who discharged the girl because “there was nothing more to do”, or at the nursing orderlies who abandoned her at the kerb. Our society has a collective responsibility to look after the ailing and the suffering around us. The World Health Organisation defines health as “physical, social and mental well-being and not only the absence of disease or infirmity”. If the healthcare system had accepted that it has a duty not only towards people with curable illnesses, but also to make life liveable for those with incurable diseases and if it had accepted that it has a duty to treat pain and suffering, systems would have evolved to make that happen. A Lancet commission report on global access to palliative care in 2017 estimated that seven million Indians are in unrelieved serious health-related suffering; but we know this is a gross under-estimate. More than 10 million would be closer to reality. An article published in the British Medical Journal in 2018 showed that 55 million Indians are pushed below poverty line by catastrophic healthcare expenditure every year. What happens to the children in those families? How many million children are deprived of education and of a future because of such destruction? And this social destruction by healthcare costs is growing every year. The picture is dismal; but there is some glimmer of light far away at the end of the tunnel. A 2017 National Health Policy does include palliative care which, according to WHO, needs to be integrated into all healthcare at every level (primary, secondary and tertiary) and across the continuum of care from the beginning of the health-related suffering to the end, concurrent with the treatment of the disease. But this cannot happen, and true healthcare is not achievable, without the participation of the community. Central and state governments should have plans for palliative care as part of their health systems, of course. If the doctors, nurses and hospital attendants knew of another way of handling the situation, they would not have been placed in the position of having to throw the girl out on the kerb. They could have provided true healthcare if the community had accepted that it is essential and had lent a hand. The second Saturday of October, every year, is World Palliative Care Day. October 10 every year is World Mental Health Day. The two fall on the same day this year. These are not dates for a token recall. They are key markers in many ways because the way we treat those with suffering is a reflection of who we are and what kind of a society we will build. That has a material impact on how our children will grow and serve. In doing less for those who suffer, we short-change the sufferers, we short-change ourselves, and we short-change the next generation as well. We make all of us poorer, forever. (Padma Shri Dr M R Rajagopal is known as the father of palliative care in India and is the Chairman of the non-profit Pallium India; Rattanani is a journalist and a faculty member at SPJIMR) (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/humanity-in-healthcare-899908.html
10-10-2020||Mysuru||Dr C N Manjunath to inaugurate Dasara 2020||The state government selected Dr C N Manjunath, Director of Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, to inaugurate Dasara-2020. Speaking to reporters, here, District in-charge Minister S T Somashekar said, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has decided to invite Dr Manjunath to inaugurate Dasara atop Chamudi Hill on October 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/dr-c-n-manjunath-to-inaugurate-dasara-2020-899995.html
10-10-2020||Mysuru||Dasara celebration follows norms issued by Covid-19 technical committee: Somashekar||District in-charge Minister S T Somashekar said Dasara-2020 will be celebrated as per the recommendations by Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee. Speaking to reporters, here, Somashekar said, the committee, headed by Dr Sudarshan, has suggested the participation of 200 people in the inaugural ceremony atop Chamundi Hill on October 17 and 300 persons for jamboo savari to be held at Mysuru Palace premises on October 26 and 50 members for cultural events at the Palace premises.  All the recommendations will be taken into consideration and will be followed. The programmes will be planned as per the recommendations from the committee, the When asked about illumination of the city, Somashekar said, this time illumination will be for 50 kilometres. Last year, it was 100 km, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/dasara-celebration-follows-norms-issued-by-covid-19-technical-committee-somashekar-900012.html
10-10-2020||Mysuru||Kota Srinivas Poojary denies MLA Mahesh's allegation||Minister of Muzrai, Kota Srinivas Poojary denied allegations levelled by JD(S) MLA Sa Ra Mahesh over Karnataka Bhavan project at Tirumala in Andhra Pradesh and called him for debate. Poojary was speaking to reporters, here, on Saturday. He said, there are no irregularities in the project. The project was taken up at Rs 200 crore to provide needed facilities for the devotees of Karnataka. It has to be noted that Mahesh had questioned the state government’s decision to give 4(g) exemption under the Karnataka Transparency in Public Procurement Act for the Karnataka Bhavan project. He also alleged misuse of funds earmarked for the Bhavan. The minister said the matter was discussed at both Assembly and Vidan Parishad. "If Mahesh has any doubt let him come for a debate," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/kota-srinivas-poojary-denies-mla-maheshs-allegation-900017.html
10-10-2020||National||DH Toon | Police call Republic TV's CFO for questioning||Mumbai Police on Friday issued a summons to Republic TV's Chief Financial Officer (CFO) in connection with the Television Rating Points (TRP) manipulation racket it is probing, an official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-police-call-republic-tvs-cfo-for-questioning-899912.html
10-10-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on October 10||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 69 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 70,41,003 as of October 10 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  108,249   
<!--
{C}<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->  No. of people discharged:  59,88,822   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-october-10-899915.html
10-10-2020||National||India asks US not to be agitated by 'short-term losses' in ties||After declining to echo President Donald Trump’s administration in directly criticizing China for the Covid-19 pandemic and growing aggression in Indo-Pacific, India has now asked the United States to “look far, look ahead”, instead of being “agitated by short-term losses” in bilateral relations. “While short-term gains might provide happiness and relief, we cannot afford to overlook where we want to be in the long run,” New Delhi’s envoy to Washington D.C., Taranjit Singh Sandhu, said while speaking on India-US relations. “This also means that we cannot be complacent about short-term gains, nor can we be too agitated about short term losses. Look far, look ahead,” he said, addressing the Heritage Foundation, a think-tank in Washington D.C. Sandhu emphasized on long-term goals of strategic partnership between New Delhi and Washington D.C., even as the Trump Administration prodded India to take a more hawkish stand on China, particularly in view of the communist country’s recent military moves to occupy vast swathes of its land in eastern Ladakh. Mike Pompeo, the US Secretary of State, said that China had deployed 60000 soldiers of its People’s Liberation Army (PLA) along its disputed boundary with India. He also said that India “absolutely” needed the US as its “ally and partner” in “this fight” against China. Pompeo, who recently returned to Washington D.C. after a visit to Tokyo, gave interviews to American TV channels and slammed China for its hostility against India and Australia as well as for its aggressive moves in the Indo-Pacific region. He had a meeting with his counterparts from other members of the ‘Quad’ in Tokyo – External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar of India, Foreign Ministers Maris Payne of Australia and Foreign Minister Toshimitsu Motegi of Japan. Though the US Secretary of State minced no word to blame China for the Covid-19 pandemic as well as for its belligerence, none of his counterparts named or directly criticized the communist country. New Delhi apparently decided to tread cautiously as it was keen to dispel the perception that the five-month-long military stand-off along its disputed boundary with China was making it give up its strategic autonomy and pushing it closer to the US. Pompeo was keen to use the meeting in Tokyo on October 6 to institutionalize the ‘Quad’, which was re-launched in November 2017 as a coalition of four democracies to counter-hegemonic aspirations of China in the Indo-Pacific region. But his move to turn the four-nation coalition into a NATO-like bloc for Indo-Pacific did not succeed as not only India, but Australia and Japan too were not yet ready to go the whole hog and overtly gang up with the US against China. New Delhi of late also avoided joining the US and 38 other nations at the United Nations in criticizing China for violation of human rights in Xinjiang, Hong Kong and Tibet. With the diplomats and military commanders of the two sides still holding talks, India has not yet given up hope for resolving the stand-off with China in eastern Ladakh through dialogue. That was why it declined to join the US in Tokyo in turning the Quad into a block, which would appear to be overtly adversarial to China. The US National Security Advisor, Robert O’Brien, however, said that the time had come for the international community to accept that dialogue would not bring about any change in the behaviour of China. He also particularly referred to India-China military stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the two nations.   The comments by Pompeo and O’Brien apparently reflected the Trump Administration’s unease over India’s reluctance to join the US in launching a tirade against China. Sandhu, however, sought to underline the long-term vision of India-US relations. “Look broad, look deep. Both our countries need to look at the big picture. We cannot afford to see things in silos however hard the temptation may be,” said India’s ambassador to the US. He said that the strength of the partnership would come from strengthening each other. “India’s growth is not in its interest alone. A secure and prosperous India is in the interest of the region, and the world at large.” His comment came even as the two sides started preparations for the India-US 2+2 dialogue, scheduled to take place in New Delhi on October 26 and 27. Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh would host their counterparts, Pompeo and Mark T Esper, for the dialogue, which would be the last high-level bilateral engagement before the US presidential elections on November 3. The US Deputy Secretary of State, Stephen Biegun, will visit New Delhi early next week to prepare for the talks. He will hold meetings with Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla and other senior officials of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-asks-us-not-to-be-agitated-by-short-term-losses-in-ties-899933.html
10-10-2020||National||Modi govt now left with only 1 representative from NDA allies||Following the death of LJP leader and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, Ramdas Athawale of Republican Party of India (RPI) is the lone member from the BJP allies in the NDA government at the Centre. However, there is no representation from BJP allies in the Union Cabinet. Athawale is Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment. Arvind Sawant (Shiv Sena), Harsimrat Kaur Badal (Shiromani Akali Dal) and Ram Vilas Paswan (Lok Janshakti Party) were from the BJP-led NDA alliance in the Union Cabinet when the Modi 2.0 government returned to power in 2019 following Lok Sabha elections. While the Shiv Sena quit the NDA in late 2019, SAD left the alliance recently over farm bills. Another key NDA ally, the JD (U) had kept itself out of the government. Besides Prime Minister Modi, a total of 57 ministers -- 24 Cabinet, nine Ministers of State (with Independent charge) and 24 Ministers of State -- had taken oath as members of the Union Council of Ministers on May 30, 2019. Following the resignations of Sawant and Badal and the death of Paswan, there are 21 Cabinet ministers. With the recent death of Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi, the number of ministers of state has also come down to 23. As per the Constitution, the total number of Union ministers, including the Prime Minister shall not exceed 15 per cent of the total number of members in the Lok Sabha. PM Narendra Modi can have as many as 80 ministers in the 543-member Lok Sabha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govt-now-left-with-only-1-representative-from-nda-allies-899961.html
10-10-2020||National||China has deployed 60,000 soldiers on India's northern border: Mike Pompeo||China has amassed more than 60,000 troops on India's northern border, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has said as he hit out at Beijing for its "bad behaviour" and the threats it poses to the Quad countries. The foreign ministers from the Indo-Pacific nations known as the Quad group - the US, Japan, India and Australia - met in Tokyo on Tuesday in what was their first in-person talks since the coronavirus pandemic began. The meeting took place in the backdrop of China's aggressive military behaviour in the Indo-Pacific, South China Sea and along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. "The Indians are seeing 60,000 Chinese soldiers on their northern border,” Pompeo told The Guy Benson Show in an interview on Friday after his return from Tokyo wherein he attended the second Quad ministerial with his counterparts from India, Japan and Australia. "I was with my foreign minister counterparts from India, Australia, and Japan – a format that we call the Quad, four big democracies, four powerful economies, four nations, each of whom has real risk associated with the threats imposed – attempting to be imposed by the Chinese Communist Party. And they see it in their home countries too," he said. Pompeo met External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar in Tokyo on Tuesday and they underscored the need to work together to advance, peace, prosperity and security in the Indo-Pacific and around the globe. He described his meeting with Jaishankar as "productive." "They see, the people of their (Quad) nations understanding that we all slept on this for too long. For decades, the West allowed the Chinese Communist Party to walk all over us.  The previous administration bent a knee, too often allowed China to steal our intellectual properties and the millions of jobs that came along with it. They see that in their country too," he said in the interview. In another interview with Larry O’Connor, Pompeo said in his meetings with his counterparts from Japan, India and Australia, they began to develop a set of understandings and policies that can jointly take these countries to work to present a true resistance to the threats that the Chinese Communist Party poses to each of these nations. "They absolutely need the United States to be their ally and partner in this fight," he said. "But they’ve all seen it, whether it’s the Indians, who are actually having a physical confrontation with the Chinese up in the Himalayas in the northeastern part of India, the Chinese have now begun to amass huge forces against India in the north – whether it’s the Australians who did the simple thing of saying the Chinese screwed this deal up with the virus, and we’d like to understand what happened and said we ought to have a full investigation, and in exchange for that, the Chinese Communist Party began to extort, coerce, bully the Australians,” Pompeo said. Every one of these countries has seen this, he said, adding that people in each of these countries now understand the Chinese Communist Party presents a threat to them.   "The world has awakened. The tide’s begun to turn. And the United States under President Trump’s leadership has now built out a coalition that will push back against the threat and maintain good order, the rule of law, and the basic civic decency that comes from democracies controlling the world and not authoritarian regimes," Pompeo said. In his third-interview to Fox News, Pompeo said that the US under Trump administration has begun to build out all the edifice of the structure and the allies and the coalition to push back against China. "We aim to protect the American people from the threat that the Chinese Communist Party poses," he said. Referring to his Quad ministerial meeting, Pompeo said that the three other countries Japan, India, and Australia were building out a coalition, build partners and allies around the world who understand the threat from the Chinese Communist Party in the same way that "we do so that they can protect jobs here at home". "Look, they’ve stacked 60,000 soldiers against the Indians in the north. When the Australians had the temerity to ask for an investigation of the Wuhan virus and where it began, something that we know a lot about, the Chinese Communist Party threatened them. They bullied them,” Pompeo told Fox News. "We need partners and friends. They’ll certainly try to react. But what the Chinese Communist Party had become accustomed to, frankly, for an awfully long time was watching America bend a knee, watching us turn the other cheek and appease them," he said. "That only encouraged their bad behaviour, their malign activity. Our push back – they understand we’re serious about it. They’ve watched that we’re going to confront them and impose costs upon them. I am confident that this activity, over time, will change the nature of what the Chinese Communist Party tries to do to harm America,” Pompeo said. India is expanding bilateral cooperation with Japan, the US and Australia in the Indo-Pacific region. The US has been pushing for a greater role for India in the Indo-Pacific which is seen by many countries as an effort to contain China's growing clout in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-has-deployed-60000-soldiers-on-indias-northern-border-mike-pompeo-899975.html
10-10-2020||National||India donates 1.8 million N95 masks to Philadelphia||India has donated 1.8 million N95 masks to Philadelphia, the largest city in the US state of Pennsylvania, to help in its fight against Covid-19, setting another example of a robust Indo-US partnership in the health sector. The move comes after the Mayor of Philadelphia, Jim Kenney, made a request to India for supply of masks to be used by the city's frontline workers. "Philadelphia receives 1.8 million N95 masks from India to aid their fight against COVID-19," India's Ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu, tweeted on Friday. "Another example of the robust India-US reliable partnership in the health sector!" he added. On October 5, at the request of the city mayor, 1.8 million N95 masks were delivered to Philadelphia for use of frontline workers. Philadelphia is the sixth-most populous US city. The move is also an indication of India's capabilities in manufacturing Personal protective equipment (PPE) not only for domestic use, but also exports, officials said. India had also supplied hydroxychloroquine, an anti-malaria drug which is seen as a possible cure for Covid-19, to the US at the request of President Donald Trump.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-donates-18-million-n95-masks-to-philadelphia-899981.html
10-10-2020||National||Row over Sikh Man’s turban being pulled; West Bengal Police denies allegation||The controversy over the alleged assault of a Sikh man and taking off his turban by police in West Bengal’s Howrah during BJP’s march to the State Secretariat seemed to be snowballing with the incident drawing severe criticism from Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh and cricketer Harbhajan Singh. However, the West Bengal Police stated in tweet that “ the Pagri had fallen off automatically in the scuffle.” Quoting the Punjab Chief Minister in a tweet, his media advisor Raveen Thukral stated “Not done, says Punjab CM @capt_amarinder, expressing shock at humiliating treatment of a Sikh youth by @WBPolice,who reportedly pulled off his turban during arrest. CM has urged @MamataOfficial to take strict action against concerned cop for hurting Sikh religious sentiments.” Expressing his displeasure over the incident cricketer Harbhajan Singh tweeted “Plz have a look into this matter @MamataOfficial this isn’t done.” Describing the incident as a “vicious attack” Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal tweeted “Strongly condemn the vicious attack on a Sikh security official Balwinder Singh & disrespect of his #turban by West Bengal Police. The dishonour has infuriated Sikhs across the world. I urge @MamataOfficial ji to take exemplary action against the erring policemen.” The person at the centre of the controversy has been identified as Balwinder Singh (43), a resident of Bhatinda and former Indian Army soldier who the BJP leadership claimed was hired by one of their party leaders as a personal security officer. Police said that a loaded pistol was recovered from him during BJP’s march to the State Secretariat the license of which was valid til till January, 2021. However, they denied that his turban was pulled off. “The concerned person was carrying firearms in yesterday's protest. The Pagri had fallen off automatically in the scuffle that ensued,without any attempt to do so by our officer (visible in the video attached). It is never our intention to hurt the sentiments of any community,” tweeted West Bengal Police. “West Bengal Police respects all religions. The officer specifically asked him to put his Pagri back before the arrest. The attached photo has been clicked right before he was escorted to the Police Station. We remain committed to our duty to uphold law and order in the state,” it stated in another tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/row-over-sikh-man-s-turban-being-pulled-west-bengal-police-denies-allegation-899984.html
10-10-2020||National||India reports 73,272 new coronavirus cases, 926 deaths||India reported 73,272 new coronavirus cases, taking the overall caseload to 69,79,423, while 59,88,822 people have recuperated so far, pushing the recovery rate to 85.81 percent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated Saturday. The death toll due to Covid-19 climbed to 1,07,416 with 926 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. For the second day in a row, the number of active Covid-19 cases remained below 9 lakh. There are 8,83,185 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which make 12.65 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The Covid-19 case fatality rate was recorded at 1.54 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16 and crossed 60 lakh on September 28. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative 8,57,98,698 samples have been tested up to October 9. As many as 11,64,018 samples were tested on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-73272-new-coronavirus-cases-926-deaths-899987.html
10-10-2020||National||Finish probes into rapes in 2 months, file FIRs: MHA issues new advisory to states on women safety||After the row over the investigation into incidents of rape in Uttar Pradesh, the Centre has asked state governments to complete the probe in such cases within two months, with an emphasis on compulsory registration of a first information report and recommended action against errant officers. In an advisory to state governments and Union Territory administrations, the Centre also drew their attention to the Supreme Court verdict that asks investigating agencies not to discard the dying declaration of the victim simply because it has not been recorded by a magistrate. The advisory lists out provisions of existing laws and Supreme Court verdicts, asking investigating officers to follow them diligently and warning them of action for any lapses. Cracking the whip on errant officers, the advisory said failure of the police to adhere to these mandatory requirements in the investigation should lead to stringent action against the officers concerned.  "Such lapses, if noticed, need to be investigated into and stringent action taken immediately against the officers responsible for the same," the advisory to states and Union Territory administrations said. The home ministry said there should be compulsory registration of an FIR in case of a cognisable offence under the CrPC, and any failure of police to adhere to laid down rules does not augur well for the delivery of justice. The law also enables the police to register an FIR or a "Zero FIR", in case the crime is committed outside the jurisdiction of police station, in the event of receipt of information on commission of a cognisable offence, which includes cases of sexual assault on women, the ministry said. It noted that Section 173 of CrPC provides for completion of police investigation in relation to rape in two months and Section 164-A of CrPC provides that in rape or sexual assault investigation, the victim should be examined by a registered medical practitioner under consent within 24 hours from the time of receiving the information relating to the commission of such offence. The home ministry also told investigators that an online portal called Investigation Tracking System for Sexual Offences for monitoring the same has been available exclusively to law enforcement officers. The advisory underscored the use the Sexual Assault Evidence Collection kits in every case of sexual assault reported for collection, preservation and handling of forensic evidence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/finish-probes-into-rapes-in-2-months-file-firs-mha-issues-new-advisory-to-states-on-women-safety-899994.html
10-10-2020||National||Posters wishing Taiwan on its national day come up in Delhi; NDMC removes them||Posters wishing Taiwan on its national day on Saturday came up near the Chinese embassy here, but were removed by the New Delhi Municipal Council within hours, an official said. The posters -- bearing the words "Taiwan Happy National Day October 10" -- were issued by Delhi BJP leader Tajinder Pal Singh Bagga, who also tweeted their pictures. The posters were put up Friday night on the sidewalk of Shanti Path close to the embassy of China in the capital's diplomatic enclave Chankyapuri. "We have removed the posters which were put up close to Chinese embassy," an NDMC official said Saturday. Earlier, the Chinese embassy here had issued guidelines to the Indian media to not violate New Delhi's ''One-China'' policy during the national day of Taiwan. "All countries that have diplomatic relations with China should firmly honor their commitment to the One-China policy, which is also the long-standing official position of the Indian government," the letter dated October 7 said. "We hope Indian media can stick to Indian government's position on Taiwan question and do not violate the One-China principle," it said. The letter was issued in the wake of advertisements put out by the Taiwan government in a couple of leading newspapers in India ahead of Taiwan's national day on October 10. India Thursday took oblique potshots over the guidelines, saying there is a "free media" in this country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/posters-wishing-taiwan-on-its-national-day-come-up-in-delhi-ndmc-removes-them-900011.html
10-10-2020||National||Steps should be taken to avert another pandemic: Dalai Lama||Tibetan spiritual leader Dalai Lama on Saturday appreciated the efforts of 'corona warriors' in the fight against Covid-19 and said steps should be taken to avert another such pandemic in the future. "These days, we are faced with the coronavirus pandemic, which is very sad. Whatever has already happened due to our karma is in the past and can't be changed. However, we should take steps to avert another such outbreak in the future," he said in his message on World Mental Health Day. He said he appreciated the efforts and dedication shown by people working in the health care sector. "However, we should take steps to avert another such outbreak in the future," the Dalai Lama said. "Every morning, I recite mantras and pray that this pandemic will come to an end as soon as possible. I dedicate these practices for the good of the world, especially India," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/steps-should-be-taken-to-avert-another-pandemic-dalai-lama-900013.html
10-10-2020||National||After 1,200 km-long car chase, Mumbai crime branch arrests fake IPS officer||After a nearly 1,200 km-long car chase for over 24 hours, a 38-year-old man, posing as an Indian Police Service (IPS) officer from Bengaluru, who allegedly abducted a Surat businessman and extorted Rs 15 lakh, was arrested by Mumbai police crime branch officials, according to ANI. Sharma offered to solve the matter by mediating and called Naviwala to a four-star hotel in Marine Drive. During the negotiation, there was a heated argument between Naviwala, Sharma and his associates. “They (then) assaulted Naviwala, abused him and confined him to the room. They later threatened and kidnapped him on gunpoint and later drove him to Gujarat to collect the ransom. He was harassed and was released only after he managed to pay cash to the accused,” a crime branch officer told the publication requesting anonymity. Naviwala then approached Gujarat and Mumbai police. After a preliminary inquiry, the Marine Drive police registered a case, pressing officials of Mumbai crime branch’s anti-extortion cell (AEC) to look into the matter. According to the report, AEC officials used technological surveillance and information from reliable sources to trace Sharma’s location in Gujarat. When an AEC team reached Gujarat, they had a hard time nabbing Sharma as he kept on changing his location. “We chased him from Gujarat to Bengaluru for over 24 hours by road and eventually nabbed him in Bengaluru on Tuesday. He was brought to Mumbai and was placed under arrest,” the officer added. Another crime branch officer told the publication that Sharma had learnt through an associate that there was an existing complaint against Naviwala in DRI and therefore, he hatched a conspiracy to extort money from the businessman.  Further investigations revealed that Sharma was a seasoned offender. He was arrested last year for impersonating an IPS officer and duping an eatery owner of several lakhs of rupees in Madhya Pradesh. He reportedly also cheated a female police officer from Gujarat police by promising to marry her and then scooting off after taking a large amount of money from her. Sharma, who is currently in police custody, has been booked under sections 170 (impersonating a public servant), 120B (criminal conspiracy), 323 (assault), 342 (wrongful confinement), 364A (kidnapping for ransom, 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of hurt), 504 (abuse) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code and 3 and 25 of the Arms Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-1200-km-long-car-chase-mumbai-crime-branch-arrests-fake-ips-officer-900021.html
10-10-2020||National||FICCI fined Rs 20 lakh for violating dust control norms||The Delhi government on Saturday imposed a fine of Rs 20 lakh on the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) for violating dust control norms at a demolition site on Tansen Marg here, according to an official order. The commerce body has been told to deposit the environment compensation within 15 days, according to the order. Directions have been issued not to carry out or restart any demolition activity without installing an anti-smog gun at the project site, it said. "An undertaking to this effect should be submitted within 7 days. You should also take adequate measures to rectify the deficiencies observed during the inspection on October 9 and submit a compliance report within a week," it said. The Delhi Pollution Control Committee had earlier asked FICCI to stop work at the demolition site. It is mandatory to install anti-smog guns at construction and demolition sites larger than 20,000 square meters, according to government guidelines. There are 39 sites having 20,000 sqm of area in Delhi. Six of these sites do not have anti-smog guns and have been told to stop work, Environment Minister Gopal Rai had said on Friday. Rai said serious violations were observed at the FICCI campus. "The demolition waste is lying uncovered and there is no anti-smog gun. We have issued directions to stop work. If they still go ahead with it, legal and financial action will be taken against the contractor," he had said. "Similar action will be taken against contractors at large sites violating dust control norms despite several warnings. No one will be spared," Rai added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ficci-fined-rs-20-lakh-for-violating-dust-control-norms-900044.html
10-10-2020||National||Rajasthan govt may hold assembly session to discuss new farm laws||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday hinted at holding a session of the assembly soon to discuss the new farm laws. "We would like to hold a discussion on the farm bills in the assembly and see what rights the state has. We are examining possibilities. Soon, people will come to know what benefit the government can provide," Gehlot said. He was speaking at a Kisan Sammelan (farmers meeting) organised by the Congress against the legislations. Gehlot also questioned the intent of the Centre for introducing the ''black laws'' amid the coronavirus crisis. "There was no emergency in bringing the laws. What was the reasons of bringing three black laws amid the coronavirus crisis?" he asked. He said the bills were introduced in Parliament without discussing with farmers, traders and state governments. When the Opposition wanted to refer the bills to a select committee of Parliament for analysing their merits and demerits, the demand was not accepted, Gehlot alleged. Gehlot said the farmers will not even know how gradually they will be hit through these laws.  State agriculture minister Lal Chand Kataria, who was also present at the event, said the legislations will strengthen capitalists and weaken farmers. He said the future generations will pay the price of the "three black laws".  State minister for technical education Subash Garg said the bills have been introduced under trade and commerce sector, which will benefit capitalists.  Rajasthan Congress Chief Govind Singh Dotasra said that at a time when the Centre should work to eliminate coronavirus infection, "it is working to finish farmers from the country".  He alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi did not take a single decision for the benefit of farmers, small traders and labourers in the last seven years of being in power.  Dotasra said the Congress will raise the voice of farmers and its workers will carry out a signature campaign across the state and submit a memorandum to the President.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-govt-may-hold-assembly-session-to-discuss-new-farm-laws-900053.html
10-10-2020||National||UP Police question people known to alleged PFI member in Bahraich||Mathura police arrived here to enquire about details of Bahraich resident Masood Ahmed, who is suspected to have links with the Popular Front of India (PFI), and was recently arrested on his way to Hathras district. Ahmed was arrested along with three others from Mathura when they were heading to Hathras district from Delhi on October 5. The police said the four accused were allegedly affiliated to the PFI. The PFI had been accused of funding protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act across the country earlier this year and the UP police had sought a ban on the outfit. Bahraich Superintendent of Police Vipin Mishra on Saturday said, "A team of Mathura police on Friday spoke to the father of Masood Ahmed and his neighbours after reaching his residence located in Baraikaji locality in Jarwal Road area of the district. The team gathered evidence and also took statements from family members and neighbours. The team also obtained details about Masood from the local police." Meanwhile, Mathura Senior Superintendent of Police Gaurav Grover said, "Information and details were collected about the arrested four people suspected to have links with CFI (Campus Front of India) --- the student wing of PFI. Details about them were also obtained from their Delhi residence. After collecting all the evidence, the police will prepare its report." On October 5, police said the four men with PFI links were taken into custody at a toll plaza in Mathura after a tip-off that suspicious people were heading to Hathras from Delhi. The four men were travelling in a car and identified themselves as Atiq-ur Rehman from Muzaffarnagar, Siddique from Malappuram in Kerala, Ahmed from Bahraich and Alam from Rampur, they said. Their mobile phones, laptops and some literature, which could have an impact on "peace and order" were seized, officials said. During interrogation, it came to light that they had links with PFI and its associate organisation CFI, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-police-question-people-known-to-alleged-pfi-member-in-bahraich-900059.html
10-10-2020||National||Bharat Biotech asked to submit complete phase-2 data of its Covid-19 vaccine before phase-3 trial||Bharat Biotech, which had sought DCGI's nod for conducting phase-3 clinical trials of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate, has been asked to submit complete safety and immunogenicity data of the ongoing phase-2 trial, besides providing some clarifications, before proceeding for the next stage. The vaccine candidate -- 'Covaxin' -- is being indigenously developed by the Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). According to officials, the Hyderabad-based vaccine maker applied to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on October 2, seeking its permission to conduct a phase-3 randomised double-blind placebo-controlled multicentre trial of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate. The firm in its application said that the study would cover 28,500 subjects aged 18 years and above and would be conducted in 19 sites -- including Delhi, Mumbai, Patna and Lucknow -- across 10 states. According to sources, the phase-2 trial of the Covaxin is going on and the second dose is yet to be given to volunteers at some sites. "The company presented phase-3 clinical trial protocol along with interim data of phase 1 and 2 clinical trials," an official said. The subject expert committee (SEC) at the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation(CDSCO) deliberated on the application on October 5. "After detailed deliberation, the committee opined that the design of the phase-3 study is in principle satisfactory except for clarification on the definition of asymptomatic, etc. "However, the study should be initiated with an appropriate dose identified from the phase-2 safety and immunogenicity data. Accordingly, the firm should submit safety and immunogenicity data from the phase-2 trial for consideration," the panel said in its recommendations. The SEC during its discussion also observed that the vaccine was well-tolerated in all dose groups and no serious adverse events have been reported so far, a source said. The most common adverse event was pain at the injection site, which resolved transiently, the source said. The phase-3 clinical trial application proposed a dose of 0.5 ml on days 0 and 28, sources said. Besides, Bharat Biotech, an indigenously developed vaccine candidate by Zydus Cadila Ltd is in phase 2 of the human clinical trials. The Pune-based Serum Institute of India, which has partnered with AstraZeneca for manufacturing the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate, is also conducting Phase 2 and 3 human clinical trials of the candidate in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotech-asked-to-submit-complete-phase-2-data-of-its-covid-19-vaccine-before-phase-3-trial-900063.html
10-10-2020||National||Tripura reports 171 new Covid-19 cases, 2 fatalities||At least 171 more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Tripura on Saturday, pushing the tally in the state to 28,153 a health department official said. The Covid-19 death toll rose to 310 with two more people succumbing to the infection, he said. West Tripura district, of which state capital Agartala is a part, has accounted for 168 of the 310 Covid-19 deaths, the official said. Tripura currently has 4,042 active coronavirus cases, while 23,778 people have recovered from the disease and 23 patients have migrated to other states, the official said. At least 327 patients were discharged from G B Pant hospital, the main referral hospital for the Covid-19 patients, on Friday as they had recovered from the disease, he said. As many as 4,11,570 samples have been tested for Covid-19 in the state so far, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tripura-reports-171-new-covid-19-cases-2-fatalities-900065.html
10-10-2020||National||Drones stand out among other threats in their destructive potential, says Vice Chief of Indian Army||Drones or unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) stand out among other threats in their innovative employment and destructive potential, Vice Chief of Army Staff Lt Gen S K Saini said on Saturday. "Considering their (drones) low cost, multi-use and dense proliferation, the threat will no doubt increase manifold in the years to come," he said during a webinar organised by the Centre for Joint Warfare Studies (CENJOWS). He said the "third dimension" threats like drones may take precedence in the near future and the Army needs to plan for them now. "Both hard kill and soft kill counter-drone solutions, including swarm technology, are the need of the hour," Saini noted. He was addressing the webinar titled "Force Protection India 2020" during which various issues pertaining to requirements for armed forces' protection were discussed. "Among other threats, drones and UAVs stand out in their innovative employment and destructive potential," Saini mentioned. He said a large number of the Army's troops are deployed in extremely high altitude areas where the temperature touches -50 degrees celsius but India is still importing cold-weather clothing and equipment for them due to "lack of viable indigenous solutions". "A collaborative effort needs to be put in this field to fulfil our vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat,” he added. Saini said the Indian Army has evolved considerably in terms of modern arms, ammunition, protection, kitting and clothing but there is still much scope for innovation. "There is a requirement to focus on night-vision goggles, combat helmets, bulletproof jackets, light portable communication sets and many more," he added. The Army vice chief said the threat from improvised explosive devices (IEDs) is here to stay as it seems to be gaining traction as a favoured tool among terrorists and anti-national elements. "The threat (from the IEDs) is sophisticated and can be used while avoiding direct contact. It ends up causing both physical and psychological trauma and seriously impairs own readiness, by forcing us to commit scarce resources for our own protection," he stated. Technological innovation is key to combating the threat from the IEDs, Saini said. "A combination of robotics, artificial intelligence and big data analysis could provide a possible answer," he added. Security of defence establishments and vital installations across the country is another key area where the Army has focused its efforts in the past few years, as these present lucrative and high profile targets, he said. "Though the industry has stepped up to the challenge (of providing security to defence establishments), the solutions provided, however, lack innovation and integration," Saini mentioned. He added that the effort in this field must be to ensure a reduction in manpower commitment by integrating physical and electronic surveillance and incorporating automation and innovation in perimeter fencing, intrusion detection systems, etc. Saini said the Army's deployment footprint extends across the length and breadth of the country and across varying terrains and the sheer magnitude of its requirements presents a golden opportunity to the industry, scientists and entrepreneurs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drones-stand-out-among-other-threats-in-their-destructive-potential-says-vice-chief-of-indian-army-900074.html
10-10-2020||National||Supreme Court agrees to hear woman's plea against probe into her legal father's marriage||The Supreme Court has agreed to hear the plea of a 20-year-old woman against a departmental inquiry ordered by the Chhattisgarh government into her legal guardian, a senior IPS officer, allegedly marrying her biological mother despite being already married. The woman claimed this “outrageous acts” of the state government is an "attempt to settle scores" with her father, the legal guardian, and disrobe her and her deceased biological mother of their dignity. After hearing senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani, appearing for the woman, a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and M R Shah issued a notice and granted an ex-parte stay on the inquiry proceedings. “Application for filing the petition without disclosing the identity of the petitioner no.1 (woman) is allowed. Issue notice. In the meantime, no proceedings shall take place in pursuance of communication dated August 14, 2020,” the bench said in its order. In her plea, the woman said she was born to Dr. MM on December 9, 2000. She also said that when she was nine-month-old, her mother, a divorcee, on her deathbed, passed her custody to Mrs. UG and Mr. MG (father/legal guardian). She said this transfer of custody subsequently found validation by the order of a sub-divisional magistrate on July 30, 2003 and the order was held by a family court on October 11, 2006. She claimed that throughout her growing years, she has found immense love and affection from the entire family including her legal guardians and she is now pursuing an MBBS course. The woman said that on the account of Covid-19 she returned to her family home in Delhi and it was during this stay that her father/legal guardian in order to mentally prepare her against possible onslaught around her identity and dignity informed her about the inquiry recommended by the state government. “What is glaring is the fact that the said inquiry is premised on speculations relating to Petitioner number 1 (woman) paternity and her natural mother’s i.e Dr. MM’s relationship with Mr. MG…”, her plea said, adding that such speculation is “a despicable attack” on her dignity and also of her deceased mother’s. The plea said, “It is submitted that certain zones of individual’s life and choices have been placed by this court beyond the interference of the state, as without such restrictions right to dignity guaranteed, which straddles across the spectrum of fundamental right shall be rendered redundant,” it said. The plea sought quashing of the enquiry emanating from the government communication dated August 14, 2020, saying it embarks upon the constitutionally proscribed questions of her paternity and her deceased mother’s relationship with Mr MG. It also requested restraining the state government from speculating into such questions which are constitutionally proscribed and erodes her and her deceased mother’s right to dignity and privacy. The petition also sought directions to the state government and its officials to restrain them from circulating the documents and details pertaining to the enquiry. “It is pertinent to note here that Mr. MG, a much celebrated IPS officer, has in last two years fallen foul of the political dispensation in the state and has relentlessly been persecuted through various FIRs and departmental inquiries against which the petitioner number 2 (Mr. MG) has been constrained to avail the remedies available under law,” it said. The woman’s plea said that various FIRs lodged against her father/legal guardian (Mr. MG) has been stayed by the court and he is also pursuing his remedies in the Central Administrative Tribunal against his suspension. “Such is the vindictiveness of Respondent number 1 (state) that despite the order of this court having granted stay of investigation in the three FIRs registered against Mr. MG, it continued to persecute him and carried out illegal mobile interception of his family members including her and also registered a frivolous FIR against his advocate,” the plea said. It said that having met a roadblock in its entire endeavour "to persecute and humiliate" Mr. MG, the state government, “in its desperation to settle scores with him has now resorted to embark upon the proscribed terrain without considering the impact the same shall have on the modesty, and dignity of petitioner number 1 and her deceased mother”. The petition said, “It is submitted that such pursuit of vengeance as has been undertaken by the respondent State and its officials erodes the very soul of constitutional morality and denigrates the status of woman to that of a chattel”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-agrees-to-hear-womans-plea-against-probe-into-her-legal-fathers-marriage-900075.html
10-10-2020||National||Translated works of activist-poet Varavara Rao to release next year||A collection of poetry by Varavara Rao, the veteran activist, teacher, poet and writer, is set to be published in 2021 by Penguin Random House India. Titled 'Varavara Rao: India’s Revolutionary Poet', this book is being edited by N Venugopal and Meena Kandasamy. It will be published under Penguin’s Vintage imprint and released in 2021. Varavara Rao (81) is currently in jail having been arrested in connection with the Elgar Parishad-Koregaon Bhima case. His body of work is recognised as one of the strongest documents and critiques of Indian history since independence, and this collection of poems, translated into English, will be a record of his political beliefs and his assertion of the primacy of people’s rights. About two-thirds of the poems featured here were picked by the poet himself before his arrest. “Varavara Rao is a teacher, journalist, translator, public speaker, revolutionary writer, organisation builder and has been a steadfast supporter of Naxalbari politics for five decades. But more than anything else, he is a revolutionary poet. He is the author of 13 collections of poetry and 16 books of prose (including seven books of literary criticism), all in Telugu. A collection of his letters from prison 'Captive Imagination' was published by Penguin,” a press statement said. "This is like fulfilment of a long-cherished dream, as making Varavara Rao's work accessible to English readers has been my dream for decades. As a person who has closely watched the making of his poems, as one of the first readers in manuscript form, I believe his poetry is an expression of his complete personality that blended social history, alternative people's politics, people's right to self- determination and unceasing urge for freedom," said Venugopal, co-editor and nephew of the poet. Rao, 79, has authored 13 collections of poetry and 16 books of prose -- including seven books of literary criticism -- in Telugu. A collection of his letters from prison, Captive Imagination, was also published by Penguin. According to the publishers, the book, a commemoration of Rao's immense talent and passion for poetry, will be a first "authentic, representative collection" of his poems coming out in a single volume also including some poems translated into English exclusively for the edition. "The image of Varavara Rao, smiling and fist raised, as he was taken into custody is imprinted on our minds. He exuded an aura of optimism, fortitude and strength. Who is Varavara Rao? What does he stand for? Where better to turn for answers than to his own words, the poems that convey with such extraordinary power his emotions, his thoughts and purpose," Elizabeth Kuruvilla, executive editor, Penguin Random House India. Rao has been in jail since the end of 2018 for alleged inflammatory speeches made at the Elgar Parishad conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the western Maharashtra city.  (With PTI Inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/translated-works-of-activist-poet-varavara-rao-to-release-next-year-900077.html
10-10-2020||National||Forces in Jammu & Kashmir have managed to stop infiltration to large extent this year: Army officer||The situation along the LoC in Kashmir is under control and security forces have been able to stop infiltration to a large extent so far this year, a top Army officer said here on Saturday. Corps Commander of the Army's Srinagar-based Chinar Corps, Lt Gen B S Raju, said the number of militants who infiltrated into this side of the Line of Control (LoC) so far this year was less than 30. “The situation on the LoC is under control. Few ceasefire violations are taking place which Pakistan is using to aid in infiltration, but in those areas too, the situation has been brought under control," Lt Gen Raju said here. "We have been able to stop infiltration to a large extent this year. Last year, about 130 militants had infiltrated, but the number this year is less than 30 which is very less,” he said. He was speaking to reporters on the sidelines of a passing-out-cum-attestation parade of 301 youths from the union territory at the Jammu and Kashmir Light Infantry Regimental Centre at Rangreth on the outskirts of the city here. The senior Army officer expressed hope that the internal situation in the valley would become better because of less infiltration. He further said anti-militancy operations in the valley were continuing and militants being neutralised by security forces. “This morning, a foreign terrorist and a local were neutralised (in an encounter in Kulgam). We have seen that wherever we neutralise a foreign terrorist, the area becomes peaceful. Peace has been established to a large extent in the areas of Pulwama and Shopian because of the operations in the last two-three months,” he said. The corps commander said the recruitment of new militants had decreased in the last six months, but picked up again in the last month or so. “But, I see a ray of hope as several terrorists who had taken up the path of violence have surrendered. We do not share details about it, but it is a good indicator,” he said. He said while the problem in south Kashmir was more serious than north, overall the situation there was under control. Asked about the number of militants at the launch pads across the LoC, he said according to intelligence inputs, there were about 250-300 militants there. “But we have been able to stop them despite their continuous attempts (to infiltrate),” he added. Lt Gen Raju said the security forces have been working on a surrender policy for militants so as to help them return to the mainstream. “We have been working on a policy for surrender and we have sent our recommendations, but, as of now, the policy has not been formalised. But, even in the absence of any policy, we have a system in which we own anyone who comes back,” he said. Asked about the forthcoming panchayat polls in the UT, the corps commander said that the Army will render whatever help is required to conduct the polls in a peaceful manner. “Polls have been announced and we hope that people come forward to participate so that development comes to their area. We will give any help that is required to conduct the polls in a peaceful manner,” he said. Earlier, Lt Gen Raju reviewed the parade of 301 passing out soldiers from the UT who completed a year's strenuous training at the regimental centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/forces-in-jammu-kashmir-have-managed-to-stop-infiltration-to-large-extent-this-year-army-officer-900079.html
10-10-2020||National||Delhi's air quality in higher end of 'moderate' category||The national capital's air quality was recorded in the higher end of the 'moderate' category on Saturday, but a government forecasting agency said it is likely to improve marginally on October 11. The city's 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) stood at 197, which falls in the higher end of the 'moderate' category. It was in 'poor' category at 204 on Friday. An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. The Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, said PM 2.5 is the lead pollutant in Saturday's AQI and is likely to improve to the 'moderate' category by Sunday. "The overall Delhi AQI is in the higher end of 'moderate' and at the edge of the 'poor' category, with PM2.5 as the lead pollutant," SAFAR said. It said the AQI is forecasted to marginally improve but remain in the 'moderate' category for tomorrow while further AQI is forecasted to improve by October 12, which will also remain in the moderate category. It said the low pressure formed over the Bay of Bengal is likely to intensify to depression and move west northwestwards and influence the circulations in the north and central India. "A shift in Delhi surface wind direction, northwesterly to southeasterly by October 12 is forecasted. This could influence air quality positively in the coming week," it said. Due to stubble burning around Punjab, Haryana, and neighbouring border regions, the fire count was found at 253 on Saturday, SAFAR said. Starting October 15, stricter measures to fight air pollution will also come into force in Delhi and its neighbourhood as part of the Graded Response Action Plan, which was first implemented in Delhi-NCR in 2017. These measures include increasing bus and metro services, hiking parking fees and stopping use of diesel generator sets when the air quality turns poor. When the situation turns "severe", GRAP recommends closure of brick kilns, stone crushers and hot mix plants, sprinkling of water, frequent mechanised cleaning of roads and maximising power generation from natural gas. The measures to be followed in the "emergency" situation include stopping entry of trucks in Delhi, ban on construction activities and introduction of the odd-even car rationing scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhis-air-quality-in-higher-end-of-moderate-category-900082.html
10-10-2020||National||39 years after divorce, Ram Vilas Paswan’s first wife arrives to pay last tributes||Hours before Ram Vilas Paswan was cremated in Patna, on the banks of Ganga, there was an unexpected family member to pay tributes to the departed leader - Raj Kumari Devi. Married to Paswan in 1960, Raj Kumari is his first wife and leads a quiet life, strictly shunning media limelight, at senior Paswan’s ancestral house at Saharbanni village in Khagaria district. “She arrived from Khagaria to Patna and paid tributes to Ram Vilas Ji at his SK Puri residence on Saturday morning. However, on seeing his body, she fainted after crying inconsolably,” a family member told Deccan Herald. Raj Kumari was barely 13 and Ram Vilas Paswan 14 years of age when they married in 1960. They have two daughters: Usha and Asha. While Usha is married to an officer-turned-politician Mrinal, Asha is married to RJD leader Anil Kumar Sadhu. Asha and Sadhu were denied entry at Patna airport on Friday evening when Paswan’s body was flown here, as their names did not figure in the list submitted by the family to the district administration. Paswan’s second wife is Reena Sharma Paswan, a former air-hostess. Bitten by the love-bug, Ram Vilas married Reena, a Punjabi, in 1983 soon after they met during one of his tours. Chirag is their only son, besides a daughter, who is married to former Congress MLA Jyoti’s son. That senior Paswan had "divorced Raj Kumari Devi in 1981 itself" was publicly disclosed only during the 2014 Lok Sabha election when the JD (U) challenged Ram Vilas Paswan’s marital status. “My father loved all his children (the two daughters from his first wife and the two children from his second wife) equally, and kept cordial relations with everyone. But Madam (Reena) was not keen to keep the family unified,” alleged Asha after being denied permission at the airport to pay tributes to her father. On Saturday afternoon, Paswan was cremated with full State honours at Janardan Ghat in Patna. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, Chirag Paswan and other family members were present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/39-years-after-divorce-ram-vilas-paswan-s-first-wife-arrives-to-pay-last-tributes-900088.html
10-10-2020||National||Shopian ‘fake’ encounter: Army hopes Summary of Evidence will take case to next level||The Army on Saturday expressed hope that the Summary of Evidence, a step before a possible court-martial, in July's Amshipura encounter in South Kashmir's Shopian district would conclude soon and take the case to the next stage. Corps Commander of the Army's Srinagar-based Chinar Corps, Lt Gen BS Raju said the Army had begun the Summary of Evidence as some wrongs were committed during the encounter at Amshipura on July 18 in which the Army claimed that three militants were killed. “We have already shared the basic information (in the case) that the initial court of inquiry has been concluded and we have seen some wrongs committed. On the basis of that, we have ordered the Summary of Evidence which is going on and we hope it concludes soon so that we go into the next stage,” Lt Gen Raju said. He was speaking to reporters on the sidelines of a passing-out-cum-attestation parade of 301 youths from the Union territory at the Jammu and Kashmir Light Infantry Regimental Centre at Rangreth in the outskirts of the city here. The Army had initiated a Court of Inquiry into the case after social media reports indicated that the three men were from Rajouri district in Jammu and had gone missing at Amshipura. The probe was completed in a record four weeks and Summary of Evidence was initiated. The families of the three men from Rajouri who worked as labourers in Shopian had also filed a police complaint. The police also conducted an inquiry into the case and on September 30, IGP, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said the DNA samples of the victims had matched with their families. On October 3, the bodies of the trio were exhumed and handed over to their families.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shopian-fake-encounter-army-hopes-summary-of-evidence-will-take-case-to-next-level-900091.html
10-10-2020||National||Bihar Assembly polls: JP Nadda to address public meeting in Gaya on Sunday||BJP President J P Nadda will kick off the party’s campaign for the Bihar assembly elections with a rally in Gaya on Sunday, the first such public meeting for the keenly watched polls taking place under the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic. Nadda would begin his Bihar visit by offering prayers at the Hanuman Temple in Patna and garlanding the statue of Jayprakash Narayan at his memorial. The party has also planned welcome ceremonies for Nadda at the airport in Patna, before he proceeds to Gaya to address a public meeting at the historic Gandhi Maidan. BJP is contesting the Bihar elections in alliance with the JD(U) led by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. Nadda will return to Patna after the rally at Gaya and get down to address the nitty gritty of the election strategy, particularly after the decision of the Lok Janshakti Party to walk out of the alliance in Bihar and put candidates against the JD(U). On Saturday, the BJP Central Election Committee met at the party headquarters here to discuss candidates for the Bihar assembly elections and the adjustment it has to do after admitting Vikassheel Insaan Party into the alliance. The VIP had walked out of the alliance with the RJD and Congress earlier this week, crying betrayal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-assembly-polls-jp-nadda-to-address-public-meeting-in-gaya-on-sunday-900093.html
10-10-2020||National||Hathras victim's family to appear before Lucknow bench of Allahabad HC amid tight security on Monday||Family members of a 19-year-old Dalit woman who died after allegedly being raped by four men in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras district will appear before the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court amid tight security on Monday. Hathras Superintendent of Police Vineet Jaiswal on Saturday told PTI that the district judge of Hathras has been appointed as the nodal officer for the appearance of the Hathras victim's family member before the high court. The police and district administration are working on an elaborate plan in this regard as to how many family members will go and when they will depart from Hathras. "The Hathras Police will be responsible for their security and a detailed plan is being made," Jaiswal said. Sixty security personnel have been deployed and eight close circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed at the house of the alleged gangrape victim in her village in Bulgarhi area here to ensure the safety of her family members, according to police. DIG Shalabh Mathur, who has been sent to Hathras from Lucknow as a nodal officer, had told PTI on Friday that if needed a control room would also be established there. With the help of CCTV cameras, the house of the victim was being monitored round-the-clock, police said. The Hathras SP said a register of visitors was being maintained by policemen at the entry of the house. "Shocked" by the alleged gang-rape and murder of the 19-year-old Dalit woman and her forcible cremation subsequently, the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court on October 1 had summoned top government officials to the court. A division bench of Justice Rajan Roy and Justice Jaspreet Singh had ordered the Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary, state police chief and an additional director general of police to appear before it on October 12 to explain the incident. Taking suo motu cognisance of the case, which has triggered widespread outrage, the bench also ordered Hathras district magistrate and superintendent of police to appear with to apprise the court of various aspects of the case, including the ongoing probe into it. "The incidents which took place after the death of the victim on September 29, 2020, leading up to her cremation, as alleged, have shocked our conscience. Therefore, we are taking suo moto cognizance of the same," the bench had said in its order. The bench had also asked the late woman's parents to come to the court to apprise it of their versions of the incident and ordered the Hathras district administration to arrange for their travel to the court and facilitate their appearance before it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hathras-victims-family-to-appear-before-lucknow-bench-of-allahabad-hc-amid-tight-security-on-monday-900102.html
10-10-2020||National||Bengal BJP MP Arjun Singh's nephew arrested in bank fraud case||BJP MP Arjun Singh's nephew Sanjit Singh alias Pappu has been arrested in connection with a bank fraud case in Barrackpore in West Bengal's North 24 Parganas district, police said on Saturday. He was arrested late on Friday night after hours of grilling in connection with fraud in a cooperative bank in Barrackpore, a senior police officer said. The accused was produced before a local court in the afternoon, he said. Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh, who has been at loggerheads with the TMC government in the state, has termed the arrest "vendetta politics". "His arrest is nothing but vendetta politics to malign me and my family members. Initially, the police tried to frame me in the case. But when they couldn't prove anything, they framed my nephew. We will fight it out in the court," Singh said. The TMC, however, dubbed the allegations as "baseless". "The allegations are completely baseless. If somebody has committed a crime, the law will take its course," senior TMC leader and minister Firhad Hakim said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengal-bjp-mp-arjun-singhs-nephew-arrested-in-bank-fraud-case-900104.html
10-10-2020||National||Militant recruitment up in Kashmir since last month: Indian Army||The Indian Army on Saturday said that recruitment of militants has gone up in Kashmir since last one month. “In the last six months it (militant recruitment) had come down but now it has again seen a rise,” General Officer Commanding 15 Corps, Lt General B S Raju told reporters during a presser in Srinagar. He said that the recruitment of militants is little more in south Kashmir districts of Shopian, Pulwama, Kulgam and Anantnag than in northern districts. However, the GOC said, the infiltration of militants along the Line of Control (LoC) has come down compared to last year. “This year, we have stopped infiltration to a large extent. Last year till October, 126 militants had managed to enter this side. This year, the figure for the same period is just 30,” the GOC revealed. General Raju credited the decline in the infiltration to effective counter infiltration measures by the Army. “This morning, the Army foiled a weapons smuggling bid into Kashmir across the Kishenganga river and recovered four AK rifles. The cache was recovered because of the surveillance devices,” he said. The GOC said that the militants were being neutralised in the operations in the hinterland and also on the LoC.  “This morning, we neutralised two militants including one foreigner,’’ he said. He said economic activity has also started in Kashmir and apple and paddy cultivation has also begun. On the Shopian 'fake' encounter , General Raju said that the Court of Inquiry (CoI) has been completed and on the basis of the inquiry, it was found that some wrongdoing has been committed. “We have ordered a summary of evidence and have covered some distance. Hopefully, we will reach the next stage soon,” he said. While commenting on Pakistan-China coordination, the GOC said, "There is a presence of China in Pakistan due to CPEC and they have coordination in terms of equipment but on tactical military grounds, we can see no coordination between them.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/militant-recruitment-up-in-kashmir-since-last-month-indian-army-900110.html
10-10-2020||National||Indian government to facilitate renewal of international driving permit for citizens who are abroad||The Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways on Saturday said it will initiate steps to facilitate renewal of International Driving Permit (IDP) for citizens whose IDP has expired while they are abroad. The Ministry has issued a draft notification has been issued in this regard. "The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has issued a draft notification...seeking comments and suggestions for amendment to Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989 for facilitating the issuance of International Driving Permit (IDP) for citizens whose IDP has expired while they are abroad," MoRTH said in a statement. It said that it has come to its notice that in certain cases for the citizens who are travelling abroad and in a foreign country, the IDP gets expired and there is no mechanism for its renewal while abroad. "The proposal is to amend the CMVR 1989 to facilitate such citizens. The citizens can apply through the Indian Embassy / Mission Abroad portals and the applications would then move to the VAHAN for being considered by the respective RTOs (regional transport offices)," the statement said. The proposal also includes removal of the conditions of a medical certificate and a valid visa at the time of making the request for the IDP in the country. "Further, there are certain countries where the visa is on arrival and in such cases the visa was not available when applying for the IDP in India before travel," the statement said. It said that citizens and stakeholders can send their comments and suggestions to the joint secretary (MVL, IT & Toll), Ministry of Road Transport and Highways within 30 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-government-to-facilitate-renewal-of-international-driving-permit-for-citizens-who-are-abroad-900116.html
10-10-2020||National||Student murder: Sisodia meets victim's family, announces Rs 10 lakh ex-gratia||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday met the family of an 18-year-old DU student, who was allegedly beaten to death over his friendship with a woman in Adarsh Nagar, and announced an ex-gratia of Rs 10 lakh. Talking to reporters here, Sisodia said the Delhi government will ensure that the culprits get strict punishment at the earliest by appointing prominent lawyers in the case. The Deputy Chief Minister said the victim aspired to be an IPS officer. The incident took place on Wednesday evening in northwest Delhi's Adarsh Nagar. Rahul Rajput was a second-year student in Delhi University's School of Open Learning. He also provided tuition to school students, police said. According to the police, the victim was friends with a woman from his locality but her family was against the friendship. On Wednesday evening, the victim was called to Nanda Road on some pretext and when he reached the spot, he was physically assaulted allegedly by a group of four-five people, including the woman's brothers, a senior police officer had said on Friday. The woman's brother and a relative were arrested and three juveniles apprehended in connection with the incident, the officer had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/student-murder-sisodia-meets-victims-family-announces-rs-10-lakh-ex-gratia-900125.html
10-10-2020||National||Ram Vilas Paswan, a man for all seasons in Indian politics, cremated in Patna||The mortal remains of Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, a man for all seasons and one of the tallest leaders spawned by the Dalit community, were consigned to flames in Patna on Saturday with full state honours. A sea of people could be seen, besides dignitaries led by Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, at the cremation site on the banks of the Ganges in the city that has been a witness to the Lok Janshakti Party founders long journey - from a young MLA of the socialist party in the late 1960s to having served under six prime ministers. A large number of supporters had come to the Digha ghat from his pocket borough Hajipur, situated right across the river, which Paswan had nurtured since his Lok Sabha debut in 1977 when he won with a record margin. He gave up the seat for his younger brother Pashupati Kumar Paras last year and chose the Rajya Sabha route for re- entering Parliament. The sight of commoners standing chock a block, teary- eyed and eager to catch the last glimpse of their leader, unmindful of the threat posed by the COVID pandemic and reprimands of security personnel anxious to enforce social distancing, bore testimony to the popularity of the man, known as an "ajaat shatru" (one with no enemies) in the vicious politics of Bihar. Many climbed atop a steamer anchored nearby while an even larger number could be seen standing, precariously, on the decrepit embankment built along the river after they were thwarted by the administration from crowding the ghat. Paswan had breathed his last at a hospital in New Delhi on Thursday evening and his body was brought here on Friday. Dignitaries offered their tributes at the airport and also, later, at the Vidhan Sabha premises. The body was brought for the last rites to Janardan Ghat in the Digha locality in a massive procession from his residence in Shri Krishna Puri, about 3 km away. The bungalow of Paswan, who famously kept his doors open for all despite the high offices he held for much part of his political career, remained teeming with visitors, many of them common citizens whom the leader had helped with getting a job, getting a critically ill relative treated at a top medical facility, or with financial help which made the marriage of their daughters possible. Many also recalled the contributions made by Paswan as a minister - Hajipur becoming a zonal headquarters of the railways, mobile phones becoming affordable, and greater efficiency in the public distribution system that was crucial during the nationwide lockdown. The last rites were performed by Paswan's son and political heir Chirag, who has taken a big gamble by deciding to plough a lonely furrow in the assembly elections that are days away. Amid deafening roars of "Ram Vilas Paswan amar rahein", Chirag, in knee-high dhoti and a white sheet around his shoulders, lit the funeral pyre. Reena Paswan, who like her husband Ram Vilas was always a perfect host, watched the ceremony from a distance, the grief on her face concealed with her mask and a dupatta. The LJP founders other family members, who run the party affairs along with Chirag, too stood around the pyre and helped the son in completing the rituals. Derided by his opponents for being a "mausam vaigyanik" (weathercock), which nonetheless bore testimony to his astuteness in gauging the public mood, Paswan's entry into politics was an instance of choosing adventure over the stagnation that often comes with security. "In 1969, I was elected as an MLA around the same time I qualified for the post of a Deputy Superintendent of Police. One of my friends asked me what would you like to become, a government servant or the government itself? Thus began my political journey," Paswan had famously said. Journalists, with whom the Union minister had been a favourite, were unanimous in the belief "there will hardly be another one like him who remained without swagger despite enjoying so much power".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ram-vilas-paswan-a-man-for-all-seasons-in-indian-politics-cremated-in-patna-900132.html
10-10-2020||National||From the Newsroom: China amass 60K troops at India's border, says US; Rahul raps Centre over non-bullet proof vehicles for Army||In your evening news brief, From the Newsroom, China has amassed more than 60,000 troops on India's northern border, said US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo; Congress leader Rahul Gandhi attacked the Centre over provision of non-bullet proof vehicles for soldiers; CSK captain Dhoni’s daughter received rape threats after the team lost a match to KKR.  Hi, this is Varsha Gowda and you are listening to From The Newsroom, your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald. Here are the top stories of the day, October 8, 2020: (Transition) China has amassed more than 60,000 troops on India's northern border, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has said as he hit out at Beijing for its "bad behaviour" and the threats it poses to the Quad countries. The foreign ministers from the Indo-Pacific nations known as the Quad group - the US, Japan, India and Australia - met in Tokyo on Tuesday in what was their first in-person talks since the coronavirus pandemic began.   Congress leader Rahul Gandhi attacked the government over provision of non-bullet proof vehicles for soldiers, while spending Rs 8,400 crore to procure aircraft for Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "Is this justice?" he asked on Twitter along with a video of a purported conversation between soldiers being transported in non-bullet proof vehicles. "Our jawans are being sent in non-bullet proof trucks to get martyred and a Rs 8,400 crore-aircraft is brought for the PM! Is this justice," he said in a tweet in Hindi. Despite summons, Republic TV's Chief Financial Officer (CFO) did not appear before the Mumbai police today to record his statement in connection with the TRP manipulation racket, saying the channel has approached the Supreme Court in the case, a senior official said. Shiva Subramaniyam Sundaram, the channel's CFO, against whom summons had been issued on Friday, also requested the police not to record his statement saying the top court's hearing is scheduled within a week, the official said.   After Chennai Super Kings lost a match to Kolkata Knight Riders, many fans were disappointed and they took to social media to troll Mahendra Singh Dhoni for his poor performance. Trolling players is a common reaction from so-called "fans" when their favourite team loses a match but this time it has left social media users both shocked and disgusted as rape threats were given to Dhoni's five-year-old daughter, Ziva.   The Centre has issued a fresh advisory to states on safety of women and how to deal with crime against them and said any failure of police to adhere to laid down rules does not augur well for the delivery of justice. The detailed three-page advisory of the Union Home Ministry came days after the alleged gangrape and murder of a women at Hathras in Uttar Pradesh sparked nationwide outrage.   That is it today, From the Newsroom. Tune in tomorrow morning for our feature show, The Lead. If you liked this show, please share this podcast with your friends, family and on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-china-amass-60k-troops-at-indias-border-says-us-rahul-raps-centre-over-non-bullet-proof-vehicles-for-army-900135.html
10-10-2020||National||Durga Puja: Kolkata’s Kumartuli potters struggle for survival amid Covid-19||With Durga Puja less than two weeks away, idol makers of Kolkata’s iconic Kumartuli (potters’ neighbourhood) are clueless as to how they will survive the major loss that they have suffered due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Usually, idol-making starts at Kumartuli in full swing in September but this year work has picked up a bit of pace only at the beginning of October. The situation is such that nearly 500 potters at Kumartuli are unsure how will continue to stay in the business of idol making after suffering such a huge loss. Speaking to DH, joint Secretary of Kumartuli Mritshilpi Sanskritik Samiti, a major organisation of potters, Ranjit Sarkar said that the pandemic had hit the potters on several grounds. Sarkar said that due to the lack of sponsorship following the nationwide lockdown, several large and medium Durga Puja organisers either cancelled their orders or opted for smaller idols. While, last year, on average a Kumartuli artist earned about Rs.60,000 by selling a 10 or 14 feet tall idol, this year the artist was barely earning Rs. 13,000 by selling a five feet idol— the artists are left with very little or no profit. "The pace of work at Kumartuli has picked up the pace a little bit but overall it's a disaster for us. Yes, we are selling some idols but at a great loss. It's just a desperate effort to survive,” said Sarkar. The skilled and unskilled workers who come to Kumartuli from far-flung villages of West Bengal to work under the artists also lost a significant portion of their livelihood because fewer artists were hired owing to reduced orders. It's not just the pandemic but Cyclone Amphan, which in May resulted in a double whammy for Kumartuli idol makers. The cramped studios and godowns at Kumartuli provided little protection against the storm and a large number of them were reduced to piles of clay, said an artist at Kumartuli.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/durga-puja-kolkata-s-kumartuli-potters-struggle-for-survival-amid-covid-19-900138.html
10-10-2020||National||We have no such indication: Top Indian Army commander on reports of China helping set up missile sites in PoK||Amid reports that China is helping Pakistan set up sites for surface-to-air missiles in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), a top Indian Army commander on Saturday said there is no indication of any tactical help being extended by Beijing to Islamabad. Corps Commander of the Army's Srinagar-based Chinar Corps Lt Gen B S Raju, however, said there is military cooperation between Pakistan and China in terms of equipment. Amid the continuing standoff between Indian and Chinese troops in Ladakh, media reports quoting intelligence inputs have claimed that China is helping Pakistan set up sites for surface-to-air missiles in PoK as soldiers of their armies have been carrying out joint patrols in the region. Gen Raju said there has not been any such indication. "I have seen the reports in the media. Whether Pakistan is helping China or China is helping Pakistan, we have no such indication," he told reporters on the sidelines of a passing out-cum-attestation parade at the Jammu and Kashmir Light Infantry Regimental Centre on the outskirts of Srinagar.  "But because of the CPEC (China-Pakistan Economic Corridor), there is the presence of China in Pakistan. The military cooperation in terms of equipment is there, but we are not seeing any tactical help," he said. According to the reports, the construction work for the installation of surface-to-air missile defence system is being carried out by the Pakistan army and China's People's Liberation Army at Pauli Pir near Lasadanna Dhok of PoK. Pakistan army personnel and dozens of civilians are working at the construction site, the reports stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-have-no-such-indication-top-indian-army-commander-on-reports-of-china-helping-set-up-missile-sites-in-pok-900144.html
10-10-2020||National||Rajasthan: Family of priest burnt alive refuses to cremate body until govt fulfils demands||The family of a temple priest who was burnt alive allegedly by land grabbers in Rajasthan's Karauli district refused to cremate his body on Saturday till their demands are fulfilled by the state government. Babu Lal Vaishnav was caught by five people, who wanted to encroach on temple land, near an agriculture farm in Bukna village on Wednesday and set on fire after pouring petrol on him, according to police. He was admitted in a critical condition to the SMS hospital in Jaipur where he died on Thursday night. The victim's family has demanded a compensation of Rs 50 lakh, a government job for one of its members and early arrest of the accused. Vaishnav's family members said they will not cremate his body till the state government fulfils all their demands. The main accused in the case, identified as Kailash Meena, has been arrested, while another has been rounded up, Superintendent of Police, Karauli, Mridul Kachhawa, had said on Friday. A case of attempt to murder was registered at Sapotra police station and it was converted into a murder case after the death of the priest, he had said. BJP MP Kirodi Lal Meena met the aggrieved family in Bukna and sat on a 'dharna' demanding justice for them on Saturday. "People holding responsible positions should stand with the victim's family members so that such incidents are not repeated. I am sitting on 'dharna' with his family members and local public representatives to demand justice. The Ashok Gehlot government should wake up from slumber and ensure justice," Meena said in a tweet. A three-member committee constituted by the BJP also reached the village to prepare a factual report on the incident. "The Rajasthan government is insensitive to law and order, and justice. In this incident with the priest, the Rajasthan government assured help to the victim's family, but so far no help has been given to the victim's family," Jaipur MP Ramcharan Bohra, a member of the BJP committee, said. He said there is anger across the state. There is a demand from all corners that the culprits in this incident should get the harshest punishment and help be given to the victim's family. Meanwhile, Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra held a meeting with Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and discussed the law and order situation in the state, Raj Bhawan sources said. The governor discussed with Gehlot the law and order situation in the context of several incidents, including the Karauli incident and the alleged gangrape of two minor sisters in Barmer, they said. Mishra expressed concern over these incidents. Gehlot told him that the state government has taken cognisance of all these incidents and the police are investigating them, the sources said. The chief minister assured the governor that the culprits will not be spared and action will be taken in all these incidents after the investigation has been completed, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-family-of-priest-burnt-alive-refuses-to-cremate-body-until-govt-fulfils-demands-900157.html
10-10-2020||National||Low-intensity earthquakes recorded near Porbandar in Gujarat||Four minor earthquakes were recorded in the Porbandar area in Gujarat's Saurashtra region on Saturday, officials said. No casualty or damage to property was reported. There were two quakes of magnitude 3.3 and 3 near Porbandar at 8.05 am and 9.44 am, said the Gandhinagar-based Institute of Seismological Research (ISR). Another two tremors of magnitude 2.2 and 1.8 were also felt with epicenters near Porbandar at 8.26 am and 1.09 am, it said. The first, magnitude 3.3 quake had its epicenter 31 km NNE from Porbandar, while the one with magnitude 3 intensity had its epicenter 31 km NNE from Porbandar, said the institute. The 2.2 magnitude tremor had its epicenter 34 km NNE from Porbandar, and the 1.8 magnitude one had its epicenter 29 km NNE from the town, the ISR said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/low-intensity-earthquakes-recorded-near-porbandar-in-gujarat-900163.html
10-10-2020||National||Any peace deal with Taliban will not be detrimental to national security of India: Abdullah Abdullah||Any peace deal with the Taliban "will not and should not be detrimental'' to the national security of any country including India, and it is for New Delhi to decide whether to engage with the militant outfit, top Afghan peace negotiator Abdullah Abdullah said on Saturday. In an interview with PTI, Abdullah, the chairman of the powerful High Council for National Reconciliation, also dispelled India's apprehensions that a prominent role for the Taliban as part of a possible outcome to the ongoing intra-Afghan peace talks could be detrimental to its strategic interests. "It is not in our interests if any terrorist group has any foothold in Afghanistan. The agreement should be one that is acceptable to the people of Afghanistan. It should be dignified, sustainable, and durable," Abdullah said. The influential Afghan leader also said if a peace deal is struck with the Taliban, then all other terror groups "freelancing in mountains and deserts of Afghanistan and launching attacks on us or any other nation" will have to cease their activities. "Peaceful settlement will not be and should not be detrimental to any country's national security including India. India is a country which has helped Afghanistan, contributed to Afghanistan. It is a friend of Afghanistan," he said. There have been apprehensions in New Delhi that Pakistan might leverage its influence over the Taliban to step up cross-border terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir if the militant group regains political prominence after a possible peace deal between it and the Afghan government. Abdullah arrived here on Tuesday on a five-day visit as part of his efforts to build a regional consensus and support for the historic Afghan peace process. During his stay, he briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the peace talks and held meetings with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and National Security Advisor Ajit Doval. Asked whether he got any indication of India's willingness to engage with the Taliban, Abdullah said,"personally, I encourage engagement of India in the peace process. I did not make the suggestion. It is for India to decide how to engage with a group or not engage with a group. I did not pursue it," he said. The Taliban and the Afghan government are holding direct talks, aimed at ending decades of war that has killed tens of thousands of people and ravaged various parts of Afghanistan. Abdullah said people of Afghanistan are yearning for peace and stability and they will not allow terrorism to sustain. "If somebody thinks that because of other circumstances in Afghanistan including withdrawal of the US troops, there might be a situation where one side may take advantage of it, temporarily something might happen. But that will put the will of that side to a big test if that is the calculation. Because that is a miscalculation, that will be a miscalculation. That is not in our interest," he said. India has also been maintaining that care should be taken to ensure that any such process does not lead to any "ungoverned spaces" where terrorists and their proxies can relocate. India has been calling upon all sections of the political spectrum in Afghanistan to work together to meet the aspirations of all people in that country including those from the minority community for a prosperous and safe future. India has been a major stakeholder in the peace and stability of Afghanistan. It has already invested USD two billion in aid and reconstruction activities in the country. The Afghan leader said he is taking back the message of support and commitment to the peace process from India. "Lot of time and energy was spent to find the best way forward," he said on his talks with Indian leaders. India has been supporting a national peace and reconciliation process which is Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled. On September 12, an Indian delegation attended the inaugural ceremony of the intra-Afghan negotiations in Doha while S Jaishankar joined it through a video conference. On whether there is a possibility of Beijing leaning on Islamabad to protect its security and connectivity interests in Afghanistan if the Taliban becomes a key influencer in Kabul, Abdullah said his country benefits from support from different countries including China which is an important country. India has been keenly following the evolving political situation after the US signed a peace deal with the Taliban in February. The deal provided for the withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan, effectively drawing curtains to Washington's 18-year war with Taliban in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/any-peace-deal-with-taliban-will-not-be-detrimental-to-national-security-of-india-abdullah-abdullah-900164.html
10-10-2020||National||Will seek account of 54 years of Congress' rule in Baroda: Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lar on Saturday said the BJP will seek from the Congress "an account of 54 years" for which its members remained legislators from the assembly constituency, where a by-election will be held in November. Khattar also said they would ask voters of the Baroda assembly seat whether they want a person who would get development work done or an "inactive" one. The bypoll to the Baroda assembly seat in Sonipat, which was necessitated due to demise of Congress MLA Shri Krishan Hooda in April, will be held on November 3 while the counting of votes is to take place on November 10. Khattar said the BJP in alliance with the JJP (Jannayak Janta Party) will contest this bypoll, though the election symbol will be the saffron party's 'lotus'. "Most of the time, Congress-led governments in the country and in this state remained in power. In this constituency (Baroda) also, Congress party's members have been getting elected from here for almost 54 years. "When we will go to the poll, we will also seek an account from them (Congress) of 54 years," Khattar told the media in Gohana in Haryana's Sonipat district. He said he had told the people of Baroda after the death of the Congress legislator that they should consider him as their MLA till the new legislator is elected. Khattar said each department of the state government initiated works as per the aspiration of people here, adding that several development projects had been started. The Haryana chief minister also alleged that Congress legislators never bothered about this constituency. "Certainly, we will tell the people how an MLA of this constituency should be. Whether they want a person who gets their work done or an inactive one," he said.         "You should elect one who could get your work done in the next four years," he added. He said his government completed several works related to roads, electricity, canal and had also announced to set up two colleges, a rice mill and industrial model township for generating employment for people of this constituency. "They (Congress) left several works in the midway," he alleged. Attacking former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Khattar said the Congress leader used to say that Baroda and Kiloi constituencies were given equal treatment. "If these are equal eyes, then who told you to see more from one eye and putting a spectacle on the other one. The works like in Kiloi should also have been done here (Baroda)," he said. Garhi Sampla Kiloi is the home constituency of Hooda. Khattar said the ruling party will go door to door and establish personal contact with 1.50 lakh people in Baroda and tell people about the development work done by his government. He said the BJP-JJP alliance will fight the Baroda bypoll on the issues of development, transparency in government functioning and employment. He said his government would start purchasing groundnut from farmers in Fatehabad, Sirsa and Hisar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-seek-account-of-54-years-of-congress-rule-in-baroda-khattar-900178.html
10-10-2020||National||Govt mum, but India’s Twitterati greet Taiwan on its National Day; China fumes||Though Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Government maintained silence, the posters greeting Taiwan on the occasion of its National Day near the embassy of the People’s Republic of China in New Delhi irked Beijing. Twitterati in India too on Saturday greeted Taiwan on its National Day. The hashtag #TaiwanNationalDay went trending. The Global Times, a news-portal run by the Communist Party of China (CPC), reacted by publishing a commentary, quoting an analyst stating that India was “playing with fire” by challenging the “One China policy”. Taiwan’s President Tsai Ing-wen on Saturday referred to the five-month-long military stand-off along India-China disputed boundary in eastern Ladakh in her National Day address in Taipei. She said that China’s belligerence in the Taiwan Strait, in the disputed waters of South China Sea as well as along its boundary with India posed a serious threat to peace and democracy in the region. Taiwan’s Foreign Minister Joseph Wu especially thanked “friends” from India. “Hats off to friends from around the world this year, #IndiaFlag of India in particular, for celebrating #TaiwanNationalDay. With your support, #TaiwanFlag of Taiwan will definitely be more resilient in meeting challenges, especially those “Get Lost” types,” he posted on Twitter. A number of posters wishing a “Happy National Day” to Taiwan were put up near the Embassy of the People’s Republic of China on Shantipath in Chanakyapuri on Friday-Saturday night. The posters also had the map of Taiwan and “issued by Tejinder Pal Singh Bagga” written on them. Bagga is a local leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Delhi. That a leader of the BJP, which runs the Union Government of India, put up the posters apparently did not go unnoticed in Beijing. “One-#China policy is long-standing position of #Indian government. China firmly opposes any individual or any move trying to create "two Chinas" or "One-China, one Taiwan", which violates this position,” Ji Rong, a spokesperson of the communist country’s embassy in New Delhi, posted on Twitter on Saturday. The Global Times of China published an article on its website, quoting analysts stating that India's “provocation” on the issue of Taiwan would cause an “irreversible impact” on bilateral relations between Beijing and New Delhi. “India is playing with fire by challenging the One China policy,” the news-portal quoted Zhao Gancheng, the director of the Centre for Asia-Pacific Studies at the Shanghai Institute for International Studies, saying. The “One China” policy recognises only the People's Republic of China, which came into existence in 1949 after the communists defeated the nationalists in the civil war of China. It does not recognise the existence of Taiwan (or the Republic of China), where the nationalists retreated to and based the seat of their government after losing to the communists. India, like most of the other nations, has been adhering to One China policy since 1949, recognising only the People's Republic of China. China’s recent moves to unilaterally change the status quo along its disputed boundary with India and the five-month-long military stand-off between the two sides, however, triggered calls to New Delhi to review its policy on Taiwan to send out a message to the communist country. The Modi government, however, has not yet initiated any such move. No official statement greeting Taiwan on its National Day was issued by the government in New Delhi on Saturday. Neither Modi, nor President Ram Nath Kovind posted any message on social media platforms to publicly greet counterparts in Taiwan. Though External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar tweeted on Saturday to greet the people and the government of Fiji on the 50th anniversary of the Pacific Ocean island nation, he did not post any such message on social media on the occasion of the National Day of Taiwan. Taiwan celebrates its National Day on October 10 every year, commemorating the start of the Wuchang Uprising on this day in 1911. The uprising had led to the end of the Qing Dynasty in China and establishment of the Republic of China on January 1, 1912. New Delhi had earlier reaffirmed its One China policy in all its joint statements with Beijing. But it had not done so for eight years since 2010 — in response to the communist country's policy of issuing “stapled visas to the residents of Jammu and Kashmir, instead of normal visas pasted on passports issued by the Government of India. The Modi Government, however, had in July 2018 virtually re-asserted its adherence to “One China policy” and made Air India to change “Taiwan” with “Chinese Taipei” in the list of destinations on its website. Taiwan had strongly reacted, stating that the move by Air India could be seen as a “gesture” by India “of succumbing to the unreasonable and absurd pressure from China”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-mum-but-india-s-twitterati-greet-taiwan-on-its-national-day-china-fumes-900183.html
10-10-2020||National||Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh's convoy pelted with stones||West Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh was shown black flags and his convoy pelted with stones allegedly by supporters of the ruling Trinamool Congress in Purba Barddhaman district on Saturday. The TMC, however, has denied the allegation. The incident took place when Ghosh went to the Jamalpur area to interact with farmers on the farm laws. The supporters of the two parties clashed, following which police personnel had to resort to lathi-charge to bring the situation under control, a police officer said. "As soon as my convoy entered Jamalpur, I was shown black flags and my convoy was pelted with stones by TMC activists who carried their party flags. The TMC does not believe in democracy and this is just a reflection of that," Ghosh said. "I am used to such incidents but people of the state will give them a befitting reply," he added. The local TMC leadership, however, denied the charge and said that farmers "must have protested against the farm laws, which are against their interests". The farm laws have emerged as the latest flashpoint between the BJP and the TMC in the state. The TMC and other opposition parties have been protesting the three farm laws, saying these "anti-farmer measures" will "destroy" the agricultural sector. The BJP-led government at the Centre, however, has asserted the farm laws will free farmers from the clutches of the middlemen and allow them to sell their produce wherever they want at remunerative prices||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengal-bjp-chief-dilip-ghoshs-convoy-pelted-with-stones-900185.html
10-10-2020||National||Bengal Child Rights panel to distribute menstrual kits||In a unique initiative, the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights (WBCPR) will distribute menstrual kits among a section of adolescent girls in Kolkata on the occasion of International Day of the Girl Child (October 11) on Sunday. The panel will also give away various children’s publications during the event. WBCPCR chairperson Ananya Chakraborty told DH that fighting against gender equality also involves removing prejudices and bias such as those involving the menstrual cycle. “A significant part of gender equality to fight against all kinds of prejudices and bias. Menstrual hygiene is something that is rarely talked about. Although currently, people speak of it to some extent earlier such discussion never took place,” said Chakraborty. She said sometimes menstruating adolescent girls and women are kept isolated and were not even allowed to enter the kitchen. “These are parts of gender inequality. Since tomorrow is the International Girl Child Day, we decided to organise the programme as it will have a different significance,” said Chakraborty. The event 'My Voice, Our Equal Right' will be held in the Ram Bagan area of the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengal-child-rights-panel-to-distribute-menstrual-kits-900188.html
10-10-2020||National||Manjhi, Paras seek Bharat Ratna for Ram Vilas Paswan||Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) president and former Bihar chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi on Saturday demanded that Bharat Ratna be conferred posthumously on Dalit leader Ram Vilas Paswan. In a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind, Manjhi also made a plea to convert Paswan's 12, Janpath bungalow in New Delhi, where the Lok Janshakti Party founder lived for the past 31 years since 1989, to a memorial. The demand for according the country's highest civilian award to the former union minister, who died on Thursday, has also been separately made by his younger brother and LJP Lok Sabha member Pashupati Kumar Paras and Bihar minister and senior BJP leader Prem Kumar. Manjhi, himself a Dalit leader who suspended his all poll-related engagements in Gaya to pay tribute to Paswan in Patna, told reporters that he was demanding Bharat Ratna for Paswan so that future generations could be told about him and his services for the upliftment of the downtrodden. The HAM chief is contesting the Assembly election from Imamganj in Gaya where voting will be held in the first phase on October 28. He contested the views expressed by some people that Dalits lack administrative capability, and cited names of departed leaders such as Jagjivan Ram, who was deputy prime minister and defence minister in the 1970s, and Ram Vilas Paswan in support of his argument. Manjhi hailed Paswan's work in particular as a railway minister in 1998 in the United Front government. He was the consumer affairs, food and public distribution minister in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's cabinet. Paras, an LJP MP, has also made a plea for bestowing Bharat Ratna on his elder brother. Bihar minister and senior BJP leader Prem Kumar also sought Bharat Ratna for Paswan. "I support the demand for conferring Bharat Ratna on Ram Vilas Paswan for his works to bring Dalits and those hailing from the deprived sections of the society into the mainstream," Prem Kumar tweeted. Ram Vilas Paswan had shot to national fame after winning the 1977 Lok Sabha election from Hajipur seat with a record margin of votes on Janata Party ticket. Since then, he represented the seat for eight times. Born on July 5, 1946 in a poor Dalit family in Saharbanni village of Bihar's Khagaria district, Paswan had started his political journey with a win in the state Assembly election from Alauli on Samyukta Socialist Party ticket in 1969.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/manjhi-paras-seek-bharat-ratna-for-ram-vilas-paswan-900189.html
10-10-2020||National||Body of priest cremated after administration's assurances to family; BJP steps up attack on Gehlot govt||Tension prevailed in a Rajasthan village, about 300 km from here, as family of a murdered priest refused to cremate his mortal remains, demanding capital punishment for the accused and a government job to a family member. The priest, Babulal Vaishnav, was burnt alive in Bukhna village in Karauli district on Thursday over a land dispute related to encroachment on temple land, an issue that soon acquired political overtones. The tense stand-off was resolved after the Rajasthan government promised a thorough investigation in the case, after the intervention of Governor Kalraj Mishra. The last rites of the priest were performed on Saturday evening, more than 24 hours after the sit-in protest by the family members and some Brahmin organisations. “The Government has assured that Rs 10 lakh ex-gratia amount and Rs 1.5 lakh under PM Awas Yojana will be given to the priest's family. A job will also be given to a member of his family,” BJP Rajya Sabha member Kirori Lal Meena said. Meena said the two police officials have been suspended in connection with the case. Six persons had allegedly poured petrol on the temple priest and set him on fire when he tried to stop them from encroaching on the temple land. The priest was rushed to the local hospital from where he was shifted to the Jaipur hospital, where breathed his last on Thursday evening. Former Rajasthan Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje has attacked Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot over the “rising graph of crimes in the state”. “One thing is clear from the speed at which the crime graph is rising in Rajasthan. Women, children, elderly, Dalits, businessmen, nobody is safe here. The Congress government in the state should shun its deep slumber, ensure stringent punishment for the accused and deliver justice to the family of the victim,” Raje said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/body-of-priest-cremated-after-administrations-assurances-to-family-bjp-steps-up-attack-on-gehlot-govt-900194.html
10-10-2020||National||BJP targets Rajasthan govt over ‘rise’ in crimes against women||Rajasthan BJP president Satish Poonia on Saturday targeted the Congress government over the "rising" incidents of rape and crime against women in the state and demanded the resignation of Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. The crime rate has gone up alarmingly in the last 20 months in Rajasthan and Gehlot, who also holds the charge of the home ministry, has no right to continue on his seat, he said. "The way the incidents of rape and crime against women have been rising in Rajasthan under Ashok Gehlot's rule is unfortunate and horrendous," Poonia said. The BJP leader was speaking to reporters during a one-day visit to the district. Earlier, he visited the house of Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to offer condoles on the demise of his father Shrikrishna Birla. "At least 4,35,000 cases, including 3,05,000 cases under sections of IPC, were lodged in the state in last 20 months. "Over 10 per cent of them were heinous crimes, and crimes against women shot up 14.8 per cent," Punia said. "The government has lost the trust of the people. Gehlot has failed to ensure the safety of the daughters of the state and has proved to be a bad father," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-targets-rajasthan-govt-over-rise-in-crimes-against-women-900201.html
10-10-2020||National||Elections for constitution of DGPCs in J&K to begin next week||The elections for the constitution of District Gurdwaras Prabandhak Committees (DGPCs) would commence on October 12 and be completed within three months, an official spokesman said on Saturday. The approval has also been given to hold the State Gurdwara Prabandhak Board (SGPB) elections after completing the DGPC elections and complying with the legal requirements, the spokesman said. "The competent authority has accorded approval to conduct elections of DGPCs in pursuance to the provisions of Jammu and Kashmir Sikh Gurdwara and Religious Endowment Act 1973 and Jammu and Kashmir Sikh Gurdwara and Religious Endowment Rules 1975 from October 12," he said. He said the elections would be completed within three months or earlier. The competent authority has also approved the appointment of Divisional Commissioner, Jammu, and Divisional Commissioner Kashmir as the Nodal Officers in their respective divisions for coordination in these elections, the spokesman said. Meanwhile, the competent authority has directed Assistant Commissioner Revenue, the election authority at the district level, to take all necessary steps for arranging elections of DGPC within their respective districts, the spokesman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/elections-for-constitution-of-dgpcs-in-jk-to-begin-next-week-900203.html
10-10-2020||National||23 states, 8 UTs have abolished interview for govt jobs: Union Minister Jitendra Singh||Union Minister Jitendra Singh said on Saturday that interview for recruitment in government jobs has been abolished in 23 states and eight Union Territories so far, according to a Personnel Ministry statement. This, he said, is a follow-up to the abolition of interview for Group-B (non- gazetted) and Group-C posts in the central government ever since 2016. It was in 2015, while speaking from the ramparts of Red Fort here on the occasion of Independence Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had suggested abolition of interview and making the job selection totally on the basis of written test because whenever an interview call was received by a candidate, his entire family would get disturbed with apprehension and anxiety, the minister recalled. On a quick follow-up to the prime minister's advice, he said, the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) undertook an expeditious exercise and within three months completed the entire process to announce abolition of interview for recruitment in central government with effect from January 1, 2016. While some states like Maharashtra and Gujarat were quick to implement this rule, there were other states which were quite reluctant to abolish the conduct of interview for jobs, said Singh, the Minister of State for Personnel. He expressed satisfaction that after quite a bit of persuasion and repeated reminders to certain state governments, today the practice of conducting interview stands discontinued in all the eight Union Territories of India including Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh, and 23 out of 28 states of the country, the statement said. Singh said, in the past there had been complaints, grievances and allegations about marks in interview being manipulated to help certain favoured candidates. The abolition of interview and considering only the written test marks as merit for selection, he said, offers an equal level-playing field to all the candidates. In addition to bringing in transparency and objectivity in the recruitment process, Singh said, several states have also reported heavy savings on the state exchequer because quite a substantial expenditure was being incurred in conducting interview of candidates whose number often ran in thousands and the interview process continued for several days together. Pertinent to mention that earlier there had often been complaints of the written test merit being compromised by lowering the interview marks of the candidate in order to help certain candidates for dubious considerations, the statement said. There were also allegations of job for money or heavy amount being paid to secure jobs by manipulating the interview marks, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/23-states-8-uts-have-abolished-interview-for-govt-jobs-union-minister-jitendra-singh-900206.html
10-10-2020||National||Catholic union calls for Father Stan Swamy's release||The All India Catholic Union (AICU) on Saturday called for the immediate release of 83- year-old Jesuit priest Fr Stan Swamy, who was arrested from Ranchi, Jharkhand, in an operation by the NIA and now in judicial custody. The century-old AICU, which represents 1.6 crore ordinary Catholics in the country, expressed apprehension over the arrest of Stan by saying that the action on the ailing activist was a plan to silence dissent and protest against the alienation of the natural and forest resources of the tribals. AICU national president Lancy DCunha, in a statement, said the ordinary catholic men and women stood in solidarity with Fr Stan, a national hero, and with the country's tribals whose struggles the Jesuit priest had espoused for more than half-a-century. Every citizen of the country who has respect for the Constitution and the rights of the poor, the dalits, the dispossessed and the tribals makes common cause with these people's movements, he said. The AICU expressed its happiness that the solidarity for Fr Stan has extended far beyond the Christian community and the tribals, who have agitated on the roads in Ranchi and other places. The civil society movements in the country and abroad have expressed concern over the manner in which Fr Stan was picked up amid the pandemic after several months of harassment, raids and questioning, the statement said. The priest was arrested by the central probe agency on Thursday for his alleged involvement in inciting a mob to violence in Bhima Koregaon near Pune on January 1, 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/catholic-union-calls-for-father-stan-swamys-release-900209.html
10-10-2020||National||Flipkart tells Nagaland customer it doesn't deliver 'outside India', apologises||E-commerce site Flipkart landed in a trouble after one of its service executives told a customer from Nagaland that it does not deliver 'outside India'. The gaffe occured on the company's Facebook page, when a customer asked Flipkart as to why the company does not deliver to Nagaland, as according to the customer, "we did not get independence and are still part of India", to which the executive replied that "sellers do not provide service outside India". Flipkart received a lot of flak on social media for the blunder.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/flipkart-tells-nagaland-customer-it-doesnt-deliver-outside-india-apologises-900219.html
10-10-2020||National||Agri-commodities' exports rise 43.4% to Rs 53,626 in Apr-Sept: Centre||Exports of agri-commodities rose by 43.4 per cent to Rs 53,626.6 crore in the first half of the current fiscal notwithstanding the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, the Union Agriculture Ministry said on Saturday. Farm exports stood at Rs 37,397.3 crore during the April-September period of the 2019-20 fiscal, it said. In September 2020, agri exports rose by 81.7 per cent to Rs 9,296 crore from Rs 5,114 crore in September 2019. "The consistent and concerted efforts of the government to boost agricultural exports are bearing fruit as despite of the on-going Covid-19 crisis, the export of essential agri commodities for the cumulative period of April-September, 2020 has increased by 43.4 per cent to Rs 53,626.6 crore," the ministry said in a statement. Positive growth was recorded in export of groundnut (35 per cent), refined sugar (104 per cent), wheat (206 per cent), basmati rice (13 per cent) and non-basmati rice (105 per cent) during the April-September of this fiscal from over the year-ago, it said. Furthermore, balance of trade during April-September 2020 was significantly positive at Rs 9,002 crore as against trade deficit of Rs 2,133 crore in the said period, it added. To boost agri exports, the government announced Agriculture Export Policy, 2018 which inter-alia provides for cluster-based approach for export-centric farming of cash crops like fruits, vegetables, spices, etc. whereby clusters for specific agri products are identified across the country and focused interventions are carried out in these clusters. Eight Export Promotion Forums (EPFs) have been set up under the aegis of agri-export promotion body APEDA to boost export of agriculture/ horticulture products. The EPFs are created on banana, grapes, mango, pomegranate, onion, dairy, rice basmati and rice non-basmati. The EPF are making concerted efforts to identify, document particulars of, and reach out to stakeholders across the entire production/ supply chain of export for increasing these exports significantly to the global market, through various interventions, it said. That apart, the government has also announced Agri-Infra Fund of Rs 1 lakh crore to improve agri business environment which will promote agri exports in due course, the ministry said. Besides, the Agriculture Ministry has also prepared a comprehensive action plan towards promotion of agri trade i.e to boost agri export with emphasis on value addition and a detailed action plan for import substitution, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/agri-commodities-exports-rise-434-to-rs-53626-in-apr-sept-centre-900236.html
10-10-2020||National||CRPF probing video of troops alleging non-availability of bullet proof vehicles||The Central Reserve Police Force on Saturday said it is looking into the "authenticity" of a video, posted by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Twitter, in which some troops allege that they are being made to move for operational duties in a non-bullet proof vehicle. "CRPF has adequate protective vehicles to meet varied operational requirements," force spokesperson Deputy Inspector General Moses Dhinakaran said in a statement. "The authenticity of the video is being probed into by CRPF," the statement said. The about 3.25 lakh personnel-strong CRPF is the lead internal security force of the country and is deployed extensively for conducting anti-Naxal operations in various states. Gandhi attacked the government over the provision of non-bullet proof vehicles for soldiers while spending Rs 8,400 crore to procure aircraft for Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "Is this justice?" he asked on Twitter along with a video of a purported conversation among soldiers being transported in non-bullet proof vehicles. "Our jawans are being sent in non-bullet proof trucks to get martyred and a Rs 8,400 crore aircraft is brought for the PM! Is this justice," he said in a tweet in Hindi.  The video shows a conversation between soldiers objecting to their transportation in a non-bullet proof vehicle, while their seniors were using bullet-proof vehicles. They also complained that by doing so their lives were being compromised and the authorities were playing with their and their families' lives. The government has brought two VVIP planes for travel of the President, Prime Minister and Vice President, even as it maintained that the process for procuring the two aircraft had begun under the UPA government, and the current dispensation has only brought it to a logical conclusion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crpf-probing-video-of-troops-alleging-non-availability-of-bullet-proof-vehicles-900243.html
10-10-2020||National||Ensure dues of sugarcane farmers are cleared: Bajwa to PM||Rajya Sabha Congress MP Pratap Singh Bajwa has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to intervene and ensure that dues of sugarcane farmers in Punjab are released. In his letter, Bajwa said sugar mills having unpaid dues of farmers for a year or more should be banned from operating in the market. He has also suggested steps to ensure release of pending dues at the earliest. Bajwa said thousands of crores of dues of farmers are still pending across the country and Punjab alone has dues of over Rs 306.59 crore. "I would like to draw your kind attention towards the huge amount of arrears that are owed by sugarcane mill operators to sugarcane farmers for years... "I kindly request you to look into the matter at the earliest to ensure the arrears due to the farmers are paid in a timely manner," Bajwa wrote in his letter to the prime minister. The sugar mills are bound to make cane payments within 14 days of purchase of cane, according to Sugarcane Control Order-1966 and Sugarcane Purchase and Supply Regulation Act-1957, otherwise they will have to make payments along with interest. "But it is a matter of great concern that farmers have to beg and wait for years to be paid their dues," he said, adding that the farmers must receive payments within a specific time frame if there is to be any impetus for crop diversification. "Mill operators that have unpaid dues for a year or more should be banned from operating in the market. I urge the government to also look into fiscal measures or budgetary provisions that can be used to clear the dues of the farmers in a timely fashion and recover the same from the erring mill operators," Bajwa suggested in his letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-dues-of-sugarcane-farmers-are-cleared-bajwa-to-pm-900253.html
10-10-2020||National||The gaping R&D-sized hole in India’s growth story||A hundred years ago, celebrated cricket writer Neville Cardus flagged the folly of relying on statistics to recognise quality. He stated it in the context of the gentleman’s game. The description holds good for the current state of affairs in Indian science research, where the government flaunts numbers to present a rosy picture, but scientists in the nation's laboratories harbour completely different views. A few weeks ago, Nature – one of the world’s best-known science journals – came out with an index of the world’s topmost science cities. High R&D spend, concentration of research institutions and specialist facilities, and an ability to attract global science talent were taken into account for the survey. Going by the Nature index, the top science cities are those whose institutions collectively publish the most output in the 82 high-quality journals, selected by independent committees of 58 leading natural-sciences researchers. Their deliberations were validated by more than 6,000 scientists worldwide. The list of 200 cities that came out of this exercise has only four Indian cities – Bengaluru at the 97th spot followed by Kolkata (99), Mumbai (132) and Delhi (163). While the index mirrors the realities of Indian science, it also depicts the growth story of China in science. Beijing has emerged as the world’s top science city overtaking New York, Boston and San Francisco. Two of the five top cities are from China – Beijing and Shanghai. Out of 200, there are 26 Chinese cities and 21 of them are in the first one hundred. Changed trajectory Why did India, a country that was ahead of China in the 1970s and 80s, fail to maintain the growth?  "We lost 15 crucial years between 1990 and 2005 when the economy opened up and the best talents drifted to other career options that were more lucrative. Without the talents, you can’t do good science,” Samir K Brahmachari, former director general of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research told DH. The statistics collated by the Department of Science and Technology put India among the world’s top 10 countries in terms of research output, but the quality factor remains a concern. India’s research output increased by 50% in SCOPUS (the world's largest abstract and citation database of peer-reviewed literature) between 2011 and 2016, and by 36.5% in the Science Citation Index (SCI) in the same period. But this rise doesn’t automatically translate into quality. In a report focusing on science and engineering by the US National Science Foundation, India’s output has increased by 83% between 2011 and 2018. But the impact of those papers measured in terms of highly cited articles (HCA) remains poor. As against USA’s HCA score of 1.9 and China’s 1.1, India’s score is 0.7. “The score is similar in SCOPUS and SCI too, but it varies with the discipline. India scores relatively better in computer science, material science and chemistry; fares average in biology and medical sciences and scores poorly in mathematics and subjects related to humanities,” said Vivek Singh, a professor at the Banaras Hindu University who specialises in scientometrics. Fall from grace India’s fall from grace in the hallowed area of science research was not sudden but gradual.  Until the 1970s, science was a preferred career option. In the 1980s, people began migrating abroad en masse in what is infamously known as “brain drain.” The real trouble started in the 1990s, with the opening up of the economy which not only created more lucrative job options in the private sector for the youngsters but also led to the entry of foreign players into the Indian market. The science leaders failed to read the writings on the wall and allowed the foreigners to take advantage of India’s market and manpower for their benefits. Meanwhile, China decided to invest massively in science. It led to the creation of a talent pool in the US and European universities initially and was followed by a huge growth in the number of researchers and state-of-the-art facilities in almost all major Chinese cities. This was made possible because of the active support from the federal and provincial governments, which planned years ahead and made the investment with the aim of becoming a global superpower. In comparison, India’s science budget hovers around 0.6-0.7% of GDP with more than 90% spending by the central government for decades. There is hardly any contribution by the state governments and private sectors. Particularly, the industrial share of R&D needs to go up manifold. Red tape  To make the matter worse, there is a persistent bureaucratic stifling felt by the researchers at all levels. One common example is the issue of research funding, which follows a three-year cycle in India. Several scientists admitted it was very difficult to receive the fund for the third year because of the paperwork, which was used by the bureaucrats to either deny or delay the third year’s budget. Successive Prime Ministers’ assurance, right from Atal Bihari Vajpayee onwards, to get rid of the red tapes in science administration fell on deaf years. “Risk aversion is in-built (in the three-year funding cycle) in the way science research is funded in India. One can’t really explore the unknown with such risk-aversion tendency. What can be done at the most is to look for additional evidence of what is known. We lack that foresight as well as investment that the Chinese show. We never plan 10-15 years ahead,” said Partha Majumder, founder director of National Institute of Biomedical Genomics, Kalyani and the president of Indian Academy of Sciences. Higher education Money is one half of the problem. There is also a complete disconnect between higher education and research in India’s 900 plus universities. State universities fare badly to such an extent that they can’t even fill up the vacant faculty positions let alone carry out research, as they are robbed of the opportunity to attract talent.  “For the past 20 years, there’s been a steady increase of bureaucratic control of autonomous institutions, which lost their flexibility to attract talents. The investment in science is done in an anti-excellence fashion,” commented Satyajit Rath, a biologist who retired from the National Institute of Immunology, Delhi and currently is a visiting faculty at Indian Institute of Science, Education and Research, Pune. “The new National Education Policy and National Research Foundation would address this problem by providing resources and mentors at the state varsities. This will allow scientists to be at the universities as nucleating persons to spur the growth of research activities,” said K VijayRaghavan, Principal Scientific Advisor to the Government of India. He hopes that a new set of government policies would address many such shortcomings. China, scientists point out, is super flexible in attracting and retaining talent, with world-class remuneration and facilities. Several researchers DH spoke to narrate a common example. In China, there is not only a monetary reward for publication in a reputed journal, but the authorities also pay the page charges that most peer-reviewed journals demand these days. For Indian researchers, it is a constant struggle to obtain funds to pay for the page charges once their papers are selected for publication in prestigious journals. “We need talented people, flexible policy and the right amount of funding for excellence in research,” said Brahmachari. “There is also a lack of trust by the political leadership on the scientists, compounding the problem,” added Majumder.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-gaping-rd-sized-hole-in-india-s-growth-story-900256.html
10-10-2020||National||Cotton growers in Punjab being 'exploited': Sukhbir Singh Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday to intervene and ensure cotton was procured at the minimum support price in Punjab. Badal alleged that cotton growers were being exploited by private players because the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) was not procuring cotton in the state. During a visit to a cotton market yard in Fazilka, the Akali Dal chief said farmers were suffering because the CCI had deliberately delayed entry into the market, due to which they were forced to sell their cotton crop at a price of around Rs 4,800 per quintal to private players against the MSP of Rs 5,725 per quintal. Interacting with farmers, Badal assured them that the SAD would launch an agitation to force the CCI to procure cotton at the MSP. He said party workers would agitate in front of the CCI offices and also visit the wholesale markets to force the government agency to procure cotton on the MSP. "Presently, farmers are facing problems in getting their cotton crop procured despite sitting in 'mandis' for two-three days," he said in a statement. Badal said it was unfortunate that the CCI was not doing its duty towards farmers and asked the prime minister to intervene in the matter. He said as much as 1.25 lakh quintals of cotton had arrived in the wholesale markets in Punjab but CCI had purchased a minuscule amount of 12,000 quintals. "Farmers are forced to go in for distress sale to private players as they cannot transport their produce long distances nor store it," he said. This is exactly what the SAD has been pointing out all along while demanding constitutional guarantees that the MSP and government procurement would continue, and no farm produce would be purchased at prices less than the MSP, Badal said. The SAD president said it was "condemnable" that Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had still not woken up to the seriousness of the issue and not taken it up with the CCI or the Centre. He said the Punjab government should hold talks with CCI to ensure the entire cotton crop was procured by the agency in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cotton-growers-in-punjab-being-exploited-sukhbir-singh-badal-900258.html
10-10-2020||National||Chhattisgarh: 4 dead as car tries to avoid stray cow, hits truck||Four people, including a father-son duo, were killed and two seriously injured after a car rammed into a stationary truck while trying to avoid hitting a cow on the road in Chhattisgarh's Mungeli district, police said on Saturday. The incident took place under Sargaon police station limits on Bilaspur-Raipur road late Friday evening, killing Vijay Godheja (40), who was driving the car, his son Utkarsh (5), sister-in-law Reena Sahu and passerby Laxmikant Verma (45), a local police official said. "Godheja took a turn to avoid hitting the cow, lost control of the car and rammed into a truck parked on the roadside. The vehicle then hit Verma who died on the spot. The other deaths took place during treatment at Chhattisgarh Institute of Medical Sciences (CIMS) Bilaspur," he said. Godheja's wife Poonam and sister-in-law Kalyani sustained grievous injuries and were shifted to a hospital in Raipur, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-4-dead-as-car-tries-to-avoid-stray-cow-hits-truck-900260.html
10-10-2020||National||Centre to offer urad, tur at further subsidised rates to states for retail sale||The Centre on Saturday decided to offer urad and tur from its buffer stock to states at a further subsidised rate for retail sale in order to check prices. Earlier, the Consumer Affairs Ministry had introduced a mechanism to supply pulses from the buffer stock to states at minimum support price plus 10 per cent other charges. "In order to make the retail intervention more impactful, the offer price of pulses for retail intervention has been modified to MSP or the Dynamic Reserve Price (DRP) whichever is lower," the ministry said in a statement. Accordingly, dhuli urad is being offered to states at Rs 79 per kg for K-18 variety and at Rs 81 per kg for K-19 variety of 2018 kharif crop, it said. Similarly, tur is being offered for retail intervention at Rs 85 per kg, it added. According to the statement, the central government has made this offer to all states and union territories. They can lift the stock in bulk or in a retail pack of 500 grams and 1 kg, depending on the requirement. "Steps have been taken to cool down the recent increase in retail prices of tur and urad for the welfare of consumers, and to augment supply of these pulses," it said. The retail packs are being provided for retailing at ration shops and other marketing/retail outlets of the state government such as dairy and horticulture outlets, consumer corporation society, etc. The Centre has been building buffer stock of pulses and onion since 2015-16 under the Price Stabilization Fund (PSF) for carrying out price stabilizing interventions. For the current year, the government aims to build a buffer stock of 20 lakh tonnes of pulses, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-offer-urad-tur-at-further-subsidised-rates-to-states-for-retail-sale-900263.html
10-10-2020||National Politics||BJP mounts attack on Cong after priest burnt to death in Rajasthan||A priest was set on fire by five people in Sapotra area of Karauli district in the Congress-ruled Rajasthan, triggering a political row. Babu Lal Vaishnav succumbed to injuries on Thursday night after the accused — who wanted to encroach upon a temple land — poured petrol on him and set him ablaze near an agriculture farm.  The main accused, Kaialsh Meena, has been arrested.  While Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot asserted that the guilty won’t be spared, the BJP — which was on the defensive after the alleged rape and murder of a girl in Hathras in Uttar Pradesh — mounted an offensive against the Congress. Questions have also been raised over the role of the local MLA and the local Station House Officer, triggering a demand for a judicial enquiry.  A social media campaign has been launched, drawing parallels between the priest’s murder and the killing of two Sadhus in July in another Opposition-ruled state of Maharashtra. There were also voices of concern over “attempts to give a communal colour” to the priest’s case. “The Sapotra incident is macabre. Criminals are tearing apart the dignity of Rajasthan during the rule of the Congress. Nobody is safe in the state. When will Rahul Gandhi, who goes on political tourism in BJP-ruled states, pay attention to Rajasthan,” asked former Union minister and BJP spokesperson Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore. Recalling Gehlot’s ‘nakara nikamma’ (useless, workless) jibe against Sachin Pilot, Rathore asked the Rajasthan CM to introspect in the context of his rule. “Nobody is safe in Rajasthan today. Neither women nor children. The morale of the police is down. A government, which for months stays in a five-star hotel, can protect only itself, not its people,” he said. Union Minister Prakash Javadekar alleged that “law and order have gone for a toss in Rajasthan”. “This is the situation when the chief minister himself is holding the home portfolio,” said Rajasthan BJP chief Satish Poonia, while former chief minister Vasundhara Raje asked the government to “wake up from slumber||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-mounts-attack-on-cong-after-priest-burnt-to-death-in-rajasthan-899928.html
10-10-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi attacks Centre over non-bullet proof vehicles for soldiers||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday attacked the government over provision of non-bullet proof vehicles for soldiers, while spending Rs 8,400 crore to procure aircraft for Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "Is this justice?" he asked on Twitter along with a video of a purported conversation between soldiers being transported in non-bullet proof vehicles. "Our jawans are being sent in non-bullet proof trucks to get martyred and a Rs 8,400 crore-aircraft is brought for the PM! Is this justice," he said in a tweet in Hindi. हमारे जवानों को नॉन-बुलेट प्रूफ़ ट्रकों में शहीद होने भेजा जा रहा है और PM के लिए 8400 करोड़ के हवाई जहाज़!   The video shows a conversation between soldiers objecting to their transportation in a non-bullet proof vehicle, while their seniors were using bullet-proof vehicles. They also complained that by doing so their lives were being compromised and the authorities were playing with their and their families' lives. Gandhi had earlier attacked Modi over the acquisition of VVIP aircraft and wondered how many things could have been bought for the soldiers stationed in Siachen-Ladakh border in the amount spent on the planes. During his campaign in Punjab against the farm reform laws, the Congress leader on Tuesday had accused the prime minister of "wasting" thousands of crores of rupees on the aircraft. The government has brought two VVIP planes for travel of the President, Prime Minister and Vice President, even as it maintained that the process for procuring the two aircraft had begun under the UPA government, and the current dispensation has only brought it to a logical conclusion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-attacks-centre-over-non-bullet-proof-vehicles-for-soldiers-900078.html
10-10-2020||National Politics||Implement internal reservation within Scheduled Castes: Hanumanthaiah||Congress Rajya Sabha member L Hanumanthaiah on Saturday demanded the Centre to bring an amendment to Constitution of India to give internal reservation within Scheduled Castes to give reservation benefit to the poorest among them. "Powerful communities within SCs are getting benefit of reservation. Because of this, some of the poorest castes within SCs are not getting any benefit," he told reporters here. Criticising former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, he said that when Siddaramaiah was the CM, he did not make honest effort to introduce internal reservation. The Supreme Court recently ruled that states can provide internal reservation within Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and socially and educationally backward classes to remove inequalities. Madiga sect of the SC community have been demanding the Karnataka Government to implement the 2012 A J Sadashiva Commission report that favoured internal reservation. But successive governments failed to implement this, he said. "At least BJP government in Karnataka should take steps to introduce internal reservation, so that poorest within SC will get benefit of reservation," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/implement-internal-reservation-within-scheduled-castes-hanumanthaiah-900139.html
10-10-2020||National Politics||GDP is a misnomer in the Indian context, India should develop its own model of economic development: RSS||A senior RSS functionary on Saturday claimed GDP was a “misnomer” and that India should develop its own model of development focusing on employment-led growth. Bajrang Lal Gupta said the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) does not give a correct picture in a country like India, and cannot be the most important parameter for evaluating development. GDP is the standard measure of the value added created through the production of goods and services in a country during a certain period. "GDP is a misnomer in the Indian context as it does not include services which are not chargeable, while they are being charged in western countries," he argued. The RSS functionary was speaking at the convocation ceremony of IILM University which has three campuses in Delhi-NCR region. He suggested an Indian model of economic development "Sumanglam" which emphasises on employment-led growth. “The five features of this model include fulfilling basic requirements of all citizens, employment for all, equal opportunities for education, providing health security and ensuring internal and external security of citizens,” Gupta said. He reiterated that India should develop its own economic model rather than looking at capitalist and communist models.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/gdp-is-a-misnomer-in-the-indian-context-india-should-develop-its-own-model-of-economic-development-rss-900202.html
10-10-2020||National Politics||Congress releases list of star campaigners for Bihar assembly elections||The Congress on Saturday released a list of 30 star campaigners for the first phase of Bihar assembly polls on October 28, with party president Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and former prime minister Manmohan Singh leading them. Sources said Sonia Gandhi and Manmohan Singh are unlikely to campaign physically and may address virtual rallies for the upcoming assembly polls. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and former actors and ex-MPs Shatrughan Sinha and Raj Babbar are also on the list which has been sent to the Election Commission. Former Lok Sabha Speaker Meira Kumar and Congress chief ministers Ashok Gehlot, Amarinder Singh and Bhupesh Baghel also figure among the star campaigners. Senior Congress leaders Tariq Anwar, Randeep Surjewala, Shakeel Ahmed, Sachin Pilot and Kirti Azad will be campaigning for party candidates. Congress in-charge for Bihar Shaktisinh Gohil, Bihar Congress chief Madan Mohan Jha and legislature party leader Sadanand Singh are also among the star campaigners. The second phase of Bihar polls is on November 3 and the third on November 7, while counting of votes will take place on November 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-releases-list-of-star-campaigners-for-bihar-assembly-elections-900223.html
10-10-2020||National Politics||Asaduddin Owaisi slams Mohan Bhagwat's 'Muslims most content in India' remark||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat's remarks that the "most content Muslims are only in India" has kicked up a political row with AIMIM leader Asaduddin Owaisi asking tersely "what is the measure of our happiness?". Owaisi, whose party is trying luck in Bihar assembly elections in alliance with Upendra Kushwaha's party RLSP and BSP, latched on to Bhagwat's remarks to allege that the RSS ideology wants to "make Muslims second class citizens." Bhagwat whose remarks about the review of reservation in the 2015 Bihar polls had created a political storm on Friday asserted that Indian Muslims are the most content in the world and held that any kind of bigotry and separatism are spread only by those whose self-interest gets affected. Bhagwat in an interview to 'Vivek', a Hindi magazine based in Maharashtra also gave the example of man Muslims having fought in Mewar king Maharana Pratap's army against Mughal emperor Akbar to buttress his line that people from all faiths stood together in India's history whenever there was an attack on the country's culture. While claiming that Muslims in India are most happy, Bhagwat also drew the allegory of Pakistan and reminded that it did not give rights to followers of other religions. On Saturday, Owaisi reacted sharply to it tweeting, "What is the measure of our happiness? That a man named Bhagwat can constantly tell us how grateful we should be to the majority? The measure of our happiness is whether our dignity under the Constitution is respected." Going hammer and tongs against the RSS chief, he said, "Don't tell us how 'happy' we're while your ideology wants to make Muslims second-class citizens." The AIMIM leader said he does not want to hear Bhagwat say that Muslims have to be grateful to the majority for living in our own homeland.  "We're not seeking the majority's goodwill, we're not in competition with the world's Muslims to be the happiest. We just want our fundamental rights," he said. Meanwhile, the RSS supporters also put out the video clip of Bhagwat's remarks to counter a media report. ".  "What is happening to them (minorities). They get Constitutional rights. Pakistan did not give it (to minorities). In the kind of atmosphere that was prevailing at the time, India would have said that since Pakistan has been created for Muslims, only the writ of Hindus will run large here. But our Constitution did not do this.  Even Baba Saheb Ambedkar, who believed that there should be a transfer of population, also did not propose anything for transferring Muslims living in India. This is the nature of our country. This nature is called Hindu," Bhagwat said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/asaduddin-owaisi-slams-mohan-bhagwats-muslims-most-content-in-india-remark-900231.html
10-10-2020||North and Central||18-year-old beaten to death in Delhi over his friendship with a woman; her brother, relative arrested||An 18-year-old man was beaten to death allegedly over his friendship with a woman following which two people, including her brother, were arrested and three others apprehended, police said on Friday. The incident took place on Wednesday evening in northwest Delhi's Adarsh Nagar, they added. The woman's brother and a relative have been arrested and three juveniles apprehended in connection with the incident, the police said. The deceased, Rahul Rajput, was a second-year student in Delhi University's School of Open Learning. He also provided tuition to school students, they added. According to the police, the victim was friends with a woman from his locality but her family was against the friendship. On Wednesday evening, the victim was called to Nanda Road on some pretext, and when he reached the spot, he was physically assaulted allegedly by a group of four-five people, including the woman's brothers, a senior police officer said. He sustained severe injuries in the assault and was rushed to a hospital, where he died during the course of treatment, the officer said. "The deceased did not have any visible injury. A post-mortem examination was conducted, and the doctor opined that rupturing of the spleen led to his death," said Vijayanta Arya, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Northwest). A case was registered under section 302 (murder) and 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code based on a statement of an uncle of the deceased, she said, adding that two men were arrested. The uncle of the deceased said in his statement that his nephew and the woman knew each other for close to two years. They lived in the same locality but the woman's parents, and especially her brothers, were against the friendship, he added. "On Wednesday, around 7 pm, I got a call from my friend who informed us that four-five people were beating up my nephew. When I reached the place, I found that my nephew was being beaten up brutally by the woman's brothers and their associates. They slapped, punched and kicked him," he mentioned in his complaint. The victim's uncle also alleged that the accused had earlier threatened his nephew. He stated that the accused told him that his nephew talked to their sister and they did not like it. They said they would kill him if he continued to speak to her, the complainant further said, adding that he pleaded with them to let his nephew go. The police said the case was under investigation and personnel have been deployed in the locality to avoid any tension between the families.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/18-year-old-beaten-to-death-in-delhi-over-his-friendship-with-a-woman-her-brother-relative-arrested-899868.html
10-10-2020||North and Central||Haryana: Cops say businessman faked own death for insurance money, yet to identify body claimed by his family||A Haryana businessman allegedly faked his own death so that his family could claim insurance, police said three days after they recovered a charred body from his car and were told by the family that he had been killed for Rs 11 lakh. Police said they have found the businessman, Ram Mehar (35), alive in Chhattisgarh and are now investigating to identify the person whose body was found in the burning car in Hansi Tuesday night. Earlier, police had registered a case on the complaint from Mehar's family. Based on that complaint and the recovery of the badly charred body from the vehicle, the police had said some unidentified assailants allegedly burnt the businessman to death after looting Rs 11 lakh cash from him in Haryana's Hisar district. The incident had triggered a strong reaction from opposition parties and the Congress had said there was a “jungle raj” in the BJP-ruled Haryana. Hansi Superintendent of Police Lokender Singh told PTI Friday, “During the course of investigations, we got some vital clues on the basis of which we traced Ram Mehar to Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh on Friday. We are bringing him here”. “He fabricated his death detail and the loot incident,” he said. Asked if the person whose body was found from inside Mehar's burning car had been identified, Singh said, “We are making further investigations. Once Mehar, who is now an accused, is brought back, he will be questioned intensely and more facts will emerge.” Asked as to why Mehar could have taken such a step, Singh said, “During our investigations so far, it has come to light that he had two insurances in his name and the sum assured in one was Rs 1 crore and Rs 50 lakh in another. His kin would have got the amount in case of his death. This probably looks as the reason behind the whole incident”. To a question, he said it has also come to light that his business was not doing well and he could probably be under debt, but further investigations would shed moe light on this. Singh said that he would not like to comment at this stage when asked if any family member was under scanner in the case or how the police got vital clues leading to the breakthrough. He said police had earlier lodged a complaint based on the statement of the family. “He had called up the family over phone saying some people were following his car and apprehended that they wanted to loot the amount he was carrying and may cause him harm. “Police immediately swung into action and we found the burning car and a badly charred body. Later, we were investigating the case with a dacoity-cum-murder angle,” he said. On Tuesday evening, Mehar, a resident of Data village on Bhatla-Data road in Hansi, was going home in his car. Police had earlier said the attackers intercepted his car and then allegedly looted him and set the car on fire after locking him inside it. Police quoting the family had said Mehar owns a factory of disposable cups and plates in Barwala and was coming to Data village from Hisar after withdrawing Rs 11 lakh from a bank.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-cops-say-businessman-faked-own-death-for-insurance-money-yet-to-identify-body-claimed-by-his-family-899869.html
10-10-2020||North and Central||Top political and military brass discuss Ladakh situation ahead of 7th round of Corps Commander talks||The top military and political brass on Friday reviewed the security situation in eastern Ladakh as well as strategies for the seventh round of Corps Commander-level talks with the Chinese PLA which is scheduled on October 12, people familiar with the developments said. The Corps Commander talks are taking place with a specific agenda of firming up a roadmap for disengagement of troops from the friction points in eastern Ladakh. The top military and political brass, at a meeting of the China Study Group (CSG), reviewed the situation in eastern Ladakh and deliberated on key issues to be flagged at the talks on Monday, the sources said. The CSG comprises External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and the three service chiefs. The sources said Army Chief Gen Naravane briefed the meeting about the current situation in eastern Ladakh. The meeting was called to finalise strategies for the corps commander-level talks, they said. At the seventh round of military talks, the two sides are expected to look into further steps to maintain stability on the ground and avoid any action that may trigger fresh tension in the region, they said. A senior official of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) is set to be part of the Indian delegation at the talks which will be led by Lt Gen Harinder Singh, the commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps of the Indian Army, the sources said. Following the last round of military talks on September 21, the two sides announced a slew of decisions including not to send more troops to the frontline, refrain from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground and avoid taking any actions that may further complicate matters. The military talks were held with a specific agenda of exploring ways to implement a five-point agreement reached between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi at a meeting in Moscow on September 10 on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) conclave. The pact included measures like quick disengagement of troops, avoiding action that could escalate tensions, adherence to all agreements and protocols on border management and steps to restore peace along the LAC. Days after the military talks, the two sides held diplomatic talks under the framework of Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs, but no concrete outcome emerged from the negotiation on September 30||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/top-political-and-military-brass-discuss-ladakh-situation-ahead-of-7th-round-of-corps-commander-talks-899894.html
10-10-2020||North and Central||2 terrorists killed in encounter in J&K's Kulgam||Two unidentified militants were killed in an encounter with security forces in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Saturday morning. Reports said the encounter erupted after security forces launched a cordon-and-search operation in Chinigam village of Kulgam, 70 km from here, following a tip-off about the presence of militants during the intervening night of Friday and Saturday. However, as the forces closed in over the hiding place of the militants, they opened fire on them which was retaliated, triggering an encounter, they said. “Kulgam Encounter Update: 2 unidentified terrorists killed. Operation in progress,” J&K Police tweeted. The identity and group affiliation of the slain militants was not known immediately. In relentless anti-insurgency operations, security forces have killed 190 militants, including 22 foreigners, in 78 operations across Jammu and Kashmir this year. As many as 157 militants were killed in Kashmir in 2019 while the number was 257 in 2018 which was the highest in a decade. In 2019, out of 157 slain militants, 32 were Pakistanis and majority of them 19 belonged to Jaish-e-Mohammad outfit.  In 2019, local militants accounted for 79% deaths in encounters while the number has grown to 88% this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-terrorists-killed-in-encounter-in-jks-kulgam-899919.html
10-10-2020||North and Central||Last phase of Rajasthan panchayat polls begins||Polling for the fourth and last phase of panchayat elections in Rajasthan, covering 897 gram panchayats, began on Saturday morning amid tight security. State Election Commission secretary Shyam Rajpurohit said the polling to elect sarpanch and panch began at 7.30 am and is going on peacefully. There are 30.56 lakh voters including 15.97 lakh male and 14.59 lakh female voters in the gram panchayats where voting is taking place. He said the elections are being held according to the guidelines related to Covid-19. As many as 4,629 candidates are in the fray for the post of sarpanch and 11,373 for the post of panch, he said, adding that 26 sarpanch and 3,714 panch have already been elected unopposed. EVMs are being used for the polling to elect sarpanch while ballot papers are being used to elect panch. The first phase voting took place on September 28, while the second phase was held on October 3. The third phase polling took place on October 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/last-phase-of-rajasthan-panchayat-polls-begins-899957.html
10-10-2020||North and Central||Unprovoked ceasefire violation by Pakistan along border and Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir||Pakistani troops violated ceasefire by unprovoked firing and mortar shelling on civilian areas along the Line of Control and the International Border in three sectors of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Saturday. Indian troops retaliated befittingly to silence the Pakistani guns, they said, adding there was no immediate report of any casualty. "At about 1.30 am, Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and intense shelling with mortars, targeting civilian areas along the LoC in Makote sector of Poonch. The Indian Army retaliated befittingly," a defence spokesman said Saturday morning. A police official said the heavy shelling created panic among the border residents. The shelling stopped around 4.30 am, the official said. Later in the day, the defence spokesperson said Pakistan violated ceasefire at 6 pm along the LoC in Mendhar sector of Poonch district, drawing effective retaliation by the Indian army. The cross-border shelling between the two sides was continuing when last reports were received, he said. The police official said Pakistani rangers also targeted forward areas along the IB in Hiranagar sector of Kathua district and kept firing intermittently for about five hours. The firing from the Pakistani side of the IB started around 11.45 pm on Friday and continued till 4.40 am Saturday, he said, adding the Border Security Force (BSF) retaliated strongly to the ceasefire violation. A 40-year-old woman, Hamida Bi, was injured in Pakistani shelling in Qasba sector of Poonch on Friday, the official said, adding her condition was stated to be “stable”. Deputy Commissioner, Poonch, Rahul Yadav visited the district hospital and and inquired about the health of Hamida, an official spokesman said. Yadav, who was accompanied by tehsildar of Haveli Anjum Khatak, directed the doctors to provide her best possible treatment, he said. Yadav provided a financial assistance of Rs 5,000 to the injured woman out of the Red Cross Fund, the spokesman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/unprovoked-ceasefire-violation-by-pakistan-along-border-and-line-of-control-in-jammu-and-kashmir-899978.html
10-10-2020||North and Central||Jamshedpur girl gang-raped at gunpoint, 5 arrested: Police||Five persons were apprehended in connection with the gang-rape of a 17-year-old girl in Jharkhand's Jamshedpur, police said on Saturday. The girl was out with her boyfriend in the Bagbera area late on Tuesday when the accused arrived at the spot and forcibly took her to Kaliadih Gaushala at gunpoint, Senior Superintendent of Police Tamil Vanan said. She was raped there while the boyfriend was tied up, he said. Among those held is a minor who has been sent to a juvenile home, while the others were remanded to jail, he added. Those arrested are Shankar Tiu, Roshan Kujur, Suraj Patro and Sunny Soren, the officer said. A country-made pistol and two live cartridges were also recovered from them, he said. "Soon after the incident, the police registered a case and started investigating it. The girl had initially said that she was abducted while she was returning from dance class. However, it was found wrong during the investigation," Vanan said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jamshedpur-girl-gang-raped-at-gunpoint-5-arrested-police-899996.html
10-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi government will issue directions for usage of ‘green’ firecrackers||The AAP government will soon issue directions allowing the sale and purchase of only “green” firecrackers in the national capital, Environment Minister Gopal Rai has said. In 2018, the Supreme Court had banned the use of polluting firecrackers and allowed the sale of “green” firecrackers in a bid to control air pollution. “Guidelines are being prepared for the sale and purchase of only green firecrackers in Delhi. Soon, we will issue the directions to departments concerned,” Rai told PTI. The ‘green crackers’ are not as polluting as the conventional types of firecrackers and they contain at least 30 percent less particulate matters such as Sulphur Dioxide and Nitrogen Oxide. The CSIR-National Environmental Engineering Research Institute was tasked with the job of developing ‘green crackers’. But only a few varieties were available in the market last year due to licensing requirements. The minister also said the exercise for reconstitution of the Ridge Management Board has been initiated. The RMB is a high-powered body formed on the directions of the Supreme Court in 1995 to protect the ridge -- the green lungs of the city, spread across 7,784 hectares. Its clearance is required before taking up any development activity in the ridge area. The minister recently said the AAP government was taking the lead in the fight against air pollution in Delhi-NCR, but neighbouring states were still "not serious" about the issue despite it becoming "more dangerous" due to the Covid-19 pandemic. He said the Delhi government wants cooperation not confrontation with otherstates on the issue of air pollution. “The land has been divided into states but the sky is one.” Rai also questioned why the Centre was not taking any action against the 11 coal-fired power plants within 300 kilometers of Delhi, which have missed two deadlines to meet new emission norms. “We had two thermal power plants and we shut them. Why have these 11 power plants not been able to reduce emissions? What’s the reason? Why action is not being taken against the brick kilns operating in nearby areas using outdated technologies,” he said. There are more than 1,640 such brick kilns in Uttar Pradesh,161 in Haryana and 164 Rajasthan within 300 kilometers of Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-will-issue-directions-for-usage-of-green-firecrackers-900001.html
10-10-2020||North and Central||Six of family sentenced to life imprisonment for murder in Uttar Pradesh||A local court here has sentenced six members of a family to life imprisonment and also imposed fine on them in connection with the murder of two people 25 years ago, an official said on Saturday. District government advocate Ashok Kumar Shukla said Special Judge (dacoity) Anil Kumar Shukla on Friday sentenced Raisuddin, Qutubuddin, Kalandar, Sharifuddin, Naseemuddin and Alimuddin to life imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs 26,000 on each of them for the murder of Amar Singh (driver of a deputy SP) and Pappu, an auto-rickshaw driver in Maudha on January 17, 1995. He also informed that Amir Mohammad had lodged a complaint of murder and attempt to murder against nine members of a family. However, three of them -- Raziuddin, Saeeduddin and Naim Ahmed alias Buddhu died during the course of the trial. He said firing took place between two sides due to professional rivalry and those who died were not linked to either side. "On January 17, 1995; Amir Mohammad was getting his jeep repaired in Maudha at a mechanic's shop, when Raziuddin, Saeeduddin, Raisuddin, Qutubuddin, Kalandar, Sharifuddin, Naseemuddin, Alimuddin and Naim Ahmed alias Buddhu started indiscriminate firing on him," he said. "In the firing, Amar Singh, who was getting his jeep repaired in the neighbouring shop and Pappu, an auto-rickshaw driver, died after being hit by bullets, while Amir Mohammad, his son Jamluddin and Devi Singh got injured," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/six-of-family-sentenced-to-life-imprisonment-for-murder-in-uttar-pradesh-900015.html
10-10-2020||North and Central||Army foils Pakistan's attempt to push arms into Kashmir, recovers four rifles||The Army has foiled an attempt to push in arms and ammunition by Pakistan from across the Line of Control (LoC) in Keran sector of Jammu and Kashmir and recovered a cache, including four AK74 rifles, officials said on Saturday. Alert troops foiled Pakistan's attempt to push in arms across the LoC in Keran Sector of north Kashmir's Kupwara district, an Army official said. He said the Army noticed two-three men transporting some items in a tube tied to a rope across Kishenganga river. The troops immediately reached the location and recovered four x AK 74 rifles, eight magazines and 240 rounds concealed in two bags. The area has been cordoned off and a search is under progress, the official said. He said it was another attempt by militants from Pakistan Occupied Kashmir to smuggle war-like stores, but it was successfully foiled by the quick action of alert troops. Corps Commander of the Srinagar-based Chinar Corps Lt Gen B S Raju said there has been no change in Pakistan's intentions. "This morning, in the Keran sector, Pakistan tried to send across the Kishenganga river four AK74 rifles and a huge cache of ammunition in a tube, but our alert troops with the help of surveillance devices, recovered the cache. It signifies that there has been no change in Pakistan's intentions. We will continue to foil their attempts in the future as well," Lt Gen Raju told reporters on the sidelines of a function in Rangreth area in the outskirts of the city here. "There have been attempts in Keran, Tangdhar, in Jammu sector and Punjab as well. The main aim is to keep the people of Kashmir involved always in terrorism. But, our resolve is to stop weapons from coming in so that there is minimal loss to the people here. We need the cooperation of the people in this so that we can stop terrorism," the Corps Commander said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-foils-pakistans-attempt-to-push-arms-into-kashmir-recovers-four-rifles-900032.html
10-10-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh bypolls: BSP confident of emerging as 'kingmaker'||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) on Saturday expressed confidence that it would emerge as a "kingmaker" by winning at least 10 out of the 28 Assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh, where bypolls would be held on November 3. The Mayawati-led party currently has two MLAs in the Madhya Pradesh Assembly, whose effective strength has come down to 202 after the death of three MLAs and resignations by 25 others. "We are going to win at least 10 seats out of the 28, where bypolls would be held. With these wins, we are going to emerge as kingmaker. We will certainly play a crucial role in forming the next government," state BSP chief Ramakant Pippal told PTI. "The ruling BJP needs to win nine of these seats to enjoy majority (116) on its own in the House. But some surveys have predicted that it cannot win more than four seats," he said. But as 28 seats are currently vacant, the BJP presently enjoys majority in the House on its own, he added. "On the other hand, the opposition Congress needs to win all 28 seats to reach the majority mark. But it is next to impossible," the BSP leader said. He alleged that both the parties have fielded turncoats and the voters were upset with it. "The voters are looking at the BSP as an alternative. We already have two MLAs in the House," Pippal said. "The BSP has fielded 27 candidates and we will soon nominate our last candidate for Bada Malhera seat shortly, Pippal said. Meanwhile, according to the BSP sources, party supremo Mayawati is expected to tour the Gwalior-Chambal region, where by-elections to 16 assembly segments will be held. Pippal, however, did not confirm about it saying it was too early to say. Twenty-two rebel Congress MLAs in Madhya Pradesh, mostly from the Jyotiraditya Scindia camp, had resigned in March this year, reducing the Kamal Nath-led dispensation to a minority and paving the way for the BJP to form the government in the state. Scindia and these former MLAs had joined the BJP. The BJP then sent Scindia to Rajya Sabha, while many of his loyalists got important portfolios in Shivraj Singh Chouhan's cabinet. In July, three more Congress MLAs resigned and joined the saffron party, taking their number to 25, while three assembly seats had fallen vacant due to the death of legislators. The Congress now has 88 MLAs in the House, while the ruling BJP has 107. In March, the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government had won the trust of 112 MLAs with the help of a Samajwadi Party legislator, two BSP and as many Independents supported the BJP. After the December 2018 MP assembly polls, the Samajwadi Party (SP), BSP and four Independents had supported the Congress to form the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-bypolls-bsp-confident-of-emerging-as-kingmaker-900085.html
10-10-2020||North and Central||After 'international conspiracy', UP police smell 'naxal' connection in Hathras rape case||In yet another twist to the alleged gangrape and killing of a scheduled caste teen in Hathras, the Uttar Pradesh police, after alleging ''international conspiracy'' to defame the state government, claimed to have found a 'naxal' connection to the incident. Police officials in Hathras claimed that a woman, suspected to have 'Naxalite links', had visited the victim's family and also stayed with them for several days. ''The woman, who was a resident of Jabalpur town in Madhya Pradesh and was a doctor, coached the victim's family about the statements to be given to the media....we have found that she has connections with some Naxalite activists,'' a senior police official said in Hathras on Saturday. He said that the woman, identified as Rajkumari was pretending to be the 'bhabhi' (wife of brother) of the victim, also gave interviews to some media outlets and spoke against the state government. The police were now looking for the woman, sources said. The police also claimed that a couple of members of the Bhim Army, a 'Dalit' outfit, mainly active in the western UP region, had also been living with the victim's family after the incident happened.  ''It appears that there was a concerted attempt to defame the state government and trigger sectarian violence in the state,'' the police official said. The state government had earlier claimed that some outfits had received funds from abroad to foment trouble in the state after the Hathras incident. Five persons, including a Kerala scribe, were arrested in this connection. As many as 19 cases, including those of sedition and promoting enmity between different groups, have been lodged in this regard. The SC teen was brutally assaulted by four youths and died in the hospital. The family members alleged that she was 'gang-raped'. The police allegedly held her family and hostage and cremated the body at midnight. All the four accused have been arrested The police claimed that the postmortem report and forensic examination of the Hathras victim did not confirm ''rape or gang-rape' and that she had died owing to injury on her neck.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-international-conspiracy-up-police-smell-naxal-connection-in-hathras-rape-case-900086.html
10-10-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 patient jumps to death from hospital building in Madhya Pradesh||A 46-year-old Covid-19 patient allegedly jumped to death from the second floor of a government-run hospital in Madhya Pradesh's Jabalpur district, an official said on Saturday. This is a second such incident reported from Netaji Subhash Chandra Medical College and Hospital since last month. The patient jumped off the second floor of the hospital's super-speciality wing on Friday and succumbed to his injuries within hours at night, the hospital's dean Dr P K Kasar told PTI. The man hailed from the adjoining Katni district, and was admitted to the hospital for Covid-19 treatment, he said, adding that the patient also suffered some psychological ailment. The patient was examined by a psychiatrist two days ago upon his admission and was also given treatment for it, Kasar said. In a similar incident on September 4, a 64-year-old man undergoing treatment for coronavirus committed suicide by jumping from the second floor of the hospital. Prior to this, the staff of the super-speciality wing of the hospital had prevented two infected patients from taking the extreme step.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-patient-jumps-to-death-from-hospital-building-in-madhya-pradesh-900089.html
10-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi government orders shifting of Covid-19 patients to own facilities after doctors' strike||The Delhi government on Saturday ordered shifting of all Covid-19 patients from civic-run Hindu Rao Hospital to its own facilities, days after the resident doctors went on a "symbolic indefinite strike" over non-payment of their due salaries for the last three months. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain, interacting with reporters, said, as of now 20 patients are at the Hindu Rao Hospital. "Today, we have ordered to shift all Covid-19 patients from Hindu Rao Hospital to our own facilities. They have the choice to be shifted to LNJP Hospital or any other government hospital nearby their homes," he said. Hindu Rao Hospital is the largest municipal hospital in Delhi with 900 beds, and is currently a dedicated Covid-19 facility. Many of its healthcare workers had contracted the infection earlier. Hindu Rao Hospital falls under the jurisdiction of the BJP-led North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC). "BJP is doing politics over the issue, they earn through several taxes, and if they can't run their hospitals, then they (NDMC) should hand them over to the Delhi government," Jain said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-orders-shifting-of-covid-19-patients-to-own-facilities-after-doctors-strike-900092.html
10-10-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir to introduce biofloc technology to boost fish farming||The Jammu and Kashmir administration is introducing biofloc (BFT) technology to boost fish farming in the potential areas across the union territory, a senior government official has said. Navin Choudhary, Principal Secretary to Fisheries, Animal-Sheep Husbandry, Agriculture, Horticulture and Cooperative, said the department plans to promote the novel technology among the farming community and unemployed youth for adoption as an income generating fish farming unit. Considered as a new "blue revolution" in aquaculture, Biofloc is a profitable method of fish farming and has become very popular all around the word as an alternative to open pond fish farming. It is a low-cost way in which toxic materials for the fish such as Ammonia, Nitrate, and Nitrite can be converted into feed. The principle of this technique is to recycle nutrients. "In view of the multiple benefits of BFT system over conventional pond fish culture system and to demonstrate this high yielding Intensive fish farming to farmers, it is being introduced in J&K," Choudhary said. Choudhary, who recently visited the Hunters Ranch at Meluri Jagir Bajalta here for inspection of the Biofloc unit established in private sector by Col (Retd) Sunil Singh Sambyal, said this technology has already been adopted in many states and the units are reportedly running successfully. The principal secretary also instructed to depute the staff of all the districts for undergoing training at this Biofloc unit on rotation basis. The centre has recently announced an economic stimulus package – Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (self-reliant India) for fisheries sector to bring "blue revolution" through sustainable and responsible development of fisheries under the nomenclature Pardhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY). The main objectives of the PMMSY is to create direct employment opportunities, double the income of fish farmers besides addressing critical gaps in fisheries sector and to increase fish production through sustainable and responsible fishing practices, an official spokesman said. He said the scheme would focus on creating critical modernisation and strengthening of the value chain and improve availability of certified quality fish seed or feed. Under the scheme, the unit cost for establishing one unit of Biofloc consisting of seven tanks is Rs 7.50 Lakh. The spokesman said the department has facilitated establishment of 1,073 carp rearing units and 534 trout rearing units in private sector, while 19 carp fish farms and 51 trout farms, 16 trout hatcheries, five carp hatcheries, two aquaria, recreational centres, marketing outlets, trout beats have been established under government sector in the various districts, the spokesman said. Besides, a number of departmental units are under execution at different stages, while about 17,396 professional fishermen derive their livelihood through legalised fishing in natural water resources in the UT, the spokesman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-to-introduce-biofloc-technology-to-boost-fish-farming-900095.html
10-10-2020||North and Central||Four militants, including foreigner belonging to Jaish-e-Mohammad, killed in south Kashmir encounters||Four militants, including a foreigner belonging to Jaish-e-Mohammad outfit, were killed in two separate encounters with security forces in south Kashmir districts of Kulgam and Pulwama on Saturday. The first gun battle erupted after security forces launched a cordon-and-search-operation in Chinigam village of Kulgam, 70 km from here, following a tip-off about presence of militants in the area during the intervening night of Friday and Saturday. As the forces closed in over the hiding place of the militants, they opened fire on them which was retaliated triggering an encounter in which two ultras were killed, a police official said. He identified the slain militants as Tariq Ahmad Mir, a resident of Kulgam and Sameer Bhai alias Usman, a resident of Punjab, Pakistan. Both the slain militants were affiliated with Jaish-e-Mohammad outfit, the official said. The Army also said that one M4 Rifle and one pistol was recovered from the possession of the slain ultras. In the second gun fight of the day which erupted in neighboring Pulwama, two more militants were killed in Dadura village of the district. Reports said a joint team of Police, Army and CRPF launched a CASO in Dadura following inputs about the presence of militants. As the joint team encircled the suspected spot, the hiding militants fired upon them which was retaliated, triggering an encounter. Official sources said two militants were killed in a brief exchange of fire. However their identity couldn’t be ascertained immediately. In relentless anti-insurgency operations, security forces have killed over 190 militants, including 23 foreigners, in 79 operations across Jammu and Kashmir this year. As many as 157 militants were killed in Kashmir in 2019 while the number was 257 in 2018 which was the highest in a decade. In 2019, out of 157 slain militants 32 were Pakistanis and majority of them 19 belonged to Jaish-e-Mohammad outfit. In 2019, local militants accounted for 79% deaths in encounters while the number has grown to 88% this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-militants-including-foreigner-belonging-to-jaish-e-mohammad-killed-in-south-kashmir-encounters-900108.html
10-10-2020||North and Central||Opposition parties have 'division' in their DNA, alleges Yogi Adityanath||Hitting out at the Opposition, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday alleged that "division is in the DNA" of these parties and they are trying to create a rift in society on caste and community lines. Addressing a virtual meeting of the BJP's office-bearers as part of preparations for assembly by-election to Deoria Sadar assembly constituency, he alleged that due the development activities undertaken under the BJP rule, the opposition parties were frustrated and were using "every trick" to defame his government. By-elections will be held to seven Assembly seats, including Deoria, in Uttar Pradesh on November 3. Six of the seats were held by the ruling BJP and one by the SP. "The thought process of the rival parties is dirty and their intention is dangerous. Division is in their DNA. It was due to this thought process that they first divided the country, and are now attempting to divide the society on the basis of caste, community and region. For them, the interest of their clan is of utmost importance, while everything else is secondary," Adityanath said, targeting the Congress and other rival parties. Raising the issue of development under the BJP, he said that "the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), which have ruled the state for 15 years, have only corruption and anarchy to count as their achievement. “From time-to-time, these parties have throttled democracy and the Constitution. Their development was confined only to slogans and speeches." The BJP leader said that the "actual development" started six years ago with the formation of the government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "Owing to all-round development, the popularity of BJP is continuously rising, and there is a feeling of positivity in the public. “In this case, the unhappiness of these (opposition) parties has transformed into frustration. As a result, they are trying to resort to every trick to defame the government. However, their intentions will never be fulfilled," he said. Referring to the problem of encephalitis, the UP chief minister said that from 1977 to 2017, the disease had claimed the lives of more than 50,000 people, most of them children. "No one had ever raised their voice. In a span of only three years, we are on the way towards eradication of encephalitis," he asserted. Referring to Deoria, Adityanath said, "The sacred land of Devraha Baba was known as the sugar bowl. The economy of the area was based on sugarcane. Ask them why in their tenure one after another sugar mills wee sold at throwaway prices." Devraha Baba, who died on June 19, 1990, was a revered ascetic who lived beside the Yamuna river in Mathura. He was known as "ageless Yogi". UP BJP chief Swatantradev Singh also addressed party workers, a statement issued by the UP BJP said. The seven Assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh where bypolls will be held on November 3 include Naugaon which fell vacant after the death of minister Chetan Chauhan. The by-election was necessitated in Ghatampur (Kanpur) as sitting MLA and minister Kamal Rani Varun died, while in Tundla (Firozabad) the sitting MLA, SP Singh Baghel, got elected to Lok Sabha. The Bangarmau (Unnao) seat fell vacant following the conviction of Kuldeep Singh Sengar. The seats of Bulandshahr, Deoria and Malhani will have by-election due to the demise of sitting MLAs Virendra Singh Sirohi, Janmejay Singh and Parasnath Yadav (SP).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/opposition-parties-have-division-in-their-dna-alleges-yogi-adityanath-900115.html
10-10-2020||North and Central||Bandh call by Dalit groups against Hathras incident hits normal life in parts of Punjab||Markets and commercial establishments were closed and commuters faced inconvenience as protests were held in many parts of Punjab on Saturday as part of a statewide shutdown called by Dalit organisations against the Hathras incident. Activists of several Dalit organisations blocked roads, held demonstrations, and demanded justice for the victim's family. Police personnel were deployed at sensitive places to maintain law and order. The victim, a 19-year-old Dalit woman, was assaulted and allegedly raped by four men in Hathras district of Uttar Pradesh on September 14. She died a fortnight later at a hospital in Delhi. The victim was cremated in the dead of the night on September 30. While her family claimed the cremation was carried out against their wishes, the police said the last rites were held "as per the wishes of the family". The 'Punjab Bandh' was called by Dalit bodies including Bharatiya Valmiki Dharam Samaj, Ambedkar Sena Mool Nivasi, Valmiki Adi Dharam Samaj, All India Rangretta Dal, Bhagwan Valmiki Action Committee, and Bheem Sena. The maximum impact of the shutdown was witnessed in Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, and Phagwara, among other places, where shops, markets, and other commercial establishments remained shut. In Phagwara, several roads were blocked due to the bandh call, causing inconvenience to commuters. Traffic on the main roads was diverted due to a sit-in and rally by protesters, police said. Protesters assembled at the Bhagwan Valmiki temple in Subhash Nagar on the Phagwara-Banga road and took out a protest march in various bazaars of the city. They carried placards and raised slogans against the Uttar Pradesh government. They also demanded death sentence for the culprits. All India Rangretta Dal president Joginder Singh Mann and Ambedkar Sena Punjab president Harbhajan Suman addressed the protesters. The Dalit organisations threatened to step up their stir if their demands are not met. Shops and commercial establishments also remained closed in Hoshiarpur. However, chemists and hospitals were open. Activists of various Valimiki Sabhas and Dalit groups led the protests in the district. The protesters raised slogans demanding justice for the victim. They were seen taking rounds in almost all markets of the city to enforce complete shutdown. Superintendent of Police (Investigation), Hoshiarpur, Ravinder Pal Singh Sandhu said no untoward incident was reported from any part of the district. The bandh call was peaceful, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bandh-call-by-dalit-groups-against-hathras-incident-hits-normal-life-in-parts-of-punjab-900123.html
10-10-2020||North and Central||3,099 fresh Covid-19 cases take UP's tally to 4,33,712; death toll rises to 6,353||The Covid-19 death toll in Uttar Pradesh rose to 6,353 on Saturday with 60 more fatalities, while 3,099 fresh cases took the infection tally in the state to 4,33,712, officials said. The number of active Covid-19 cases has seen a continuous fall and it has now come down to 40,210, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said. Of these, 18,654 are presently in home isolation and 3,116 are in private hospitals, he said. The number of those who have fully recovered from the infection and are getting discharged from hospitals has now risen to 3,87,149, taking the recovery rate to 89.26 per cent, he said.. So far, 6,353 people have succumbed to the virus, he said. A health bulletin said Lucknow reported the highest number of 317 fresh cases followed by Prayagraj with 161 cases,  Ghaziabad and Varanasi with 154 each and Meerut with 153 cases among others. Eight deaths were from Lucknow on Saturday, four each from Gorakhpur, Varanasi, Meerut and Azamgarh and three from Prayagraj, the bulletin said. Prasad said an analysis of over 6,000 deaths has found that 71 per cent of those who died were men and 29 per cent were women, while 63 per cent people who who died belonged to the urban areas and 37 hailed from rural areas. He said 74 per cent were those who died had some kind of comorbidity. Among those who have been infected by the virus till now, 9.4 per cent were people in the age group of 60 years and above but they comprised 45 per cent of the death cases, he said. He said 13 per cent cases and 25.3 per cent deaths were among people in the age group of 51-60 years and stressed that special care and precaution was required for the elderly people. Prasad said the state touched a new benchmark in sample testing with over 1.76 lakh tests done on Friday, taking the number of total tests done in the state so far to 1.17 crore. Referring to a high level meeting held earlier in the day, he said Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed officials to identify high risk groups, extend better medical facilities and ensure that the infected persons having comorbidity are discharged only after they test negative. He said October 15 is observed as "World Hand Wash Day" and the chief minister has asked officials to organise special programme on that day as it is helpful not only in checking coronavirus but also diarrhoea and dysentery. He said the chief minister has also given directions for the proper conduct of PCS preliminary examination slated for Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3099-fresh-covid-19-cases-take-ups-tally-to-433712-death-toll-rises-to-6353-900126.html
10-10-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel promises law to offset impact of farm sector reforms||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Saturday said his government will hold a special assembly session and pass a law to ensure that farmers in the state are not affected by the new farm laws of the Centre. Addressing a virtual rally of farmers and Congress workers here, he also accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of misleading farmers on the issue. Farmers in many states are protesting against the Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. "These laws will have an (adverse) impact on farmers. Therefore we have to convene a special session of the assembly to bring a law to ensure that farmers and labourers of Chhattisgarh do not get affected by these central farm laws," the chief minister said. "The study is underway and officials have been working on it. Ministers have been looking into it. The day the proposal is presented before me, the schedule of special assembly session will be declared," he said. He also asked farmers to increase cultivation of oilseeds and pulses to ensure their sufficient availability in the state, expressing fear that after the implementation of the new law on essential commodities, hoarding of these commodities will increase. "Modi has said store in your godowns as much as you can. It means traders will not focus on paddy purchase this time, but rather they will procure pulses, oilseeds, onion, etc. Prices of oilseeds and pulses may increase. You (farmers) should keep stock of oilseeds and pulses so that you can get good returns from traders," the chief minister said. Baghel also claimed that whatever Modi says, exactly opposite happens. "Note ban was brought with a promise to unearth black money, but instead it facilitated conversion of black money into white. GST resulted in collapse of small and medium traders," he said. "Now Modi is saying these laws are in the interest of farmers but these laws are only meant to benefit the big businessmen," the chief minister alleged. He also dared the prime minister to declare that no procurement of farm produce will be done below the support price fixed by the Centre. "Along with his `one nation, one market' policy, he (the prime minister) should also ensure `one rate'. If he does so, I promise him on behalf of farmers in the entire nation that there will be no protest," Baghel said. Congress in-charge for Chhattisgarh P L Punia alleged at the rally that the new farm laws were enacted on the suggestions of big industrialists, without consulting farmers' unions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-cm-bhupesh-baghel-promises-law-to-offset-impact-of-farm-sector-reforms-900128.html
10-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi: 2 men stab tea shop worker after he refused to give them cigarette||Two men allegedly stabbed a 24-year-old tea shop worker in southeast Delhi's Kalindi Kunj area after he refused to give them a cigarette, police said on Saturday. The victim, identified as Ezaz, was taken to a hospital and his condition is stated to be stable, they said. Both the accused -- Mohammad Sakib Khan (19) and Abdul Hannan (30), who stabbed the victim with a blade-cutter, have been arrested, police said. On Friday, when police were at a check post during a routine checking of vehicles, they heard a quarrel and rushed to the spot, where they found Ezaz lying with stab injuries. They apprehended one of the accused and shifted the injured to AIIMS Trauma Centre, said a senior police officer, adding that later, they also nabbed the other accused. Ezaz told the police that he works with his brother-in-law Aamir at a tea shop. On Friday, Hannan came to their shop and took a cigarette. After some time, he along with his friend again came to the shop and asked for another cigarette but by then the victim had closed the shop, said RP Meena, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southeast). When Ezaz refused to give cigarette to the accused, they started beating him and Aamir, he said. Khan took out a blade-cutter and stabbed Ezaz in his abdomen. He also inflicted injuries on the victim's forearm, he added. A case was registered at Shaheen Bagh police station and both the accused were arrested, the DCP said. "During interrogation, the accused disclosed that on Friday, they asked for a cigarette and when Ezaz refused, they lost their temper and thrashed him and his brother-in-law while Khan stabbed Ezaz," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-2-men-stab-tea-shop-worker-after-he-refused-to-give-them-cigarette-900131.html
10-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi University announces first cut-off list for undergraduate courses||Delhi University announced its first cut-off list for undergraduate admission on Saturday with Lady Shri Ram College pegging the score at 100 per cent for three Honours courses. Lady Shri Ram College For Women has pegged 100 per cent score for three courses for general category aspirants -- BA (Hons) Economics, BA (Hons) Political Science and BA (Hons) Psychology. Nearly 70,000 undergraduate seats are up for grabs with the admission process commencing from October 12. Officials of the university had said that cut-offs would be higher this year owing to more students scoring above 90 per cent marks in board examinations. The admission process will be completely online due to the coronavirus pandemic. The new session will commence from November 18.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-university-announces-first-cut-off-list-for-undergraduate-courses-900180.html
10-10-2020||North and Central||Centre issues notification for CBI to take over Hathras gang rape case probe||The central government has issued a notification for the CBI to take over probe into the alleged gang-rape and death of a 19-year-old woman in Hathras in Uttar Pradesh, officials said on Saturday. The notification has been marked to a suitable branch of the premier agency, and probe teams will be dispatched to the crime scene along with forensic experts immediately after the registration of an FIR, they said. The Dalit woman had died of grievous injuries at a Delhi hospital on September 29, a fortnight after she was allegedly raped at her village by four upper caste men. Besides the alleged gang-rape case, the Uttar Pradesh government has sought a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the FIR related to the alleged criminal conspiracy to spread caste conflict, instigating violence, incidents of vicious propaganda by sections of media and political interests, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-issues-notification-for-cbi-to-take-over-hathras-gang-rape-case-probe-900192.html
10-10-2020||North and Central||Bulandshahr: Over 20 people attack trader, loot Rs 6 lakh cash||Over 20 people, including a former village head, allegedly attacked a trader and looted Rs 6 lakh cash from him in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr district, police said on Saturday. The incident took place in the Aurangabad area on Friday evening, they said. The victim, identified as Lalit Agrawal, was at his fertiliser shop when the former village head of Lakhawati, Ramveer, along with 20 people allegedly attacked him, police said. Agrawal was brutally beaten by the attackers, who later fled with Rs 6 lakh cash from the shop, they said. A case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the attackers and the former village head taken into custody for interrogation, said Aurangabad SHO Ramsen Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bulandshahr-over-20-people-attack-trader-loot-rs-6-lakh-cash-900198.html
10-10-2020||North and Central||Punjab stares at power cuts as farmers' agitation halt coal supplies||The ongoing farmers’ agitation in Punjab hit coal supply to thermal power stations and fertiliser ahead of the sowing for winter crops in the state, prompting the government to appeal to relax the stir. As procurement of Kharif crop is in full swing in the state, the ‘rail roko’ agitation has also hit the movement of foodgrains in the state and led to a shortage of gunny bags, stocks of which have been stuck at places such as Delhi and Kolkata. “Coal India Ltd. has stopped further loading of coal to the thermal power stations in Punjab,” a state government spokesman said adding coal rakes were unable to reach the power plants due to the agitation. Farmers belonging to 31 organisations have been on a rail roko agitation since September 24 to oppose the Centre’s decision to enact three farm sector reform laws, a move that the ryots fear could end the MSP regime and APMC markets in the state. “Farmers have been requested to allow the goods trains to pass through to meet critical needs to ensure the movement of foodgrains, the supply of coal and urea/DAP through special rakes in the state,” the government spokesman said. The state’s thermal plants have already reduced their power production by almost half and were left with depleting coal supplies. A meeting of the farmers’ organisations in Barnala on Saturday decided to continue their agitation till the Punjab government passed legislation to nullify the central laws. The erratic power supply due to the non-availability of coal and shortage of Urea/DAP could badly hit the sowing prospects of wheat during the Rabi season 2020-21 resulting in low yield of the crop. As many as 24,480 gunny bales have been stuck at Delhi and another 22,800 at Moradabad, leading to difficulties in packing of foodgrains procured by the central nodal agencies. “The coal stock inventory at the thermal power stations is depleting fast and in case the agitation by farmers is prolonged, there could be power cuts,” the government spokesman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-stares-at-power-cuts-as-farmers-agitation-halt-coal-supplies-900205.html
10-10-2020||North and Central||No fuel crisis in Jammu; enough stock of petrol, diesel, LPG available: Jammu and Kashmir admin||Allaying fears about fuel crisis due to ongoing strike in Punjab over new farm laws, the Jammu and Kashmir administration on Saturday said there is no shortage of petrol and diesel or LPG in any district of the Jammu division. "As per the reports from Assistant Directors of Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs (FCS&CA), sufficient quantity of petrol and diesel for 30 to 40 days is available in the division. Similarly supply of LPG is sufficient to cater to the demands for 24 to 30 days,” an official spokesman said. He said the information was given at a meeting chaired by Divisional Commissioner, Jammu, Sanjiv Verma here to review the supply and stock position of petrol, diesel and LPG in the region. Senior functionaries of the FCS&CA department and representatives of oil companies attended the meeting. "There is adequate supply of petrol and diesel with oil tankers coming smoothly from Punjab without any hindrance and the administration is also providing smooth passage to these tankers for onward journey to different districts of the Union Territory,” the spokesman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-fuel-crisis-in-jammu-enough-stock-of-petrol-diesel-lpg-available-jammu-and-kashmir-admin-900221.html
10-10-2020||North and Central||No shortage of hospital beds for Covid-19 patients in Jammu: Official||A senior Jammu and Kashmir official inspected the Government Hospital in Gandhi Nagar here -- a dedicated Covid-19 facility -- and said there was no shortage of beds and oxygen supply. After reviewing arrangements at the facility, Atal Dulloo, the Financial Commissioner in the Health and Medical Education Department, said only 10 out of the hospital's 260 beds were currently occupied. More than 1,150 coronavirus patients have been discharge from the hospital after recovery, he said. "The hospital...has 260 beds in two blocks here. There are 170 beds with facilities in new block and 90 in old block. However, there are only nine Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment in the old block and one patient in the new block," Dulloo told reporters here. Dulloo rejected reports, particularly floating on social media, about alleged shortage of beds and oxygen supply in the hospital. He also directed the hospital authorities to follow all guidelines that are being issued from time to time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-shortage-of-hospital-beds-for-covid-19-patients-in-jammu-official-900229.html
10-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi records 48 more Covid-19 deaths, taking toll to 5,740; infection tally 3.06 lakh||The national capital recorded 48 more COVID-19 fatalities on Saturday, taking the death toll to 5,740, while 2,866 fresh cases took the infection tally to over 3.06 lakh, authorities said. On September 29 as well, 48 fatalities were reported in the city, the highest number of deaths recorded in a day since July 16, when Delhi saw 58 fatalities. The 2,866 fresh cases came out of the 49,736 tests conducted the previous day. Forty-eight more fatalities have been recorded, taking the death toll to 5,740, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department. The tally of active cases on Saturday rose to 22,007 from 21,955 the previous day. The total number of cases has climbed to 3,06,559, the bulletin added. The number of containment zones in Delhi slightly dropped to 2,715 from 2,727 on Friday. The positivity rate on Saturday stood at 5.76 per cent while the recovery rate crossed 90 per cent, the bulletin said, adding that the case fatality rate stood at 1.87 per cent. Meanwhile, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday said Delhi government has ordered shifting of COVID-19 patients from North Corporation-run Hindu Rao Hospital to its own facilities, days after the resident doctors went on a "symbolic indefinite strike" over their due salaries for the last three months. He also told reporters that in the last nine days, daily cases count have remained below 3,000 per day. Asked about the report by experts that cautions that Delhi needs to be prepared for about 15,000 fresh cases of COVID-19 per day taking into account the upcoming winter season-related respiratory problems, large influx of patients from outside and festive gatherings, he said, "I would neither comment on it nor contest it". The report drafted by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) under the guidance of the expert group under the chairmanship of NITI Aayog member (Health) Dr V K Paul has recommended that the Delhi government should make arrangements for hospitalisation of about one-fifth of these patients with moderate and severe disease. "It is a hypothetical situation, and I can only say, as of now less cases are coming and we have sufficient beds. When the situation arises, we will step up our measures accordingly," Jain said. According to the bulletin, out of the total number of 16,114 beds in COVID hospitals, 10,811 are vacant. It said 1,021 beds in COVID care centres are occupied by persons under quarantine, including travellers who have returned by Vande Bharat Mission and bubble flights. Delhi government has significantly ramped up testing in the past few days, with the count on several times crossing the 60,000-mark. The number of Rapid Antigen Tests conducted on Friday stood at 39,352 while the RT-PCR, CBNAAT and True NAAT tests figures were 10,384, in all adding to 49,736, according to the bulletin. The number of tests done per million, as on Saturday, was over 1.88 lakh while the total number of tests stood at over 35 lakh. The bulletin said 2,78,812 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far. Since September, daily cases had begun to rise in the city. From the last week of September, it has stated to come down a bit. The number of people in home isolation slightly rose to 12,614 on Saturday compared to 12,609 the previous day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-48-more-covid-19-deaths-taking-toll-to-5740-infection-tally-306-lakh-900247.html
10-10-2020||North and Central||Three men held for gang rape of young woman in HP's Una||Three men have been arrested for allegedly gang aping a woman in Himachal Pradesh's Una district, police said on Saturday. The 22-year-old woman had been gang raped in a village falling under Haroli sub-division on Friday, Haroli sub-divisional police official (SDPO) Anil Kumar said. The SDPO told PTI that the incident was reported to the police on Saturday and all the three accused were arrested thereafter. All the accused and the victim are from the same village, he added. The SDPO said the matter was being investigated. Meanwhile, Congress Legislative Party (CLP) leader Mukesh Agnihotri, who represents Haroli Assembly segment, termed the gang rape as shameful for 'devbhoomi' Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-men-held-for-gang-rape-of-young-woman-in-hps-una-900249.html
10-10-2020||North and Central||82.36%voter turnout in last phase of Rajasthan panchayat elections||Over 80 per cent of the electorate cast their votes to elect panch and sarpanch in the fourth and last phase of panchayat elections in Rajasthan which concluded on Saturday amid the coronavirus pandemic. State Election Commission secretary Shyam Rajpurohit said the voter turnout was 82.36 per cent in the fourth phase polling covering 897 gram panchayats. The voting began at 7.30 am and concluded at 5.30 pm amid tight security. There were 30.56 lakh voters -- 15.97 lakh men and 14.59 lakh women -- in the fourth phase. He said the polling was held according to the guidelines related to COVID-19. As many as 4,629 candidates were in the fray for the post of sarpanch and 11,373 for the post of panch, he said, adding that 26 sarpanch and 3,714 panch have already been elected unopposed. Electronic voting machines (EVMs) were used for the polling to elect sarpanch, while ballot papers were used to elect panch. Voting in the earlier three phases took place on September 28, October 3 and October 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/8236voter-turnout-in-last-phase-of-rajasthan-panchayat-elections-900266.html
10-10-2020||North and Central||Himachal reports 267 fresh Covid-19 cases, 3 deaths||Himachal Pradesh reported three more COVID-19 fatalities on Saturday, taking the death toll in the state to 244, while 267 new cases pushed the infection count to 17,245. Deaths were reported from Shimla, Kinnaur and Kullu, the health department data showed. Kangra has so far reported 54 COVID-19 deaths, followed by 53 in Shimla, 35 in Solan, 28 in Mandi, 16 in Sirmaur, 15 in Kullu, 14 in Una, 12 in Chamba, seven in Hamirpur, five in Bilaspur, four in Kinnaur and one in Lahaul-Spiti. A total of 400 patients recuperated from the disease on Saturday, pushing the total number of recoveries to 14,261. Seventeen people have migrated out of the state, the health department said. Himachal Pradesh currently has 2,718 active COVID-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-reports-267-fresh-covid-19-cases-3-deaths-900267.html
10-10-2020||Opinion||Are emotions inherent or constructed?||Much of this pandemic-stricken 2020 has been a year of anxiety, consternation, and frustration, even despair. A passel of negative emotions has swept through us all during lockdown, making us, to some extent, feel united in our suffering.  The concern of contracting the virus while availing public transport, the agony of not being able to meet a loved one who is in self-isolation, the disdain for those who have been careless in combating Covid-19, have been real, palpable emotions. Or have they? Could it be that over the last few months, as indeed since time immemorial, the emotions we have been feeling have not been what they seem. Or maybe they have not been at all?  Could it be that far from being hardwired into our biology, emotions are simply a cultural myth we choose to believe in?  Does the case for emotions being constructed rather than inherent really hold water? A matter of collective intentionality A professor at the Northeastern University in Boston, Massachusetts, Barrett argues against what she calls the “classical” view of emotions – the understanding that distinct emotions are generated by distinct parts of the brain, making the most fundamental emotions like happiness, disappointment, anger, among others, universally recognisable across humanity.   Barrett contends that emotions are not present in the brain waiting to be triggered. There are no emotions resting inside our skulls that can be identified as delight or delirium, ecstasy or exhaustion. Instead, all emotions are created spontaneously by several parts of the brain working in tandem alongside a person’s previous experiences, the peculiarities of language and upbringing.  In other words, emotions are acts of construction, examples of “collective intentionality”, wherein a social reality comes into being not because it exists by itself but because we animate it with our collective belief in it. Thus, happiness is true in the same way that money is. Just as a piece of paper acquires value due to a consensus in its worth, happiness is born because people invest their trust and knowledge in making it a reality, imbuing it with a meaning that depends on context and culture.  This is not to discredit the biological reality that sensations are being processed at all times inside our bodies, as we respond to environmental stimuli and assess the best physiological response to survive in our surroundings. This is to say that labelling these sensations (and their combinations) as an assortment of emotions is a way of stepping out of the technicalities of biology and into the creativity of communication that humans as a species have learnt to master. Saying is feeling Barrett notes how the Tahitians have no concept of ‘sadness’ and the Utka Eskimos never display what many of us conventionally know to be ‘anger’. Does this mean that the Tahitians are always upbeat and the Utka Eskimos literally have ice running through their veins?  Most certainly not. What it means is that the way we experience emotions is a product of a complex curation of words that have undergone gradual transformations over time. This has led to the emergence of concepts – say pleasure or pain – that club together different sensations and categorise them as a single emotion (pain) or a group of related emotions (ache, discomfort, torture, struggle, etc). Depending on the depth of our vocabulary, we then describe this emotion using a small set of words or a more elaborate spectrum that aims at “emotional granularity” – splitting similar emotions from each other. In Barrett’s worldview, there is no room for essentialisation of emotion. Since there is no such thing as authentic joy or genuine misery, each one of us can be architects of our own emotions, adjusting and adapting our individual joys and miseries and converting them into personal artefacts of experience.  This explains why the feeling of watching a picturesque sunset cannot be the same for two people. For even if both of them think they feel exhilarated, their exhilaration is actually unique and unrepeatable, conditioned by their previous memories of a sunset and a notion of exhilaration that has been individualised, even if it cannot always be articulated. Emotion as enigma Have you ever felt a surge of comfort and composure course through your body when your plane touches down at your home city or your car bends into the corner that leads to your childhood neighbourhood? Would you describe this feeling as a separate emotion? If yes, what would it be called? Relief, revitalisation, reassurance? Maybe all three? How about ‘homefulness’, an emotion that combines all the other emotions mentioned in this paragraph into a succinct and comprehensive whole.  Watt Smith exhibits several fascinating instances of how emotions are specific to the socio-cultural context in which they are conceived, rendering them incapable of translation (at least in the form of a single word or phrase) into English. For example, Koreans have an emotion that nestles hope and sadness simultaneously, while in Scandinavia, each country has a specific term to represent the coziness and warmth that is felt when in the company of dear ones on a cold day!  In Portuguese, there is saudade – the pining for something or someone that is absent, blending melancholy and nostalgia with a dash of romantic passion. The English equivalent for this is, unsurprisingly, non-existent. The presence of all these diverse emotions points at two things.  First, the status of English as a global lingua franca has resulted in the inadvertent imposition of some emotions that have ascended to the status of common or basic, all the while suppressing the prevalence of indigenous emotions that can often be far more intricate, not to mention, intoxicating.  Second, the business of emotions is a constant negotiation between what really happens to the body and what is perceived to happen to the body through culture and language.  But, then again, if an emotion is not natural and inherent but artificial and constructed, does it make the act of emoting any less powerful?  Perhaps it does for some, perhaps it does not for others. This question, like the world of emotions, is an open one.  The more important aspect behind the subjectivity of emotions is that it provides each one of us with a personal palette of feelings, one that is not constrained by the rigid taxonomy of the laboratory, but open to the richness of human expression and the inevitable enigma that is life itself. (Priyam Marik is a freelance journalist writing on politics, culture and sport)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/are-emotions-inherent-or-constructed-899977.html
10-10-2020||Opinion||Winter is coming for the world’s airlines||By David Fickling If you think your summer holidays were lacklustre in an era of pandemic-induced staycations, spare a thought for the world’s airlines. The industry typically earns some 40% of its profits in the third calendar quarter alone, as the surge in travel gives carriers the chance to finally fill up planes at prices that can pay off their wage, fuel and debt bills. Some hope. As the first chills of winter arrive, it’s increasingly clear that the industry is as deep in the hole as it ever was. EasyJet Plc was one of the carriers better-placed to survive thanks to its low-cost structure and strong balance sheet. Nonetheless, it’s in talks with the British government about the second slug of state support after a 600 million pound ($775 million) state-guaranteed loan earlier in the year, a person familiar with the matter told Siddharth Philip of Bloomberg News. Philippines-based Cebu Air Inc. is raising $500 million in bonds and preferred shares after the government ruled out taking over troubled airlines. Malaysian-based discount rival AirAsia Group Bhd. announced a restructuring of its long-haul affiliate AirAsia X Bhd. this week while ceasing operations on its Japanese carrier. It also ended funding for AirAsia India Ltd, people familiar with the matter told Bloomberg News. Its domestic competitor, state-owned Malaysia Airlines Bhd, is talking to creditors about a restructuring and one or other Malaysian carrier may fail by the end of the year, according to the country’s aviation regulator. In the US, the industry has been kept on life support since Congress passed a bailout bill in March — but that money has now run out, as my colleague Brooke Sutherland has written. Prospects of a second round of support, already shaky at a time when plenty of other industries are suffering, are even more in jeopardy after House Speaker Nancy Pelosi tied it to the on-again, off-again discussions of a wider stimulus bill amid a packed pre-election legislative calendar. European and North American airlines have cut domestic travel schedules for the December quarter by 45%, according to Bloomberg Intelligence analyst George Ferguson, and any hope that the pandemic is on the brink of vanishing seems vain at this point. Deaths from Covid-19, after trending downward since early August, have been picking up again in recent weeks. The 338,779 new cases reported by the World Health Organization on Thursday was a record daily increase. The grim truth is that the worst period for the aviation industry is probably ahead of it, rather than behind. For months now, carriers have been coasting on their existing bank balances, the early rounds of bailout money received from governments and investors, and the relatively easy cost-cutting of saved fuel and maintenance costs and route and landing fees. For all that the actions taken to date have been drastic — laying off workers, cutting routes, mothballing aircraft — the real challenge will come over the coming months, as carriers have to make hard choices before cash dwindles to zero. Airlines burned through $51 billion in the June quarter and will eat a further $77 billion in cash in the six months through December, according to analysis this week by the International Air Transport Association. That makes up roughly 80% of the $162 billion of bailout money they’ve already received, and airlines won’t return to pre-Covid traffic levels until 2024. During 2021, they’ll still be going through $5 billion to $6 billion of cash a month, according to IATA. Officials and executives who have been crossing their fingers that aviation will survive this without massive state intervention need to start facing reality. Even if traffic returns overnight, airlines will have to find a way of paying the colossal debts incurred this year. The most obvious way is to increase fares, but that risks driving away passengers just when they need to be tempted back on board. Without dramatic changes, almost every airline on the planet faces the spiral of weak revenues, poor service, fat interest payments and irreducible debt associated with sclerotic state-owned carriers like Air India Ltd. and Alitalia SpA. Governments may soon have to choose whether to restructure, nationalize or liquidate a wave of failing airlines, or else loosen their cherished ownership restrictions that have hitherto prevented the creation of truly trans-continental giants. Passengers have done well from the relatively laissez-faire aviation industry that’s existed since the early 1980s. In the current crisis, though, few private companies will be strong enough to survive on their own.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/winter-is-coming-for-the-world-s-airlines-899999.html
10-10-2020||Right in the Middle||Reflected glory||Achievements of former classmates often cause us to hold our heads high. So, when NASA’s Mars helicopter Ingenuity took off, my head literally turned skywards because the chief engineer of the project was from my class!  Our batch of 1974 in Rishi Valley was a motley mix of the very brilliant, the street smart and backbenchers. The ‘very brilliant’ came in different grades. Two could solve IIT papers in the seventh standard, a few others would get high marks by paying little attention in class, and a few had fixed goals and knew how to achieve them. We were only eleven girls (in a class of thirty) and only one was doing advanced Maths and we were in awe of her. Luckily, we had no annual exams and we were promoted to the next class, which meant that there was no competitive pressure. This had its pros and cons. For the self-motivated and conscientious it worked, for the lazy and laidback, it didn’t.    The NASA engineer fell into two enviable categories – he could solve IIT papers in the seventh standard and had fixed goals. In contrast, I was an early IIT dropout; I dropped out even before attempting the entrance exam! Once, after school vacations, we were travelling back together and at the station our fathers got talking. My dad was very impressed, but I dismissed my classmate off as a mug pot. Of course, it was a case of sour grapes! He was a very quiet and principled boy. I know that because he never allowed me to copy from him! Whereas, the second IIT question solver sat right behind me and would at least tell me the answers. So I learnt to work backwards – get the answers first and then try to figure out the steps! I hardly ever spoke to the NASA guy, except on the last day when we all walked till the Mouth of the Valley as some were catching a bus. Suddenly, 16-year-olds were leaving the safe cocoon of boarding school. We were flying straight into the unknown--some were looking forward to the freedom of college, some were unsure, but some like him seemed to already have a blueprint. He said that he would appear for the IIT entrance exams and then study in aeronautics and perhaps work at NASA. His plans and dreams have come true. And as Ingenuity goes on its mission I bask in reflected glory and tell everyone “he was my classmate!”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/reflected-glory-899910.html
10-10-2020||Second Edit||Science Nobel prizes to women heartening||This year’s Nobel prizes in chemistry and physics were remarkable for their acknowledgement of the role of women in scientific research. One important criticism about Nobel awards, especially in science, is that they have not always recognised the contributions of women. In the entire history of Nobel awards, only 20 women have got the prizes in all the sciences put together. Considering this poor record, the award of the chemistry prize to two women and the physics prize to one as joint winners is commendable. Scientific achievements are not to be judged on the basis of gender, but the criticism is that their recognition has sometimes been influenced by gender biases. That is why this year’s awards are particularly welcome, and hopefully, the welcome trend will be sustained in future.  The chemistry prize was jointly awarded to French scientist Emmanuelle Charpentier and American Jennifer A Doudna for their discovery of the revolutionary CRISPR-Cas9 gene-editing technology. Another important feature of the award is that it has been given to a discovery which is only about six years old. Nobel awards are usually given for discoveries made decades before. So, the early recognition given to CRISPR-Cas9 technology underlines its value and importance. Using the technology, the DNA of animals, plants and micro-organisms can be changed with extremely high precision. Modification of genes used to be very difficult and time-consuming, but it can now be done easily with the new tool. It has a revolutionary impact on life sciences and can lead to new medical treatmeEmmanuelle Charpentier nts, as in cancer therapy, and to new processes and techniques in agriculture. It has already contributed to some discoveries in basic sciences and applications in various areas. The prize in physics was awarded to Roger Penrose, who gets half the prize, and to Reinhard Genzel and Andrea Ghez, for their work on black holes. Andrea Ghez is only the fourth woman to receive the prize in physics. Penrose theorised, with the help of mathematics in the 1960s, that black holes were an inevitable consequence of Einstein’s theory of relativity and threw light on some of the universe's most exotic and strangest objects. Genzel and Ghez discovered the existence of a black hole at the centre of our galaxy after many years of observation. Scientists’ knowledge of black holes has improved now, and the work of the three scientists has contributed much to it. But we are still in the dark about much of their working, as is the case with many other cosmic objects and phenomena. The prizes may therefore be taken also as pointers to the far horizons that remain to be lighted up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/science-nobel-prizes-to-women-heartening-899906.html
10-10-2020||South||Dalit panchayat president made to sit on floor during meetings in Tamil Nadu||Yet another case of a panchayat president belonging to Scheduled Castes (SC) being discriminated against by a dominant caste has surfaced in Tamil Nadu. S Rajeswari, president of the Vanniyar-dominated Therkuthittai village in Cuddalore district, has alleged that she was made to sit on the floor during meetings of the panchayat board by the vice-president ever since she was elected to the post in January this year. As photos of Rajeswari sitting on the floor while members of the Therkuthittai village panchayat sitting on chairs during a meeting held on July 17 went viral on social media, the district administration swung into action on Saturday. A case under various sections of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Amendment Act has been filed against vice-president Mohanrajan and the panchayat secretary Sindhuja, who has been placed under suspension. District Collector Chandra Sekhar Sakhamuri and Cuddalore District Superintendent of Police M Sree Abhinav held discussions with the panchayat president and are investigating the incident. As photos of Rajeswari sitting on the floor while members of the Therkuthittai village panchayat sitting on chairs went viral on social media, the district police swung into action on Saturday. A case under various sections of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Amendment Act has been filed against vice-president Mohanrajan and the panchayat secretary. “The President of the panchayat has filed a complaint on Saturday morning and a case has been filed. We are investigating into the incident and we will ensure strict action against those who have erred,” Cuddalore District Superintendent of Police M Sree Abhinav told DH. The incident in Cuddalore district has come to light within two months of a panchayat president in Tiruvallur district near Chennai being not allowed to unfurl the national flag on the occasion of Independence Day. However, V Amurtham, president of Aathupaakam village, hoisted the tricolour five days later at the intervention of the district administration. Speaking to DH from Therkuthittai village, around 240 km from here, Rajeswari said the vice-president never allowed her to discharge her duties as the president and even prevented her from hoisting the national flag on the Independence Day. “We have had four meetings since January and in all the meetings I was asked to sit on the floor while the vice-president and four members of the panchayat belonging to the dominant caste sat on chairs. The fifth member from the SC community was also not allowed to sit on a chair. They want me to be inferior to them,” Rajeswari said. The village consists of around 500 families who are mostly Vanniyars and 100 households from the SC community. The panchayat is reserved for SC community. Rajeswari’s husband Saravanakumar said the family did not muster the courage to speak out against the discrimination due to fear. In his reaction to the incident, Chidambaram Lok Sabha MP, and Dalit leader Thol. Thirumavalavan said he has information that at least 10 panchayat presidents belonging to Scheduled Castes are being discriminated against by dominant castes in the villages. “Only a few incidents of discrimination against Dalit panchayat leaders come out in public. The dominant castes do not allow these leaders to function,” he said. Thirumavalavan also demanded that the Tamil Nadu government take steps to check whether 2,800 panchayat presidents belonging to the SC community are able to exercise their responsibility and publish a “white paper” on the issue. “But the incidents in the past few weeks forced us to come out and express our anguish. The vice-president openly tells me and my wife that we are inferior to him and should keep away from the village administration,” he said. It began with Saravanakumar keeping the keys of the over-head tank of the village in his possession and the vice-president questioning the move. “We locked and the key was with us. But they used casteist slurs to attack us and get back the key. It is then we decided enough is enough and that we cannot tolerate anymore,” Saravanakumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dalit-panchayat-president-made-to-sit-on-floor-during-meetings-in-tamil-nadu-899973.html
10-10-2020||South||Though Covid-19 cases are surging in Kerala, death rate is 0.36 per cent, says Health minister||Though Kerala is witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases of late, there is a silver lining as the mortality rate was only 0.36 per cent, Health Minister K K Shailaja said as she praised the tireless efforts of Health workers and urged people not to overwhelm the healthcare system by their negligence. Lauding the services of the health workers, Shailaja said it was due to their tireless service, the state could keep the state's death rate at 0.36 per cent despite a high number of cases. "In the end all that matters is how we reduce the mortality rate. How many lives we could save. That's our aim. Our mortality rate is still below 0.4 per cent. The mortality rate of 0.36 is the best among the world," Shailaja noted. The southern state had reported the country's first coronavirus case on January 30, a woman medical student whoreturned from Wuhan, the epicentre of deadly virus in China. The second and third cases were also wuhan returnees from the state and all the three had been successfully treated. On May 8, after reporting a solitary case and with just 16 people under treatment, Kerala had announced that it had flattened the Covid-19 curve. But as lockdown restrictions were lifted and people from abroad and other states started returning, positive cases started shooting up. Five months later on October 7, Kerala's fresh infections crossed the grim mark of 10,000, taking the total infection count to over 2.5 lakh. On Friday, 9250 cases were reported as the infection tally crossed 2.66 lakh. Experts had predicted that Kerala was likely to witness a sharp increase in Covid-19 cases in August and September with daily infections expected to touch between 10,000 to 20,000. Asked about the spike in cases, Shailaja told PTI that many people had failed to heed the health directions issued during the Onam festivities, resulting in the spurt in cases. Besides, "various political parties had also launched protests" without following the Covid protocol. "There is a capacity for any health care system. Our department is working selflessly and efficiently for the past eight to ten months so that the patient load will not exceed our system capacity. That's why we request people not to gather and form a crowd. But some just roam around without heeding to our requests," the minister said. The Nodal officer of the state health department for communicable diseases, Dr Amar Fettle said the public need to behave responsibly in public places. "Even though we have all the protocol in place, people should behave responsibly in public spaces. More than a pharmaceutical vaccine, we need a behavioural vaccine. Behaviour is going to be the drug, the vaccine and the prevention," Fettle told PTI. He also hit out at various groups and organisations violating health protocol and said the state, the public and the police are equally helpless. "Followers of various groups uniformly are violating the health protocol. That's something of concern. Public is watching, but is helpless. The state, the public and the police are equally helpless to do anything about it," Fettle said. Only 50-60 per cent of the capacity of the government run Covid First Line Treatment Centre (CFLTC) is currently filled with patients and similar was the case with the ventilators in the state. But there have been instances of the elderly getting infected, and this may result in reaching the full capacity of ventilators. More ventilators and ICUs are being set up, he added. Explaining the reason for the recent spike in cases, Shailaja said the chances of infection are higher when people interact with each other and raise slogans in close quarters. Such protests not only affected the health of the participants, but their families too. "Chances of infection are higher when people interact with each other and raise slogans in close quarters. Such protests also send out a wrong message to the people that gathering is acceptable. The protests create a false security feeling among the people resulting in crowded places. Our actions should be an example for others to follow the health protocol," she said. She said the state was trying its best to keep the elderly people safe from the infection as they are a vulnerable group. Narrating an incident of infection at an old-age home which was later declared as a CFLTC, she said doctors and other necessary staff were posted there following which all lives could be saved. "Where else will you get such treatment? Those people who criticise us do not know the gravity of the situation dealt with by the health department.The public needs to cooperate in order to reduce the spread of the virus," Minister said. Even though many have registered for the Covid brigade, a voluntary group of people, some have not joined, she said adding it was set up to enrol those interested to fight the pandemic for a salary. "Numerous nurses and cleaning staff have joined the Covid brigade but not all doctors have joined the service. So we redeploy our staff," Shailaja said. The Opposition Congress led UDF and the BJP had launched violent agitations against the government on various issues including demanding the resignation of Higher Education minister K T Jaleel, alleged corruption in Life Mission project at Wadakancherry in Thrissur. Due to the increase in cases, UDF decided to halt its protests, but took a volte face, later and said it will continue its protests adhering to Covid protocol. The government has also clamped prohibitory orders till the end of this month in various districts as per which not more than five people can assembly at a place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/though-covid-19-cases-are-surging-in-kerala-death-rate-is-036-per-cent-says-health-minister-900002.html
10-10-2020||South||1,811 new Covid-19 cases in Telangana; recovery rate over 87%||Telangana recorded 1,811 new Covid-19 cases, taking the infection count to 2.10 lakh even as the recovery rate in the state climbed to over 87 per cent. The toll mounted to 1,217 with nine more fatalities, a state government bulletin said on Saturday, providing data as of 8 PM on October 9. The recovery rate stood at 87.01 per cent, while it was 85.7 per cent in the country, the bulletin said. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for 291 of the 1,811 fresh cases, followed by Medchal Malkajgiri 171, Rangareddy 138, Nalgonda 108, Karimnagar 100 and other districts. It said 50,469 samples were tested on October 9. Cumulatively, the number of samples tested was 35 lakh. The samples tested per million population was 94,046. The number of recoveries on October 9 was 2,072 as against 1,811 fresh cases. The cumulative recovered cases stood at 1.83 lakh, while 26,104 were under treatment. The case fatality rate in the state was 0.57 per cent, while it was 1.5 per cent at the national level, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/1811-new-covid-19-cases-in-telangana-recovery-rate-over-87-900005.html
10-10-2020||South||Former CPI(M) MLA K C Karunakaran no more||Former CPI(M) MLA, K C Karunakaran died here on Saturday due to age related illness, party sources said. He was 74 and is survived by a son. His wife predeceased him three years ago, they said. Karunakaran represented Singanallur constituency in Coimbatore from 2001 to 2006 and was the state executive member of the party for the last 23 years and the district CPM secretary from 1997 to 2001. The body was kept at the party office for the party cadre and public to pay homage before the cremation in Papanaicken Palayam, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-cpim-mla-k-c-karunakaran-no-more-900064.html
10-10-2020||South||DBT ensures clean, honest service to beneficiaries: Kiran Bedi||Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry Kiran Bedi on Saturday said the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mode to credit funds to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries of schemes here ensures clean and honest service. She referred to the criticism Chief Minister V Narayanasamy had made at a press meet on Friday that the Central government and the office of the Lt Governor were hindering welfare schemes by insisting on the DBT mode. Bedi said the Centre and also the Supreme and High Courts had upheld decisions taken so far on direct transfer of funds to beneficiaries accounts for free rice, scholarships or any other benefits and special gifts. She said ever since the policy of DBT was introduced, crores of rupees were directly transferred and deposited into the account of lakhs of poor people who were the beneficiaries. The Lt Governor further said not a single complaint had been received concerning the DBT measure from any of the beneficiaries. "The administration is doing a clean and honest service and none is aggrieved by the measure (DBT system)...," she said. Kiran Bedi said, "Instead of expressing satisfaction and happiness to his people, the Chief Minister is lamenting for reasons best known to him although he should be most relieved and grateful that lakhs of people are receiving everything without any financial loss." "DBT is the approved and legitimate system now and has no leakage and no loss of revenue in transmission at all," she said. "There are also no middlemen or commission agents and no favours taken or given by adopting the DBT system," she said. Bedi said the Chief Minister needs to stop misinforming the people against the Centre and the office of Lt Governor. The Chief Minister had been protesting against DBT system, but the Lt Governor stuck to her guns and there were also occasions when the difference of opinion was referred to the Union Home Ministry. The Chief Minister had on Friday said the Centre has been acting upon the recommendations of the Lt Governor on the modality of implementing welfare schemes and has also encroached upon the powers of the elected government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dbt-ensures-clean-honest-service-to-beneficiaries-kiran-bedi-900113.html
10-10-2020||South||Jawahar Reddy assumes office as new TTD EO||Senior IAS officer K S Jawahar Reddy on Saturday took charge as Executive Officer of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) that governs the famous hill shrine of Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala here. Prior to taking up the reins of the world's richest hill shrine that fetches an annual income of over Rs 3,300 crore, he was Special Chief Secretary of Medical, Health and Family Welfare in Andhra Pradesh, a temple official told PTI. Reddy would hold the post for at least two years, he said. The state government on Wednesday last had shifted Anil Kumar Singhal, who was the TTD Executive Officer for over three years and posted him as the Principal Secretary of Health, Medical, and Family Welfare, the official said. Meanwhile, a TTD Board member Krishnamurthy Vaidyanathan donated a crown-like ornament called 'Sadagopam', worth about Rs 36 lakh, at the hill temple. He handed over the offering to TTD Additional Executive Officer A V Dharma Reddy, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jawahar-reddy-assumes-office-as-new-ttd-eo-900153.html
10-10-2020||South||In highest single day spike, Kerala breaches 11k-mark in Covid-19 fresh cases||In the highest single-day surge of Covid-19 cases, Kerala on Saturday reported 11,755 fresh infections and 23 new fatalities, taking the caseload to 2,77,855 and death toll to 978. For the first time on Wednesday, the state had breached the 10,000-mark in a single day with10,606 cases. At least 66,228 samples were tested in the last 24 hours and results of 7,570 people have returned negative while 1,82,874 people have been cured till date. "Currently, there are 95,918 people under treatment, while 2,80,387 are under observation in the state," Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told reporters. He said Malappuram accounted for the highest number of patientson Saturday with 1,632 positive cases, followed by Kozhikode with 1,324, and Thiruvananthapuram and Thrissur with 1,310 and 1,208 cases respectively. Among other districts, Ernakulam reported 1,191 cases while Kollam 1,107. Alappuzha has 843 cases, Kannur 727, Palakkad 677, Kasaragod 539, Kottayam 523, Pathanamthitta 348, Wayanad 187 and Idukki 139. Out of the new cases today, 40 reached the state from abroad, 169 from other states while 10,471 contracted the disease through contact, he said. "The sources of 952 people are yet to be identified," Vijayan said, adding 116 health workers were also among the infected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/in-highest-single-day-spike-kerala-breaches-11k-mark-in-covid-19-fresh-cases-900176.html
10-10-2020||South||AIADMK's collective leadership cannot be broken: AIADMK leader K P Munusamy||DMK president M K Stalin has 'wishful thinking' of top AIADMK leaders O Panneerselvam and K Palaniswami parting ways so that he may gain political mileage, but the party's collective leadership cannot be broken, senior leader K P Munusamy asserted in Chennai on Saturday. The DMK chief's hopes would be of no avail as the AIADMK is led by the collective leadership built by the hard work of cadres, which cannot be broken at all, he said. Munusamy was responding to Stalin's charge that the two leaders have joined forces "only for corruption." The AIADMK on October 7 announced Chief Minister K Palaniswami as the party's CM nominee for the 2021 Assembly polls after ironing out differences between him and Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam. Stalin had made the remark while reacting to it. Assembly elections are due in Tamil Nadu during during April-May 2021. Stalin's repeated allegations of graft against the government was baseless and unfounded, Munusamy, the AIADMK deputy coordinator and former Minister, said. It was only DMK's late patriarch M Karunanidhi who "sowed the seeds of corruption", the Rajya Sabha MP alleged, adding that Stalin hence does not have the moral right to speak of corruption. "Conspirators" unsuccessfully attempted to "divide us" by creating doubts about the Chief Ministerial choice since Opposition parties could hope to win only if the AIADMK became a divided house, he said. Against this background, the party unanimously nominated Palaniswami as the CM candidatesince the government led by him has been delivering good governance, he said. To a question, he said whether it was a national or state party, only outfits that accepted the choice of Palaniswami as the CM candidate could be part of the AIADMK led alliance for the 2021 Assembly elections. The 11-member steering committee, set up days ago, would render advice to the party brass, he said, adding the executivepowers remain vested with party coordinator Panneerselvam and co-coordinator Palaniswami and the panel cannot act independently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmks-collective-leadership-cannot-be-broken-aiadmk-leader-k-p-munusamy-900186.html
10-10-2020||South||Malayalam poet Ezhacherry Ramachandran wins Vayalar award||Well-known Malayalam poet and lyricist Ezhacherry Ramachandran on Saturday bagged the Vayalar award for his collection of poems "A Virginian Veyilkaalam". Vayalar Ramavarma Memorial Trust chief and writer Perumbadavam Sreedharan told the media that the jury was unanimous in selecting the winner for the 44th edition of the award. The panel of judges comprised Kerala Sahitya Akademi secretary, K P Mohanan, N Mukundan, and Ambalappuzha Gopakumar. The award includes Rs one lakh and abronze sculpture by renowned sculptor Kanayi Kunhiraman. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan congratulated the poet and said his poems reflect the firm belief that history is created by people. "Ezhacherry's poems reflect the firm belief that history is created by the people. I am happy to know that this year's Vayalar Award goes to the collection of poems by Ezhacherry titled 'A Virginian Veyilkaalam'," Vijayan said in a statement. Ezhacherry has won many awards, including the Kerala Sahitya Akademi Award in 2008. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan would present the award to him on October 27, the death anniversary of Vayalar Ramavarma.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/malayalam-poet-ezhacherry-ramachandran-wins-vayalar-award-900199.html
10-10-2020||South||Covid-19 casts shadow on Kerala's festive season||In a big worry ahead of the festive season, the number of new Covid-19 cases ballooned in Kerala in the last one week with the Malabar state reporting nearly 59,000 fresh infections since Monday. Close to 60% of the active cases in Kerala were added in the past one week with 9,250 cases registered in the last 24 hours, as per the Union Health Ministry. According to the state government data released in the evening, there were 11,755 new cases on Saturday. The rising trend being seen since the last week began to move steeply upward from Monday that saw reporting of more than 8,500 new cases. There were more than 10,000 cases on Thursday and just under 8,000 fresh infections on Wednesday. The state, which till a fortnight ago was not among the top-10 list of states with the maximum number of new cases, saw a huge surge following the Onam festivities (between August 22 and September 2) when people may have possibly lowered their guard against the virus. "Onam gave a start. But the surge in Kerala is expected from an epidemiological perspective given the vast majority of the population was susceptible. This is a lesson for all the regions/districts, which have not seen a surge in cases earlier. The surge in cases is inevitable in every area. What matters is if the area is prepared well in reducing mortality," Girdhar R Babu, an epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India told DH. Going by the Health Ministry data, ten states and union territories account for 79% of fresh cases with Maharashtra, Karnataka and Kerala topping the chart. The gap between the two southern neighbours is just about 1,600 cases. With Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh occupying the next two positions in the list – each with 5,000 plus new cases - it is the southern India, which along with Maharashtra is fuelling the epidemic at the moment. But there is every possibility of the epidemic shifting its gear and gallop throughout the north and east Indian states in another two weeks with the beginning of the festive season that would start with Durga Puja later this month followed by Dussehra, Eid and Diwali. "We are still in the middle of the pandemic. Maintaining safe physical distance from others and wearing masks and hand hygiene are essential. But many wear masks like they use a helmet," commented Oommen John, a public health specialist at the George Institute for Global Health, Delhi. For the second consecutive day, the number of active cases for the country remained below 9 lakhs on Saturday even though the total number of cases crossed the 70 lakh mark. But the health ministry officials remain tense on the impact of the month-long festivity on the epidemic. "Several months of restrictions have created laxity among the public and even an element of rebellious attitude amongst the youngsters. Covid-19 will be with us for a very long time and the only way to survive the pandemic is to learn to live with the virus. If the public defaults in adopting the essential safeguards, the numbers will increase at an alarming level," added Abdul Ghafur, a consultant in infectious diseases, Apollo Hospital, Chennai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-casts-shadow-on-keralas-festive-season-900207.html
10-10-2020||South||Kerala govt to rate local bodies for sanitation status: CM Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday saidthe state government has decided to give sanitation status to local bodies which have provided the best infrastructure for solid waste treatment. He said the government aims to bring all the local bodies in the state to sanitation status and give most of them full sanitation status during this tenure itself. "The government has decided to give sanitation status to the local bodies which have provided the best infrastructure for solid waste treatment and then full sanitation status for the preparation of complete waste treatment including liquid and gaseous waste," Vijayan said while declaring the sanitation status for 589 local bodies through video- conferencing. The Chief Minister said as part of the 100-day action plan, it was estimated that 250 local bodies would be rehabilitated in the first phase but more than twice as many local bodies have been able to reach this position. "A total of 501 Grama Panchayats, 58 Municipalities and 30 Block Panchayats have been upgraded to sanitation status," he said. The Chief Minister further said various waste treatment methods were implemented through Haritha Kerala Mission. The Haritha Karma Sena (Green Task Force) was formed under the leadership of Kudumbasree for the collection of non- organic waste, including plastic. "At present, there are 1,551 entrepreneurial groups of Haritha Karma Sena in 850 Grama Panchayats and 88 Municipalities. With the completion of the network for sorting and recycling the inorganic waste collected by them and handing them over to the Clean Kerala Company, the waste problem has been solved to a large extent," Vijayan said. He said Clean Kerala e-waste collection has also been started. The government has set a 20-point code of conduct for the disposal of bio-waste at source, setting up of facilities for treatment of inorganic waste, setting up of a green task force for storage of inorganic waste and preparation of material collection facility for storage, decontamination of public places and implementation of the green protocol at government offices, public and private functions. Local Self-Government (LSG) bodies, which get more than 60 marks out of 100, are eligible for the sanitation status.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-to-rate-local-bodies-for-sanitation-status-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-900220.html
10-10-2020||South||Gold smuggling case: Customs questions Sivasankar for 11 hours||The Customs department probing the Kerala gold smuggling case on Saturday questioned M Sivasankar, former principal secretary to the chief minister, for 11 hours. He was questioned by the sleuths from the Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate at its office here in connection with the sensational case. According to official sources, Sivasankar has been asked to appear before the agency again on October 13. He left the office at 10 pm after completing today's interrogation. On Friday, customs officials had grilled him for 11 hours. The agency had questioned Sivasankar twice earlier after his alleged links with Swapna Suresh, the prime accused in the gold smuggling, surfaced. Central agencies, including National Investigation Agency, Customs and the Enforcement Directorate, are conducting separate inquiries into the seizure of gold worth nearly Rs 15 crore from a "diplomatic baggage" at Thiruvananthapuram International airport on July 5. Several people, including two former employees of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, Suresh and Sarith P S, have been arrested by the central agencies in connection with the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/gold-smuggling-case-customs-questions-sivasankar-for-11-hours-900250.html
10-10-2020||State||Panic in Karnataka as 34 students test Covid-19 positive||At a time when the government is debating whether to reopen schools or not amid a spike in Covid-19 cases, 34 students attending classes under the Vidyagama programme in Belagavi and Kalaburagi tested positive for the virus.   While 30 of these students belong to the Government Kannada Primary School at M Timmapur village in Ramdurg taluk in Belagavi, the rest are students of a model primary school at Mashal village of Afzalpur taluk of Kalaburagi.  Vidyagama is a scheme launched by the Education Department to reach out to government school children during the pandemic. The school in Belagavi has 195 students in the lower primary section and teachers under the Vidyagama programme of the Department of Public Instruction had been conducting classes at three temples with 10 to 15 students in each batch. On learning about the incident, residents confronted the teachers and barred them from entering the village. They blamed the lack of precautions for students getting infected. BEO Mallikarjun Alase told DH that random Covid-19 tests had been conducted in the village on October 4, and 30 students tested positive and were symptomatic. In all, six adults including teachers too have tested positive.  The students who tested positive were from second, third and fourth standards hailing from three places while other students have not been infected.  Deputy Director of Public Instruction A B Pundalik said he had no information of the incident but said an inquiry would be ordered to check whether Covid-19 protocols were flouted. In Kalaburagi, block education officer Chitrashekhar Degalamadi said the school has 865 students and 21 teachers. Classes under Vidyagama scheme are being conducted at 19 locations. Random tests for Covid-19 for 203 students and teachers was conducted September 22. Of them, four students tested positive. Samples of 24 students and four teachers were taken on October 5 and reports are awaited, the BEO explained. Following the incident, classes under the Vidyagama scheme were stopped till the further orders. A teacher of the same school had earlier tested positive for the virus but had not handled classes at the locations where the four students tested positive. The health department will trace the source of infection, the BEO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/panic-in-karnataka-as-34-students-test-covid-19-positive-899899.html
10-10-2020||State||Karnataka govt suspends Vidyagama scheme after 34 students contract Covid-19||The state government on Saturday decided to suspend the Vidyagama scheme temporarily in the wake of reports that 34 students tested positive for the Covid-19. Vidyagama is a scheme launched by the department of Primary and Secondary Education Department to reach out to students of the government schools during the pandemic following the uncertainty over reopening of schools due to an increase in Covid-19 cases in the state.In a communication to media, Primary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said, "The direction has been given to principal secretary to temporarily withhold the scheme." The decision came a day after the reports said 34 students in Belgavi district tested positive for Covid-19. In his first reaction to the news in the morning, the minister had said that a report has been sought from officials to assess the risk of the students participating in the Vidyagama scheme across the state. "We will get reports from across the state to know whether the children were tested positive because of  the teachers." "Ultimately the health and safety of our children and teachers is important and no programme is more important than the health of children and teachers. We will take decision further about Vidyagama based on the report from each district," he stated, adding that the department will seek to know the cause of infections. The minister had said that as many as 47 lakh children are benefited from the Vidyagama scheme and so far there is no confirmation about children are infected during Vidyagama. "Vidyagama is a scientifically designed programme for the benefit of socially weaker sections to continue learning and it has turned as model for the country. There should not be any doubt about the safety measures followed in the implementation of the programme," he mentioned. However, as the media reports highlighted the risk of posed by the scheme to students as well as teachers, the minister issued direction to the officials to shut down the scheme temporarily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-suspends-vidyagama-scheme-after-34-students-contract-covid-19-900096.html
10-10-2020||State||Four held in fake stamp paper case in Karnataka||A fake stamp paper racket here has been busted with the arrest of four people and forged documents worth Rs 2.72 crore have been recovered from them, police said on Saturday. Acting on a tip-off, two persons, including the kingpin of the scam 'Chota Telgi', were arrested in the city on October 3. During interrogation, the kingpin revealed the names of two stamp vendors from the city, who purchased the fake stamp papers, following which they were also arrested. Raids were carried out at the house of the kingpin and 443 fake stamp papers of various denominations ranging from Rs 10 to Rs 25,000 worth Rs 2.72 crore were confiscated. The kingpin, police said was only a class 7 drop out and is known as Chota Telgi (Junior Telgi). He used to make house rent documents near the Kandaya Bhavan and City Civil Court. He earned the epithet Chota Telgi (junior Telgi), named after the infamous Abdul Kareem Lala Telgi, who was arrested in connection with the multi-crore fake stamp paper scam in 2002. In 2013, 'Chota Telgi' and his accomplice were arrested for manufacturing and selling fake stamp papers and seals. A case against them is still pending in the court, but they are out on bail, they said. It emerged from the investigation that the accused used fake documents for creating fake agreement deeds, Will certificate, and agreements among others. The four have been booked for cheating, forgery, and conspiracy under various sections of the IPC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/four-held-in-fake-stamp-paper-case-in-karnataka-900120.html
10-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||After over 34 students contract Covid-19 in Karnataka, govt to evaluate safety of Vidyagama scheme||A day after reports of over 30 children in Belgavi district testing positive for Covid-19 emerged, the state primary education minister S Suresh Kumar said that the department will get health reports of children associated with Vidyagama scheme across the state. 34 students attending classes under the Vidyagama programme in Belagavi and Kalaburagi tested positive for the virus. Vidyagama is a scheme launched by the Education Department to reach out to government school children during the pandemic. In a communique, minister S Suresh Kumar said, "We will get reports from across the state to know whether the children were tested positive because of  the teachers." "Ultimately the health and safety of our children and teachers is important and no programme is more important than the health of children and teachers. We will take decision further about Vidyagama based on the report from each district," he stated. The minister explained that as many as 47 lakh children are benefitted from the Vidyagama scheme and so far there is no confirmation about children being infected through the scheme. "Vidyagama is a scientifically designed programme for the benefit of socially weaker sections to continue learning and it has turned as model for the country. There should not be any doubt about the safety measures followed in the implementation of the programme," he mentioned. However, the minister said that the department will seek to know the cause of infections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/after-over-34-students-contract-covid-19-in-karnataka-govt-to-evaluate-safety-of-vidyagama-scheme-900003.html
10-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Stop 'Vidyagama' immediately: Basavaraj Horatti||MLC Basavaraj Horatti on Saturday urged the State Government to immediately stop the 'Vidyagama' scheme to check the spread of Covid-19 infection among teachers, students and parents. "This scheme is not helping even 10% of students. It is being run just for publicity. More than 2,000 teachers were infected with Covid-19 and over 100 teachers have died in the State so far. Parents are also opposing this scheme," he said. "Instead of 'Vidyagama', students of higher primary and secondary sections can be asked to come to school in batches of only 10 students so that social distancing can be maintained in classrooms. Remaining students can attend online or radio classes. There is nothing wrong even if 2020-21 is declared as zero academic year in the wake of increasing Covid-19 cases," he opined. "I have already written letters to the Chief Minister and Education Minister seeking cancellation of the 'Vidyagama' scheme," Horatti added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/stop-vidyagama-immediately-basavaraj-horatti-900014.html
10-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Jan Aushadhi can save citizens Rs 500 crore: D V Sadananda Gowda||Citizens are collectively estimated to save Rs 500 crore this year in Karnataka by purchasing generic medicines from the Jan Aushadhi stores, Union Minister for Chemicals & Fertilizers D V Sadananda Gowda said Saturday. Karnataka has 705 Jan Aushadhi stores, whose functioning Gowda reviewed as pharmaceuticals comes under his ministerial jurisdiction. “Compared with private stores that sell branded medicines, the prices in our Jan Aushadhi Kendras are 4-5 times lower,” Gowda said. “The yearly turnover in Jan Aushadhi Kendras in Karnataka is Rs 125 crore. If people were to depend solely on private stores, they’d end up spending Rs 600-700 crore. Therefore, people can save at least Rs 500 crore from Jan Aushadhi Kendras,” he explained. In the 2020-21 fiscal, the Jan Aushadhi stores have registered a 73% growth till date. “The turnover target this year is Rs 125 crore and we’ve achieved Rs 65 crore in the last six months. In spite of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Jan Aushadhi stores have done business beyond the targets,” he said. The Bureau of Pharma PSUs of India (BPPI), which runs the Jan Aushadhi scheme, had inked an agreement with the state government to open 200 new generic medicine outlets. “Of this, the MSIL has started 85 and Red Cross Society 33. Action is being taken to open the remaining ones soon,” Gowda said. “Every year, over 100 stores are being opened.” The Jan Aushadhi stores sell 825 types of medicines and 122 model surgical instruments, he said. The Jan Aushadhi stores were selling sanitary pads called ‘Suvidha’ for Re 1 each. “In other stores, branded sanitary pads cost Rs 4-10 each,” he said, asking officials to create more awareness on ‘Suvidha’ pads. Gowda also took stock of the Karnataka Antibiotics and Pharmaceuticals Ltd (KAPL). The centrally-run company has a target of manufacturing medicines worth Rs 525 crore with a sales target of Rs 500 crore this year. In the last two quarters, the company sold medicines worth Rs 257 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jan-aushadhi-can-save-citizens-rs-500-crore-d-v-sadananda-gowda-900146.html
10-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Is Karnataka BJP roping in Congress MLA M B Patil?||Speculations that BJP high command is roping in Babaleshwar Congress MLA M B Patil, an influential Lingayat leader from North Karnataka, into BJP has created a buzz in the political circle. It is stated that the BJP is luring Patil, who was in forefront in a struggle for a separate status for the Lingayat religion. He has emerged an influential leader in the community and thus, the BJP is trying to get him into the party. It is being analysed that the BJP high command has zeroed in on M B Patil as the BJP minus Yediyurappa is a square peg in a round table. Though the BJP is learnt to have promised Patil that he will be projected as the chief ministerial candidate in the next assembly polls, the Babaleshwara MLA has given a cold shoulder to the offer, it is said. Taking to twitter on Saturday, M B Patil said, "media reports that other parties have approached me are baseless and far from the truth."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/is-karnataka-bjp-roping-in-congress-mla-m-b-patil-900150.html
10-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 infections in Karnataka breach 7 lakh-mark with 10,517 fresh cases||The coronavirus infections in Karnataka breached the seven lakh mark with 10,517 fresh cases on Saturday whereas 102 fatalities took the death toll to 9,891. The cumulative count in the state now stood at 7,00,786 comprising 5,69,947 discharges including 8,337 today. Active cases stood at 1,20,929 including 892 in the ICU. There were as many as 1,12,770 tests done on Saturday including 48,403 Rapid Antigen Detection Tests taking the total tests done so far to 58.52 lakh, the health department said. Bengaluru led the spike in cases with 4,563 fresh cases and 30 deaths. Cumulatively, the city has reported 2,76,934 infections, 3,320 deaths, 2,08,702 discharges including 1,726 on Saturday and 64,911 active cases comprising 349 in ICU. According to the health department bulletin, Belagavi district in North Karnataka bordering Maharashtra emerged as a second major contributor today with 515 fresh infections. The department said 465 cases were reported in Mysuru, 455 in Hassan, 447 in Chitradurga, 374 in Tumakuru, 345 in Davangere, 316 in Dakshina Kannada, 259 in Shivamogga, 248 in Mandya, 241 in Chikkamagaluru, 237 in Udupi, 225 in Ballari, 224 in Bengaluru Rural and 216 in Kodagu. Cases were also reported, in Bagalkote, Bidar, Chamarajanagar, Chikkaballapura, Dharwad, Gadag, Haveri, Kalaburagi, Kolar, Koppal, Raichur, Ramanagara, Uttara Kannada, Vijayapura and Yadgir districts. In terms of fatalities, Mysuru stood next to Bengaluru with 13 deaths. Seven deaths were reported in Koppal, six in Hassan, four each in Haveri, Kalaburagi and Dakshina Kannada, three each in Ballari, Chamarajanagara, Chitradurga, Dharwad and Kolar. The bulletin said five deaths occurred in Koppal, four each in Shivamogga and Kodagu, three each in Ballari, Hassan and Tumakuru and two each in Mandya, Kalaburagi and Dakshina Kannada. One fatality each was reported in Bagalkote, Chamarajanagara, Dharwad, Haveri and Vijayapura. While a majority of those who died of coronavirus were above 50 years, there were people in their thirties and forties too who succumbed to the infection. Most of those who died of coronavirus had Severe Acute Respiratory Illness, or Influenza Like Illness. The health department said as of Saturday over 1.22 lakh people were home quarantined in the last one week whereas in the past 14 days, 5.44 lakh primary contacts and 3.38 lakh secondary contacts were traced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-infections-in-karnataka-breach-7-lakh-mark-with-10517-fresh-cases-900212.html
10-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 positive case tally breaches 7-lakh mark in Karnataka||Karnataka on Saturday reported 10,517 cases and 102 Covid-19 deaths. This took the active case tally to 1,20,929 and death toll to 9,891, excluding 19 patients who died due to non-Covid-19 causes. As many as 8,337 persons were discharged taking the total number of recoveries to 5,69,947. The total positive cases are now 7,00,786. As many as 892 people are admitted in the ICU, including 349 in Bengaluru. A record 1,12,770 samples were tested, including 48,403 rapid antigen tests. Bengaluru Urban reported 4,563 tests followed by 515 in Belgavi, 465 in Mysuru, 455 in Hassan, and 447 in Chitradurga.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-positive-case-tally-breaches-7-lakh-mark-in-karnataka-900232.html
10-10-2020||West||Goa first state to provide 100% tap water connections in rural areas: Centre||The Centre has said Goa has become the first state in the country to provide 100 per cent tap water connections in rural areas covering 2.30 lakh households. "Goa has earned itself the unique distinction of becoming first ''Har Ghar Jal'' state in the country as it successfully provides 100 per cent functional household tap connections (FHTCs) in the rural areas covering 2.30 lakh rural households," the Jal Shakti Ministry said. Harnessing the immense benefits of efficiently utilising the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) which aims to improve the quality of life and bring ease-of-living to rural communities, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant announced that all rural homes in the state now have a tap water supply, it added. In June, Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat wrote to Sawant expressing happiness on the state''s annual action plan to provide 100 per cent tap water connections in rural areas by 2021. Two districts -- North Goa with 1.65 lakh rural households and South Goa with 98,000 rural households in 191 gram panchayats -- are "fully saturated" with assured piped water supply through tap connections. To strengthen water testing facilities, the state is in process of getting 14 water quality testing laboratories accredited by the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL). Jal Jeevan Mission mandates training five persons in every village, especially women, in using field test kits so that water can be tested there. "Having achieved the universal access, the state now plans for sensor-based service delivery monitoring system so as to monitor the functionality of water supply i.e. potable water in adequate quantity and of prescribed quality being provided to every rural household on a regular and long-term basis," the statement added. The Jal Shakti Ministry launched JJM aims to provide piped water to all rural households by 2024. Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently written to all sarpanches and gram pradhans and sought their help for effective implementation of the Centrally sponsored scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-first-state-to-provide-100-tap-water-connections-in-rural-areas-centre-899903.html
10-10-2020||West||Mumbai Police summon Republic TV's CFO for questioning in TRP scam||Mumbai Police on Friday issued a summons to Republic TV's Chief Financial Officer (CFO) in connection with the Television Rating Points (TRP) manipulation racket it is probing, an official said. Shiva Subramaniyam Sundaram, CFO of Republic TV, was asked to join the investigation on Saturday morning, he said. Besides him, the police also summoned accountants of Marathi channels `Fakt Marathi' and `Box Cinema' and those of a couple of advertising agencies, he said. Milind Bharambe, Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime), confirmed that Republic TV's CFO has been called. The summons to Sundaram said there are reasonable grounds to believe that he is "acquainted with certain facts and circumstances of the matter and the same are required to be ascertained". He was asked to come to the city police's headquarters around 11 am, an official said. The Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of Mumbai Crime Branch is investigating the fake TRP racket. On Thursday, the police arrested four persons including owners of Fakt Marathi and Box Cinema in the case. Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh claimed that three channels including Republic TV manipulated the TRP. The racket came to light when BARC, an organization which measures TRP, filed a complaint in this regard through Hansa Research Group Pvt Ltd, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-summon-republic-tvs-cfo-for-questioning-in-trp-scam-899914.html
10-10-2020||West||Naxal leader Milind Teltumbde wanted by NIA in Elgar Parishad case||Hardcore Naxal leader Milind Teltumbde, who has been shown as wanted by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the Elgar Parishad-Koregaon Bhima case, carries a reward of over Rs 50 lakh on his head. Milind, who figures in the top list of Maoist hierarchy, is in his late fifties and has been absconding for several decades. Milind is an engineer by education - but he became an outlaw. Milind is the brother of Dalit scholar and activist Prof Anand Teltumbde, who is an accused in the case. Incidentally, Prof Anand Teltumbde is the brother-in-law of Prakash Ambedkar, the grandson of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar, the chief architect of the Constitution. Prof Anand Teltumbde is a management professor at the Goa Institute of Management. Before that, he was an executive at Bharat Petroleum and MD and CEO of Petronet India Ltd. On his role, the NIA charge sheet states: “The absconding accused Milind Teltumbde also organised training camps for imparting weapons training to other accused persons.” Milind is the Secretary of Maharashtra State Committee (MSC) of CPI (Maoist). According to officials of the State Intelligence Department (SID) and Anti-Naxal Operations (ANO) of the Maharashtra Police, Milind used to be very active in the Naxal-infested Gadchiroli district of Vidarbha region that borders Chhattisgarh and Telangana. In fact, after the April 22-23, 2018, encounter in which 40 plus Naxals were killed in Gadchiroli district, a massive manhunt was launched to track down Milind, who originally hails from the Chandrapur district of Vidarbha region. "Milind goes by various names like Dipak, Pravin, Arun and Sudhir," officials said, adding that he carries a reward of over Rs 50 lakh on his head. According to Intelligence department sources, Milind could be hiding in the Bastar region. It is suspected that the May 1, 2019 IED blast, in which 15 police and security personnel were killed in Kurkheda in Gadchiroli district, was planned by Milind and his core team. Milind’s wife Angella Sontakke, who hails from Chandrapur, was arrested by the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) in 2011. Sontakke is named in 20-odd offences, including the February 1, 2009, encounter that took place between Gyarpatti and Markegaon in Gadchiroli district, in which 15 policemen, including a Police Sub-Inspector, were killed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/naxal-leader-milind-teltumbde-wanted-by-nia-in-elgar-parishad-case-899964.html
10-10-2020||West||Sharpshooter involved in attack on Rakesh Roshan held after jumping parole||A notorious criminal and sharpshooter, who was allegedly involved in the attack on Bollywood director Rakesh Roshan in 2000, has been arrested in Thane city of Maharashtra nearly three months after he jumped parole, a senior official said on Saturday. The accused, Sunil V Gaikwad (52), was nabbed from Parsik Circle area in Kalwa around 9 pm on Friday, he said. "We had received a tip-off that Gaikwad is coming to Parsik Circle area. Accordingly, we laid a trap and caught him," senior inspector of Central Crime Unit Anil Honrao said. "The accused has 11 cases of murder and seven cases of attempt to murder registered against him. One of these includes attempt on Bollywood director Rakesh Roshan's life in 2000," he said. Roshan was shot at outside his Santa Cruz office in the western suburbs of Mumbai in January 2000. The assailants had fired six rounds, of which two bullets had hit Roshan, police said. "Gaikwad had been sentenced to life imprisonment in a murder case and was lodged at Nashik central jail. However, he came out on a 28-day parole on June 26 this year," the official said. "He was expected to return to the jail after completion of the parole period. However, he did not do so. He was hiding till his arrest last night," Honrao added. According to the official, the accused was active during 1999 and 2000 and was involved in several crimes. He was associated with the notorious gangs of Ali Budesh and Subhash Singh Thakur. During the same period, he was also involved in a dacoity in Nashik, where he had opened fire on police personnel, he said. "Gaikwad would be handed over to the Pant Nagar police, where an offence of escape has been registered," Honrao said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sharpshooter-involved-in-attack-on-rakesh-roshan-held-after-jumping-parole-899980.html
10-10-2020||West||One dead, 4 hurt in ammonia gas leak in Goa factory||One worker died and four others were critically injured after ammonia gas leaked in a seafood processing unit at Cuncolim industrial estate in South Goa, police said on Saturday. The incident occurred in the wee hours of Friday, they said. "One worker died after inhaling ammonia gas that leaked on the premises of the plant. Four others were admitted to a hospital, where they are currently undergoing treatment," a police official said. "The incident happened when the workers were asleep," he said. Meanwhile, the Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC), which manages the industrial estate, said it would conduct an inquiry into the incident. GIDC chairman Glenn Ticlo said that a notice had been issued to the factory management in the past about the condition of the plant, but it had refused to act on it. "We are conducting an inquiry into the incident," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/one-dead-4-hurt-in-ammonia-gas-leak-in-goa-factory-900025.html
10-10-2020||West||Republic TV's CFO doesn't appear before police in TRP case, cites Supreme Court hearing||Despite summons, Republic TV's Chief Financial Officer (CFO) did not appear before the Mumbai police on Saturday to record his statement in connection with the TRP manipulation racket, saying the channel has approached the Supreme Court in the case, a senior official said. However, Sam Balsara, chairman and managing director of Madison World and Madison Communications appeared before the crime branch on Saturday to record his statement, he added. The Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the Mumbai crime branch had issued summons against Sundaram and he had been asked to join the investigation at 11 am on Saturday. "However, he did not appear before the probe team. He informed the police that the channel has approached the Supreme Court and that there will be a hearing on the matter within a week. Citing this, he requested the police not to record his statement," the official said. The summons to Sundaram said there are reasonable grounds to believe that he is "acquainted with certain facts and circumstances of the matter and the same are required to be ascertained". The CIU of the crime branch is investigating the fake Television Rating Points (TRP) racket case. Besides him, the police had also summoned accountants of Marathi channels 'Fakt Marathi' and 'Box Cinema' and those of a couple of advertising agencies, he said. On Thursday, the police had arrested four persons including owners of Fakt Marathi and Box Cinema in the case. Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh had claimed that three channels including Republic TV manipulated the TRP. The racket came to light when the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) an organization which measures TRP, filed a complaint in this regard through Hansa Research Group Pvt Ltd, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/republic-tvs-cfo-doesnt-appear-before-police-in-trp-case-cites-supreme-court-hearing-900029.html
10-10-2020||West||Covid-19: Gujarat govt issues SOPs for Assembly bypoll campaign||The Gujarat government has issued SOPs related to election campaign for the November 3 bypolls to eight Assembly seats, restricting the number of people who can attend a poll-related event in a closed space to 200 or 50 per cent of the venue's capacity. As per the guidelines issued by the state home department on Friday in view of the Covid-19 situation, not more than five persons can take part in a door-to-door campaign. "As per the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), prior approval of the district magistrate or police commissioner will be required for organising election-related activities, and not more than 200 persons or up to 50 per cent of the venue's capacity will be allowed at an election rally held in a closed space," the government said in a release. "More than 100 participants will be allowed for an election-related event on open ground after considering the size of the venue, and on the condition that the participants maintain a physical distancing of six feet and cover their face during the entire event. There should be a facility for thermal scanning and use of sanitiser," it added. During public meetings and rallies, not more than seven persons can sit on separate chairs on a stage and they will have to maintain social distancing, it said, adding that the use of sofa has been disallowed. In case the stage is large, maximum 14 people, seven in each row, can be allowed, it added. "During the door-to-door campaign, only five persons, including the candidate, can participate. Also, not more than two persons and two vehicles will be allowed during the submission of nomination papers to the returning officers after filling the form online," it said. For any election-related programme, the organisers will have to get prior approval of the District Magistrate or Police Commissioner, in which they have to mention the date, time, place of the event, and the estimated number of participants, the government said. For road shows or bike rallies, proper distance will have to be maintained between every group of five vehicles in a fleet. "A public gathering or rally can only be organised in accordance with the Covid-19 guidelines. The District Election Officer will have to decide in advance the grounds earmarked for the rally or meeting, with markings for maintenance of social distance and a proper arrangement for entry and exit," the government stated. The District Election Officer and the Superintendent of Police will have to ensure that the number of people does not exceed the prescribed limit, it said. "Political parties and candidates should ensure that measures against Covid-19, such as use of face cover, sanitiser, thermal screening, etc, are followed," it said. By-elections will be held in Abdasa, Limdi, Morbi, Dhari, Gadhada (ST), Karjan, Dangs (ST) and Kaprada (ST) constituencies. These seats fell vacant after the resignation of the then Congress MLAs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-gujarat-govt-issues-sops-for-assembly-bypoll-campaign-900073.html
10-10-2020||West||BJP backs religious bodies' token fast for reopening temples||The Maharashtra unit of the BJP on Saturday announced its support for a token fast to be observed by various religious bodies on October 13 to demand reopening of temples in the state amid the Covid-19 pandemic. In an official statement, the party's state unit chief Chandrakant Patil said, "The state government has given permission to open liquor shops, restaurants and beer bars, but has kept temples and other religious places closed for more than seven months." The BJP has decided to extend its support to the token fast, which will be undertaken by heads of various religious bodies on October 13, Patil said. "We have asked our party workers to join the cause in their respective districts. The agitation will be held outside temples across the state," he added. Earlier in August, the saffron party had staged "ring the bell" agitation across the state, demanding reopening of places of worship, which have remained shut for over seven months in light of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-backs-religious-bodies-token-fast-for-reopening-temples-900105.html
10-10-2020||West||Covid-19 Lockdown: Air India to resume service to Mumbai||Air India would resume direct flights on the Mumbai-Mangaluru-Mumbai sector from October 12, the airline said. Months after the suspension of the service due to the pandemic, the airline is to operate flights four days a week on Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday. The flight would leave Mumbai at 10.15 am and arrive here at 12 pm. The flight from here would depart at 12.40 pm and land in Mumbai at 2.20 pm, the airline said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-lockdown-air-india-to-resume-service-to-mumbai-900129.html
10-10-2020||West||Maharashtra: Two women rescued from spa; owner, manager booked||Two women were rescued from a spa in Mira Road town of Maharashtra's Thane district, while a case was registered against the manager and owner of the establishment for allegedly using them for flesh trade, police said on Saturday. Acting on a tip-off, the police on Friday raided Relax Spa and rescued two women who were present in the premises, said Tukaram Tatkar, PRO of the Mira-Bhayandar Vasai-Virar police. An offence under relevant sections of the IPC and Prevention of Immoral Trafficking Act (PITA) has been registered against the manager and owner of the spa, who allegedly used the women for flesh trade, the official said. The Kashimira police are investigating the case, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-two-women-rescued-from-spa-owner-manager-booked-900165.html
10-10-2020||West||Covid-19 deaths cross 40,000 mark in Maharashtra||The total progressive Covid-19 deaths in Maharashtra crossed the 40,000 mark on Saturday, even as the Unlock-5 was implemented ahead of the Navratri and Dussera festivities. On a brighter side, a record 26,440 persons were discharged taking the total to 12,55,779 who have successfully fought the viral pandemic. On Saturday, 308 deaths and 11,416 fresh cases were reported. This took the total to 40,040 deaths and 15,17,434 cases in Maharashtra, according to figures released by the Public Health Department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-deaths-cross-40000-mark-in-maharashtra-900179.html
10-10-2020||West||Winning Gujarat bypolls may prove tough for BJP; 'advantage' for Congress||While the BJP and Congress prepare for by-polls to eight Assembly seats to be held on November 3 in Gujarat, the trends suggest that victory at a majority of seats will be tough for the ruling party. These eight seats fell vacant after as many Congress MLAs resigned in the run-up to Rajya Sabha polls earlier this year and eventually joined the ruling BJP. The BJP is speculated to be fielding five of its Congress turncoats as party candidates which might go in favour of the opposition Congress. Although the result will not impact the BJP-led Rupani government in any manner, a win for the Congress may uplift the party workers ahead of the local civic body polls slated to be held later this year. "We can't say for sure as of today but it seems five out of eight Congress defectors are going to get BJP tickets. The senior party leaders are gauging the mood of workers before making the names public. If it happens, the discontentment among the party workers will widen. A large number of workers are still in shock over the appointment of Navsari MP C R Patil as state BJP president. But, defectors contesting polls on party tickets will be demoralising for the booth level workers," sources said. The eight Assembly seats which are going to polls are—Abdasa, Limbdi, Morbi, Gadhada, Dhari, Dangs, Kaprada and Karjan. Sources said that barring Dangs, Limbdi and Dadhada seats, the BJP is most likely to give tickets to Congress turncoats. Meanwhile, the opposition Congress has also expressed confidence in winning back all the seats. "It is a unique contest that we are witnessing. Our candidates had won all these seats in 2017 Assembly polls who switched their loyalties to BJP for money or may even be for a post. Let's see how the voters react to it. I can't comment on our choice of candidates as of now but I am sure if we select good candidates we might win all the seats," said a senior Congress leader. Meanwhile, the state government has issued guidelines for the polls, prohibiting the use of the stage for political gathering and numbers have been restricted to 200 persons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/winning-gujarat-bypolls-may-prove-tough-for-bjp-advantage-for-congress-900191.html
10-10-2020||West||Gujarat's coronavirus case tally crosses 1.5 lakh-mark||The total number of coronavirus cases in Gujarat crossed the 1.5 lakh mark and rose to 1,50,415 with addition of1,221 cases on Saturday, the state health department said. The state's Covid-19 death toll rose to 3,560 after ten more patients succumbed to the virus, it said. At the same time, 1,456 patients were discharged, taking the tally of recovered cases to 1,30,897.   Gujarat's recovery rate thus improved to 87.02 per cent,the department said in its release. As many as 51,288 tests were conducted in the state in the last 24 hours, at the rate of 789.05 tests per day per million population, taking the total number of samplestested so far to 49,61,455. Gujarat's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 1,50,415, New cases 1,221, Death toll 3,560, Discharged 1,30,897, Active cases 15,958, and people tested so far 49,61,455.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarats-coronavirus-case-tally-crosses-15-lakh-mark-900196.html
10-10-2020||West||Maharashtra reports 11,416 new coronavirus cases, 308 deaths||Maharashtra's coronavirus case tally on Saturday increased to 15,17,434 with 11,416 new cases being reported, said a health official. The state also reported 308 deaths during the day, which took the death toll to 40,040, he said. 26,440 patients were discharged after treatment, taking the tally of recovered people to 12,55,779. With this the state now has 2,21,156 active cases. Mumbai city reported 2,203 new cases, which pushed its overall case count to 2,27,276, while its death toll rose to 9,391 with 48 new fatalities. Pune city added 724 new cases, raising its tally to 1,64,341, while 16 deaths took the toll to 3,718. The state has so far conducted 75,69,447 tests. The Mumbai division, which consists of Mumbai city and satellite towns, reported 4,203 new cases, raising its total count to 5,25,273. A total of 16,837 people have died so far in the region, the official said. The number of cases in the Pune division stood at 3,95,854 and death toll at 8,722, the official said. Nashik division's cumulative case tally stood at 2,04,585 and death toll at 3,982, he said. Kolhapur division has reported 1,02,015 cases and 3,192 deaths till now, while Aurangabad division's case tally stood at 56,467 and death count at 1,455. Latur division has reported 62,465 cases until now and 1,764 fatalities. Akola division has reported 46,652 cases while 1,068 people have succumbed to the infection until now. Nagpur division has reported 1,22,353 infections and 2,866 fatalities so far, the official informed. A total of 22,68,057 people are currently under home quarantine in the state while 24,994 others are placed in institutional quarantine, he added. Maharashtra's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 15,17,434, New cases: 11,416, Death toll: 40,040, Discharged: 12,55,779, Active cases: 2,21,156, people tested so far: 75,69,447.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-11416-new-coronavirus-cases-308-deaths-900215.html
