11-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Female leopard dies after being hit by vehicle||An eight-month-old female leopard died on the spot after being hit by an unidentified heavy vehicle near Guddadarangavanahalli in the taluk on Saturday night. Local people who noticed it alerted forest department officials. The authorities concerned stated that it is a clear hit-and-run case. The incident took place when it was crossing the road and it succumbed to injuries on the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/female-leopard-dies-after-being-hit-by-vehicle-900395.html
11-10-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka assembly bypolls: Congress first off blocks||Congress in Karnataka has stolen a march over its rivals BJP and JDS in gearing up for the coming by-elections to two assembly constituencies with the contests seen as a litmus test for state party chief D K Shivakumar. With the erstwhile allies contesting on their own the November 3 elections to Sira and Rajarajarajeshwari Nagar constituencies, a multi-cornered battle is on cards. While the JD(S) has announced its nominee for Sira, the ruling BJP is yet to name candidates for both the seats for which the process of filing nominations is underway. After announcing its candidates for both the seats, the Congress has hit the ground, holding meetings of party workers and senior leaders visiting the constituencies, besides taking up other campaign-related activities. The party on Sunday held meetings of leaders from both the constituencies in the presence of Shivakumar, recently appointed Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee and legislature party leader Siddaramaiah to strategise for the campaign and win in both the seats. "We have appointed a legislator (MLA/MLC) and senior leaders for every panchayat or ward in the two constituencies, they will take the complete responsibility, booth-level work has been divided among workers and they will perform their duty," Shivakumar told reporters after the meeting. Congress on Wednesday had fielded former Minister T B Jayachandra from Sira in Tumakuru district, while putting up a fresh face - Kusuma H, an assistant professor at an engineering college and wife of IAS officer D K Ravi, who died in March 2015, from Rajarajeshwari Nagar (R R Nagar) here. The byelections had been necessitated in Sira following the death of JD(S) legislator B Sathyanarayana in August, while the R R Nagar seat fell vacant following the disqualification of Congress MLA N Munirathna under the anti-defection law last year. Apparently, with an eye on sympathy votes, JDS has fielded Sathyanarayana's wife Ammajamma as its candidate in Sira. Though speculations are rife in the BJP circles that radiologist Dr C M Rajesh Gowda, who recently joined the party, is likely to be its candidate, there are reports of resentment within the local unit about giving tickets to a new entrant, sidelining the old loyal party workers. In R R Nagar, JD(S) has shortlisted three probables -- party city unit chief R Prakash, RR Nagar unit President Bettaswamy Gowda and a leader from the Jnananbharathi ward Krishnamurthy. Even though Munirathna was initially seen as a clear choice as the BJP candidate, there have been reports of strong resistance within the party against his candidature. A section in the party is pitching for fielding Tulsi Muniraju Gowda, the party's defeated candidate in the 2018 elections. Congress is making every effort to ensure victory in the polls after it witnessed a rout in the December 2019 bypolls. This is the first electoral litmus test for Shivakumar after taking over as the KPCC chief. Much is at stake for Shivakumar, after the recent CBI raids against him, as he was looking at consolidating his position in the party and re-asserting himself as a strong Vokkaliga leader, the community that has a considerable presence in both the segments. Winning R R Nagar is even more crucial for him, as it comes under the Bangalore Rural Lok Sabha constituency represented by his brother D K Suresh, whose properties were also raided by the CBI last week in connection with a disproportionate assets case. In the Sira segment, a total of 2,15,693 voters -- 1,10,265 men and 1,05,418 women -- are eligible to exercise their franchise at about 330 polling stations. R R Nagar has an electorate of 4,60,401 for whom 678 polling stations would be set up. Among the voters, while 2,40,061 are men, 2,20,261 are women. Sira and R R Nagar have 4,109 and 3,092 voters in the age group of 18-19 respectively. A total of 2,034 electronic voting machines with voter-verified paper audit trail (VVPAT) systems will be deployed for the bypolls in two constituencies, officials have said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-assembly-bypolls-congress-first-off-blocks-900528.html
11-10-2020||National||Covid-19 likely to spike as festival season nears||The upcoming festive season is likely to pose huge challenges for India, which is at a critical moment in its Covid-19 fight, with the situation in Kerala offering a glimpse of what is to come if guidelines are violated. The state, which till a fortnight ago was not among the top 10 list of states with the maximum number of new cases, saw a huge surge following the Onam festivities (between August 22 and September 2) when people may have possibly lowered their guard against the virus. Close to 60% of the active cases in Kerala was added in the past one week, with 9,250 cases registered in the last 24 hours, as per the Union Health Ministry. According to the state government data released in the evening, there were 11,755 new cases on Saturday. "Onam gave a start," Girdhar R Babu, an epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India told DH. "But the surge in Kerala is expected from an epidemiological perspective given the vast majority of the population was susceptible. This is a lesson for all the regions/districts, which have not seen a surge in cases earlier. The surge is inevitable in every area. What matters is if the area is prepared well in reducing mortality."  Going by the Health Ministry data, 10 states and Union Territories account for 79% of fresh cases, with Maharashtra, Karnataka and Kerala topping the chart. The gap between the two southern neighbours is just about 1,600 cases. With Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh occupying the next two positions in the list — each with 5,000-plus new cases — it is the southern India along with Maharashtra that is fuelling the pandemic at the moment. But there is every possibility of the epidemic shifting its gear and galloping throughout the north and east Indian states in another two weeks, with the beginning of the festive season that would start with Durga Puja later this month followed by Dussehra, Eid and Diwali. "We are still in the middle of the pandemic. Maintaining safe physical distance from others and wearing masks and hand hygiene are essential. But many wear masks like they use a helmet," commented Oommen John, a public health specialist at the George Institute for Global Health, Delhi. For the second consecutive day, the number of active cases for the country remained below 9 lakh on Saturday even though the total number of cases crossed the 70-lakh mark. But the health ministry officials remain tense on the impact of the month-long festivity on the pandemic. "Several months of restrictions have created laxity among the public and even an element of rebellious attitude amongst the youngsters," said Abdul Ghafur, a consultant in infectious diseases, Apollo Hospital, Chennai. "Covid-19 will be with us for a very long time and the only way to survive the pandemic is to learn to live with the virus. If the public defaults in adopting the essential safeguards, the numbers will increase at an alarming level."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-likely-to-spike-as-festival-season-nears-900284.html
11-10-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on October 11||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 70 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases.     Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  71,13,749 as of October 11 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 1,09,128   
<!--
{C}<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->  No. of people discharged:  60,77,976        Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-october-11-900310.html
11-10-2020||National||DH Toon | An international conspiracy against Yogi Adityath?||The Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh, which completely mishandled the horrifying crime in Hathras district, is now employing a diversionary ploy by slapping serious charges against those who criticised it and protested against its conduct in the case. It has found in the protests an international conspiracy to create caste conflict in the state and to destabilise the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-an-international-conspiracy-against-yogi-adityath-900313.html
11-10-2020||National||No solution in sight to tackle stubble burning||As days get shorter during late September, they bring along a slight nip in the Delhi air. But the knock of winter on the capital’s doors also brings dread. As winds change direction, the Capital and its fast-growing suburbs with their tall towers become blurred by pollution, a major contribution being the smoke and soot from the burning fields of Punjab and Haryana. It is ‘parali’ time again, when farmers in India’s food bowl states, having harvested the paddy crop, set out to prepare the field for sowing wheat, which is grown during the winter months. With small landholdings, most cannot afford a combine harvester machine or the Super Straw Management System machine to cut the paddy stubble. They instead choose to burn the straw to clear the fields for the next crop cycle. According to a study published in Science magazine in August last year, farmers in north India burn an estimated 23 million tonnes of straw from their rice harvest, an enormous mass which, if packed into 20 kg, 38 cm high bales and piled on top of each other, would reach a height of over 4,30,000 km or about 1.1 times the distance to the moon. Another study by the Centre for Sustainable Agriculture said that burning one tonne of straw releases 3 kg of particulate matter, 60 kg of carbon monoxide, 1,460 kg of carbon dioxide, 199 kg of ash and two kg of sulphur dioxide, causing significant global warming and acid rain. The root of the problem lies in the enactment of the Punjab Preservation of Subsoil Act in 2009 that prohibits sowing paddy seeds in nurseries before May 10 and transplanting seedlings before June 10 to reduce the use of groundwater for harvesting the seeds. A similar law also exists in Haryana. The laws meant for arresting the decline in groundwater levels have pushed the paddy crop cycle closer to the sowing for rabi crops, forcing farmers to look for quick-fix solutions, such as stubble burning, to clear the fields for the next crop. Between October 1 and October 8 this year, 1,509 stubble burning incidents have been reported from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, a significant jump from the 407 incidents reported for the same period last year, according to the data from the Consortium for Research on Agroecosystem Monitoring and Modelling from Space. The winds bring these pollutants to the National Capital Region and the adjoining Gangetic Plains. The calm weather during winters and low temperatures lead to the disastrous impact of smog, the worst of which was witnessed in October 2016 and November 2017. Smoggy conditions over Delhi have led to health emergencies in the national capital ranging from chest congestion, lung diseases to dryness of eyes and eye irritation. Search for solutions The Centre has responded with a slew of policy measures ranging from promoting crop diversification, imposing a ban on stubble burning by the National Green Tribunal, encouraging farm mechanisation to the warning of registration of FIRs against farmers resorting to stubble burning. A petition in the Supreme Court by green activists even suggested withholding a portion of the Minimum Support Price for farmers till it is confirmed that they had not resorted to stubble burning. NGOs, too, have been making contributions to address the issue by offering to buy crop residue from farmers to create manure. “We have taken 1,000 metric tonnes of paddy straw to be inoculated with microbial biomes to create nutritious soil for vegetables in our Delhi farms,” Manoj Kumar, Chief Executive Officer, Naandi Foundation said. The central government also unveiled a micro-biological approach to stubble burning by proposing to spray a liquid formulation to turn crop residue into manure over a three-week period. The bio-decomposer solution, developed by the Indian Agriculture Research Institute, is the latest offering from the government to address the stubble burning issue. However, this bio-decomposer initiative on a trial basis has come at a time when fields have been set on fire in Punjab already.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-solution-in-sight-to-tackle-stubble-burning-900337.html
11-10-2020||National||Yogi, his police say no one was raped because for them she was 'no one': Rahul Gandhi on Hathras case||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday attacked the Yogi Adityanath dispensation over the death of a Dalit woman from Uttar Pradesh's Hathras after being allegedly gang-raped, saying the chief minister and his police say no one was raped because for them and many other Indians, she was "no one". In a tweet, Gandhi said the shameful truth is many Indians do not consider Dalits, Muslims and tribals to be human. "The CM & his police say no one was raped because for them, and many other Indians, she was NO ONE," the former Congress chief tweeted. He also tagged a media report which asked why police was denying rape when the woman repeatedly reported rape. A 19-year-old Dalit woman from Hathras was allegedly raped and attacked by four upper-caste men. She later succumbed to injuries at a Delhi hospital. The Yogi Adityanath government is fighting severe criticism for its handling of the case, particularly after the local police burnt the woman's body at night without the family's approval. However, officials said the cremation was done "as per the wishes of the family". The state government has said that some people were trying to foment caste tensions in the aftermath of the incident. Quoting an FSL (forensic science laboratory) report, it has denied the rape charge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yogi-his-police-say-no-one-was-raped-because-for-them-she-was-no-one-rahul-gandhi-on-hathras-case-900339.html
11-10-2020||National||Villagers get property cards under Centre's land records initiative||People residing in 763 villages across six states could now find it easier to buy or sell property without any dispute as the government has updated land records to provide ownership rights to village households. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday launched the distribution of property cards under the Survey of Villages and Mapping with Improvised Technology in Village Areas (SWAMITVA) initiative, claiming that the move would transform rural India. The SWAMITVA initiative focuses on mapping rural inhabited lands using drones to create land records which, in such areas, are either inaccurate or non-existent. “Today you (beneficiaries) have a right, a legal document that your house is yours; you own it. With records of your property, getting a loan from the bank will be easier,” the Prime Minister said addressing beneficiaries of the scheme through video conferencing. These beneficiaries, who could now download their property cards, are from 763 villages across six states, including 346 from Uttar Pradesh, 221 from Haryana, 100 from Maharashtra, 44 from Madhya Pradesh, 50 from Uttarakhand and two from Karnataka. The property cards could also end land disputes in villages as mapping and survey could lead to creation of accurate land records for every village. “We will make sure that property cards reach every village in the country,” Modi said, adding that property records lead to confidence among owners and open up new avenues for investment. The initiative, a central sector scheme under the Panchayati Raj Ministry, could also be utilised to provide better civic amenities in villages. Accurate land records could also help gram panchayats across the country to collect property tax and utilise the revenue for investing in addressing the needs of the local communities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/villagers-get-property-cards-under-centres-land-records-initiative-900362.html
11-10-2020||National||Covid-19 tally in India breaches 70-lakh mark||India's Covid-19 tally of cases raced past 70 lakh, 13 days after it had crossed the 60-lakh mark, while the national recovery rate stood at 86.17 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday.  The Covid-19 caseload mounted to 70,53,806 with 74,383 infections being reported in a day.The death toll climbed to 1,08,334 with 918 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease have crossed 60 lakh. India's coronavirus cases jumped from 10 lakh to 20 lakh in 21 days. Then it took 16 more days to race past 30 lakh, 13 days more to cross the 40-lakh mark and 11 days to go past 50 lakh. The cases rose from 50 lakh to 60 lakh in 12 days. It took 110 days for the Covid-19 cases in the country to reach one lakh while it had taken 59 days more to go past the 10-lakh post.   For the third day in a row the active cases of Covid-19 remained below 9 lakh. There are 8,67,496 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 12.30 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The Covid-19 case fatality rate due to the coronavirus infection was recorded at 1.54 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16 and had crossed 60 lakh on September 28. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 8,68,77,242 samples have been tested up to October 10 with 10,78,544 samples being tested on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-tally-in-india-breaches-70-lakh-mark-900366.html
11-10-2020||National||Delhi woman 'becomes' British High Commissioner for a day||Being the British High Commissioner in India can be a hectic job, and an 18-year-old woman from the national capital experienced this when she held the post for a day. Chaitanya Venkateswaran from New Delhi had the unique opportunity to spend last Wednesday as the UK’s senior-most diplomat in India under the mission's initiative aimed at empowering and highlighting the challenges faced by women across the world. The British High Commission has been organising the 'High Commissioner for a Day' competition annually since 2017, inviting young Indian women aged 18 to 23 years to take over as their most senior diplomat. Venkateswaran is the fourth young woman to take over as the British High Commissioner in an annual competition run by the UK mission in celebration of International Day of the Girl Child on October 11, the British High Commission said in a statement. As the UK's top diplomat here, Venkateswaran's busy day included handing out tasks to the High Commission's department heads, interacting with senior woman police officers, meeting the press, and launching a study tracing the impact of British Council STEM scholarships on Indian women participants. "I used to visit the British Council library in New Delhi when I was younger, and that's where I cultivated my love of learning. Building on that knowledge, to be the British High Commissioner for a day was a golden opportunity," Venkateswaran said. "My day was full of diverse experiences which have really broadened my perspective on the role of women and their representation in fields of media, policing and STEM. I am now more determined than ever to use my new knowledge and experience to help promote equitable treatment of women everywhere," she said. Jan Thompson, the Deputy High Commissioner for that day and acting High Commissioner to India on other days, said this competition is one of her favourite moments of the year – an opportunity to provide a platform to extraordinary young women, and show how the UK and India are sharing expertise to ensure women and girls reach their full potential around the world. "I was thrilled to relinquish my duties to Chaitanya for the day and was impressed with how confidently and competently she took on this role, a deserving winner out of an incredible 215 entries," she said. "In the side-lines of her very busy day as High Commissioner, we also enjoyed discussing our mutual love of the arts. I look forward to seeing what Chaitanya achieves next, as she joins a cohort of young women whose voices we have been proud to amplify through this annual initiative; the next generation of global leaders," Thompson said. This year, entrants to the competition were invited to submit an one-minute video on social media, answering the question -- 'What global challenges and opportunities do you see for gender equality in the age of Covid-19?’ In line with Covid-19 health and safety precautions, Venkateswaran participated in the day through video conference, but was happy to meet Acting High Commissioner Thompson at a later date for a socially distanced walk. Venkateswaran, a recent high-school graduate from New Delhi, is pursuing a bachelor's degree with a full scholarship in International Studies and Economics, and certificate programmes in Advanced Leadership Studies and Political Thought at American University, Washington DC, studying remotely. An active volunteer, she has worked to aid visually-impaired students, acid attack survivors and marginalised LGBT+ groups. During the day when she was the British High Commissioner, she met with the Editor of Anandabazar Patrika to learn about gender representation in the media industry, discussed gender and policing with senior police officers from Madhya Pradesh and Telangana and interacted with the Marks & Spencer India team. She also launched the British Council STEM Tracer Study documenting the stories of 166 Indian women scholars and chaired a meeting with youth leaders, including previous competition winners, on some of the biggest challenges facing the world, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-woman-becomes-british-high-commissioner-for-a-day-900367.html
11-10-2020||National||M Venkaiah Naidu pays tribute to Jayaprakash Narayan on his birth anniversary||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday paid tributes to socialist leader and freedom fighter Jayaprakash Narayan on his birth anniversary, saying his crusade to protect democracy can never be forgotten. Jayaprakash Narayan, popularly known as 'JP' and Lok Nayak (people's leader), was born in 1902 in Saran in Bihar "I pay my humble tributes to freedom fighter and one of the tallest leaders of India, Loknayak Jayaprakash Narayan on his birth anniversary today. His crusade to protect democracy & fight corruption have left an indelible imprint on the minds of people," the Vice President's Secretariat tweeted quoting Naidu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/m-venkaiah-naidu-pays-tribute-to-jayaprakash-narayan-on-his-birth-anniversary-900369.html
11-10-2020||National||Auction of coal blocks may generate Rs 20,000 crore revenue per year||The auction of coal blocks for commercial mining may lead to total revenue generation of around Rs 20,000 crore per year, a coal ministry official said. The process for auction of 38 coal blocks for commercial mining is underway. "The total revenue for one year is expected to be around Rs 20,000 crore and capital investment is around Rs 33,000 crore," the official said. "One year revenue (for 41 coal mines with 225.53 peak rated capacity) is calculated and comprises revenue share at four per cent i.e the floor price, royalty, NMET, DMF....calculated at peak rated capacity (PRC) considering representative price of average grade of the coal mine," he said. Capital investment is calculated at Rs 150 crore per million tonnes per annum (MTPA) for PRC, including evacuation, he said. On the government's claim made earlier that the auction of blocks will also lead to job creation for more than 2.8 lakh people, the official said employment generation is calculated considering output per employee "to be 5,000 tonne/annum , 30 per cent leaves." Approximately 30 per cent manpower, he said, will be engaged in associated infrastructure such as washeries, railway sidings etc and the indirect employment is three per one direct employment, the official said. When the Centre launched the auction of blocks for commercial mining in June, it had said that it would put on sale 41 blocks. But later, the list of blocks for auction was revised to 38. Vedanta, JSPL, Adani Enterprises, Hindalco Industries, JSW Steel and Nalco are among the 42 companies that have submitted bids for 23 coal blocks that were put up for auction under commercial mining. "A total of 76 bids have been received for 23 coal mines... A total of 42 companies have submitted their bids in the auction process," the coal ministry had earlier said in a statement. The highest number of bids (seven) were submitted by Adani Enterprises, followed by Hindalco Industries and JMS Mining (five each). The Andhra Pradesh Mineral Development Corporation, Aurobindo Reality and Infrastructure, and EMIL Mines and Minerals Resources submitted four bids each. Vedanta Ltd submitted three bids, Jindal Steel and Power Ltd (JSPL) submitted two, JSW Steel and Nalco one each, among others. Of the total 76 bids, the highest number of bids were made for Gotitoria (East) and Gotitoria (West) and Gare Palma IV/7 coal blocks (eight bids for each), followed by six bids each for Brahmadiha and Urma Paharitola mines. The ministry had said two or more bids have been received for 19 coal mines. The bids will be evaluated by a multi-disciplinary technical evaluation committee, and technically qualified bidders would be shortlisted for participation in the electronic auction to be conducted on MSTC portal from October 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/auction-of-coal-blocks-may-generate-rs-20000-crore-revenue-per-year-900375.html
11-10-2020||National||Hathras gang rape case: CBI takes over probe, files FIR against one of the accused||The CBI on Sunday early morning registered an FIR and took over the investigations into the alleged gang-rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit girl in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras. The registration of the case by the CBI came hours after the Centre issued a notification handing over the case to the agency on the request by the UP government to probe rape, murder and atrocity and "any attempt, abetment and/or conspiracy, in relation to or in connection with such offence(s) and/or for any other offence committed in the course of the same transaction or arising out of the same facts".  "The CBI today registered a case against an accused and took over the investigation of the case, earlier registered vide CC no- 136/2020 at Police Station Chandpa, District- Hathras (Uttar Pradesh) on a complaint. The complainant had alleged that on 14.09.2020, the accused tried to strangulate his sister in the Millet field. A team has been constituted. The investigation is continuing," CBI spokesperson RK Gaur said. The FIR mentions IPC sections related to rape, 376-D which deals with gang-rape and 302 for murder and sections of the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act among others. The case has been assigned to the Ghaziabad unit with a special team to investigate the case in which the girl was allegedly gang-raped allegedly by four men on September 14. She succumbed to severe assault injuries at a Delhi hospital in late September, leading to a hushed up cremation in the wee hours by the district administration. The state government decided to hand over the case to the CBI following public outrage over the incident.  On Sunday, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi continued his attack on the Yogi Adityanath government over the incident. "The shameful truth is many Indians don’t consider Dalits, Muslims and Tribals to be human. The CM and his police say no one was raped because for them, and many other Indians, she was NO ONE," he tweeted tagging a media report, which asked why police were denying rape when the woman had repeatedly reported that she was raped.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hathras-gang-rape-case-cbi-takes-over-probe-files-fir-against-one-of-the-accused-900393.html
11-10-2020||National||Oil ministry wants PSUs to build 50,000 houses for renting to migrant workers||The petroleum ministry has asked oil PSUs such as Indian Oil Corp (IOC) to build 50,000 houses for renting to migrant workers as part of government plan to develop affordable rental housing after millions of labourers fled cities for villages amidst coronavirus lockdown. The ministry wants IOC and other public sector undertakings (PSUs) under its administrative control such as Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd (HPCL), Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL), GAIL India Ltd and Oil and Natural Gas Corp (ONGC) to build the housing units on the land they have, three officials who attended a meeting on the subject said. The meeting, they said, was chaired by Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan who asked the PSUs to come up with plans to build the housing units at the earliest. The ministry had on October 5 tweeted about the meeting saying Pradhan "held a meeting with officials of MoPNG and PSUs to review the efforts made by PSUs in providing houses on rent to migrants and urban poor working on oil & gas projects under the affordable rental housing scheme of @MoHUA_India." MoPNG is the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, while MoHUA is the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. "The Affordable Rental Housing Complexes, a sub-scheme of #PMAY aims to provide ease-of-living to urban poor and migrant workers in need of affordable housing near their work sites as a result of the #Covid19 induced reverse migration," the ministry had tweeted without giving details. Under diktat from the ministry, the PSUs have started looking for scarce land within or near their installations for the housing project, the officials said. However, some of the PSUs officials found little merit in the move. They said operating units such as refineries rarely have spare land and they often struggle to house new units or staff. Also, the new projects such as pipelines are in remote areas where migrant workers may not be willing to go and rent. Those working on oil and gas projects are often housed in temporary housing units near the project sites and it may be difficult to get them into rented units, they said. The government had in July approved a plan to develop affordable rental housing for migrant workers after millions of labourers fled cities for villages as the lockdown left many of them without jobs and homes. The scheme, part of a housing project aimed at providing housing for all by 2022, was aimed at converting existing vacant government housing into affordable rental housing complexes (ARHC). Private developers could also participate. The programme will benefit about 3,00,000 workers initially, according to the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs statement issued after the Cabinet approval of July. The plan, announced initially in May as part of a coronavirus stimulus package and approved by the Cabinet in July, will offer subsidised loans, tax incentives and additional floor space allowances to developers. No government agency has a database of the total number of migrant workers in India. The government had recently informed the Supreme Court that approximately 1 crore migrant workers had returned home in Shramik Special trains, buses and on foot since the lockdown began on March 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oil-ministry-wants-psus-to-build-50000-houses-for-renting-to-migrant-workers-900406.html
11-10-2020||National||Metro car shed at Aarey to be relocated to Kanjurmarg: CM Uddhav Thackeray||Nearly a year after over 2,000 trees were chopped in the darkness of night, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government has shifted the Metro carshed project from the Aarey Milk Colony to Kanjur Marg. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday announced the scrapping of Aarey metro car shed and said the project will now come up at Kanjurmarg in Mumbai. The Aarey forest in the periphery of Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) is part of the green lung of Mumbai. A year ago, the BJP-Shiv Sena government was in power in Maharashtra and it was one of the trigger points of soaring relations between the two saffron allies. In a webcast, Thackeray said the project will be shifted to the government land in Kanjurmarg and no cost will be incurred for the purpose. "The land will be available at zero rate," he said. He said the building which has come up in Aarey forest will be utilised for some other public purpose. "About Rs 100 crore expenditure was incurred for the purpose and it won't go waste," he said. Thackeray said the building which has come up in Aarey forest will be utilised for some other public purpose. "About Rs 100 crore expenditure was incurred for the purpose and it won't go waste," he said. Thackeray said the government had earlier declared 600 acre of Aarey land as forest but now it has been revised to 800 acre. There will be no infringement on rights of tribals in the Aarey forest, he added. "Biodiversity in Aarey needs to be to conserved and protected. Nowhere is there an 800-acre jungle in an urban set up. Mumbai has a natural forest cover," he said. Around 800 acres of land in Aarey were declared forest and linked to SGNP, the only national park in the world to be located inside a metropolitan city. The SGNP-Aarey landscape is home for over 45 leopards, making it the richest leopard density in the world. Over 2,141 trees were hacked on October 4-5, 2019 midnight and the then Chief Minister and now Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis came in the line of fire of ally Shiv Sena and then opposition parties Sharad Pawar-led NCP, Congress, AAP and several NGOs and voluntary organizations. The matter had even reached the Supreme Court. Former chief minister and Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis recently said the state governments plan to relocate Metro 3 car shed from Aarey was a reflection of wrong policy. The 2019 Vidhan Sabha elections delivered a fractured mandate and Shiv Sena came to power in alliance with NCP and Congress and BJP was pushed to the Opposition benches. One of the first decisions that Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray took was to withdraw cases against the protestors and announce a committee to study alternate sites for the Mumbai Metro Line 3. Maharashtra government had appointed Delhi Metro Rail Corporation to prepare a feasibility study on Metro 3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) sharing its car shed with Line 6 (Vikhroli-Lokhandwala). On Sunday in a webcast to the people of the state, Thackeray announced that the Metro car shed has been shifted out of Aarey and would now come up in Kanjur Marg. “Two Metro corridors -- Colaba-Bandra-Seepz (Metro Line 3) and Swami Samarth Nagar-Vikhroli (Metro Line 6) will be integrated. I am happy to announce that Aarey car shed is now being moved to Kanjurmarg. The plot in Kanjurmarg is government land and it will be provided at zero cost for Metro car shed (Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation Ltd),” Thackeray said. The money used to construct the building -- Rs 100 crore-- will not go waste either as the building will be used for a public purpose. Immediately after Thackeray’s address, his son and state’s Environment Minister Aditya Thackeray tweeted: “Aarey saved!”. The BJP, however, reacted sharply to the CM’s announcement. “Aarey car shed shifting to Kanjur Marg will cost additional  Rs 5,000 crore and a 5-year project delay and 8-km additional daily for every train to park. There would be daily additional operation cost and where is the land? Marshy land? Or the disputed land for which Bombay High Court had asked the government to deposit  Rs 2,000 crore?” senior BJP leader and former MP Kirit Somaiya asked. The Aarey issue has been in news for the last several years – and many celebrities and film stars too have joined the campaigners to protect this green patch. Over the last year, Thackeray, his son Aaditya, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat , Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde, Forest Minister Sanjay Rathod and Dairy Development Minister Sunil Kedar had held series of meetings – and now the issue has reached some sort of finality.   (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/metro-car-shed-at-aarey-to-be-relocated-to-kanjurmarg-cm-uddhav-thackeray-900413.html
11-10-2020||National||2 killed, 10 injured in clash between two families in Odisha's Puri||Two persons were killed and ten others injured in a clash between two families at a village in Odisha's Puri district on Sunday, police said. The incident took place at Dimirisena village in the Brahmagiri police station area, following a verbal duel between two families over the laying of a water pipeline in the locality, they said. Members of both the families attacked each other with sharp weapons, including axe, leading to the death of two men, said KC Mund, the sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) of Puri Sadar. Around ten people were also injured in the violent clash. Six of them sustained serious injuries and have been shifted to a hospital, he said. "On being informed, a police team rushed to the spot to bring the situation under control. The bodies of the deceased, identified as Kalia Bhoi and Surendra Bhoi, have been sent for post-mortem," the officer said. Villagers said there was an old dispute between the two families over land. An investigation into the incident is underway, while the adequate force has been deployed in the area to prevent any further flare-up, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-killed-10-injured-in-clash-between-two-families-in-odishas-puri-900423.html
11-10-2020||National||PM Modi attacks rivals for opposing agri reforms, says middlemen powered their politics||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday hit out at the opposition, saying those whose politics was powered by brokers and middlemen are spreading "lies" about his government's reform measures and asserted that the country will not waver from this path. Farmers are not going with those who have opposed "historic" reforms enacted by his government, he said. Speaking at a programme to launch the physical distribution of property cards under the 'SVAMITVA' (ownership) scheme via video conferencing, Modi said his government has done more for villages and its residents in the last six years than what was done in the six decades before that. In this context, he referred to a number of projects, including opening of bank accounts, building of toilets and houses, cooking gas scheme and electrification. Rural India was left to fend for itself by those who ruled the country earlier, Modi said in a swipe at the Congress. Many people don't want villages, poor, farmers and labourer to be 'aatmanirbhar', the prime minister said and added that his government's measures to empower them, including by directly transferring to farmers and others, has hit them hard by cutting off their source of illegitimate earning. Without naming the opposition, he said it is upset not for farmers but for themselves as it was for long strengthened by the power of middlemen, brokers and commission agents. People of the country have begun destroying its web of deception, Modi said. The Congress has been opposing the farm laws enacted by the government last month. Parliament had passed The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020 during the Monsoon Session. The prime minister said his government is undertaking development without any discrimination and with full transparency, and everyone is getting the benefit of schemes. Keeping people in villages deprived has been the basis of some people's politics. They wanted problems of villages and people to continue so that their purpose was served, he said "Those who looted the country are being recognised by people. That is why they are indulging in opposition, bad-mouthing (government) and using foul language. They are not bothered about the poor, villages or the country. They are troubled by all the good work. They want to stop the development march of the country," the prime minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-attacks-rivals-for-opposing-agri-reforms-says-middlemen-powered-their-politics-900433.html
11-10-2020||National||Digital payments soar manifold in 5 years to FY20: RBI||Concerted efforts by the Reserve Bank to move to a non/less-cash economy by pushing digital payments have begun to pay rich dividends as the volume of such payments has jumped manifold in the past five years, the latest data from the central bank showed. Between 2015-16 and 2019-20, digital payments have grown at a compounded annual growth rate of 55.1 per cent - from 593.61 crore in the year to March 2016 to 3,434.56 crore in the year to March 2020. In absolute terms, value has grown from Rs 920.38 lakh crore to Rs 1,623.05 lakh crore during this period, clipping at an annual compounded rate of 15.2 per cent. Giving a year-wise data, in 2016-17 digital payments jumped to 969.12 crore from 593.61 crore in the previous year in volume terms, while in value the same rose to Rs 1,120.99 lakh crore. Similarly, the numbers continued to scale new peaks with volume growing to 1,459.01 crore and value jumping to Rs 1,369.86 lakh crore in 2017-18. Come 2018-19, the numbers clipped at a faster pace with volume jumping to 2,343.40 crore transactions while the value rose to Rs 1,638.52 lakh crore. However, FY20 saw a massive spike in volumes over the previous year to 3,434.56 crore but in value slipped down to Rs 1,623.05 lakh crore, which can be attributed to the steep fall in the overall economy and the massive job losses, forcing people to spend less and preserve more cash. Yet from a five-year growth perspective, the numbers shine with an annual growth rate of 55.1 per cent in terms of transaction volumes and 15.2 per cent in terms of value, show the RBI data. Given the pandemic and the lockdown restrictions, digital payments volumes are set to jump manifold while the value could see a further plunge given the mammoth crisis that everyone faces following the pandemic. Digital payment push started almost a decade back with limited access to NEFT, RTGS and ECS payments. Later with the government push following the controversial note ban, digital payments rose sharply. The development of UPI-based payments as well as app-based payments just pushed the boundaries and has since witnessed blossoming of a myriad of payment systems, entry of non-bank players, and a gradual shift in the customer behaviour from cash to digital payments. Behind all these, the Reserve Bank has played the crucial role of an operator, catalyst and facilitator, regulator and supervisor, as the occasion demanded towards achieving its public policy objective of developing and promoting a safe, secure, sound and efficient payment systems. Some of the initiatives introduced decades ago in payment systems to safeguard the interests of customers are valid even today. Some of the recent RBI initiatives for enhancing security and increase customer confidence in digital payments include mandating use of only EMV chip and PIN-based debit and credit cards from January 2019; tokenisation from January 2019, when RBI issued a framework for tokenisation of card transactions which allowed all authorised card networks to offer tokenisation services, irrespective of the app provider, use case; facility to switch on/off transaction rights; mandatory positive confirmation to remove any ambiguity for funds transferred through NEFT and RTGS from March 2010, and January 2019, respectively. Another innovation has been contactless cards which allows cardholders to “tap and go”; mandatory data storage within the country; harmonisation of turnaround time for failed transactions from September 2019 and setting up of a digital ombudsman and also institution of the Central Payment Frauds Information Registry among others. One of the biggest outcomes of these measures is the massive change in the behavioural trends of customers–-for instance, as percent of card usage, they are being used increasingly for payments--from 20 per cent in FY16 to 45 per cent in FY20, with debit card turnover outpacing credit card values.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/digital-payments-soar-manifold-in-5-years-to-fy20-rbi-900436.html
11-10-2020||National||Congress forms committees for Bihar polls; Surjewala named chairman of key panel||The Congress on Sunday formed various panels for the upcoming Bihar assembly polls with party general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala named chairman of the election management and coordination committee. Mohan Prakash was made the convenor of the 14-member election management and coordination committee. The panel includes senior leaders like Meira Kumar, Tariq Anwar, Shatrughan Sinha, Kirti Azad, Shakeel Ahmed and Sanjay Nirupam. Congress president Sonia Gandhi also approved the setting up of the publicity committee, media coordination committee, public meeting and logistics committee, legal committee and office management committee for the Bihar elections, a party statement said. Subodh Kumar has been appointed the convenor of the publicity committee, while Jaeya Mishra was named the co-convenor of the panel. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera has been named the chairman of the media coordination committee for the polls, while Prem Chand Mishra will be the convenor and Rajesh Rathor co-convenor of the panel. Brijesh Kumar Munan has been appointed convenor of the public meeting and logistics committee, while Varun Chopra has been named the chairman of the legal committee. The party's office management committee includes the likes of Ashok Kumar and Kaukab Quadri. The Congress is contesting the Bihar assembly polls as part of the Grand Alliance. Under a seat-sharing formula for the upcoming assembly polls, the Congress will contest 70 of a total 243 seats. The Bihar assembly polls will be held in three phases on October 28, November 3 and November 7, and the counting of votes will take place on November 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-forms-committees-for-bihar-polls-surjewala-named-chairman-of-key-panel-900440.html
11-10-2020||National||Mayawati attacks Cong govt in Rajasthan over 'rise' in crime against Dalits, women||Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati on Sunday lashed out at the Rajasthan government over alleged rise in crime against Dalits and women, saying like in Uttar Pradesh, "jungle-raj" also prevailed in the Congress-ruled state. She said that instead of looking into the issue, Congress leaders in Rajasthan have maintained silence over it. "Like UP, in the Congress-ruled Rajasthan too, crimes of every type, especially murder of innocent people, and atrocities on Dalits and women are at peak. In other words, there is no rule of law, but a 'jungle raj'. This is extremely shameful and worrying," Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi. "But instead of tightening the noose on their government, Congress leaders have maintained silence. This indicates that so far the victims with whom they (Congress) have met, is only for vote politics and nothing else. The public should remain alert of such drama. This is the advice of the BSP," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mayawati-attacks-cong-govt-in-rajasthan-over-rise-in-crime-against-dalits-women-900445.html
11-10-2020||National||Govt awaits recommendations for 4 vacancies in Supreme Court||There are four vacancies in the Supreme Court and three high courts are functioning without regular chief justices, sources in the government said, pointing out that the law ministry is yet to receive recommendations from the SC collegium to fill up the slots. The first vacancy in the Supreme Court arose following the retirement of Justice Ranjan Gogoi in November 2019 as the Chief Justice of India. Subsequently, three more vacancies arose in the top court following the retirements of justices Deepak Gupta, R Bhanumathi and Arun Mishra. With a sanctioned strength of 34, the apex court is functioning with 30 judges. The high courts of Gauhati, Madhya Pradesh and Uttarakhand are functioning with officiating chief justices. Officiating or acting chief justices are appointed in the absence of a chief justice to ensure that the day to day administration of the court is not affected. The government has so far not received any recommendation from the collegium to fill up these vacancies in the SC and the three high courts, a senior functionary said. Vacancies keep arising in courts due to retirement, resignation or elevation of judges. The government has maintained that appointment of judges in the high courts is a "continuous collaborative process" between the Executive and the Judiciary, as it requires consultation and approval from various constitutional authorities. As per the procedure for the appointment of judges to the Supreme Court and the 25 high courts, the apex court collegium recommends the names of candidates to the government which, in turn, either accepts the proposal or returns it for reconsideration. The collegium comprises the CJI and four senior-most judges of the apex court. The combined sanctioned strength of the 25 high courts is 1,079 judges. As on October 1, there were 404 vacancies, with a maximum of 60 in the Allahabad High Court. As on September 1, there were 398 vacancies in the high courts and as on September 1, 48 new judges in various HCs have been appointed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-awaits-recommendations-for-4-vacancies-in-supreme-court-900447.html
11-10-2020||National||Less than 1000 coronavirus deaths recorded for 8 consecutive days: Health Ministry||India's Covid-19 recoveries crossed the 60-lakh mark even as less than 1000 coronavirus deaths have been recorded daily for eight consecutive days, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. Active cases of coronavirus are less than nine lakh for the third day in a row. With increasing recoveries, India has sustained its leading global position with the maximum recovered cases.   The five top states with the maximum caseload (61 per cent of the active cases) are also contributing more than half (54.3 per cent) of the total recoveries, the ministry said.   With a total 89,154 people having recuperated in a span of 24 hours, India's Covid-19 recoveries have surged to 60,77,976 pushing the recovery rate 86.17 per cent, according to the data updated at 8 am. "Enhanced countrywide medical infrastructure, implementation of the Centre's standard treatment protocol by the states and UTs, and total dedication and  commitment of doctors, paramedics and frontline workers have led to a consistent slide in the number of daily fatalities and a persistent increase in the number of total recoveries," the ministry underlined. "For the last eight consecutive days, new deaths recorded are less than 1000," it highlighted.   The five top states --Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu --- with the maximum Covid-19 caseload  (61 per cent of the active cases) are also contributing more than half (54.3 per cent) of the total recoveries, the ministry said. The ministry said that 80 per cent of the new recovered cases are being reported from ten states and UTs --Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal, Delhi and Chhattisgarh. Maharashtra leads the tally with more than 26,000 new cases of recovered patients. There are 8,67,496 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 12.30  per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.   According to the health ministry, 80 per cent of the 74,383 fresh cases of Covid-19 reported in a span of 24 hours in the country are concentrated in ten states and UT.  Kerala has reported the maximum number of new cases, followed by Maharashtra. Both have contributed more than 11,000 to the new cases. Besides, 918 fatalities have been registered in a span of 24 hours and 84 per cent of these are reported from 10 states and UTs. With 308 deaths, Maharashtra accounts for 33 per cent of deaths reported on Saturday, followed by Karnataka with 102 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/less-than-1000-coronavirus-deaths-recorded-for-8-consecutive-days-health-ministry-900448.html
11-10-2020||National||Gujarat: BJP gives tickets to five Congress turncoats ahead of bypolls||The Gujarat BJP on Sunday declared the names of its seven candidates for the upcoming Assembly bypolls, out of which five were ex-Congress MLAs who had resigned in the run-up to Rajya Sabha polls earlier this year. The BJP is yet to decide the name of its eighth candidate, while the Congress hasn't announced the names. The voting for bypolls to eight Assembly seats would be held on November 3.  According to the list declared by BJP, Pradyumansinh Jadeja, J V Kakadiya, Akshay Patel, Jitu Chaudhry, and Brijesh Merja have been nominated as candidates for Abdasa, Dhari, Karjan, Kaprada and Morbi assembly seats. They all are among the eight Congress MLAs who resigned earlier this year and later joined the BJP. They had won those seats as Congress candidates in 2017 Assembly polls. The name for the eighth seat of Limbdi is yet to be declared.  On the other hand, the state Congress is yet to finalise the names of its candidates. Sources said that the party is treading the path cautiously in view of an internal rift over the ticket distribution. However, even in the BJP, a group of leaders, including many seniors, are upset with the tickets going to the Congress turncoats. "Although we knew about it, we are not very happy with the decision. There are a number of hard working grass-root workers and senior leaders who have been ignored. I don't think the booth level workers will be giving their 100%. This is a bad precedent," said a BJP worker. Hours after the names were declared, Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani congratulated the candidates on Twitter where he said, "The hard work of soldier-like dedication of workers and leader of BJP will make these candidates winner."  On the other hand, the outcome of the polls is also going to be an acid test for Gujarat Congress' working president Hardik Patel and state BJP chief C R Patil as it is the first election for them after taking over the posts. It is believed that the BJP is at backfoot due to charges of "horse trading" and it will be hard for the Congress turncoats to convince voters to choose them again on BJP tickets. While the Assembly election is due in 2022, the result of the bypolls will impact the upcoming local civic body polls, which is likely to be held by the end of the year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-bjp-gives-tickets-to-five-congress-turncoats-ahead-of-bypolls-900457.html
11-10-2020||National||No need to spend dollars on foreign degrees any more: Ramesh Pokhriyal on NEP||Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' has said that students don't need to spend dollars on education in foreign countries any more as the National Education Policy is in line with the global standards. Addressing a webinar organised by IIT-Kharagpur on Saturday evening, Pokhriyal said the country has a robust education system and quality research facilities. "There is no need for some of our students to enroll in foreign universities, spending dollars on admission. We have all the infrastructure and facilities. The National Education Policy 2020 has further taken care of the issue. Our students will stay and study in the country now," he said. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi has invited foreign universities to set up campuses in India and encouraged Indian universities to build overseas campuses so that students are motivated to stay in India and study India," he added. The minister said the credit bank system in the National Education Policy is in accordance with global education programmes. "The credit bank system enables students to take a break from academic programmes, thus awarding certificates, diplomas and degrees," he said. Pokhriyal expressed hope that the digital platforms developed under various educational initiatives of the government since 2014 would help strengthen the countrys higher education system in sync with international practices. Speaking at the webinar on 'India: The Global Destination for Higher Education - Post NEP 2020 Scenario', IIT Kharagpur director VK Tewari lauded the concept of the multi-disciplinary research university as proposed under the NEP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-need-to-spend-dollars-on-foreign-degrees-any-more-ramesh-pokhriyal-on-nep-900458.html
11-10-2020||National||Multiplexes still await approval from state governments to resume operations||Multiplex operators are still awaiting a nod from many state governments to resume operations even though the Centre has already issued guidelines with regard to reopening of cinemas and theatres. Multiplexes, cinema halls and theatres have been allowed to reopen from October 15, with up to 50 per cent of their seating capacity. Standard operating procedures (SOPs) have been issued by the central government. Though the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has given its go-ahead to resuming cinema and theatre activities under Unlock 5.0, it has left for the states to take a final call in this regard. Multiplex chains including PVR, Inox, Cinepolis and Mukta A2 Cinemas are all set to re-open their cinema halls from October 15 with half of their seating capacity while ensuring contactless operations and maintaining social distancing norms. These operators have lined up "promising contents" to entertain the audiences in the coming months. Leading multiplex operator PVR, which operates 875 screens in 22 states, would be able to open only 496 screens as only 14 state governments have granted permission to re-open its multiplexes, according to its CEO Gautam Dutta. The company is yet to receive any direction from the state government of Maharashtra, where it operates the highest number of screens. "Maharashtra is an extremely important market for us, occupying the largest percentage of our screen share," he said. Mexican movie theatre chain Cinepolis said the company is fully ready and would abide by the directions issued by the government. "We welcome the move from the central government. Almost 75 per cent screen of the 350 screens, which we operate in India would be open. We are requesting the other state governments to allow us to open the balance screens as soon as possible," Cinepolis India Chief Executive Officer Devang Sampat said. Subhash Ghai's film production company Mukta Arts, which runs multiplex chain under the brand name 'Mukta A2 Cinemas', said it will be able to open approximately 40 per cent of the screens which it operates. "We welcome the decision to reopen cinemas and multiplexes. The SOPs that have been released are highly comprehensive and will guarantee that the return to normalisation is a smooth one. This announcement brings enormous relief to media and entertainment industry and the thousands of people it employs, many of whom have been severely impacted by this shutdown," Mukta Arts MD Rahul Puri said. Moreover, as the number of permissible seating in the auditorium has gone down to 50 per cent under the Unlock 5.0 guidelines, some multiplex chains are now exploring private screenings for families and smaller groups. INOX Leisure CEO Alok Tandon said, "We are also looking to innovate with private screenings, where families or smaller groups of guests can book the entire auditorium and enjoy the content of their choice." "Our shows will be programmed in such a manner that there are no simultaneous entries, intermissions and exits,” he said. All multiplex chains have assured that they will strictly follow the SOPs issued by the government in this regard. "We have some very promising content lined up in the coming months, and Maharashtra opening makes us hopeful of things speeding up in this direction. With that, we must also reiterate our priority to ensure the safety and well-being of our customers through strict adherence to all the safety protocols and guidelines laid down...," said Dutta. Besides mandatory temperature checks, masks, pedal-operated touch-free hand sanitizer, the multiplexes would now rely on the digital ways such as e-tickets instead of traditional paper tickets, self-check-in with QR codes, sharing of auditorium's seat chart and location of the seat and online order of food and beverages, under the new normals. Some multiplex operators like Mukta A2 Cinemas is using 'matrix seating' method, which will ensure an empty seat between patrons, while allowing families and groups to sit together. "This starts right from the booking of the tickets, which will take place exclusively through the Mukta A2 Cinemas website and mobile application. Upon arrival at the theatre, customers will be able to self-check by scanning a QR code. Social distancing will be also be maintained during screenings, with occupancy of the cinema hall capped at 50 per cent," Puri said. Inox will also keep PPE kits available for purchases, which would include a mask, a pair of gloves and sanitiser. It would also provide a web link to its viewers through SMS to access the food and beverage menu to place order. Many cinema halls were closed even before the lockdown period started. Several states including Delhi, Kerala, J&K, Maharastra etc had directed to close the cinema halls between March 11 to 16 for a temporary period, till March 31, 2020. Later, the central government had directed a complete lockdown of the country, effective from March 25. According to estimates, India has a total number of around 8,750 screens, in which 3,100 are in multiplexes and balance 5,650 are single screens operating mostly in small tier II, III and below cities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/multiplexes-still-await-approval-from-state-governments-to-resume-operations-900467.html
11-10-2020||National||India's Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan leaves for Kuwait||In signs of importance India places with ties with the oil-rich nation, India on Sunday dispatched its Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan for Kuwait to offer condolences to the leadership of the Gulf nation on the passing away of its former Emir. Pradhan is carrying letters from President and Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the new leadership of Kuwait. "Embarked on a two-day visit to Kuwait to offer condolences to the Kuwaiti leadership on behalf of the Govt. of India on the passing away of former Emir of Kuwait His Highness Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmed Al-Jaber Al-Sabah," Pradhan tweeted. Kuwait is India's sixth-largest crude oil supplier. The Indian community with a strength of about 10 lakh is the largest expatriate community in Kuwait and is regarded as the community of first preference among the expatriate communities. Professionals like engineers, doctors, chartered accountants, scientists, software experts, management consultants, architects; technicians and nurses; retail traders and businessmen are present in Kuwait, though a large proportion consists of unskilled and semi-skilled workers. Kuwait's Sovereign Wealth Fund (SWF) is reported to have invested USD 2 billion in India since 2017, taking total investment in the country up to USD 5 billion. "I will be delivering letters from Hon. @rashtrapatibhvn Shri Ram Nath Kovind and Hon. PM Shri @narendramodi to the new leadership of Kuwait," Pradhan said. Kuwait Emir Sheikh Sabah Al Ahmad passed away at a US hospital on September 29. He was 91. "I will also convey good wishes on behalf of PM Shri @narendramodi and the people of India to HH Sheikh Nawaf Al-Ahmed Al-Jaber Al-Sabah on assuming responsibilities as the new Emir of the State of Kuwait and HH Sheikh Mishaal Al-Ahmed Al-Jaber Al-Sabah as the Crown Prince," Pradhan tweeted. "Look forward to meet the new leadership in Kuwait to further strengthen the multi-faceted India-Kuwait relationship and take forward our historic relationship in diverse areas," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-oil-minister-dharmendra-pradhan-leaves-for-kuwait-900474.html
11-10-2020||National||Priest in UP village shot at over land dispute||A temple priest was injured after he was shot at by some miscreants early Sunday morning over a land dispute in a village here, police said. The priest of Ram Janki Temple spread over 30 acres, and some villagers had a dispute over the land in Tirre Manorama village, Superintendent of Police (SP) Shailesh Kumar Pandey said. Some miscreants fired shots at Atul Baba alias Samrat Das, which hit his left shoulder. Das was taken to the district hospital and then referred to King George Medical University in Lucknow, where his condition is stable. A case of attempt to murder has been registered against four people on the complaint lodged by Mahant Sitaram Das and two persons have been detained for interrogation, Pandey said. He added that teams have been constituted to nab the accused. The officer said the police force has been deployed in the area and the situation is peaceful. Villagers expressed anguish over the incident that happened despite the deployment of two home guards for the security of the temple. The SP said there has been a dispute over this land in the past as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/priest-in-up-village-shot-at-over-land-dispute-900477.html
11-10-2020||National||Lower air fare limits to be applicable to premium economy class seats: Aviation Ministry||Lower fare limits decided by the government for economy class seats of domestic flights on May 21 would now also be applicable to premium economy class seats, the Ministry of Civil Aviation has said. However, the upper fare limits set by the government for economy class seats would not be applicable on the premium economy class seats, according to a ministry order dated October 5 which was accessed by PTI. The Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) had on May 21 placed upper and lower limits on domestic airfares through seven bands, classified on the basis of flight duration, till August 24. Later, it was extended until November 24. Among the Indian domestic carriers, only Vistara has premium economy class seats in its flights. Domestic passenger services resumed in India on May 25 after nearly two months of suspension owing to the coronavirus pandemic situation. Modifying its May 21 order, the MoCA in its October 5 communication stated, "The fares indicated... are not applicable for business class and premium economy class. However, in premium economy class, the lower fare band would be applicable." The ministry had on May 21 said that there would be seven bands of ticket pricing with lower and upper fare limits based on flight duration. The first such band consists of flights that are of less than 40 minutes duration. The lower and the upper fare limits for the first band is Rs 2,000 and Rs 6,000, respectively. The subsequent bands are for flights with durations of 40-60 minutes, 60-90 minutes, 90-120 minutes, 120-150 minutes, 150-180 minutes and 180-210 minutes. The lower and upper limits for these bands are: Rs 2,500-Rs 7,500; Rs 3,000-Rs 9,000; Rs 3,500-Rs 10,000; Rs 4,500-Rs 13,000; Rs 5,500-Rs 15,700 and Rs 6,500-Rs 18,600, respectively, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said. The aviation ministry had made it clear that each airline would sell at least 40 per cent of its tickets on a flight at prices less than the midpoint between the lower limit and upper limit. It had imposed the fare limits to make sure that passengers were not charged beyond a certain limit amid the coronavirus pandemic and there was no predatory pricing among the airlines as their financial condition was bad due to the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lower-air-fare-limits-to-be-applicable-to-premium-economy-class-seats-aviation-ministry-900481.html
11-10-2020||National||'Emergency use authorization for Covid-19 vaccine to depend on clinical trial data; FELUDA tests to roll out soon'||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday said the government has not yet taken a view on granting emergency authorisation to Covid-19 vaccines in India, as and when they become available. The minister also said that the Feluda paper strip test for SARS-CoV-2 diagnosis could be rolled out in the next few weeks. Presently Covid-19 vaccines are in various stages of phases 1, 2 and 3, the results of which are awaited, Vardhan said during an interaction with his social media followers on 'Sunday Samvad' platform. "Adequate safety and efficacy data is required for emergency use authorisation, vaccine approval for ensuring patient safety. Further course of action will depend on the data generated," he underlined. Categorically denying speculation that the government is prioritizing young and working-class for the Covid-19 vaccine for economic reasons, Vardhan said, “The prioritisation of groups for Covid-19 vaccine shall be based on two key considerations -- occupational hazard and risk of exposure to infection, and the risk of developing severe disease and increased mortality.” On the issue of how the government plans to roll out the Covid-19 vaccine, he said that it is anticipated that supplies of vaccines would be available in limited quantities in the beginning. “In a huge country like India, it is critical to prioritise vaccine delivery based on various factors such as risk of exposure, comorbidity among various population groups, the mortality rate among Covid-19 cases, and several others," the minister said. He also added that India is looking at the availability of several different types of vaccines, of which some may be suitable for a particular age group while others may not be. He reiterated that the most important component of the planning is the cold chain and other logistics to ensure no glitches occur in vaccine delivery even at the last mile. Vardhan highlighted the need for massive advocacy for building community sensitization activities to understand the reasons for vaccine hesitancy and address them appropriately. On the rollout of the Feluda test in the near future, he said that based on tests in over 2,000 patients during the trials at the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) and testing in private labs, the test showed 96 pc sensitivity and 98 pc specificity. This compares favourably to ICMR's current acceptation criteria of RT-PCR Kit of at least 95 pc sensitivity and at least 99 pc specificity, he stated. He added that the Feluda paper strip test for SARS-CoV-2 diagnosis has been developed by CSIR-IGIB and has been approved by the Drug Controller General of India for a commercial launch. "The kit has already been validated by the Department of Atomic Energy's National Centre for Biological Sciences, Bangalore. “While I cannot put an exact date on the availability, we should expect this test within the next few weeks,"  he said. Referring to reports of reinfection surfacing in various states, Vardhan said an analysis by the ICMR has revealed that many cases reported as COVID-19 reinfection have been misclassified because RT-PCR tests can detect dead-virus shed for prolonged periods after recovery. “Actual reinfection would mean a fully recovered person getting infected by a freshly introduced virus in his/her body, belonging to the same or different strain. ICMR is commissioning a study to understand the true burden of re-infected cases. Results will be shared in a couple of weeks,"  he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/emergency-use-authorization-for-covid-19-vaccine-to-depend-on-clinical-trial-data-feluda-tests-to-roll-out-soon-900485.html
11-10-2020||National||India's Covid-19 cases cross 70 lakh ahead of festivals||India's coronavirus caseload topped 7 million on Sunday when the health ministry reported 74,383 new infections in the previous 24 hours, with a rise in infections in southern states offsetting a drop in western regions. Deaths from Covid-19 rose by 918 in the last 24 hours to 1,08,334, the ministry said. India added a million cases in just 13 days, according to a Reuters tally of government data, and it has the second-highest number of infections, behind the United States which is approaching the 8 million mark. The southern state of Kerala, which won praise for its early handling of the coronavirus pandemic, on Saturday reported 11,755 new cases, the highest in the country. Neighbouring Karnataka and its capital Bengaluru, where many software companies are based, has also been struggling to contain the spread of virus. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government, faced with a collapsing economy after imposing a tough lockdown to try to stem the spread of the virus in late March, is pushing ahead with a full opening of the country just before the festival season. But India's festival season, which climaxes in October and November with the popular Hindu celebrations of Dussehra and Diwali, poses additional challenges, as officials try to dampen the usual large public celebrations and cross-country travel. Typically the festival season brings a big increase in consumer spending, and the more sombre atmosphere this year will further dampen an economy that contracted by almost a quarter in the three months to June -- the worst figure on record. A few states such as Maharashtra and Gujarat in the west have put restrictions on gathering during the nine-day Navratri festival due to begin on October 17. "Festival season is approaching. A little carelessness of people during festivals can worsen the situation," India's health minister Harsh Vardhan told his social media followers in a broadcast on Sunday. "There is no need to congregate in large numbers to prove your faith or your religion. If we do this we may be heading for a big trouble," Vardhan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-cases-cross-70-lakh-ahead-of-festivals-900493.html
11-10-2020||National||Non-AC sleeper coaches to be replaced by AC coaches for trains running at 130/160 kmph: Rlys||Trains running on identified routes at a speed of 130 kmph or above on the railway network will have only air-conditioned coaches in the near future as part of the Railways’ plans to upgrade the network, an official said on Sunday. Stressing that the ticket prices of such trains will be “affordable”, railway ministry spokesperson D J Narain clarified that it should not be misconstrued that “all non-AC coaches will be made into AC coaches.” Currently, on most routes, speeds of mail/express trains have a ceiling of 110 kmph or lower. Premium trains like Rajdhanis, Shatabdis and Durontos are allowed to operate at 120 kmph on significant parts of the Golden Quadrilateral and Diagonals. The rakes for such trains are fit to operate at 130 kph or above, officials said. “AC coaches have become a technical necessity wherever the speed of the train is going to be above 130 kmph. Indian Railways is working on a massive plan to upgrade the railway network to high-speed potential," Narain said. Tracks on the Golden Quadrilateral and Diagonals are being upgraded to cater to speeds of 130 kmph to 160 kmph. The non-AC sleeper coaches would be replaced by AC coaches only for such trains which will be running at 130/160 kmph. “Non-AC coaches will continue to run in trains running at 110 kmph," he said. "It will be ensured that while the price of tickets of modified AC coaches remains very affordable for the passengers, the comfort and conveniences increase manifold and there is a substantial reduction in travel time,” Narain said. He said that a prototype of such an AC coach is being manufactured at Rail Coach Factory at Kapurthala and should be ready in a few weeks. “Presently, an 83-berth coach is being designed. It is planned to have 100 such coaches this year and 200 next year. The coaches will be evaluated and experience gained from the running of these coaches will lead to further progress,” he said. Officials said that the new AC coaches will be economical as their tickets will be priced between AC 3 and Sleeper coaches. Compared to 72 berths in a sleeper coach, this new AC coach will have 83 berths, but the number of berths in a coupe will remain the same. However, there will be no extra middle berth between side-upper and side-lower berths. The coaches are being re-designed by moving the electrical units and removing the space reserved for storing blankets and bed sheets, since Railways will stop providing them due to coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/non-ac-sleeper-coaches-to-be-replaced-by-ac-coaches-for-trains-running-at-130/160-kmph-rlys-900494.html
11-10-2020||National||Gujarat: HIV positive murder accused found hanging inside jail||An HIV-positive murder accused allegedly ended his life by hanging himself inside his cell at Surat's Lajpore central jail, where he had been lodged as an undertrial since the last three years, police said on Sunday. The jail staffers found the body of the 38-year-old deceased late on Saturday night, an official said. "He had been in this jail since October 2017 in a murder case. He ended his life by hanging himself from the ceiling of his cell last night," inspector Nitesh Desai of Sachin police station in the city said. "The jail officials found his hanging body around 10.30 pm and informed the police. He was HIV positive. We are trying to ascertain the motive behind his extreme step," he said. He had allegedly murdered a man, for which a case had been registered against him at Chok Bazar police station in Surat, Desai said. "The undertrial had tested positive for HIV during his jail stay," he added. One of his relatives said that he was depressed as his family members were not taking any steps to bail him out despite his repeated requests. Police said his family was told about his death early on Sunday. His body was shifted to the city's civil hospital for post-mortem, the police officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-hiv-positive-murder-accused-found-hanging-inside-jail-900495.html
11-10-2020||National||BJP leaders meet Bengal Guv, demand CBI probe into Manish Shukla murder case||A BJP delegation led by its national vice-president Mukul Roy met West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday and demanded a CBI investigation into the "politically targeted killing" of saffron party leader Manish Shukla in North 24 Parganas district a week ago. The delegation alleged the state CID, which is investigating the case, is misdirecting the probe to falsely implicate political opponents in the BJP, Dhankhar said in a Twitter post. Shukla, who was a close aide of Barrackpore's BJP MP Arjun Singh, was shot dead in front of the party's office in Titagarh on October 4. The state Criminal Investigation Department (CID) has so far arrested three persons in connection with the killing. The delegation, also comprising BJP leaders Jaiprakash Majumdar and Sabyasachi Dutta, handed over a letter to the governor at Raj Bhavan demanding a CBI probe into the case. "BJP delegation led by National Vice President Mukul Roy demanded CBI investigation in the politically targeted killing of Manish Shukla. The delegation alleged CID was misdirecting investigation to falsely implicate political opponents in BJP," Dhankhar tweeted. BJP lawmaker Arjun Singh had on Saturday alleged that the CID was "plotting" to frame him in the murder case. Dhankhar, who has had frequent face-offs with the Trinamool Congress government in West Bengal, has often raised questions on law and order in the state and claimed that political opponents were not being given space for democratic movements. A PIL has also been filed before the Calcutta High Court seeking a CBI investigation into the killing, claiming that a free and fair probe is only possible if a central and independent agency is in charge of it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-leaders-meet-bengal-guv-demand-cbi-probe-into-manish-shukla-murder-case-900502.html
11-10-2020||National||Women lawyers ask SC to overturn order for rape accused to get 'Rakhi' tied by victim as condition of bail||A group of women lawyers approached the Supreme Court asking it to set aside the Madhya Pradesh High Court's direction to a rape accused to get 'rakhi' tied by the victim as a condition for bail, saying it is gross trivialisation of the trauma suffered by the complainant. In their plea, they said that it has been seen in sexual assault cases, women and families do not seek redressal from the criminal justice system primarily to avoid such kind of secondary trauma that they are subjected to in the process of a criminal trial. They asked whether High Court ought not to have employed circumspection and sensitivity while dealing with a case involving a sexual offence and also related to wrongful entry into the property of the victim. The "public-spirited" lawyers led by Aparna Bhat said that imposing a condition where the accused would be required to go to the house of the complainant on the festival of 'Raksha Bandhan' and request her to tie a rakhi around his wrist with the “promise to protect her to the best of his ability for all times to come” resulted in further victimisation of the survivor in her own house. They challenged the validity of the Madhya Pradesh HC's order of July 30 by which the accused was also told to pay Rs 11,000 to the complainant as customary ritual and seek her blessings and pay Rs 5,000 to her son for the purchase of clothes and sweets. "While it is routine for courts to award certain compensation to survivors of sexual offences to be paid by the accused, it is highly objectionable for the HC in the present case to put the complainant in a position where she is forced to accept the sum of Rs 11,000," they said. They further pointed out that the present case was of particular concern since it has taken years to undo the damaging approach followed by courts whereby cases involving sexual offences committed against women were attempted to be compromised by way of marriage or mediation between the accused and the survivor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/women-lawyers-ask-sc-to-overturn-order-for-rape-accused-to-get-rakhi-tied-by-victim-as-condition-of-bail-900505.html
11-10-2020||National||Harsh Vardhan urges people to follow Covid-19 guidelines during festive season||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday urged people to stay away from large congregations and diligently follow Covid-19 guidelines during the upcoming festive season, saying no religion or God asks people to celebrate ostentatiously. Requesting people to celebrate the approaching festivals at home with their loved ones instead of going out to fairs and pandals, he said that fighting against Covid-19 is everyone's foremost "dharma" and as the country's health minister it is his "dharma" to mitigate the virus and prevent deaths at any cost.  “The Bhagwad Gita condones war for the warrior class. So, there is no need to congregate in large numbers to prove your faith or your religion," he said. “Extraordinary circumstances must draw extraordinary responses. No religion or God says that you have to celebrate in an ostentatious way, that you have to visit pandals and temples and mosques to pray," Vardhan underlined. During the fifth episode of 'Sunday Samvaad', the health minister's virtual interaction with people on social media, Vardhan also discussed the possibility of increased novel coronavirus transmission during the coming winter season as the transmission of respiratory viruses is known to increase during the colder weather.  “These viruses are known to thrive better in the cold weather and low humidity conditions. In view of these, it would not be wrong to assume that the winter season may see increased rates of transmission of the novel coronavirus in the Indian context too,” he noted. He stressed that if people congregate in large numbers to to celebrate festivals, "we may be heading for big trouble". "Lord Krishna says concentrate on your goal...our goal is to finish this virus and save humanity. This is our religion. The religion of the whole world," he said. Answering questions on the efficacy of AYUSH formulations in the treatment of Covid-19, Vardhan explained the concept of Salutogenesis and how these formulations target holistic recovery of patients. Pointing to an in-depth study of literature and scientific evidence generated from in silico studies, experimental studies, and clinical studies, he said, “Guduchi, Ashwagandha, Guduchi and Pippali combination and AYUSH 64 have a substantial number of studies which prove their immuno-modulatory, anti-viral, antipyretic and anti-inflammatory properties. These interventions have also shown a good binding affinity with Covid-19 virus in in-silico studies.”  He further informed that scientific studies have been initiated with the aforesaid remedies to assess their impact in the prophylaxis, secondary prevention and management of Covid-19 afflicted cases on the recommendations of the Interdisciplinary Task Force set up by the government. On the benefits of Chyawanprash, the health minister said information available through clinical studies have shown that individuals who consume it regularly for a definite period of time show improvement in overall health status and immunity and while sugar is an essential component, customers can opt for sugar-free versions available in the market. The minister requested people to not share any content related to health and safety without double-checking its veracity. He added that as more is learnt about the novel coronavirus and more vaccine candidates start their phase 2 and 3 trials, there is bound to be a lot of fake and incorrect news on social media that is perpetrated by people with vested interests. He said the Covid-19 Fact Check Unit in the Press Information Bureau (PIB) under the Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting has been regularly scanning social media platforms for fake news and requested his followers to report such fake news to the PIB's fact check unit.  Vardhan also detailed the steps taken to prevent occurrences of Covid-19 infection among healthcare workers. States are thoroughly supported in terms of PPE Kits, N-95 masks and HCQ for the protection and prophylaxis of healthcare workers managing Covidcases, he said. He also said in the first phase, the Government of India has released Rs 3,000 crores to states and UTs to battle the Covid-19 pandemic. Almost all, except three states and UTs, have utilized the complete grant given to them. Maharashtra has used only 42.5 pc of the grant followed by Chandigarh at 47.8 pc and Delhi at 75.4 pc, he stated. Responding to calls for medical attention to people in isolation, Vardhan said there was a sharp increase in acceptance of telemedicine services in India which have not only enabled the government to provide the right care to patients during the pandemic, but also helped to contain the transmission of the dangerous virus.  He exhorted citizens to join Prime Minister Narendra Modi's call to take a pledge and join the massive country-wide awareness campaign and "Jan Andolan” for two months including the winter season so that the pandemic does not spread further.  Adhering to Covid-appropriate behavior of wearing masks or face covers especially when in public places, regularly washing hands and maintaining respiratory etiquette will help contain the spread of the disease, he firmly reiterated. Upon learning of the various difficulties faced by his constituents in Chandni Chowk, Delhi, he shared his contact details on the public platform as a response and assured that all issues faced by people in his constituency would be resolved on priority.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harsh-vardhan-urges-people-to-follow-covid-19-guidelines-during-festive-season-900508.html
11-10-2020||National||Indian envoy in self-isolation after meeting Nepal minister who tested Covid-19 positive||Ambassador Kwatra has quarantined himself as he had met with Bhattarai, Indian Embassy spokesperson Abhisekh Dubey said. However, his health is good and he has not developed any symptoms of infection, the spokesperson added. Bhattarai and Kwatra had a face-to-face meeting on Friday during which they discussed ways to promote tourism in both countries. On Saturday, Bhattarai, 54, announced on social media that he tested positive for the Covid-19. He requested all those who came in his contact to be on alert.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-envoy-in-self-isolation-after-meeting-nepal-minister-who-tested-covid-19-positive-900514.html
11-10-2020||National||8 Indian beaches get coveted Blue Flag certification||After a two-year-long exercise, eight Indian beaches including two from Karnataka - Kasarkod and Padubidri – on Sunday received the “Blue Flag” eco-tag certifying them among the world’s cleanest beaches. The other six selected beaches are Shivrajpur (Dwarka-Gujarat), Ghoghla (Diu), Kappad (Kerala), Rushikonda (Andhra Pradesh), Golden beach in Puri (Odisha), and Radhanagar (Andaman and Nicobar Islands). “It is an outstanding feat considering that no Blue Flag tag has ever been awarded to a nation for 8 beaches in a single attempt,” said Union Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change Prakash Javadekar. “India is the first country in Asia-Pacific” region which has achieved this feat in just about two years' time. Japan, South Korea, and UAE are the other Asian nations with Blue Flag beaches. But they took a time of 5-6 years to get the recognition.” From an initial shortlist of 13 beaches (one per each coastal state with the exception of Karnataka), the national jury recommended eight for consideration of the international jury, comprising officials from the United Nations Environment Programme, United Nations World Tourism Organisation, Foundation for Environmental Education and International Union for the Conservation of Nature. The Blue Flag is certification by the FEE to ensure that authorities managing the beaches follow a set of stringent standards to clean up popular seaside destinations. None of the Indian beaches had this certification earlier, while Spain has 578 such beaches. Other countries with a large number of Blue Flag beaches are Turkey (436), Greece (395), Italy (342), and Portugal (299). The green ministry now sought to achieve such certification for 100 more beaches in the next five years, an official said. The jury also awarded India under the category of “International Best Practices” for pollution control in coastal regions. The coveted eco-label was realised following a successful government programme under its Integrated Coastal Zone Management project. Undertaken by the Society of Integrated Coastal Management, it was meant to achieve the tag for a handful of beaches on a pilot scale and subsequently replicating the experience in other beaches. Under the programme, an effort was made to abate pollution in coastal waters and beaches, conserve coastal ecosystems and encourage the local authorities and stakeholders to maintain high standards of cleanliness, hygiene, safety, and security for beachgoers. It led to promotion of beach tourism in harmony with nature, said an official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/8-indian-beaches-get-coveted-blue-flag-certification-900530.html
11-10-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Karnataka schools to be shut for 3 weeks over mid-term holidays||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Schools in Karnataka will be shut for ‘midterm holidays’; Harsh Vardhan says government has not yet taken a view on granting emergency authorisation to Covid-19 vaccines in India; Doctors say Donald Trump is no longer a transmission risk for Covid-19 and Rahul Gandhi attacks Yogi Adityanath government.      Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom— your daily evening news catch-up show from Deccan Herald. Here are the top news of October 11, 2020: Schools in Karnataka will be shut for "mid-term holidays" for three weeks from October 12 after several teachers contracted Covid-19. “I have observed through media reports that several teachers have been infected with Covid-19. So, in the interest of the health of both students and teachers, I have directed officials to issue an order declaring a three-week interim holiday for schools from October 12 to October 30,” Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said in a statement, and wished all teachers and students a happy Dasara in advance. The CM also pointed out that the government had already decided not to reopen schools and suspend the Vidyagama outreach programme. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy has written to Chief Justice of India S A Bobde that a top Supreme Court judge, also in line to be the next CJI, acted in the interests of the Telugu Desam Party and that his closeness to former CM Chandrababu Naidu was worrying, bringing the fairness of the institution into question, multiple media reports said. In his letter, Reddy reportedly alleged that Justice N V Ramana “has been influencing the sittings of the (Andhra Pradesh) High Court" and asked the CJI to look into the matter to ensure the neutrality of the state's judiciary is maintained. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday attacked the Yogi Adityanath dispensation over the death of a Scheduled Caste woman from Uttar Pradesh's Hathras after being allegedly gang-raped, saying the chief minister and his police say no one was raped because for them and many other Indians, she was "no one". In a tweet, Gandhi said the shameful truth is many Indians do not consider Dalits, Muslims and tribals to be human. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Lower fare limits decided by the government for economy class seats of domestic flights on May 21 would now also be applicable to premium economy class seats, the Ministry of Civil Aviation has said. However, the upper fare limits set by the government for economy class seats would not be applicable on the premium economy class seats, according to a ministry order dated October 5. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday said the government has not yet taken a view on granting emergency authorisation to Covid-19 vaccines in India, as and when they become available. The minister also said that the Feluda paper strip test for SARS-CoV-2 diagnosis could be rolled out in the next few weeks. Presently Covid-19 vaccines are in various stages of phases 1, 2 and 3, the results of which are awaited, Vardhan said during an interaction with his social media followers on 'Sunday Samvad' platform. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Donald Trump is no longer a transmission risk for Covid-19, his doctor said late on Saturday, as the US president seeks to put his bout with coronavirus behind him and return to the campaign fray. Trump, trailing his Democratic challenger Joe Biden in opinion polls, addressed supporters from a White House balcony on Saturday afternoon. He urged a crowd of hundreds of largely Black and Latino supporters to help get out the vote in the Nov. 3 election ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- That is it today, From the Newsroom. Tune in tomorrow morning for our feature show, The Lead. If you liked this show, please share this podcast with your friends, family and on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-karnataka-schools-to-be-shut-for-3-weeks-over-mid-term-holidays-900532.html
11-10-2020||National||Blatant misuse of police power, action to be taken: WB guv on turban controversy||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday said that the recent incident involving a Sikh man, whose turban was allegedly pulled by the police, was a matter of "disgrace" and assured members of the community that necessary action would be taken in this regard. Dhankhar, who had been at odds with the Mamata Banerjee-led dispensation since assuming charge in the state, told the delegation he was "deeply hurt" by the episode. "Delegation led by president Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee @mssirsa Manindar Singh Sirsa submitted a representation regarding disgracing @MamataOfficial a Sikhs Dastar (headgear) that is a grave insult to entire Sikh Community and demanded justice for Balwinder Singh (sic)," the governor said on Twitter. He also attached a link to a video of the delegation's visit to Raj Bhavan during the day. Sirsa, in his letter to Dhankhar, maintained that "excessive use of force by West Bengal police personnel was against the secular nature of the Constitution". Claiming that it was nothing but "blatant abuse of police power," Dhankhar said, "As Governor I assured the delegation that all steps would be taken for such outrage @MamataOfficial. "In no civilised society such blatant abuse of police power @WBPolice in disregard of Supreme Court directives in the case of DK Basu can be countenanced or condoned," he tweeted, citing an apex court order. State education minister and senior TMC leader Partha Chatterjee, however, alleged that Dhankhar was "maligning" the post of the governor with his remarks, and shirking responsibilities as the constitutional head of the state. "The governor and the BJP have entered into a conspiracy to defame the state, which has always been known for its communal amity. The Sikh community in the state condemns such conspiracy," he said. The Delhi Gurudwara committee, in its representation on Sunday, urged the governor to take note of the incident and initiate steps for "appropriate penal and department action against the police and government employees guilty of committing the excesses and outraging religious sentiments". Controversy erupted after visuals of the police beating up a Sikh man during BJP's protest on Thursday went viral on social media, with a section of Netizens claiming that the police had pulled his turban during the scuffle. The saffron brigade claimed the incident has hurt religious sentiments. The man, identified as 43-year-old Balwinder Singh, is a resident of Bhatinda in Punjab. The BJP said that he was a former soldier of the Indian Army and currently employed as a private security officer of a party leader. The police, however, argued that the person was carrying a firearm and his headgear "had fallen off automatically in the scuffle". The state home department, in its tweet, said that the incident was being "twisted out of context by a political party to serve its partisan interest. Members of the Sikh community took out a protest in the city on Friday condemning the incident. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had also expressed shock over the "humiliating treatment" meted out to a Sikh and urged his West Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee to take strict action "against the concerned cop for hurting the Sikh religious sentiments".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/blatant-misuse-of-police-power-action-to-be-taken-wb-guv-on-turban-controversy-900548.html
11-10-2020||National||India, China military commanders to meet today, focus on measures to avert flashpoints||The senior military commanders of India and China will on Monday discuss measures to be put in place to avert flashpoints, as the eyeball-to-eyeball stand-off between the soldiers of the two sides along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh is unlikely to end anytime soon. The senior commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) will hold another round of talks at Chushul near the LAC – the de facto boundary between the two nations in the western sector. This will be the seventh round of talks between them after the stand-off started in early May. The two sides are expected to discuss a set of measures to avoid any violent face-off along the LAC as it might take weeks or months to restart the stalled process of mutual withdrawal of troops and end the stand-off. The proposals being discussed included setting perimeters around the forward positions of both sides on the friction points along the LAC. The senior military commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA will try to reach an agreement to avoid breach perimeters of each other’s positions, as such action can trigger response from the other side and may escalate into a conflict, a source in New Delhi told DH. The source said that the efforts to restart the process to pull back soldiers would continue, but both the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA acknowledged the complexity of the disengagement exercise, which would require the redeployment of troops by each side towards regular posts on the respective sides of the LAC. It would require mutually agreed reciprocal actions and might take time. “What however is urgently needed is to ensure stability and avert an escalation of tension that could lead to violent face-offs like the one in Galwan Valley,” said the source, who is aware of New Delhi’s discussions with Beijing for resolution of the stand-off. The Indian Army lost 20 of its soldiers in the clash with the Chinese PLA personnel along the Galwan Valley on June 15. The PLA too suffered casualties, but never made public the number of its soldiers, who were injured or killed. The PLA accused the Indian Army of firing warning shots on its personnel on the south bank of Pangong Tso on September 7. New Delhi, however, alleged that the PLA personnel had opened fire in the air to intimidate the Indian Army soldiers. It was the first incident of firing along the India-China disputed boundary since 1975. The sixth round of talks between the senior military commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA on September 21 ended with both sides agreeing to stop sending more soldiers to the face-off points along the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh. They however could not end the stalemate over withdrawal of large numbers of troops the two sides already deployed since the stand-off started.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-military-commanders-to-meet-today-focus-on-measures-to-avert-flashpoints-900569.html
11-10-2020||National||TRP racket: Republic TV CEO, COO appear before Mumbai police||Republic TV on Sunday said that it would not succumb to any efforts to curtail editorial freedom after its CEO and COO were questioned by Mumbai police in connection with a TRP manipulation investigation. The two senior Republic officials appeared before the Mumbai police on Sunday for questioning in the Television Rating Points (TRP) manipulation racket, an official said. "If there is an attempt to use state machinery to scrutinise the sources of an independent media network and bring back an Emergency-style editorial control into the media, we will stand strongly against it," Republic TV said. Police had issued summons to Republic TV's Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Vikas Khanchandani and two Chief Operating Officers (COO) for questioning in the case. Khanchandani and COO Harsh Bhandari, who appeared before the police on Sunday, were questioned for nine and five hours respectively, police said. Police also recorded the statement of Ghanshyam Singh, a senior member of the Republic TV's distribution team. In a statement, Republic Media Network said it won't "give in to any endeavors" to curtail editorial freedom. "Today our CEO, COO, and a senior member of our Distribution team were questioned by the Mumbai Police for 20 hours in all. We are shocked to learn that in the course of questioning the Republic Media Networks CEO Vikas Khanchandani, Mumbai Police made multiple attempts to probe in detail as to how the Network accessed the Hansa Research Group Pvt Ltd. (Hansa) complaint. "Specific, repeated and detailed questioning went on about how Republic accessed the Hansa complaint report which blew the lid off the lies peddled against Republic Media Network," the statement said. "As everyone is aware, the Hansa complaint report made multiple mentions of India Today without a single reference to Republic TV, Republic Bharat or any affiliate of the Republic Media Network. The report which was bereft of any mention of Republic was the very basis of the FIR, and was put into the public domain by Republic on 10 October, 2020," it said. "We believe that the very fact that the Mumbai Police was continually probing for Republic Media Networks editorial sources stands in complete breach of the freedom of the press in India. We believe that it is inappropriate to probe any media organisation for its sources. Republic TV claimed that Mumbai police repeatedly asked the CEO how, when, and from where the Network accessed the Hansa complaint report and that he informed police that it is an editorial matter. "Republic stands against any strong-arm tactics to try and access the sources of independent media. We consider the attempt to probe for Republics sources a serious infringement and utter violation of the right to report in a country with a free media," the statement said. "Republic Media Network reiterates that, at any cost, we will not disclose our sources to the Mumbai Police, or anyone, and will protect our democratic right as journalists. Republic will go through endless hours of questioning, but will not reveal its sources in order to uphold our journalistic rights. "If the Mumbai Police is uncomfortable with the fact that the Hansa complaint report is now in the public domain and, with it, crumbles the false narrative that was built against Republic, that does not give them the right to infringe upon the freedom of the press. We will protect our sources based on principle and editorial integrity, no matter what," it said. "What is happening in Maharashtra and in Mumbai specifically today is a shocking case, before the world, of the state trying to muzzle a free press. It is in complete contravention of the Constitutional right of a free press under Article 19 (1)(a) and serves as a terrible blot on the tenets of our great democracy. Republic alleged that Mumbai police seem to be turning the freedom of the press "in this great democracy upside down and we stand firmly against any such attempts." "The Republic Media Network will not give in to any endeavors to curtail editorial freedom, no matter who and how hard the attempt is on the other side," the statement said. Four persons, including owners of two Marathi channels, have been arrested in connection with the case so far, police said. Republic TV's Chief Finance Officer Shiva Subramaniyam Sundaram and Singh earlier chose not to appear before police, saying the TV channel has approached Supreme Court for relief. Two employees of Box Cinema and Fakt Marathi channels were also summoned by the crime branch of Mumbai police. Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh had claimed that Republic TV and the two Marathi channels had manipulated TRPs. The TRP racket was unearthed after a police complaint by Hansa Research Group Pvt Ltd, the agency contracted by the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) to place audience meters to monitor TV channels watched by households.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trp-racket-republic-tv-ceo-coo-appear-before-mumbai-police-900589.html
11-10-2020||National||Delhi govt issues Covid guidelines ahead of Durga Puja||The DDMA on Sunday issued a fresh set of guidelines for holding congregations and gatherings, with strict adherence to laid down Covid-19 safety protocols, ahead of the Durga Puja and Ramleela celebrations in the city. In an order, Delhi Chief Secretary and Chairman of DDMA's state executive committee Vijay Dev said all event organisers will have to obtain requisite permission from concerned district magistrates for organising the events besides obtaining permission from all other authorities as per applicable laws and rules. It may be noted that the restriction on gatherings and large congregations imposed by the DDMA order on September 30, stands withdrawn only to the extent of allowing gatherings and congregations for the celebration of upcoming festivals till October 31 only, said the order. "Each such permission (which is applied to District Magistrate concerned) shall be jointly granted by District Magistrate and District DCP concerned on the basis of the joint inspection report of area Executive Magistrate, area SHO and Licensing Inspector of  Municipal Corporation concerned which shall clearly certify that the festival/celebration site is suitable for the conduct of the event and meets all the stipulations laid down in this order and the standard operating procedure," the order said. The concerned district magistrate and deputy commissioners of police will appoint an officer of suitable seniority as nodal officer for each site and venue of Ramleela, Puja Pandal, etc, said the order. The capacity of each event site will be decided on the basis of the area and social distancing norms laid down in the Ministry of Home Affairs order issued on September 30. In closed space, a maximum of 50 per cent of the hall capacity will be allowed, with a ceiling of 200 persons, it said, adding that in open spaces, keeping the size of the ground or space in the view, and with the strict observance of social distancing norms. The seating capacity for each such site must be determined strictly according to the norms mandated for ensuring social distancing and observance of Covid-19-appropriate behavior and this capacity shall be certified by District Magistrate and District DCP, said the order. Event organisers will ensure separate entry and exit at each event site, ground or venue which will be strictly regulated and only people with face mask will be allowed, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-govt-issues-covid-guidelines-ahead-of-durga-puja-900591.html
11-10-2020||National||Covid-19: SC to work with full strength from Monday||The Supreme Court will work with its pre-pandemic strength from Monday as its 12 benches with about 30 judges would assemble through video conferencing daily. Five benches of two to three judges in different combinations had been sitting on working days to hear around 20 cases daily since the outbreak of Covid-19 in March. According to the apex court's website, 10 benches of two to three judges and two single judge benches will sit daily from October 12 to hear cases. The increased strength will double the output of the Supreme Court, which has decided not to start physical hearings yet due to the Covid-19 situation in the country. The top court has been hearing matters through video conferencing since March 23, two days before a nationwide lockdown was imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19. As per the cause list for Monday, eight benches will have three judges each and two other benches with two judges each to hear cases. There will be two single-judges benches to hear and decide to transfer petitions. After the pandemic hit the country, the apex court's registry has been functioning with a reduced number of staffers due to various reasons, including lack of adequate public transport facilities. "To facilitate the lawyers and litigants, who may face difficulty in joining the video conferencing, 12 facilitation rooms have been created, out of which five facilitation rooms are functional from Additional Building Complex of the Supreme Court of India and seven VC facilitation rooms are functional, one each from the District Court Complex of Delhi. Technical VC assistance is provided in the VC facilitation rooms," the apex court had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-sc-to-work-with-full-strength-from-monday-900602.html
11-10-2020||National||ICSSR begins research project on human trafficking, child labour in UP||The Indian Council of Social Science Research (ICSSR) has started research work in Uttar Pradesh's Bahraich district on human trafficking, child labour and child marriage, officials said. ICSSR is a national body established in 1969 by the Government of India to promote research in social sciences in the country. Bahraich Superintendent of Police Vipin Mishra, who has been made the project director for the work, said the districts of Bahraich, Lakhimpur Kheri, Shravasti, Gonda, Maharajganj and Pilibhit have been selected for this in the initial phase. While victims of human trafficking will be spoken to, the experience of government officials from various departments like the police, labour, revenue and social welfare departments along with various citizen groups will be compiled, the SP said. A webinar in this regard was held on Saturday in which 157 people took part. In September, police rescued 48 child labourers from hotels and other establishments in Bahraich district. Under the ''No Child Labour'' campaign, raids were conducted at Jarwal Road, Kaisarganj and several other areas. "There were reports of child labourers being engaged in hotels and other establishments. Despite lockdown and Covid-19 restrictions, there were reports of child trafficking," Devyani, the coordinator of Childline-1098, said. "Children in the age group of 6-18 years were provided hand sanitisers and face masks. Their Covid-19 tests were also done. They have been presented before the child welfare committee and will be handed over to their family members," she had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icssr-begins-research-project-on-human-trafficking-child-labour-in-up-900603.html
11-10-2020||National Politics||Shiv Sena to contest around 50 seats in Bihar, says Anil Desai||The Shiv Sena is going to contest around 50 seats in the upcoming Bihar Assembly polls, party MP Anil Desai said on Sunday. Talking to PTI, Desai said the Shiv Sena does not have an alliance with any party for polls in the eastern state. "The Shiv Sena is contesting around 50 seats. We have fielded our candidates in constituencies where we have our cadre involved in public work," the Rajya Sabha member said. He also said the Shiv Sena's election symbol for Bihar polls will be a "man blowing tura" (trumpet). The Election Commission had earlier disallowed the Shiv Sena from using its party symbol 'bow and arrow' in the Bihar Assembly polls over similarity with the 'arrow' symbol of the JD(U). Asked about the schedule of Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray for campaigning in Bihar, Desai said the details would be provided by the party and the CM himself. The Shiv Sena on Thursday released a list of 22 leaders who will campaign in Bihar. Besides Uddhav Thackeray, his son and Maharashtra tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray also figures in the list of campaigners. The other Sena leaders who would campaign in Bihar include Subhash Desai, Sanjay Raut, Anil Desai, Vinayak Raut, Arvind Sawant, Priyanka Chaturvedi, Rahul Shewale and Krupal Tumane. Elections for the 243-member Bihar Assembly will be held in three phases on October 28, November 3 and November 7 and the counting of votes will take place on November 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shiv-sena-to-contest-around-50-seats-in-bihar-says-anil-desai-900414.html
11-10-2020||National Politics||Woman Congress leader roughed up at party meeting in Deoria after she questions choice of candidate for bypolls||A Congress party leader thrashed a woman worker on Sunday after the latter opposed nomination of a rape accused of the forthcoming assembly bypoll at Deoria seat in Uttar Pradesh. Congress worker Tara Devi was assaulted by a group of Congress workers at a meeting of the party leaders in Deoria town. A video showing the assault of Tara Devi went viral on social media. According to the sources, Tara Devi registered her strong protest to Congress national Sachin Nayak for fielding Mukund Bhaskar, who was facing rape charges, for the bypoll at Deoria assembly seat. ''We have been protesting against the state government over its failure to ensure the safety of the womenfolk and increasing crimes against the women...How can we justify nomination of a rape accused to the electorate?'' she told Nayak. She also demanded that Bhaskar's nomination be cancelled. The supporters of Bhaskar, who were also there, pounced on Tara Devi and thrashed her as senior district leaders watched helplessly. A complaint was lodged in this regard by Tara Devi against two senior local leaders. Tara Devi stated that she expected Priyanka Gandhi to intervene in the matter. ''I will take up the matter with Priyankaji,'' she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/woman-congress-leader-roughed-up-at-party-meeting-in-deoria-after-she-questions-choice-of-candidate-for-bypolls-900420.html
11-10-2020||National Politics||Folk singers roped in for BJP's campaign on farm laws||To drum up support for the new farm laws in the national capital's rural areas, the Delhi BJP will take the help of folk 'Ragini' singers to spread the message on how the legislations will benefit farmers and reform the agriculture sector. In the coming week, a series of 'Ragini' programmes will be held in rural parts of Delhi and artistes through their songs will also tell people how the Opposition is "misleading" them on these three laws, party leaders said. Several well known 'Ragini' singers have been booked to perform at the programmes to be held in Najafgarh, Mehrauli, and North West and Outer Delhi, Delhi BJP vice president Sunil Yadav said. "Special 'Ragini' songs describing benefits of the Modi government's farm bills that were passed by Parliament and how Opposition parties are misleading farmers on it, will be sung in these programmes," Yadav, who is coordinating the cultural programmes as part of the Delhi BJP's campaign, said. Party leaders, including MPs and MLAs, will be involved and they will participate in meetings, tractor pujas and rallies, and door-to-door campaigns in rural pockets of Delhi to garner support for the new farm laws, against which farmers are protesting in Punjab and Haryana. Delhi BJP leaders, including party president Adesh Gupta, participated in a big tractor rally at Karala village on Sunday. Yadav said that Ragini songs are popular in Delhi's outlying areas and it can help the party to combat opposition "propaganda" over the new farm laws. "We have roped in some artistes like Preeti Chaudhary and Kanauj Baisla to aware people about how the new laws will benefit farmers. The plan is to hold nearly 15 such cultural programmes in different parts of the city," he said. Necessary permissions have been sought for the programmes, Yadav said, adding that arrangements will be made to follow all COVID-19 norms such as proper social distancing at the eevnts. President Ram Nath Kovind last month gave assent to the three farm bills passed by Parliament that have triggered protests in some states specially Punjab and Haryana. According to a gazette notification, the President gave assent to three bills: The Farmers'' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020.  The Opposition parties have been criticising the manner in which the Bills were passed in the Parliament and over minimum support price issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/folk-singers-roped-in-for-bjps-campaign-on-farm-laws-900450.html
11-10-2020||National Politics||GST Council to discuss compensation issue for third time in a row today||The GST Council in its meeting on Monday is likely to discuss the suggestion of non-BJP ruled states of setting up a ministerial panel to develop consensus on the issue of compensation, sources said. The Council, chaired by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and comprising of state finance ministers, will for the third time in a row discuss the issue of funding the shortfall of Goods and Services Tax (GST) revenue of states. While some opposition ruled states are demanding that a Group of Ministers be set up to arrive at a decision on the mechanism for funding compensation shortfall, BJP ruled states, which have already opted for the borrowing option given by the Centre, are of the view that they should be given a go ahead so that they can get money quickly. The single agenda 43rd meeting of the Council will discuss on the way forward, sources said. In its previous meeting last week, the Council had decided to extend the surcharge on taxes on luxury goods such as cars and tobacco products beyond June 2022, but failed to reach a consensus on ways to compensate states for loss of tax revenue. The projected total compensation shortfall in current fiscal stands at Rs 2.35 lakh crore. The Centre in August gave two options to the states to borrow either Rs 97,000 crore from a special window facilitated by the RBI or Rs 2.35 lakh crore from market and had also proposed extending the compensation cess levied on luxury, demerit and sin goods beyond 2022 to repay the borrowing. Following demand by some states, the amount of Rs 97,000 crore was increased to Rs 1.10 lakh crore. As many as 21 states -- which are BJP ruled or have supported it on various issues -- have opted to borrow Rs 1.10 lakh crore to meet the compensation shortfall. The Centre has released Rs 20,000 crore to the states towards compensation shortfall so far in the current fiscal. Under the GST structure, taxes are levied under 5, 12, 18 and 28 per cent slabs. On top of the highest tax slab, a cess is levied on luxury, sin and demerit goods, and the proceeds from the same are used to compensate states for any revenue loss.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/gst-council-to-discuss-compensation-issue-for-third-time-in-a-row-today-900465.html
11-10-2020||National Politics||Secure the leadership of Bihar with Nitish Kumar: JP Nadda||BJP chief JP Nadda said on Sunday that the Nitish Kumar government took care of the people of Bihar amid the Covid-19 pandemic, asserting that it is important that the leadership of the state is secured with him. Addressing an election rally at the historic Gandhi Maidan in Gaya, Nadda listed the development works done by the NDA government at the Centre in the last six years in the state. "Nitish Kumar took care of the people during the Covid-19 pandemic. Financial assistance was also provided by his government to those outside the state," he said. "Leadership of India is secured in the hands of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and it is important that the leadership of Bihar is secured with Nitish Kumar," he added. Nadda said that only four medical colleges were there in Bihar, but in the last six years, the state got 14 medical colleges and work is going on for 11 others. "New dimensions of development are being written in Bihar and it is our responsibility to drive this development," he said. Nadda is on a day-long visit to the state to strategise the BJP's poll campaign. He arrived on a special plane in Patna where he was given a rousing welcome by party workers outside the airport. Nadda then visited the renowned Hanuman temple in the city and offered prayers. He also visited the JP Niwas at Kadamkuan and garlanded the statue of Jayaprakash Narayan. The BJP chief then proceeded to Gaya for the public meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/secure-the-leadership-of-bihar-with-nitish-kumar-jp-nadda-900480.html
11-10-2020||National Politics||BJP reorients campaign narrative away from three 'Cs' in Bihar||As BJP seeks to reorient the political narrative of Bihar polls to the 'D' of development, taking away the focus from the three 'Cs' of Caste, Corona, and Continuity, BJP chief JP Nadda in an election rally in Gaya asked people to secure the leadership of Bihar with Nitish Kumar as they have done that of Centre with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, enlisting the development initiatives in the state in last six years of Modi-rule. Pushing ahead with double engine development theme for the poll, Nadda said that while Bihar got just four medical colleges in 70 years prior to 2014 when Modi came to Centre, it already got 14 more medical colleges and the work was on for 11 more such colleges--all this in just six years of Modi's rule. "The leadership of India is secured in the hands of PM Narendra Modi and it's important that the leadership of Bihar is secured with Nitish Kumar. We together have to ensure to bring the NDA government in the state," Nadda said, seeking to highlight a difference "between Bihar of today and Bihar of past from the prism of development." Accusing Congress of doing "politics of caste" in the state earlier, the BJP chief said that Modi and Nitish had "changed the political culture of Bihar". "Narendra Modi Ji has begun the culture of going to people on the basis of the report card of works done by the government," said Nadda as the state is set to witness a very complex election in which caste dynamics could play a very key role. Nitish Kumar has been a caste neutral identity, which was considered a strength as this was the reason for his support base that constituted of a rainbow of small castes belonging to Extremely Backward Classes and Mahadalits, while his own community Kurmi constitutes of just 3 to 4 per cent of the population in Bihar. The alliance with BJP and some strong upper caste leaders fetched him additional upper caste votes.  There is a feeling that Nitish Kumar, who earlier steered the alliance to power on his own may find it difficult to repeat his social coalition magic this time and also is on the defensive on the coronavirus issue on which all Opposition parties have tried to put the state government on the mat. BJP feels that if the narrative goes around caste, then it may have an uphill task consolidating votes of the conflicting communities at the constituency level together. Hence it has chosen to center primarily around development plank supported by soft Hindutva, socialist politics contradictions, and farmer welfare theme.  On the last day, Nadda hailed the Prime Minister for starting 'Swamitva Yojana' to give land ownership to villagers and farmers of the country. Nadda visited the famous Hanuman temple in Patna in full media glare and carried out worship of the deity. He also visited J P Niwas, the house of anti-Emergency poster boy Jay Prakash Narayan and garlanded his statue.  Later he took potshots at Lalu Prasads' RJD for aligning with Congress saying, "When I used to study in college, the JP movement was prevalent in the entire country and the starting point of that movement was the residence of Shri JP Narayan. Loknayak JP shook the bases of the corrupt Congress governments. Here people who became leaders of Janata Party with the blessing of JP and became Chief Ministers thrice are embracing the Congress now." Nadda also tried to counter the criticism of the handling of Corona insisting that Nitish Kumar took care of people during Covid-19 crisis and that financial assistance was also provided by his government to those outside Bihar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-reorients-campaign-narrative-away-from-three-cs-in-bihar-900558.html
11-10-2020||National Politics||Parliament panel chaired by Tharoor to focus on media ethics, functioning of Doordarshan||Amid a raging row over TRP ratings, a Parliamentary panel chaired by Congress leader Shashi Tharoor has decided to turn its focus on ethical standards of media coverage. At a recent meeting, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology also decided to review the functioning of the Prasar Bharati organisation, and the functioning and outreach of Doordarshan channels. The Committee, which was reconstituted by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla last month, has been tasked to maintain oversight over the functioning of the ministries of Information and Broadcasting, Electronics and Information Technology, and the Ministry of Communications. Besides, the committee has also decided to review the functioning of the Central Board of Film Certification and examine the problems and challenges faced by the film industry. The selection of topics is done with consensus by members across party lines who are represented on the 31-member committee. Congress and some opposition parties have been targeting a section of the media of being soft on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and not focusing on pressing issues such as the state of the economy and rising unemployment. The IT Committee’s recent questioning of Facebook and WhatsApp officials over reports of ignoring instances of hate speech by BJP leaders had kicked off a row, with BJP MPs demanding Tharoor’s ouster as chairman. Among other topics, the Committee has also decided to examine the suspension of telecom and internet services and its impact, India’s preparedness for 5G, review of the cybersecurity scenario in India, citizens’ data security and privacy, review of the functioning of Unique Identification Authority of India. The committee will also review the functioning of MTNL and BSNL and plans for enhancing their performance; functioning of TRAI; and schemes under the universal service obligation fund with special emphasis on the northeast and left-wing extremism affected areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/parliament-panel-chaired-by-tharoor-to-focus-on-media-ethics-functioning-of-doordarshan-900567.html
11-10-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh teen raped by boy sets herself ablaze; battles for life||A 14-year-old girl sustained grievous burn injuries in a suicide attempt after she was allegedly raped by a teen at her home in Rewa in Madhya Pradesh, police said on Saturday. Incidentally, the 15-year-old boy accused of raping her tried to put out the blaze before escaping from the spot leaving the victim in pain, an official added. "As per the victim's statement to the sub-divisional magistrate, the boy entered her home at 4 pm on Wednesday when her family had gone out and her elder sister was out grazing goats. He then raped her," Sub Divisional Officer of Police OP Singh said. "Humiliated and distressed, she poured petrol on herself and tried to commit suicide. She has suffered grievous injuries and has been hospitalised. The accused tried to wrap her in a blanket to put out the fire," he added. The boy escaped from the spot but was held on Thursday and has been charged with rape and sent to a reform home, the SDOP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-teen-raped-by-boy-sets-herself-ablaze-battles-for-life-900272.html
11-10-2020||North and Central||Jharkhand reports 697 new Covid-19 cases, 3 fatalities||Jharkhand's Covid-19 tally rose to 91,951 on Sunday as 697 more people tested positive for the infection, a health official said. Three more patients succumbed to the infection, taking the state's coronavirus death toll to 784, he said. Jharkhand now has 8,362 active coronavirus cases, while 82,805 people have been cured of the disease so far, the official said. The state has tested 28,104 samples for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jharkhand-reports-697-new-covid-19-cases-3-fatalities-900341.html
11-10-2020||North and Central||‘Mysterious’ decline in Jammu & Kashmir’s Covid-19 cases, explained||From a peak of over 1,600 daily Covid-19 cases in mid-September to just 600-odd daily fresh cases in October, Jammu and Kashmir has witnessed a dramatic decline in coronavirus infection numbers over the last few weeks. However, according to an official document, the decline in the number of Covid-19 positive cases has occurred due to a sharp decline in sampling and testing during the past one month. As per the document, a total of 8,335 samples for Covid-19 testing were taken in all the 10 districts of Kashmir division on September 8 and this number increased to 15,367 on September 16. However, thereafter the number started declining and on October 8, a total of 10,256 samples were taken across the Kashmir division. As far as Jammu division is concerned, a total of 10,419 samples were taken on September 8 and this number increased to 13,135 on September 13. However, on October 8 only 8,492 samples were taken thereby indicating a considerable decline. The analysis has been made by J&K Chief Secretary BVR Subrahmanyam. In a strong-worded message to deputy commissioners and those at the helm of affairs in the Health and Medical Education department, he has cautioned them against being complacent. “The daily sampling has fallen after hitting a peak of 28,000 one day to 18000…..this is not acceptable,” Subrahmanyam said, adding “the only way to control the disease is to test to the maximum extent possible.” The Chief Secretary has issued a slew of directives to all the concerned authorities so that the prevailing situation is prevented from slipping out of the hands. Asking the officials to push testing and sampling to the maximum possible limit, he said, “Showing low Covid-19 positive cases is no great achievement because it will go up again if uncontrolled.” A senior doctor at Government Medical College (GMC) Srinagar told DH the less number of Covid-19 positive cases due to sudden decline in the sampling has generated the wrong notion among the people about improvement in the situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mysterious-decline-in-jammu-kashmir-s-covid-19-cases-explained-900354.html
11-10-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh government puts reopening of primary, middle schools on hold||As the threat of coronavirus still looms large, the Madhya Pradesh government has put on hold reopening of primary and middle schools in the state for now, school educational minister Inder Singh Parmar said. Madhya Pradesh has been reporting at least 1,600 Covid-19 cases every day and the state government seems reluctant to add to the existing health crisis. In its fresh set of guidelines issued recently, the Centre said schools, colleges and other educational institutions can reopen outside containment zones from October 15, and left the decision to implement the same on the state governments and Union Territories. "We are not going to take the risk of reopening primary (Classes 1 to 5) and middle (Classes 6 to 8) schools after October 15 for now," Parmar told PTI. Reopening schools for primary and middle classes is too risky and if something happens to a child, the state government will be at the receiving end, he said. The state has partially reopened schools for Classes 9 to 12 with limited students since September 21 amid strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols, he said, adding that the government may consider increasing the strength of these classes gradually. Schools for the higher classes resumed partially with consent from parents, the minister said. The state has around 1.50 lakh schools, including private ones. While the state government seems concerned that reopening of schools may trigger a spate of infections, the primary concern of parents is the safety of their children. "Come what may, I am not going to send my daughter to school as Covid-19 cases continue to rise in the state," said Anup Dutta, father of a Class 7 student. Many parents are not willing to send their children for partial classes in secondary and higher secondary schools. According to Bhopal district education officer Nitin Saxena, parents of only 5,000 students out of 40,000 studying in 132 government secondary and higher secondary schools had given consent to send their children for partial classes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-government-puts-reopening-of-primary-middle-schools-on-hold-900355.html
11-10-2020||North and Central||Schools to remain closed until further orders, says Chhattisgarh government||The Chhattisgarh government has said schools in the state will continue to remain closed till further orders in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, a move welcomed by many parents. As per the Centre's guidelines, state governments can take decision about reopening of schools after October 15. However, the Chhattisgarh cabinet on Thursday decided that in view of the pandemic situation in the state, schools will continue to remain shut. Hailing the move, Chhattisgarh Parents' Association (CPA), a state-level body, has demanded that the central and state governments declare this academic session as "zero year" for students till Class 8 and promote them to the next class. "Safety of children is the priority of every parent and sending them to school in the present peak situation of the virus outbreak will put their life at risk," CPA president Kristopher Paul told PTI. "The government should declare the 2020-21 academic session as zero year for classes from nursery till 8 and promote the students to the next class," said Paul, whose son is in Class 6 in a private school in Rajnandgaon town. He said students of classes 9 to 12 should be given assignments and projects for their final evaluation, but schools should also not be opened for them till the Covid-19 situation is under control. Echoing similar views, Pradip Dongre, a sub-engineer with the irrigation department in Dantewada, said the current situation is not conducive for physical classes. "Why would parents like to allow their children to go out and expose themselves to the virus? It would be difficult for a school to identify which child's family members are infected by Covid-19," he said. Dongre said his son and daughter, who are in Class 8 and 12, respectively, are comfortable with online classes. Till Saturday, the state reported 1,40,258 Covid-19 cases and of these, over 80,000 cases were detected in the last one month. Though parents remain concerned, students of senior classes are disappointed with prolonged closure of schools as they are finding it difficult to understand topics clearly online due to internet connectivity issues. Shatabdi Rai, a Class 11 student of Career Public School in Korba, said online classes have changed the style of learning. "It is hard to understand topics clearly and get our doubts resolved online. Poor network is also an issue. Online classes cannot match normal classroom learning," she said. Annu Dubey, a Class 12 student of Maitri Vidya Niketan school at Bhilai (Durg district), said she not only misses seeing her friends, but also school sports. "I miss my friends and being in school as it is my last year of school education. We are becoming used to virtual classes, but they are not good as they create confusion a lot of times. Everyone starts asking questions together or sometimes internet connectivity gets disrupted," she said. In the wake of the pandemic, many government and private schools in the state have undertaken online classes to continue with the academic session. The state government's online academic portal, called 'Padhai Tuhar Duar', (learning at your doorstep), has proved beneficial for students and is being appreciated across the country, a government statement said on Friday. The portal was launched in the early stage of the nationwide lockdown to provide hassle-free and non-stop learning to children, it said. Till now, 39.57 lakh online classes have been successfully conducted by 1.43 lakh teachers, imparting education to 3.77 lakh children via smartphones, it said. Offline classes are also being conducted under the Padhai Tuhar Para (learning at your locality) initiative in remote and forested regions, which lack internet connectivity. As part of the initiative, 23,643 teachers are helping over 7.48 students via 35,982 centres, the release said. The offline classes are being conducted mostly in villages in collaboration with locals, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/schools-to-remain-closed-until-further-orders-says-chhattisgarh-government-900379.html
11-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi's air quality poor, likely to improve in coming days||The national capital's air quality was recorded in the “poor” category on Sunday morning, while a government agency said it is likely to improve slightly in the coming days due to a change in the wind direction. The city recorded an overall air quality index (AQI) of 218 at 10:30 am, with Jahangirpuri (AQI 283) recording the highest pollution levels in the capital. On Saturday, the 24-hour average AQI stood at 221, which falls in the “poor” category. An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. The Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, said the AQI is likely to improve to the “moderate” category by Monday. Farm fires were observed in Punjab adjoining Pakistan, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh which is likely to impact Delhi's air quality on Sunday, SAFAR said. However, the wind direction will change to easterly and the impact of farm fires will reduce, it said. On Sunday morning, Delhi's minimum temperature settled at 19.8 degrees Celsius. The maximum wind speed was 15 kilometers per hour and the direction was west-northwesterly. Low temperatures and stagnant winds help in accumulation of pollutants near the ground, affecting air quality. High levels of air pollution in Delhi is a year-round problem, which can be attributed to unfavourable meteorological conditions, farm fires in neighbouring regions and local sources of pollution. According to an analysis by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water, a Delhi-based think tank, transportation contributes the most -- 18 to 39 per cent -- to Delhi's air pollution. Road dust is the second largest source of air pollution in the city (18 to 38 per cent), followed by industries (2 to 29 per cent), thermal power plants (3 to 11 per cent) and construction (8 per cent).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-air-quality-poor-likely-to-improve-in-coming-days-900404.html
11-10-2020||North and Central||Hathras victim's family members to appear before High Court bench today||The family members of a 19-year-old Dalit woman, who died after allegedly being raped by four men in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras district, will appear before the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court amid tight security on Monday. The court on October 1 had asked the woman's parents to come to apprise it of their versions of the incident and had also ordered the Hathras district administration to arrange for their travel to the court and facilitate their appearance before it. "The district judge, who has been appointed the nodal officer for the appearance of the Hathras victim's family members before the high court, is in touch with it as to when the case is listed. The family will move accordingly. The family is in Hathras as of now," Superintendent of Police (SP) Vineet Jaiswal told PTI on Sunday morning. Police did not divulge details of their security plan on the movement of the woman's family members. Sixty security personnel have been deployed and eight close circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed at the house of the alleged gang-rape victim in her village here to ensure the safety of her family members, according to police. Deputy Inspector General of Police Shalabh Mathur, who has been sent to Hathras from Lucknow as a nodal officer, had said on Friday that if needed a control room would also be established. With the help of CCTV cameras, the house of the victim is being monitored round-the-clock, police said. The Hathras SP said a register of visitors is being maintained by policemen deployed at the entrance of the house. "Shocked" by the alleged gang-rape and murder of the 19-year-old Dalit woman and her forcible cremation subsequently, the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court on October 1 had summoned top government officials to the court. A division bench of Justice Rajan Roy and Justice Jaspreet Singh had ordered the Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary, state police chief and an additional director general of police to appear before it on October 12 to explain the incident. Taking suo motu cognisance of the case, which has triggered widespread outrage, the bench also ordered Hathras district magistrate and superintendent of police to appear with to apprise the court of various aspects of the case, including the ongoing probe into it. "The incidents which took place after the death of the victim on September 29, 2020 leading up to her cremation, as alleged, have shocked our conscience. Therefore, we are taking suo moto cognisance of the same," the bench had said in its order. The bench had also asked the late woman's parents to come to the court to apprise it of their versions of the incident and ordered the Hathras district administration to arrange for their travel to the court and facilitate their appearance before it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hathras-victims-family-members-to-appear-before-high-court-bench-today-900417.html
11-10-2020||North and Central||BJP's progressive policies drew me to party: Shayara Bano     ||Shayara Bano, who was the first to move the Supreme Court challenging the constitutionality of triple talaq, on Sunday said it was the BJP's progressive approach towards Muslim women that had motivated her to join the party. Bano, a resident of Kashipur in Udham Singh Nagar district of Uttarakhand, was welcomed into the BJP by its state president Bansidhar Bhagat on Saturday in the presence of senior party leaders. "It was basically the BJP's progressive approach to Muslim women, the commitment with which it worked for the illegalisation of triple talaq and Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision of inclusive development that brought me to the party," Bano told PTI. She said that she had joined the BJP to fight for the rights of Muslim women and rid them of injustices like denial of access to higher education.   Bano also said that she will try to shatter misconceptions about the BJP that it is anti-minority.    "I believe in the party's fair intentions towards minorities. The misconception about the party being against minorities needs to be shattered," she said.  Bano was the first to challenge the constitutionality of the practice of triple talaq in the apex court in 2016, four months after being divorced by her husband through speed post.  When asked whether she will also contest elections, she said, "I have not come to the BJP looking for a party ticket."  "But I am ready to accept any task that is assigned to me. My only goal is to fight for the uplift and empowerment of Muslim women who are still subjected to injustices such as denial of access to higher education," Bano said.  When contacted state BJP president Bhagat said he hoped Bano will fight for the party's ideology with the same determination with which she had fought her legal battle against triple talaq and won it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjps-progressive-policies-drew-me-to-party-shayara-bano-900427.html
11-10-2020||North and Central||Centre again 'invites' Punjab farmer bodies for talks on farm laws||Punjab's farmers' organisations, who have been protesting against the new farm laws, on Sunday said the Centre has once again invited them for talks on the issue on October 14. A decision on whether to accept the invitation will be taken at a meeting in Jalandhar on October 13, they said. The farmers' organisations, whose agitation against the farm laws has disrupted rail traffic and severely impacted coal supply for thermal power plants in Punjab, had last week rejected the Union agriculture department's invitation to participate in a "conference to address their concerns" on October 8. "We have received an invitation for a meeting on October 14," said Jagmohan Singh, general secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda). "Though the invite has come from the agriculture secretary, it mentions that the central government wants to talk to farmers," he said. "All farmers' organisations will decide whether to go to Delhi for talks in a meeting slated for October 13 in Jalandhar," he added. Farmers in Punjab have been demanding that these three laws be repealed. They have been holding a 'rail roko' agitation against the "anti-farmer" laws, with protesters squatting on railway tracks at various places in the state since September 24. Farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws will destroy the minimum support price mechanism, end Agricultural Produce Market Committees and allow corporates to arm-twist them. The government, however, has been saying that these laws, which were passed by Parliament recently amid a vociferous Opposition protest, will raise farmers' income, free them from the clutches of the middleman and usher in new technology in farming.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-again-invites-punjab-farmer-bodies-for-talks-on-farm-laws-900428.html
11-10-2020||North and Central||Ladakh records 72 new Covid-19 cases, one death||The union territory of Ladakh reported 72 new coronavirus cases and one more death, taking the total Covid-19 cases to 5059 and fatalities to 64, an official bulletin said on Sunday. With 87 more patients cured of the disease, the number of active cases in the region dropped to 1022 – 785 in Leh district and 237 in Kargil district, the bulletin released this morning by the directorate of health services said. The latest Covid-related death took place in Kargil, taking the total number of fatalities in Ladakh to 64 – 38 in Kargil and 26 in Leh, it said. Out of 72 new cases, the bulletin said 67 were detected in Leh and five in Kargil during the past 24 hours. It said 54 patients were discharged in Leh and another 33 in Kargil on Saturday after they recovered from the infection, taking the total number of recovered patients in the UT to 3973.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ladakh-records-72-new-covid-19-cases-one-death-900431.html
11-10-2020||North and Central||Six-year-old raped by neighbour in UP's Muzaffarnagar||A six-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a youth in her neighbourhood in Shamli district, police said on Sunday. The victim's mother alleged that the accused lured the girl with Rs 10, following which he took her to a nearby place to commit the crime, Superintendent of Police Nityanand Rai said. The youth has been arrested, Rai said, adding that the girl was sent for post-mortem. A case has been registered against him under sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, the SP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/six-year-old-raped-by-neighbour-in-ups-muzaffarnagar-900432.html
11-10-2020||North and Central||JMM leader, wife found murdered at home in Jharkhand||Senior JMM leader Shankar Rawani and his wife were found murdered at their residence in Jharkhand's Dhanbad district early on Sunday, police said. Prima facie it seems that Rawani (50) and Balika Devi were shot and then stabbed to death at their home in Bhowra area, Dhanbad city Superintendent of Police Ram Kumar said. An empty cartridge of 9mm pistol and a knife were recovered from the room, he said. According to the SP, neighbours found out about the murder and informed the police, following which he, along with Sindri DSP SK Sinha and other officers, reached the spot and found the two bodies lying in a pool of blood. Sniffer dogs have been deployed at the scene of crime, and a hunt has been launched to nab the killer, Kumar said, adding that the murder could be a fallout of old enmity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jmm-leader-wife-found-murdered-at-home-in-jharkhand-900437.html
11-10-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: DSC cop kills senior at ordnance factory; goes into hiding||A havaldar of the Defence Security Corps (DSC) allegedly shot dead his senior, a Naib Subedar, at an ordnance factory in Madhya Pradesh's Katni district following a dispute with him, police said on Sunday. Havaldar Sakat Singh (aged around 55) fired five shots at Naib Subedar Ashok Shikara (45) from a rifle around 7.55 pm on Saturday and then went into hiding somewhere in the compound which has tall bushes, Madhav Nagar police station's sub-inspector C K Tiwari said. The accused has an INSAS rifle with live bullets and has threatened that he would kill himself if someone comes close to him, he said. A DSC in-charge Colonel at the ordnance factory has been making efforts to make the accused surrender, he said. Tiwari said the havaldar was involved in handling deployments and finances at the the corps earlier. As per initial investigation, after Naib Subedar Shikara came in some time back, a fight over supremacy started between them and the shooting was its fallout, he said. The post-mortem of the victim has been conducted, the official said. The DSC is tasked with guarding defence installations across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-dsc-cop-kills-senior-at-ordnance-factory-goes-into-hiding-900442.html
11-10-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir: Three civilians hold key to Shopian probe in which two army men face inquiry||A special police officer and two other civilians hold the key to the Shopian encounter in July in which three youths were gunned down by the army, prompting authorities to launch a probe against two of its men, sources said. They said the role of the three civilians including a person who had allegedly led the army to the youths in Amshipura in Shopian needs to be thoroughly examined by the police. The statements of the two accused army personnel had been recorded during the Court of Inquiry and would be examined during the Summary of Evidence. The Court of Inquiry, which completed its probe last month, had found "prima facie" evidence that the troops had "exceeded" powers under the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) during the July 18 encounter in which the three men were killed. Following this, the army had initiated disciplinary proceedings. The three killed in Amshipura were Imtiyaz Ahmed, Abrar Ahmed and Mohammed Ibrar, hailing from Rajouri district. Their identities were subsequently confirmed through a DNA test. The bodies were handed over to their families in Baramulla earlier this week. The role and antecedents of these three youths are also being investigated due to lack of clarity on their intent and actions upon coming to Shopian. On October 8, Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha visited the families of the three Rajouri youths and expressed condolences. He also assured the families that the UT Government will extend full support to them and ensure that justice is done in the case. He also conveyed the message of Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the government stands with the aggrieved families, and they will be taken care of with all support from the government. Officials had earlier said some civilian witnesses would be called for examination. They include those who act as "informers" for the local army and may have possibly waylaid the troops in the wrong direction. According to the rules, the case details will be examined under various provisions of the law during the Summary of Evidence against the erring Army personnel. Further action will be taken based on the evidence collected and the rule of the law. The Army has been maintaining high standards of transparency and punishing officials whenever rules are violated, the officials said. During the Summary of Evidence, the proof in relation to a charge against an accused, noted down in writing including any statement made by the accused, is taken on record. Corps Commander of the Army’s Kashmir-based XV Corps, Lt Gen B S Raju had said on Saturday that the Army had begun the Summary of Evidence as prima facie evidence of some wrong doing had come up during the internal inquiry into the encounter at Amshipura on July 18, in which the Army claimed that three militants were killed. "We have already shared the basic information (in the case) that the initial court of inquiry has been concluded and we have seen some wrongs committed. On the basis of that, we have ordered the Summary of Evidence which is going on and we hope it concludes soon so that we go into the next stage," Lt Gen Raju had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-three-civilians-hold-key-to-shopian-probe-in-which-two-army-men-face-inquiry-900444.html
11-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt exempts road tax on battery-operated vehicles under its EV policy||The Delhi government has exempted road tax on its battery-operated vehicles under its new Electric Vehicle Policy, Delhi Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said on Sunday. The Transport Department, in its notification issued on Saturday, stated that the Lieutenant Governor of the National Capital Territory of Delhi exempted the tax levied upon all battery electric vehicles with immediate effect. Gahlot said in a tweet "Congrats Delhi! As promised by CM @ArvindKejriwal when announcing landmark EV Policy, Delhi govt has EXEMPTED road tax on Battery Operated Vehicles. With right incentives & supporting infra, we are determined to ensure Delhi leads the country in rapid transition to Elec Vehicles (sic)."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-exempts-road-tax-on-battery-operated-vehicles-under-its-ev-policy-900460.html
11-10-2020||North and Central||Shopian school comes under radar after ex-students join terrorist groups||A religious school in Shopian district of South Kashmir has come under the scanner of investigating agencies after 13 of its students were found to have joined terror groups, officials said here. The institution's students include Sajjad Bhat, an accused in the February 2019 suicide attack on a CRPF convoy in Pulwama that left 40 personnel dead. The school's students mainly hail from Kulgam, Pulwama and Anantnag districts of South Kashmir, considered by intelligence agencies to be the hotbeds of militancy and breeding grounds for recruitment of locals into various terror groups, officials said. It also had outstation students from Uttar Pradesh, Kerala and Telangana, but their number dropped to almost nil after the abrogation of Article 370 last year, the officials said. According to an official, since most students and faculty at the school hail from the terror-infected districts of Shopian and Pulwama, the ideology of terrorism may be flourishing there and in turn affecting the students belonging to other places too. He feels at the same time, the outside environment, local population, terror-related activities, and regular encounters of militants also play an effective role in propagating the ideology of terrorism. During investigation of the ghastly attack of February 14 last year when a suicide bomber rammed an explosive-laden car into a CRPF convoy killing 40 personnel, the intelligence agencies found that Bhat, whose vehicle was used used in the attack, had done his schooling from this same religious institute in Shopian district. The list of the institute's students involved in terrorism started expanding with the death of Zubair Nengroo, a so-called commander of the banned Al-Badr terror organisation, in August this year. Nengroo too was a student of the same religious school. According to an internal report, there are at least 13 listed terrorists and hundreds of over ground workers (OGWs) who are either students or alumni of this institute. Recently a youth from Baramulla went missing while returning to the school from his home after vacations. It was later found that he had joined the terrorist ranks. "Most of these 13 terrorists are natives of Shopian and Pulwama," the report said. Besides Bhat and Nengroo, the list of 13 alumni also includes Hizbul Mujahideen militant Nazim Nazir Dar, and Aijaz Ahmad Paul who was gunned down by security forces in an encounter on August 4 in Shopian. The officials feel that institutions such as this school become breeding grounds for recruitment into terrorist outfits like Hizbul Mujahideen, Jaish-e-Mohammed, Al-Badr, and Lashkar-e-Taiba as stories of killed terrorists depicting them as heroes are spread around through various means. "These factors leave a strong print in the minds of the students and when influenced by society and friends lead them to join terrorist ranks. It has been found in certain cases that the education of these kinds of religious institutions is encouraging the students to join terrorist ranks," said an official. The report pointed out that many day scholar students have been found to be involved in stone pelting, agitations and law and order situations against the security forces. "These students may spread the message of separatist ideology, hate against the government while glorifying the acts of terrorists," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shopian-school-comes-under-radar-after-ex-students-join-terrorist-groups-900482.html
11-10-2020||North and Central||Bihar Assembly Elections: Fighting ‘enemy within’, Nitish Kumar may now like Congress to win more seats||Bihar election was never so complicated in the last two decades. Till a fortnight back, it looked like a one-sided poll with the NDA making a clean sweep in the absence of a credible Opposition, particularly the faction-ridden Mahagatbandhan. But the last two weeks, particularly after Chirag Paswan’s revolt against Nitish Kumar, have seen many twists and turns which, in turn, have changed the entire permutations and combination. Sample these three scenarios: First: Nitish’s JD (U) is fighting against the Congress but wants the grand old party to romp home on maximum seats. Reason: The Congress may be of some help post-November 10, the counting day. Second: The RJD is fighting the poll in alliance with the Congress but wants its ally to win less number of seats as Lalu has reportedly expressed his apprehension in Ranchi that Congress may throw its weight behind Nitish in case of a fractured verdict. Third: The BJP has told the LJP that it’s no more part of the NDA, but deep within, it wants more and more nominees of Chirag Paswan to win so that if the saffron camp scores more than the JD (U) but is short of majority, the LJP may provide the much-needed succour. Barring 1995 Assembly poll, the Bihar election never looked so complex. Though no JD (U) leader worth his salt would go on record, but Deccan Herald has reliably learnt that Nitish is now seriously working on Plan B wherein if his party fails to get adequate number of seats, or is ‘sabotaged’ by the ‘enemy within’, he should have at least 30 to 40 additional MLAs to fall back upon. At least three authoritative sources within the ruling camp as well as the Congress have confirmed it to this correspondent that Nitish, apprehensive of any ‘foul play’, is now keeping all options open, including joining hands with his former allies, minus the RJD, post-poll. This includes the Congress (Nitish ally in 2015-17) and the Left (2013-14). It is against this backdrop that Nitish has appointed former Congress president Ashok Choudhary, now in the JD (U), as the party’s working president so that he could initiate the back channel negotiations with the Congress. The grand old party, as per the first list, has identified the five constituencies it is most likely to win - Bikram, Buxar, Barbigha, Hisua and Kahalgaon. “As per our information, Nitish would now like Congress numbers to swell. In fact, he has always been soft towards the grand old party,” said the senior AICC functionary. At the same time, the JD (U) is keeping a tab on all those BJP rebels who have joined hands with Chirag and contesting the poll on LJP symbol. The LJP has vowed to defeat Nitish. “Warning has been issued to the eight BJP rebels who are contesting as LJP candidates against Nitish’s nominees. These BJP rebels include Rajendra Singh, Rameshwar Chourasia, Usha Vidyarthi, Indu Kashyap, Mrinal Shekhar, Shweta Singh, Rakesh Singh and Rani Kumari,” informed the NDA source. Meanwhile, aware of the ‘larger gameplan’, the JD (U) released its ‘Saat Nishchay-II’ (Seven resolves-Part II), with the tag line: For Bihar’s growth, Nitish victory is for sure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bihar-assembly-elections-fighting-enemy-within-nitish-kumar-may-now-like-congress-to-win-more-seats-900489.html
11-10-2020||North and Central||NCRTC fined Rs 50 lakh for violating air pollution norms: Gopal Rai||The National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) has been fined Rs 50 lakh for not taking dust-control measures at a construction site in New Delhi, Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai said Sunday. The minister, who was on a visit to inspect demolition sites at Netaji Nagar and Kasturba Nagar, noticed uncovered mounds of dust at the NCRTC site near Vikas Sadan. The NCRTC is constructing a building of the rapid metro here. Rai said they have brazenly flouted dust-control norms despite strict directions from the government. "I have issued directions to impose a fine of Rs 50 lakh on NCRTC. Such disregard to air pollution will not be tolerated," he said. On Saturday, the Delhi government had imposed a fine of Rs 20 lakh on the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) for violating dust control norms at a demolition site on Tansen Marg in New Delhi. Directions were also issued not to carry out or restart any demolition activity without installing an anti-smog gun and taking other measures to prevent dust pollution at the project site. The Delhi Pollution Control Committee had earlier asked FICCI and other bodies to stop work at six demolition and construction sites for not taking adequate steps to control dust pollution. It is mandatory to install anti-smog guns at construction and demolition sites larger than 20,000 square meters, according to government guidelines. The government has also imposed fines ranging between Rs 20,000 and Rs 5 lakh on 31 RMC plants for not taking measures to prevent dust pollution. Eleven of these plants where violations were of “serious nature” have been told to stop work. The environment department has set up 14 inspection teams to check violations of pollution norms. “This anti-dust campaign will continue in mission mode till October 15 and strict action will be taken against the violators,” the minister had earlier said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ncrtc-fined-rs-50-lakh-for-violating-air-pollution-norms-gopal-rai-900499.html
11-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi-Katra Vande Bharat train to resume from Oct 15: Union Minister Jitendra Singh||Union minister Jitendra Singh on Sunday said the Vande Bharat train from Delhi to Katra, home to Mata Vaishno Devi shrine, will resume its service from October 15. The move comes after his recent discussion with Railway Minister Piyush Goyal regarding resumption of the train to Katra in Jammu and Kashmir ahead of Navratri festival. “As follow-up to discussion with Railway Minister Sh @PiyushGoyal two days back, Ministry of Rly has announced resumption of #VandeBharatExpress train from New Delhi to #KatraVaishnoDevi from 15th October. A huge relief & exciting information for pilgrims on the eve of #Navratri,” Singh tweeted.   Singh, the Minister of State for Personnel, is Lok Sabha member from Jammu and Kashmir's Udhampur constituency. Train services in the country, which were halted in late March due to coronavirus induced lockdown, are being resumed in a graded manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-katra-vande-bharat-train-to-resume-from-oct-15-union-minister-jitendra-singh-900511.html
11-10-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir begins process to woo global investment in health care||The department is eyeing on an initial investment of Rs 1,000-2,000 crore in the private sector for building modern healthcare institutions in Jammu and Srinagar to provide the best health services to the public. The Jammu and Kashmir State Administrative Council (SAC) on March 9, 2019, approved the 'State Health Care Investment Policy-2019' aimed at promoting private parties and entrepreneurs to set up healthcare infrastructure in the state. "We are in the fresh process to attract global investment into the healthcare setup in Jammu and Kashmir. The Covid-19 has badly hit the global investors summit to bring huge investment into J&K. We are back with the process now," Financial commissioner, health and medical education, Atul Dulloo told PTI in an interview on Sunday. He said that three major investment proposals have come to us and they are under process. Under the global summit, meeting would be held with top players in the health sector across the country very soon, he said. Jammu and Kashmir is the only state in the country, which has no major and middle level chain of hospitals operating in the rest of the country. Except Batra hospital in the private sector, nearly 97 per cent of healthcare needs are met by public health institutes, reveals a latest report on manpower audit in the health department, underlying importance of the government healthcare system in the state. "In 2018-19 at least 2.39 crore OPD visits of patients were recorded in J&K and out of them 99.2 per cent (2.22 crore patients) were seen only in government hospitals. The private sector accounted for a minuscule 0.8 per cent of all OPD visits", as per the report. Besides, 96.6 per cent (8.36 lakh) patients who needed admission availed public health facilities while 91.3 per cent of all deliveries took place in government hospitals, it added. Dulloo said that most of the dependence of people rests with public health institutes. "Efforts are on to ensure promotion and encouragement of private entrepreneurs to set up healthcare infrastructure in the state for which the government shall provide subsidies on various fronts to the entrepreneurs," he said. He said that health and medical organisations are eyeing on an initial investment of Rs 1,000-2,000 crore for private entrepreneurs for establishment of hospital, medical and allied educational infrastructure and establish the state as a destination of choice for private healthcare service providers, besides promoting medical tourism. Dulloo, who is the architect of the 'State Health Care Investment Policy-2019', said that focus is not only creation of the best of the best private hospitals in Jammu and Srinagar but also smaller ones in districts and health resorts to boost health and wellness tourism as J&K is natural destination of the world. The commissioner said that the salient features of the policy include 30 per cent subsidy on capital investment to be provided for setting up of multi-speciality and super-speciality hospitals, medical, nursing and paramedical colleges. He said other salient features of the policy include interest subsidy at a rate of five per cent per annum on term loan subject to a ceiling of Rs 15 lakh per year for a period of five years from the date of operationalisation of the project and subsidised power tariff rates as applicable to the industries sector. "Single-window clearance mechanism would be adopted for processing the project proposals with final approval to be accorded by Apex Level Project Clearance Committee (ALPCC)", he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-begins-process-to-woo-global-investment-in-health-care-900512.html
11-10-2020||North and Central||Minor gang-raped inside college in Uttar Pradesh||A 17-year old girl was allegedly gang-raped inside a polytechnic college in Uttar Pradesh's Jhansi town, about 300 kilometres from here, on Sunday. According to the police sources here, the victim, who had gone to meet a friend of hers, was dragged along with her boyfriend, inside the college by a dozen youths. The youths allegedly thrashed her boyfriend before stripping her, sources said. The minor was allegedly gang-raped by some of the youths. They also prepared a video of the incident and threatened to make it viral if she lodged a complaint with the police in this regard. The victim was rescued by a cop, who happened to be passing by and heard her cries. The youths fled from there on seeing the cop, sources said. A senior police official in Jhansi, however, said that one of the youths raped the victim. ''We have identified the accused,'' he said. Police said that a case was registered in this connection against 12 youths and a hunt was launched to nab them.  Former union minister and senior Congress leader from Jhansi Pradeep Jain Aditya slammed the UP government for failing to check spiraling crimes against the womenfolk in the state. ''This government has failed to ensure the safety of the women....the crimes against the women have been rising sharply,'' he said. The incident comes close on the heels of the alleged gang[-rape and brutal murder of a teen in Hathras district triggering nationwide outrage and condemnation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minor-gang-raped-inside-college-in-uttar-pradesh-900518.html
11-10-2020||North and Central||Former civil servants set up committee under Justice Lokur to probe Delhi riots||A group of civil servants on Sunday set up a six-member committee led by former Supreme Court judge Justice Madan Lokur to examine "what transpired before, during and after" the Delhi riots as the police investigation evoked criticism. The Constitutional Conduct Group (CCG), a group of former civil servants working towards fostering a civic culture bound by the ethos of the Constitution, said it felt that a committee with credible reputation in the higher judiciary, the civil service and the police would be best suited to contribute to an objective and fair understanding of the riots and their aftermath. "Considering the horrific nature of the riots in North-East Delhi in February 2020, the scale of violence, the loss of lives and the resulting communal divide between communities, we felt that an expert body should carry out a thorough examination of what transpired before, during and after the riots. This has become even more necessary as the investigation carried out into the riots by the Delhi Police has evoked extensive critical commentary in recent times," a statement said. Besides Justice Lokur, the other members of the 'Citizens Committee on the Delhi Riots of February 2020: Context, Events and Aftermath' are former Justices AP Shah, RS Sodhi and Anjana Prakash, former Home Secretary GK Pillai and former Director-General of Bureau of Police Research and Development Meeran Chadha Borwankar. The CCG said the committee's task is to "create a contemporary record of acts of omission and commission around the riots, and their aftermath". The Terms of Reference for the committee include inquiry into the events that transpired before and during the riots, including the response of the state machinery in dealing with the violence, restoring law and order, and related matters and analyse and assess the response of the police in investigating the riots. The committee will also examine the role of the mainstream media and social media in spreading information, both genuine and fake, before, during and after the riots, and its impact on events as well as assessing the civic administration’s efforts at providing relief and extending reparations to the victims of riots. "The Constitutional Conduct Group expects the Committee to be committed to independence, impartiality and transparency in its functioning, and to ensuring that it conducts itself with integrity, that all persons who engage with the committee are accorded dignity and respect, and that confidentiality of communications is protected," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-civil-servants-set-up-committee-under-justice-lokur-to-probe-delhi-riots-900535.html
11-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to launch spraying of anti-stubble burning solution on October 13||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will on Tuesday launch the spraying of anti-stubble burning solution in Delhi's Ghalib Pur village, Environment Minister Gopal Rai said on Sunday. “So far, we have received applications to spray the anti-stubble burning solution on nearly 1,500 acres of land where non-basmati rice is grown,” he said.   Scientists at the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, PUSA, have developed ''bio-decomposer'' capsules, which are used to prepare a liquid formulation. The solution, when sprayed in the fields, can decompose crop residue and turn it into manure. A centralised bio-decomposer system has been set up in Kharkhari Nahar village in southwest Delhi.   This year, the Delhi government is going to use the solution on the land where non-basmati rice is grown. “We have estimated that only Rs 20 lakh is needed to manage stubble in 800 hectares of agricultural land in Delhi through this solution. It includes the cost of preparation, transportation and spraying,” he said. If this proves to be successful in Delhi, it can be a good solution to the issue of stubble burning in neighbouring states too, he said. Rai said the contribution of farm fires in neighbouring states to Delhi's pollution goes up to 44 per cent during the harvesting season.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-to-launch-spraying-of-anti-stubble-burning-solution-on-october-13-900541.html
11-10-2020||North and Central||MP farmer hangs self, kin point to Rs 5 lakh debt, lost crops||A 40-year-old farmer allegedly committed suicide in Sunehra village in Raisen in Madhya Pradesh on Sunday, police said. Deceased Krishnamurari Lodhi's brother Gajraj said that the former had taken Rs 5 lakh from banks and money-lenders and its repayment was causing stress after he lost his soybean crop due to heavy rains recently. A probe was underway to find out why he hanged himself, said Inspector Indraj Singh of Begamganj police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-farmer-hangs-self-kin-point-to-rs-5-lakh-debt-lost-crops-900552.html
11-10-2020||North and Central||Left parties accuse UP govt of 'playing tricks' to keep Hathras victim's family away from fact-finding team||Left parties on Sunday accused the Uttar Pradesh authorities of "playing tricks" to keep the family of a Dalit woman, who allegedly died after being gang-raped in Hathras, away from its fact-finding team, which had to call off its visit after being informed that the family was being shifted to Lucknow for a court appearance. In a joint statement, the CPI, CPI(M) and LJD alleged that the UP authorities were not in favour of their visit. The fact-finding team comprised of Elamaram Kareem (CPI(M)), Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya (CPI(M)), Binoy Viswam (CPI) and M V Shreyams Kumar (LJD). In the statement, the parties said the team had spoken to the victim's family and the District authorities about their visit and fixed it for Sunday morning. The District Magistrate and District Police Superintendent had also agreed for a meeting with the team about the visit, it said. "But on Saturday late evening, we got an information from police sources that the family had to be taken to Lucknow for a hearing in the high court on Monday. It is to be noted that Lucknow is only 6-7 hours away from Hathras and they can reach there comfortably by Sunday evening even if the family leave from there at noon time. "We were looking forward to see the family on Sunday morning around 11 am. After repeated communication from our offices regarding the visit, it was quite clear from the attitude of the authorities that they were not in favour of our visit and wanted to avoid us meeting the family," the statement said. The team, however, decided to still go ahead with their plans but on Sunday when they were to start for Hathras, the team was informed that the family will be taken to Lucknow in the morning itself. "When we checked up with the family, they said that they have no idea about it and the police have instructed them to be ready to leave Hathras before 10 am. So, in the air of uncertainty of meeting family, we had to drop the plan to visit Hathras. "We seriously doubt that the Police, who are just obeying the orders of the BJP government, did not want us to meet the family and understand the facts. They intentionally misguided us about the family's Lucknow journey citing court engagement," it said. It further added that "authorities in Hathras are still playing tricks to keep the family away from public glare." The statement said the authorities feared that the team's visit will be another occasion to highlight the incidents and the failure of this government in dealing with the case. The statement said now, it has been made known to the team that the family is scheduled to leave for Lucknow on Monday at 5.30 am. "So, it is undoubtedly clear that the authorities intentionally gave wrong information to us, the media as well as the victim's family regarding their Lucknow journey. We strongly doubt that all these exercises were carried out only to avoid the fact-finding team meeting the victim's family. "The ugly face of BJP regime in UP is being unveiled through this. We hereby urge the people of this country to unite and come forward against this anti-democratic government in UP. We will continue our fight against these forces and stand in solidarity with the victim's family," it said. The family members of the 19-year-old Dalit woman who died at a Delhi hospital after allegedly being raped by four men in Hathras will appear before the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court on Monday. "Shocked" by the murder and alleged gang-rape of the Dalit woman and the subsequent forcible cremation, the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court had on October 1 summoned top government officials. Taking suo motu cognisance of the case, which has triggered widespread outrage, a division bench of Justice Rajan Roy and Justice Jaspreet Singh had ordered the Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary, state police chief and an additional director general of police to appear before it on October 12 to explain the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/left-parties-accuse-up-govt-of-playing-tricks-to-keep-hathras-victims-family-away-from-fact-finding-team-900560.html
11-10-2020||North and Central||29 new Covid-19 deaths in Delhi, lowest since Sept 25||The national capital's cumulative Covid-19 case count rose to 3.09 lakh with authorities reporting 2,780 fresh cases on Sunday, while 29 fatalities took the number of deaths to 5,769. This is the tenth day on the trot that the city reported less than 3,000 new Covid-19 cases. A total of 2,866 cases were recorded on Saturday, 2,860 on Friday, 2,726 on Thursday and 2,871 on Wednesday. The city reported 29 deaths on Sunday -- the lowest since September 25 when 24 fatalities were recorded. The fatality count was 48 on Saturday, 39 on Friday, 37 on Thursday and 35 on Wednesday. Of the total cases reported in Delhi so far, 2,81,869 have either recovered, been discharged or migrated out. A total of 48,753 tests were conducted to detect Covid-19 infection on Saturday, of which 10,801 were RT-PCR tests and 37,952 rapid antigen tests. A total of 36,23,419 tests have been conducted in the national capital so far - 1,90,706 tests per million population. The case positivity rate during the last 24 hours was 5.70 per cent while the cumulative positivity rate was 8.54 per cent. The average death rate for the last 10 days stands at 1.38 per cent. The number of active cases was 21,701 on Sunday, of which 12,470 are under home isolation. Of the 16,118 hospital beds in the city, 10,889 are unoccupied. The number of containment zones is 2,710.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/29-new-covid-19-deaths-in-delhi-lowest-since-sept-25-900579.html
11-10-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Woman dies after giving birth to 16th child, newborn also dead||A 45-year-old woman gave birth to her 16th child in Madhya Pradesh's Damoh district, but both of them died soon afterwards, a local health worker said on Sunday. The woman, Sukhrani Ahirwar from Padajhir village in the district, delivered a baby boy at home on Saturday, Kallo Bai Vishwakarma, an Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) under the National Rural Health Mission (NRHM), said. "However, the condition of the woman and her newborn turned critical and they were rushed to a primary health centre, where both of them were pronounced dead," she added. According to her, Ahirwar had given birth to 15 children earlier, however, the family had lost seven of them. District Chief Medical and Health Officer Dr Sangeeta Trivedi confirmed the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-woman-dies-after-giving-birth-to-16th-child-newborn-also-dead-900582.html
11-10-2020||North and Central||74% candidates appear in SKUAST, Jammu CET-2020||The SKUAST-J conducted the CET-2020 for admission to the undergraduate (UG) programmes of BSc (Honours) Agriculture, BTech Biotechnology and BVSc and AH for academic session 2020-2021, it said. "Of the 2,596 applicants, 1,919 including candidates from other states appeared in the CET-2020, which comes to 74 per cent of the total applicants for admission to 212 seats," the release said. Besides these, it said 15 per cent seats are reserved for the all-India quota, admissions to which are made by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research and Veterinary Council of India. The entrance examination was held at five different centres, the spokesperson said, adding that Vice-Chancellor Professor J P Sharma, along with Director, Education S K Gupta, visited different centres to oversee the conduct of the test. Professor Sharma said despite the Covid-19 pandemic, there has been an overwhelming response for admission to various professional undergraduate programmes in the university. Examination Cell in-charge, SKUAST-J, Sushil Kumar Gupta said the test was conducted smoothly with appreciable support of the staff and the principals and deans of the host institutions. The SOPs and guidelines related to the pandemic were adhered to during the test, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/74-candidates-appear-in-skuast-jammu-cet-2020-900592.html
11-10-2020||North and Central||SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal urges PM Modi to invite farmers for talks over farm laws issue||Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to invite protesting farmers for talks over the issue of contentious farm laws. “Till now, no way has been found by the Centre to resolve this issue (farm laws). I request the prime minister that he should himself call a meeting of all farmers' bodies and hear them out to know their concerns,” said Badal while addressing the media here. He said not only farmers but farm labour, Arthiyas (commission agents), mandi labour among others will be hit by the new legislations.           “Farmers are on the roads and have been squatting on rail tracks,” he said, adding, “If farmers are happy, then the state and country will be happy.” He said there was surplus foodgrain in the country because of the hard work of farmers of Punjab and Haryana. Badal also asked Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to go to Delhi and press the Centre over the issue of farm legislations.           Badal said his party was always ready to fight for the cause of farmers.           Farmers in Punjab have been protesting against the new farm legislations and have been demanding that they should be repealed.           Badal along with his wife and former union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal were here to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sad-chief-sukhbir-singh-badal-urges-pm-modi-to-invite-farmers-for-talks-over-farm-laws-issue-900638.html
11-10-2020||Opinion||New farm laws, the path to destruction of our way of life||America has for some years now been witnessing something most of us think happens only in India – a large number of farmer suicides. One study said that farmer suicides in 17 US states were at twice the rate of suicide among the general population. And it did not even take into account farmers’ suicides in some major agricultural states, such as Iowa. In a December 2018 report, The Guardian said that the US farmer suicide crisis is part of a larger, in fact global, farm crisis: One Australian farmer ends life every four days; one UK farmer takes his or her own life every week; in France, a farmer kills himself or herself every two days; more than 270,000 farmers have ended their lives in India since 1995. Farmers’ incomes have been falling since the 1980s, a trend that has accelerated in the last decade. Since 2013, net farm income for US farmers has fallen by 50%. The median farm income for 2017 was estimated at minus $1,325. The Guardian report noted that “without parity in place (essentially a minimum price floor for farm products), most commodity prices remain below the cost of production.” This is a global phenomenon, and a big part of the reason for the low prices for farm produce is the fact that big businesses have taken over every aspect of food production in most parts of the world – from the farm lands to what crops are grown and for whom, food processing, logistics, marketing and sales. The ‘food industry’ is a set of large vertically-integrated enterprises. When the Walmarts of the world go and contract with farmers – even the large farmers in America – they drive prices down to the barest minimum, and they have to in order to be able to offer you, the urban consumer, “everyday low prices” at their vast supermarkets. In such a situation, Narendra Modi has brought in his farm laws, and wants us all to believe that farmers will get better prices from private buyers of farm produce outside the mandi system, where there is no minimum price floor (or Minimum Support Price, MSP). The new farm laws may prove to be good or bad for farmers, that only time will tell. It has been the experience worldwide that once big businesses come into agriculture, farmers, who were until then subject only to local forces, suddenly find themselves at the mercy of food speculators and hoarders, who store up grain and wait for the prices to go up. That the so-called farm reforms have been accompanied by the scrapping of the Essential Commodities Act is not by accident. But what the farm laws will certainly do is to destroy our way of life. Food, the way we grow it, process it, cook it, eat it, celebrate it, is at the very heart of our culture. The new farm laws are historic, as Modi has claimed they are, but not in the way he wants us to think they are. These laws will upend a civilisational mindset that has evolved over thousands of years. The farm laws push Indian agriculture towards greater formalisation, financialisation and contractualisation. The effect of these will be, in one word, the industrialisation of our food. The Hindutva of razing mosques to build temples may be proceeding to the satisfaction of its proponents and their bhakts, but the Hindu lived way of life – the foundation of those temples and the temple that’s our nation as a whole – will be destroyed from the inside. Why do I say that? Think about these: At one end of our food experience, we are not a people who are given to standard mathematical measures of size and weight in our foods. For us, food is art, food is variety. We love our chaats, for instance, because they taste different and tingle our taste buds differently in each bite. The magic is in the hands of the maker, not in a standard measure of ingredients – like in an industrialised burger – or temperature. It’s the difference between the improvisations in an Indian classical music performance and the strict adherence to musical notes in the Western tradition. The industrialisation of food will, by its very nature, kill that with its demands of standardisation and repeatability. At the other end is the civilisational mentality behind the fact that the offerings we make to the gods is all about food. Even the annual ritual of remembrance of our dead ancestors is one of inviting them to accept an offering of food. Would we be willing to offer them items of food obtained from an industrialised system, with all that it entails? Why is it that we are unwilling to import dairy products from America? But with industrialisation, will we be able to resist them further? Modi’s may not be an evil suit-boot ki sarkar, but it certainly does not seem to have the wherewithal to think at this deeper civilisational level about our food system. Even America today bemoans the industrialisation of food, especially after the realisation that its obesity crisis, and all its accompanying ills, is the child of that phenomenon. Macaulay may have filled our heads with English in his attempt to make us “Indian in blood and colour, but English in taste, in opinions, in morals and in intellect,” but he succeeded only partly. Modi’s farm laws will stuff a quintessentially alien way of life into our mouths – industrialised food. If language is the mind of a civilisation, food is its heart. The mind is partly colonised already, now Modi’s farm laws will ensure that the heart is, too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/new-farm-laws-the-path-to-destruction-of-our-way-of-life-900274.html
11-10-2020||Opinion||Stinging caterpillars and poisonous news||I received a WhatsApp forward from multiple groups last week. It showed a man poking a large green hairy caterpillar, resting on a mango leaf, with a stick. He warned viewers that this was a dangerous, poisonous insect – anyone who touched it would die a horrible death within four hours. The “deadly insect” in this video is the common Baron caterpillar, which hatches into a mud-coloured, gently beautiful common baron butterfly. It certainly causes intense itching if you touch it – similar to the kambli hula, which we all know too well – but you don’t need to poke it with a stick. It’s not going to kill you. All it seeks is to be left alone, melting inconspicuously into the background of the mango leaf, completing its journey of transformation into a pretty butterfly. Some ants sting, but we need ants to turn over and aerate the earth so that other things can grow. Some caterpillars cause itching, but without them, we would have a world without butterflies, and that would be a shame. Some snakes are venomous, but if we kill each snake we see, we will end up with a world full of rats and bandicoots. Things that cause you discomfort are often good for you – remember your grandmother’s efforts to make you drink bitter kashaya? In a year filled with tragedy, the last couple of weeks have stood out, filled as they have been with bitterness, anger and the loss of hope. One way to deal with it is to shut the doors on the news. Another is to drown out the important stories with an overdose of Bollywood and Sandalwood scandals. But looking away, while it may spare us discomfort, will make things worse. The changes we see today have not come upon us unexpectedly. They are the result of structural problems simmering within society for generations – inequalities of caste, class, gender, compounded by the fact that absolute power corrupts absolutely. The atrocities we see around us have gone on for centuries. Even a day longer is too long. But we cannot root them out unless we understand why we are in the place we are today. Can books on nature help us? I turned to an old childhood favourite: TH White’s classic, The Sword and the Stone. The book chronicles the boyhood years of the young King Arthur. Adopted and raised in a foster home, young Arthur is sent by the wizard Merlin on a magical journey to learn about animal life. Turned into a fish, an ant, a hawk, an owl and a goose (and late in his adult life, into a badger), he learns about the use and misuse of power. As the Bhagavad Gita warns, Wart also learns about the danger of letting bloodlust overtake you. A lust for war and killing can camouflage itself as a desire to see justice. But unless we subsume our violent instincts, and work together for the greater human good, there is no hope for humanity. These are powerful lessons that Arthur keeps in mind when he becomes a powerful monarch, holding the lives and happiness of his subjects in his hand. Watership Down, another childhood favourite I turn to, follows a group of rabbits as they escape from danger. In their search for a new home, they experiment with many forms of social organisation, before they finally reach safety. While humans, in this book, are enemies, they are helped by a loving little girl at the end. Human societies hold the potential to wield power with gratuitous cruelty, or with compassion and kindness. But first, we need to identify and tear down the walls of power, cruelty and unkindness that divide us. Only then can millions of beautiful Baron caterpillar flourish as butterflies, and millions of beautiful young Dalit village women walk without fear into a brave new world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/stinging-caterpillars-and-poisonous-news-900275.html
11-10-2020||Opinion||The pitfalls of polarisation||The Band’s famous — and increasingly infamous — 1969 hit song The Night They Drove Old Dixie Down, recounts the personal tragedy of war from the point of view of a poor southern rebel. This is the American Civil War, which means, of course, that the song tells a sympathetic story of none other than a perpetrator. The version of the song that appears in Martin Scorsese’s documentary film about The Band’s final concert, The Last Waltz, is so packed with poignant emotion, it sends shivers down my spine. I’m moved by the travails and traumas of this simple racist, whom I would have doubtless despised in person. And who probably would have enjoyed hanging me from the nearest tree. Like anyone else, I usually don’t delight in sympathising with the plight of my ideological opponents — who are, in my case, the Indian (or the American) right. My instinctual prejudice is to dismiss them as ignorant, arrogant, entitled, chauvinist, racist, casteist, sexist, reactionary, unprincipled, and increasingly dangerous, with no grasp of either common decency or common sense. And what are their prejudices about a leftist like me? We should be able to read them in the comments section tomorrow. While political life, to a certain extent, may require us to encounter one another, social life offers opportunities of near-total avoidance. It’s natural for us to seek the comforts of the familiar, and to avoid the aggravations of having to tolerate those whose thoughts and practices we find repugnant. But there is a serious problem of potential polarisation lurking here within our instinctual attitudes. And this problem is getting irreversibly amplified through a full raft of popular technologies. Over the last couple of decades, ideological options have been narrowing considerably so that there are predominately only two widely acceptable points of view on national issues, one radically opposed to the other. We have long seen this reduction of nuance and increase in polarity via television news debates. Commentators representing one side spew venom at those from the rival position, humiliate and disparage them, seeking only to win the debate at all costs. Side effects may include egregious spinning of the facts and outright lies to all of us witless viewers. While public debate has been reduced to this kind of spectacle on television, even more dangerous is how we consume news and information through social media and the internet. With Twitter, Facebook, and similar platforms, we find ourselves increasingly living in echo chambers within which we hear only our own ideology repeated. We listen less and less to points of view that challenge our own. The algorithms of social media keep us in these bubbles, displaying only what we agree with or what agrees with us. This constant comfort or repetition of the attitudes of our ‘in groups’ alienates us from the ‘out groups’, those who think differently from us. As studies in social and cognitive neuroscience have shown, this polarisation dehumanises the ‘out group’, making us less concerned for their welfare, indifferent to their tragedies. At the same time, as we encounter only curated caricatures of rival positions, we continue to lose grasp of the art of compassionate debate — what ancient philosophers sometimes referred to as poorva paksha. Poorva paksha, although it may itself have sought to undermine and dismantle opposing positions, required transcending our own echo chambers and deeply inquiring into the logic and merits of opposing thought. The goal of debate was not merely to humiliate a rival and persuade the gullible, but rather, to force oneself to be clear about what one believed and why — to be able to communicate it not only to oneself but also to the ‘outed’ or the other. Today, in this thoroughly polarised world, we seriously run the risk of losing this capacity to effectively communicate with our ideological rivals. With communication gone, the only option left is violent confrontation. And this is already the character of much violence today, deaf but deafening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-pitfalls-of-polarisation-900276.html
11-10-2020||Opinion||Quad’s no longer just ‘oceanic foam’||The second foreign ministerial meeting of the Quadrilateral (Quad) at Tokyo on October 6, to build a “free and open Indo-Pacific”, did not result in a joint statement nor was a headquarters established, indicating a delay in the institutionalisation process and the subtle differences on the matter between the members. Yet, unlike the first meeting at New York in September last year and the previous six meetings at lower levels, several joint initiatives are at the implementation stage, suggesting a successful consensus-building process. These include, firstly, vaccine development for Covid-19. With an R&D base and production capacity to develop and distribute the vaccine, the Quad countries’ initiative in this regard is timely. Secondly, the spread of Covid-19 resulted in interruption of transportation networks, and in addition to the US-China trade war, has led to critical supply chain disruptions. The Tokyo meeting pondered over how to make resilient the supply chain mechanisms. Despite the last few months’ shutdown in economic activity and falling growth rates, certain efforts like shifting production centres to Vietnam, Indonesia and India are bearing results, albeit slowly. Thirdly, the Quad has been eyeing opportunities that 5G telecom technologies offer. With China’s Huawei coming under the scanner in many countries for its connections to the Chinese Party-State apparatus, State subsidies and cybersecurity challenges, the Quad – some of whom are part of the Five Eyes programme – have been wary of potential security challenges from China. Fourthly, several fundamental agendas for the Quad as mentioned at the 2017 Danang meeting in Vietnam -- free and open Indo-Pacific, rule of law, maritime security and connectivity, counter-terrorism, opposing the spread of weapons of mass destruction and the like, are bearing results. Ever since China began militarising the South China Sea and defied the July 2016 Permanent Court of Arbitration ruling on international maritime law, this issue has become prominent, threatening the free flow of trade and services through the region. China’s cajoling of the South-East Asian countries to sign a ‘Code of Conduct’ before next year has added urgency to the Quad process. Fifthly, the Quad is attracting attention from a wider community of nations. There is a proposal for Quad Plus – to possibly include Indonesia, Vietnam, South Korea, in addition to Germany, France and UK. This could make the Quad more inclusive and broadbased to cater to different regions of the world. Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke about inclusivity and ASEAN centrality in his Shangri La dialogue in June 2018. At the Tokyo meeting, ASEAN’s outlook on the Indo-Pacific was endorsed. ASEAN had earlier endorsed international law in resolving the South China Sea dispute. Sixthly, while the US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo was explicit in his criticism of China’s track record, other Quad members could only shore up courage in a multilateral initiative. For instance, on the current border standoff in eastern Ladakh, New Delhi needs to have a comprehensive game plan, in which the Quad has a part to play. The meetings with Myanmar and Afghanistan officials are to shore up support for India in the event of large-scale encirclement designs by Beijing, which is actively roping in Nepal and Sri Lanka, besides provoking Pakistan to open a second front against India. Likewise, for Australia, which has coming under China’s intense coercive economic and diplomatic pressure after Canberra raised the Covid-19 issue at the World Health Assembly meet, the Quad process provides support. Besides, Australia could bounce back into the Malabar Exercises that it had shunned in September 2007 under Beijing’s pressure. For Tokyo, which is facing the twin disasters of a Covid-19-induced economic meltdown and China’s pounding pressure on the Senkaku islands, with over 600 transgression in the last year, the Quad could provide security in the longer run. Besides, as one of the main proposers of “free and open Indo-Pacific”, Tokyo would like to see the project come to fruition as a tribute to the ailing Shinzo Abe. In all these, China’s efforts at “occupying the global centre stage” as unveiled in the 2017 Communist Party Congress, and which resulted in the acute contest in the Indo-Pacific’s continental and maritime domains, appears to have met their match. China’s position on the Quad changed from Foreign Minister Wang Yi’s comments in 2017 of it being mere “oceanic foam” that would dissipate soon to last week’s foreign ministry spokeswoman’s comment that Beijing is opposed to “organising closed and exclusive cliques.” Many China-led multilateral institutions actually remain exclusive and conditional. With strong opposition from the US and other Quad members, China is expected to take a more strident tone against the Quad in the coming days and weeks in the form of balancing, aiding and expanding its influence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/quad-s-no-longer-just-oceanic-foam-900277.html
11-10-2020||Opinion||Fighting the internet: Rebel against the screens a bit||If literature today is likened to wildlife, then poetry would be its most endangered species, because in the Insta age, everyone is a ‘poet’. By extension, all are artists, comics, and musicians. Yes, the internet and social media have democratised conversation. But they have blurred notions of meaning, value, criterion. Anything flies now. No matter how slanted the yardsticks of the past were, they have been dismantled. If all manner of social and cultural elite groups manned the gates of ‘culture’ once, to a degree, it’s a free-for-all now. Of course, this has happened due to the internet-overdosed smartphone. There’s no doubt that older controls over art, music, literature and journalism are being broken. The question now is, how are we to know how to isolate the chaff from the grain in our blink-and-you-will-miss-it times? How do we assess the quality of art or information? In fields like journalism, media expansion has ushered in diversity. Across many languages, the mainstream (also, legacy) media can no longer ignore the many glaring or subtle blind spots of our public life. Especially over matters of social inequity. Till some time ago, many of the upper castes and men who dominated the profession were perhaps less inclined to examine caste or gender with a steady focus. To an extent, they got away with it then, but their organisations now no longer can. Some lesser known, but credible, news site will go where none of the big media have yet, over some raging but less explored story that illumines our national condition. Yes, we have fake news and malicious misinformation and disinformation, too. But the advances enabled by the internet have outweighed the downsides. In the field of books, self-publishing and digital publishing and a range of new kinds of presses with foci on the margins of our consciousness, have taken off breaking through standards in the world of letters that were in the grip of niche groups. For instance, Dalit publishing and media in India have disrupted the peace over caste. They’ve been at the forefront of questioning the metropolitan and mainstream coverage of events as reservation in education and employment, events like the Bhima-Koregaon marches, and many matters that go back a long way. They’ve been unrelenting in calling out entrenched media over their open or invisible partialities. These are portals that dissent against the perceptions of previous generations and sections of the current one. While much of our mainstream media still reflects the concerns of dominant pockets of society, the talk-back from other media counterweighs them. Something similar obtains now in the spheres of creative work. Since the outlets to display one’s work, whether it’s a painting, a drawing, a poem, or short story, have widened and come to us in the form of a click or two, the older ways of appraising them, have caused much muddling, because every classic work of art or literature may now be compared to some middling web series. How do we retain th passion for the riches of the past and handle the flux of the present? It’s necessary that individuals begin having a critical distance from the lures of the uber-tech age. Even as it grants us high-quality knowledge that was not accessible before, the smartphone’s addiction inducing capabilities, attention span-killing powers, sleep pattern ravaging, and the utter absence of parameters, make it the marauder of the life of the mind in our time. To understand where we are as humans in the world, one must make a concerted effort to engage with the best of the warts-and-all pre-internet past. That will need switching off. Reflection requires slowing down. Once, we did not have the means to know many things. But now, portions of humanity do. And so, they stare at multiple open tabs on their devices running from one distraction to another. Unless one has the privilege or just no means, it’s hard to live without staying connected to the Net. Societies, via complex webs of corporations and governments, have let the internet take over their lives. The individual must rebel against the phone, the Net, the screen, the lens, even as they partake of them. A small way to use them well will be to never be on them all the time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/fighting-the-internet-rebel-against-the-screens-a-bit-900278.html
11-10-2020||Opinion||There will be no Donald Trump coup||Three weeks from now, we will reach an end to speculation about what Donald Trump will do if he faces political defeat, whether he will leave power like a normal president or attempt some wild resistance. Reality will intrude, substantially if not definitively, into the argument over whether the president is a corrupt incompetent who postures as a strongman on Twitter or a threat to the Republic to whom words like “authoritarian” and even “autocrat” can be reasonably applied. I’ve been on the first side of that argument since early in his presidency, and since we’re nearing either an ending or some poll-defying reset, let me make the case just one more time. Across the past four years, the Trump administration has indeed displayed hallmarks of authoritarianism. It features egregious internal sycophancy and hacks in high positions, abusive presidential rhetoric and mendacity on an unusual scale. The president’s attempts to delegitimize the 2020 vote aren’t novel; they’re an extension of the way he’s talked since his birther days, paranoid and demagogic. These are all very bad things, and good reasons to favour his defeat. But it’s also important to recognize all the elements of authoritarianism he lacks. He lacks popularity and political skill, unlike most of the global strongmen who are supposed to be his peers. He lacks power over the media: Outside of Fox’s prime time, he faces an unremittingly hostile press whose major outlets have thrived throughout his presidency. He is plainly despised by his own military leadership, and notwithstanding his courtship of Mark Zuckerberg, Silicon Valley is more likely to censor him than to support him in a constitutional crisis. His own Supreme Court appointees have already ruled against him; his attempts to turn his voter-fraud hype into litigation have been repeatedly defeated in the courts; he has been constantly at war with his own CIA and FBI. And there is no mass movement behind him: The threat of far-right violence is certainly real, but America’s streets belong to the anti-Trump left. So if you judge an authoritarian by institutional influence, Trump falls absurdly short. And the same goes for judging his power grabs. Yes, he has successfully violated post-Watergate norms in the service of self-protection and his pocketbook. But pre-Watergate presidents were not autocrats, and in terms of seizing power over policy he has been less imperial than either George W. Bush or Barack Obama. There is still no Trumpian equivalent of Bush’s anti-terror and enhanced-interrogation innovations or Obama’s immigration gambit and unconstitutional Libyan war. Trump’s worst human-rights violation, the separation of migrants from their children, was withdrawn under public outcry. His biggest defiance of Congress involved some money for a still-unfinished border wall. And when the coronavirus handed him a once-in-a-century excuse to seize new powers, he retreats to cranky libertarianism instead. All this context means that one can oppose Trump, even hate him, and still feel very confident that he will leave office if he is defeated, and that any attempt to cling to power illegitimately will be a theatre of the absurd. Yes, Trump could theoretically retain power if the final outcome is genuinely too close to call. But the same would be true of any president if their reelection came down to a few hundred votes, and Trump is less equipped than a normal Republican to steer through a Florida-in-2000 controversy — and less likely, given his excesses, to have jurists like John Roberts on his side at the end. Meanwhile, the scenarios that have been spun out in reputable publications — where Trump induces Republican state legislatures to overrule the clear outcome in their states or militia violence intimidates the Supreme Court into vacating a Biden victory — bear no relationship to the Trump presidency we’ve actually experienced. Our weak, ranting, infected-by-COVID chief executive is not plotting a coup, because a term like “plotting” implies capabilities that he conspicuously lacks. OK, the reader might say, but since you concede that the Orange Man is, in fact, bad, what’s the harm of a little paranoia, a little extra vigilance? There are many answers, but I’ll just offer one: With American liberalism poised to retake presidential power, it needs clarity about its own position. Liberalism lost in 2016 out of a mix of accident and hubris, and many liberals have spent the last four years persuading themselves that their position might soon be as beleaguered as the opposition under Putin, or German liberals late in Weimar. But in reality, liberalism under Trump has become a more dominant force in our society, with a zealous progressive vanguard and a monopoly in the commanding heights of culture. Its return to power in Washington won’t be the salvation of American pluralism; it will be the unification of cultural and political power under a single banner. Wielding that power in a way that doesn’t just seed another backlash requires both vision and restraint. And seeing its current enemy clearly, as a feckless tribune for the discontented rather than an autocratic menace, is essential to the wisdom that a Biden presidency needs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/there-will-be-no-donald-trump-coup-900306.html
11-10-2020||Opinion||Taking a page from authoritarians, Donald Trump turns state power against political rivals||President Donald Trump’s order to his secretary of state to declassify thousands of Hillary Clinton’s emails, along with his insistence that his attorney general issue indictments against Barack Obama and Joe Biden, takes his presidency into new territory — until now, occupied by leaders with names like Putin, Xi and Erdogan. Trump has long demanded — quite publicly, often on Twitter — that his most senior cabinet members use the power of their office to pursue political enemies. But his appeals this week, as he trailed badly in the polls and was desperate to turn the national conversation away from the coronavirus, were so blatant that one had to look to authoritarian nations to make comparisons. He took a step even Richard Nixon avoided in his most desperate days: openly ordering direct immediate government action against specific opponents, timed to serve his reelection campaign. “There is essentially no precedent,” said Jack Goldsmith, who led the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel under President George W. Bush and has written extensively on presidential powers. “We have a norm that developed after Watergate that presidents don’t talk about ongoing investigations, much less interfere with them.” “It is crazy and it is unprecedented,” said Goldsmith, now a professor at Harvard Law School, “but it’s no different from what he has been saying since the beginning of his presidency. The only thing new is that he has moved from talking about it to seeming to order it.” Trump’s vision of the presidency has always leaned to exercising the absolute powers of the chief executive, a writ-large version of the family business he presided over. “I have an Article II,” he told young adults last year at a Turning Point USA summit, referring to the section of the Constitution that deals with the president’s powers, “where I have the right to do whatever I want as president, but I don’t even talk about that.” Now he is talking about it, almost daily. He is making it clear that prosecutions, like vaccines for the coronavirus, are useless to him if they come after November 3. He has declared, without evidence, that there is already plenty of proof that Obama, Biden and Clinton, among others, were fueling the charges that his campaign had links to Russia — what he calls “the Russia hoax.” And he has pressured his secretary of state to agree to release more of Clinton’s emails before the election, reprising a yearslong fixation despite having defeated her four years ago. Presidential historians say there is no case in modern times where the president has so plainly used his powers to take political opponents off the field — or has been so eager to replicate the behaviour of strongmen. “In America, our presidents have generally avoided strongman balcony scenes — that’s for other countries with authoritarian systems,” Michael Beschloss, the presidential historian, wrote on Twitter after Trump returned from the hospital where he received Covid-19 treatment and removed his mask, while still considered contagious, as he saluted from the White House balcony. Long ago, White House officials learned how to avoid questions about whether the president views his powers as fundamentally more constrained than those of the authoritarians he so often casts in admiring terms, including Vladimir Putin of Russia, Xi Jinping of China and Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey. They have something in common: Trump’s State Department has criticized all three for corrupting the justice systems in their countries to pursue political enemies. (Russia, the State Department complained in its 2019 Human Rights report, engaged in a “crackdown on political opposition and other critics before and after presidential elections that Vladimir Putin won.” Turkey, it said the same year, has conducted the “arbitrary arrest and detention of tens of thousands of persons, including former opposition members of parliament.” In recent weeks. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has been particularly outspoken about the state’s use of a new national security law to arrest activists and political opponents of the Chinese Communist Party.) Pompeo has always bristled when reporters have asked him to explain what the world should believe when it reads Trump’s most authoritarian-sounding tweets. He answers that what distinguishes the United States is that it is a “rule of law” nation, and then often turns the tables on his questioners, charging that even raising the issue reveals that the reporters are partisans, not journalists, intent on embarrassing Trump and the United States. But his anger is often wielded as a shield, one that keeps him from publicly grappling with the underlying question: How can Washington take on other authoritarians around the world — especially China, Pompeo’s nemesis — for abusing state power when the president of the United States calls for political prosecutions and politically motivated declassifications? “We’ve never seen anything like this in an American election campaign,” said R. Nicholas Burns, a former undersecretary of state who is now an informal adviser to Biden. “It reduces our credibility — we look like the countries we condemn for non-democratic practices before an election.” “I have worked for nine secretaries of state,” Burns said. “I cannot imagine any of them intervening in an election as blatantly as what we are seeing now. Our tradition is that secretaries of state stay out of elections. If they wanted to release Hillary Clinton’s emails, they could have done it in 2017, 2018 or 2019. It is an abuse of power by Donald Trump and Mike Pompeo.” Another career diplomat who served as both ambassador to Russia and deputy secretary of state, William J. Burns, said that what Trump had ordered is “exactly the kind of behaviour I saw so often in authoritarian regimes in many years as an American diplomat.” “In dealing with Putin’s Russia or Erdogan’s Turkey, we would have protested and condemned such actions,” he said. “Now it’s our own government that’s engaging in them. “The result,” said Burns, now the president of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “is the hollowing out of our institutions at home and deep corrosion of our image and influence abroad.” In the current cases, it is unclear whether Trump will get his wish — or whether his loyal appointees will slow-walk his requests. There is some evidence they are already looking for escape hatches. Pompeo, the administration’s most conspicuous ideologue, Trump’s most vocal loyalist and a lawyer, was clearly taken aback when the president expressed displeasure, saying he was “not happy” that the State Department had not released emails sent through Clinton’s home server. “You’re running the State Department, you get them out,” the president told Fox Business in an interview this week. “Forget about the fact that they were classified. Let’s go. Maybe Mike Pompeo finally finds them.” Pompeo, one of his aides said Saturday, was in a box: The complaint about Clinton’s home server was that she was risking exposing classified emails by not using the State Department email system — a system Russia had already infiltrated — yet Trump was demanding that they be released in full. Just days before, he had announced, over Twitter, that he was using his executive power to declassify all of them, without redactions. “We’ve got the emails,” Pompeo responded on Fox News. “We’re getting them out. We’re going to get all this information out so the American people can see it.” But he also hinted that many of Clinton’s emails, mostly those that were stored on the State Department’s own system, have already been posted on the agency’s website, after an unusually diligent effort by the department to respond to Freedom of Information Act requests from Trump’s supporters. (They are often heavily redacted — to the point of containing no content — despite the president’s order to the contrary.) “We’re doing it as fast as we can,” Pompeo told Dana Perino, a Fox News anchor who once served as President Bush’s press secretary. “I certainly think there’ll be more to see before the election.” Pompeo clearly understands the problem: Even if he makes all of them public, they are unlikely to satisfy the president. Last year, the State Department’s own inspector general found that while Clinton had risked compromising classified information, she did not systematically or deliberately mishandle her emails. William Barr may face an even greater challenge in satisfying the president. No attorney general since John Mitchell, who served Nixon and brought conspiracy charges against critics of the Vietnam War, bent the Justice Department more in a president’s direction. And Nixon himself, while urging the IRS to audit political opponents, stopped short of publicly calling for individual prosecutions. Yet in February, Barr told ABC News that Trump “has never asked me to do anything in a criminal case.” At the same time, he complained that the president’s tweets about the Justice Department “make it impossible for me to do my job.” Now, clearly, the president has asked Barr to act in a criminal case — and not in a quiet phone call. Instead, he did it on Twitter and Fox News, expressing his deep disappointment with his second attorney general, for essentially the same reason he fired his first one, Jeff Sessions: insufficient blind loyalty. His complaint appears to have been driven by Barr’s warning to the White House and other officials that there are likely to be no indictments before the election from the investigation being run by John Durham, the US attorney in Connecticut. Durham is searching for evidence that the inquiry into Russia was a politically motivated effort to undercut his presidency. Trump says the case is clear-cut. He told Rush Limbaugh, the conservative radio host to whom he gave the Presidential Medal of Freedom during the last State of the Union address, that Durham has had “plenty of time to do it.” “Unless Bill Barr indicts these people for crimes — the greatest political crime in the history of our country — then we’ll get little satisfaction unless I win,” Trump said on Fox Business. “If we don’t win,” he said, “that whole thing is going to be dismissed.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/taking-a-page-from-authoritarians-donald-trump-turns-state-power-against-political-rivals-900315.html
11-10-2020||Opinion||How Modi is skewing Centre-State ties||Is Indian federalism, or the delicate consensus between India’s states and the Union, crumbling? All signs seem to point in that direction. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), under its mascot Narendra Modi, has established an almost unchallenged dominance in national politics. But it finds itself struggling to imprint its supremacy in the states. India’s federal arrangements are now emerging as an important site of contestation for the BJP in its quest for absolute political hegemony.  Through a mix of fiscal, administrative and institutional measures, the current regime is attempting to reshape the nature and form of India’s federal bargain. The project is a work in progress. Just hours from now, state finance ministers will lock horns, for the third time in as many months, with the Central government at a specially convened GST council meeting to resolve the vexed issue of who should borrow (Centre or states) to meet the GST compensation deficit. Thus far, the Centre has stubbornly refused, despite sound economic logic, to take on the burden of borrowing to meet its commitment to the states under the GST law.   Last month, the Centre bulldozed agricultural market reforms, an area that falls firmly within the Constitutional domain of state governments, with no regard for consensus building or Parliamentary process. The political significance of the BJP’s centralising project is articulated through the slogan of ‘One Nation’ that it is now linked with all its development schemes. Implicit in this is a clear political message: This government has little patience for its own stated goal of “cooperative federalism”.  The irony is inescapable. As chief minister, Narendra Modi was amongst the most vocal advocates for state rights. He pushed hard for greater fiscal autonomy for the states, rallied against the Government of India’s central schemes and argued to the Planning Commission that they locked states into rigid, one-size-fits-all, centrally-driven agendas that went against the grain of India’s federal structure. On taking office as prime minister in 2014, Modi committed himself to replace the centralising Planning Commission with the NITI Aayog because the “States of the Union…do not want to be mere appendages of the Centre.” Yet, through its policy actions, rather than promote cooperative federalism, this government has carefully renegotiated Centre-state relations to tilt the balance of power firmly toward the Centre. Consider the following: First, the 14th Finance Commission increased states’ share in the divisible pool of taxes from 32% to 42%. Having accepted, indeed welcomed, this recommendation, the Centre carefully avoided fulfilling it. Actual transfers to states as a share of gross tax revenue have been in the range of 30% to 35%. Second, the terms of reference (TOR) provided to the 15th Finance Commission. These have been devised to nudge the commission firmly in the direction reducing state share in the divisible pool. While we will have to wait for the final report to ascertain the fate of state finances, the political demand for centralisation, including the suggestion to consider a non-lapsable defence fund, expressed through the TOR, is loud and clear. Third, rather than dismantling the practice of one-size-fits-all central schemes, this government actually created more – Ujjwala, PM Kisan, Swachh Bharat, Ayushman Bharat. To be fair, all governments (irrespective of party) have misused their fiscal powers and encroached on states’ autonomy through central schemes. The 14th finance commission calculated the ratio of Central spending on state subjects increased from 14% in 2005 to 20% in 2012. But what distinguishes this government from its predecessors, who were stymied by the constraints of coalition politics, is its ability to successfully deploy schemes for its political pursuits. In its first term, central schemes became an inextricable tool for building moral legitimacy and voter trust in Modi. An entire gamut of administrative resources, including direct monitoring of schemes by Central government bureaucrats and technology tools, combined with the BJPs army of grassroots workers to directly popularise ‘Modi’s’ schemes. The attempt was to create a direct link between Modi and the voter. The gamble paid off. Political logic of centralisation In its second term, the BJP has been far more aggressive in its pursuit of centralisation. The grammar of cooperative federalism has been eschewed in favour of ‘One Nation’. Ideologically, the BJP has had relatively little patience for the Constitutional compromise of using federalism as a device to accommodate India’s multiple linguistic, religious and ethnic identities, best illustrated in its historical objection to Article 370.  In pursuit of its hegemony and emboldened by its electoral mandate, substantive federalism is now being positioned as an impediment to development. To accelerate progress, India must become, ‘one nation, one market’, ‘one nation, one ration card’, ‘one nation, one grid’. While there is a strong economic rationale for pursuing ‘national’ goals’, their articulation within the political project of ‘One Nation’ places them in direct tension with India’s federal aspiration.  In this framing, federalism as a principle necessary for negotiating diverse political contexts and identity claims must play second fiddle to India’s developmental aspirations.  Challenge from regional parties But the BJP’s centralising agenda also poses a political dilemma for its own expansion. Despite its dominance, India’s multiple regional, ethnic and religious identities will continue to seek political representation outside the BJP. This is, as I have argued in a research paper with the political scientist, Neelajan Sircar, one reason why regional parties remain key players in state politics. For the moment the primary political strategy for the BJP to reclaim states is to destabilise regional parties by deploying its institutional powers – we witnessed this in its ugliest form in the controversy over Sushant Singh Rajput. But the gains of this intimidation strategy were visible even in August 2019, when regional parties failed to fight for their federal rights, even as the Centre took the unprecedented step of downgrading a state into a union territory. However, as it entrenches its political and cultural project of centralisation, the BJP will find it difficult to credibly mediate regional aspirations. We already saw glimpses of this in the North East, where the passage of the Citizenship Amendment Act witnessed a resurgence of protest linked to very specific historic anxieties over ethnic and regional identity that the BJP was unable to negotiate. The real test to our federalism will lie in the ability of our regional parties to credibly navigate these new regional assertions and reopen the fight for a renewed, deeper federal compact for India. (Yamini Aiyar is President and Chief Executive, Centre for Policy Research)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-modi-is-skewing-centre-state-ties-900319.html
11-10-2020||Opinion||Donald Trump has called his supporters ‘disgusting.’ Do they care?||Sitting in the back of his limousine after an appearance on The Tonight Show, Donald Trump was explaining to me why he never had much use for Jimmy Carter. “Jimmy Carter used to get off Air Force One carrying his luggage,” Trump said, smirking. “I don’t want a president carrying his luggage.” It sends the wrong message, Trump believed, for a president to act like some kind of humble servant, an everyday slob. A commander in chief should be imperial and, yes, superior. “I don’t want someone who is going to come off carrying a large bag of underwear,” Trump said. It was late in 2015, Trump was the unlikely front-runner for the Republican presidential nomination, and I was following him around for a profile I was working on. I was struck by how someone with such an obsessively cultivated image as a gold-plated know-it-all could appeal to a base made up heavily of white blue-collar workers, union-affiliated and non-college-educated voters — a stark departure from Republican coalitions of the recent past. Even the most aristocratic of American presidents had at least pretended to share the folksy tastes of “ordinary” voters — George HW Bush and his pork rinds, for instance. It might have been unconvincing, but at least it seemed polite. As Trump’s limo inched away from 30 Rockefeller Plaza, Hope Hicks, his not-yet-famous communications director, pointed at a group of fans running up Sixth Avenue in pursuit. “Look at these people,” Trump said. “It’s literally a little bit sad.” I’ve thought about this episode a lot during Trump’s tumultuous term in office and possibly imminent comeuppance at the polls. It’s hard not to wonder how he really feels about his supporters, especially when the coronavirus-positive president began walking maskless around the White House. He has been, to say the least, careless about placing his most devoted people at risk. These include his own top White House and campaign aides, residence staff members, Secret Service agents, Republican senators and campaign advisers, and possibly donors at a fundraising luncheon in New Jersey and rallygoers in Minnesota (depending on when he first thought he might be contagious). On Friday news broke that he was planning to hold a rally for hundreds this weekend on the White House lawn. Several people who have dealt extensively with Trump have suggested that he takes a dubious, even disdainful view of his most loyal followers. He takes them for granted because he knows they would forgive him for anything: “I could stand in the middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody, and I wouldn’t lose any voters.” “The people Trump despises most love him the most,” said Howard Stern, who hosted Trump on-air for years, in May. His voters, Stern said, are people he would not want in his hotels. “He’d be disgusted by them,” he said. “Go to Mar-a-Lago, see if there’s any people who look like you. I’m talking to you in the audience.” In his recent memoir, longtime Trump fixer Michael Cohen described the contempt with which his boss would speak about evangelical Christians, perhaps the president’s most durable corps of supporters. After a meeting with a group of pastors in 2011, Cohen says Trump asked him, “Can you believe this [expletive]?” Until recently, it had been easy to consign the question of how Trump sees his supporters to the black hole of speculation about his true motivations, if anyone still bothers with that. In a broad political sense, Trump’s handling of the coronavirus has clearly driven away swarms of older voters, traditionally the Republican Party’s most bedrock constituency, who polls now show overwhelmingly support Joe Biden. As a general rule, saying that the coronavirus would “just disappear” or “go away” and that Trump himself feels 20 years younger after being treated for it is not going to play well with the demographic group — age 65 and older — that accounts for roughly 80% of coronavirus deaths. Biden has picked up on this message. Even before the president tested positive, Biden was pointing out how diligent the president always is in remaining physically apart from those who attend his rallies. “The next time he holds one, look closely,” Biden said during a visit to Manitowoc, Wisconsin. “The folks who come are packed as tightly as they can be, risking disease, mostly without masks. But not Trump; he safely keeps his distance.” Biden campaign sources say their candidate is absolutely targeting Trump-inclined voters by talking about how little he believes the president cares about them. Biden frequently brings up a recent article in The Atlantic, by Jeffrey Goldberg, that said President Donald Trump has derided American combat troops as “losers” and “suckers.” Trump denied making the remarks, though the allegations were later confirmed by The Washington Post, Fox News and other news outlets. “It makes my blood boil,” Biden said last month in Tampa, Florida, about the “losers” and “suckers” report, “the way he gets in front of a camera and crows about how much he’s done for our vets and then turns around and insults our service members and fallen heroes when the cameras are off.” This has been another recurring theme of Biden’s: the notion that Trump is two-faced. He bathes in the adoration of his followers in public while voicing contempt for them in private. Biden has shared an anecdote from Olivia Troye, a former homeland security adviser to Vice President Mike Pence and member of the White House Coronavirus Task Force. In a video released by the group Republican Voters Against Trump, Troye recounted how Trump said in a task force meeting that one benefit of the pandemic was that he no longer would have to shake hands with his supporters. “I don’t like shaking hands with people,” Troye quoted Trump as saying. “I don’t have to shake hands with these disgusting people.” In fairness, Trump is a noted germaphobe whose distaste for handshaking long predates the coronavirus. But Troye emphasized that “disgusting people” referred to the well-wishers themselves, not the act of shaking hands. “Oh, he talked all the time about the people themselves being disgusting,” Troye told me in an interview Friday. “It was clear immediately that he wanted nothing to do with them.” Trump’s defenders shrug off such remarks with the all-purpose “That’s just how Trump talks” excuse. Indeed, many in his audiences seem happy to receive his casual scorn as playful banter. Recently, Trump told a rally in North Carolina that he probably would not have shown up if he’d been doing better in the polls. “I would have said no, we don’t have to bother.” In Manchester, New Hampshire, the president said that if Biden wins the election, “I’ll be so angry at New Hampshire, I’ll never speak to you again.” He said something similar in Michigan: “Michigan, you better vote for me! I got you so many damn car plants!” At first it was refreshing that Trump never bothered with the faux-modesty routine — “This election is not about me, it’s about you.” This struck me as one of the few truly honest parts of his act. His cartoonish self-regard seemed to buy him a certain credibility with his supporters, whose unshakable allegiance appeared to fall somewhere between true belief and being in on the joke. It’s difficult to quantify the degree to which Trump’s base might now be softening, but there is anecdotal evidence to suggest, at the very least, a trying of patience. “I don’t think he has any respect for those who vote for him,” said one participant from Wisconsin in a focus group of people who voted for Trump in 2016 conducted by Republican Voters Against Trump. “I think he thinks he’s better than, smarter than, everybody,” said another focus group member, this one from Texas. One of the evergreen thought exercises of the Trump era has been trying to guess what it might take to finally shake the faith of his most devoted supporters. “We’re always asking, ‘What would it take to break the camel’s back?’” said former Rep. Tom Rooney, R-Fla, who withdrew his support for Trump in 2016 after the release of the “Access Hollywood” video. “When the losers-and-suckers thing happened, I asked a friend of mine if that bothered him, and he said, ‘Nope,’” Rooney told me. All that mattered to his friend was that he thought Trump was a better bet to keep his taxes low. “That was it,” Rooney said. “End of discussion.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/donald-trump-has-called-his-supporters-disgusting-do-they-care-900329.html
11-10-2020||Opinion||Covid-19 is Big Oil’s asteroid strike||By Julian Lee Covid-19 may do for Big Oil what the Chicxulub asteroid did for the dinosaurs when it struck Earth 66 million years ago.   Much like the “terrible lizards,” Big Oil was already in decline before the novel coronavirus hit. The world in which they thrived is changing around them and they face multiple threats to their future health. But the outbreak’s impact has accelerated the process. The pandemic has slashed oil demand, taking prices down with it. Producers everywhere were slow to react. Now the recovery is taking longer than initially expected, as infection rates remain stubbornly high in the US and they spike again in Europe. For this horrible year, the International Energy Agency sees global oil demand 8.4 million barrels a day lower than it was in 2019. In 2021 it will still be 2.5 million barrels a day down on last year. The other major oil forecasting agencies see a similar future. That makes the next couple of years an uncomfortable time for all oil producers.  In the second quarter, when the pandemic had its most dramatic impact on oil demand and prices, European oil majors were able to offset some of their losses with huge profits from in-house trading teams. It was a period of extreme price volatility. They won’t have that buffer in their third-quarter results. The struggles faced by Big Oil are clearly reflected in their share prices. Exxon Mobil Corp.’s value is now just half what it was at the start of the year, and Chevron Corp. is down by a little less than 40%. Royal Dutch Shell Plc has fallen even further.    It’s been a particularly bad few weeks for Exxon. First it lost its place in the Dow Jones Industrial Average, leaving rival Chevron as the index’s only oil company. Last week it briefly ceased to be the largest U.S. oil company by market value for the first time since it began as Standard Oil more than a century ago. That crown, too, passed to Chevron.  Exxon is facing a backlash for its unwillingness to adapt to changes in the planet’s physical environment. The Church of England Pensions Board sold all its holdings in the company after it failed to set goals to reduce emissions produced by its customers. Oil rivals, particularly those based in Europe, have moved more quickly to set themselves ambitious carbon-reduction targets, although it’s important to maintain a healthy skepticism over their ability to reach them.    Big Oil is also getting smaller. BP Plc plans to cut 10,000 jobs, equivalent to 14% of its workforce; Shell will shed 9,000 workers, or 11%; and Chevron will reduce its payroll by 6,000, a 13% reduction. Exxon will also cut headcount, although it hasn’t given a figure. While the pandemic will hopefully subside, the pre-existing threat from the shift away from carbon-based fuels won’t. Both BP and French oil major Total SE now see global oil demand plateauing at close to 100 million barrels a day by 2030, before starting to fall. Shell also expects demand for oil products to peak, “whether it is this decade or next is anybody’s guess,” De La Rey Venter, a Shell executive, told the FT Commodities Global Summit last month.  Even the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries can now see a peak coming, a notion it had previously called misguided. OPEC’s latest World Oil Outlook, published last week, says the world’s consumption of liquid fuels will reach a plateau around 2040. OPEC’s outlook points to one more challenge for Big Oil. It forecasts that oil production from non-OPEC countries will stagnate and fall after a rebound from pandemic-hit production levels by 2025. When it does, the world will need OPEC members to pump more oil, even as demand stagnates. While the oil majors can theoretically explore for and pump crude anywhere, they’re excluded from the one country that offers the most attractive combination of ample reserves and low costs — Saudi Arabia. Some dinosaurs lingered for another million years after the Chicxulub asteroid struck. Others evolved into more than 10,000 species of birds. The Covid-19 pandemic won’t bring about the imminent demise of Big Oil companies. But it will almost certainly hasten their metamorphosis, and those that can’t change will go the way of Tyrannosaurus Rex and Brontosaurus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/covid-19-is-big-oil-s-asteroid-strike-900475.html
11-10-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh CM Jagan Mohan Reddy writes to CJI Bobde against sitting SC judge||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy has written to Chief Justice of India S A Bobde that a top Supreme Court judge, also in line to be the next CJI, acted in the interests of the Telugu Desam Party and that his closeness to former CM Chandrababu Naidu was worrying, bringing the fairness of the institution into question, multiple media reports said. In his letter, Reddy reportedly alleged that Justice N V Ramana “has been influencing the sittings of the (Andhra Pradesh) High Court" and asked the CJI to look into the matter to ensure the neutrality of the state's judiciary is maintained. The letter also names at least four other sitting High Court judges who were "rostered" to handle cases against Opposition leader Chandrababu Naidu. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-cm-jagan-mohan-reddy-writes-to-cji-bobde-against-sitting-sc-judge-900348.html
11-10-2020||South||1,717 new Covid-19 cases, 5 deaths in Telangana||Telangana reported 1,717 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 2,12,063 while fivemore deaths pushed the toll to 1,222. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 276, followed by Rangareddy (132) and Medchal Malkajgiri (131) districts, a government bulletin said, providing data as of 8 pm on October 10. The cumulative recovered cases stood at 1,85,128,while 25,713 are under treatment. As many as 46,657 samples were tested on October 10. Cumulatively, 35,47,051 samples have been tested. The samples tested per million population was 95,299, the bulletin said. The case fatality rate in the state was 0.57 per cent, while it was 1.5 per cent at the national level. The recovery rate in Telangana was 87.29 per cent, while it was 85.9 per cent in the country. The number of individuals in home/institutional isolation was 21,209.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/1717-new-covid-19-cases-5-deaths-in-telangana-900381.html
11-10-2020||South||Scrap the movie hurting our emotions: Disha's parents protest and petition against Ram Gopal Verma's film 'Disha Encounter'||Filmmaker Ram Gopal Varma’s latest offering “Disha – Encounter” is facing the disapproval of the family of the young veterinarian who was gang-raped and murdered last year in the outskirts of Hyderabad.    Varma, known for basing his films on controversial, sensational subjects, released a 160-second trailer of the film on YouTube on September 26. The preview garnered three million views till Sunday. “We were pained by the idea of the movie and now anguished by the various types of comments posted in response to the trailer,” Disha’s father said, demanding termination of the film’s shooting and release. He approached the Telangana High Court with a petition seeking a direction to stop the film evidently based on his daughter’s sorrowful saga. 'Disha' was the name given by the Telangana police to conceal the identity of the 26-year-old doctor brutally raped and later set afire by four men on the night of November 27 at Shamshabad, near the Hyderabad-Bangalore highway. In an outcome hailed as “swift justice” by the public, all four accused - in their twenties and hailing from Maktal in south Telangana, were shot dead by the police a week later on December 6. The word “encounter” in the film's title refers to this police action, which is under inquiry by a Supreme Court appointed commission. On Sunday, Disha’s family and friends staged a protest at Varma’s production house in Jubilee Hills.    “Varma has no permission from us to make the movie. He did not even approach us seeking our version or approval,” Disha’s father told reporters. Varma asserts his movie as fictitious. “With regard to speculations on DISHA ENCOUNTER film I once again want to clarify it’s a fictional story based upon many cases from Nirbhaya rape onwards,” Varma said in a tweet on Saturday. Disha’s parents charge that the movie aggrieving them “is not to bring societal awareness on crime on women but for Varma to make money.” They pleaded to all parents with daughters to condemn Varma’s venture "disregarding their suffering." Varma is planning to release Disha Encounter on November 26, coinciding with one year of the incident.    Known for runaway hits like Shiva, Rangeela, Satya, Varma also has a long history of movies made on sensitive subjects. In August, an SC/ST court in Telangana’s Nalgonda has halted the release of Varma’s movie Murder based on a petition by a woman, Amrutha. The film was structured on the father-daughter bond, and an inter-caste marriage in the Miryalaguda town. Amrutha’s husband Pranay’s "honour-killing" in Septwmber, 2018, was allegedly plotted by her father Maruthi Rao. Varma’s movies centered on Andhra Pradesh politics like Lakshmi’s NTR, based on an alternative narrative of events leading to former Chief Minister NT Rama Rao’s death, have purportedly uneased the TDP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/scrap-the-movie-hurting-our-emotions-dishas-parents-protest-and-petition-against-ram-gopal-vermas-film-disha-encounter-900453.html
11-10-2020||South||2 dead, 5 injured in house collapse in Hyderabad||Two women died and five others were injured when a part of an old house here collapsed on Sunday due to heavy rains, police said. The incident happened at around 12.10 pm at Hussainialam when the seven people were in the house. All of them with injuries were shifted to a hospital where two women died and the five were under treatment, a police official told PTI. After getting information about the house collapse, a rescue operation by personnel from the police and other government departments was carried out. Authorities began demolition of the remaining part of the house. Heavy rains lashed Hyderabad on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/2-dead-5-injured-in-house-collapse-in-hyderabad-900487.html
11-10-2020||South||Chennai: 17-year-old launches website to help students get free laptops, phones||Her mother giving away a used laptop to the housemaid so that her daughter could attend online classes sparked an idea in the mind of 17-year-old Gunisha Aggarwal. The 12th standard student launched a website to bridge the digital divide by helping students in need of a laptop, a tablet, or a smartphone to attend online classes that have now become the order of the day. In the past one month, Gunisha Aggarwal has collected 25 brand-new tablet devices with help from NGOs and has already distributed five of them to deserving students who reached out through the website. The website allows people who like to donate, and students in need of help register at the click of a mouse. Those who need help are asked to mention their family income and upload their school identity card or Aadhar card. “I saw my mother, Dr Vaneeta Aggarwal, giving a used laptop to our house help for her daughter and that is when I realised how providing spare devices can help the needy. So, I decided to help students whose parents may not have the financial wherewithal to buy them a smartphone. I did this as a fellow human being,” Gunisha Aggarwal told Deccan Herald. Kelvina, a 10th standard student studying in a private school on the outskirts of Chennai, was struggling to find a smartphone to attend classes as the family had only one device. “My father supplies drinking water in the area, and he needs the phone most times. I had to miss my classes several times due to the non-availability of a phone. But now I have a tablet device all for myself and it has made my life very easy. Not just to attend classes, the device is helpful to get in touch with teachers on WhatsApp,” Kelvina told Deccan Herald. Gunisha has tied-up with NGOs to find beneficiaries and distribute the devices as she feels they can help her achieve the goal of helping the needy. In the next few days, she will give five devices to Seva Chakra Samajam, an orphanage here, as part of her initiative. “My parents have a major role in the way I think. I began working on the project in August and in the past one month we have received 25 devices. We are in the process of connecting with NGOs and individuals who can help us find donors and students who would need our help,” Gunisha Aggarwal said. The website has a presence on Instagram and Facebook managed by her sister Arshita.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chennai-17-year-old-launches-website-to-help-students-get-free-laptops-phones-900515.html
11-10-2020||South||Kerala's 11,755 new Covid-19 cases on October 10 higher than daily count of Maharashtra, Karnataka||A day after Kerala for the first time overtook Maharashtra in the number of fresh Covid-19 cases, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan cited the instance of the Malabar state to appeal to people to avoid social and religious gathering in the upcoming festive season in order to minimise the spread of the virus. On Saturday there were 11,755 new Covid-19 cases in Kerala followed by 11,416 in Maharashtra. This is probably the only time in the last few months when the southern state was ahead of the western province that remained the epidemic’s epicentre from the very beginning. However, it's too early to say if a single day overshoot is an indication of a bigger worry. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan stated that the present trend was an indication that the Covid-19 cases would continue to surge in the coming weeks. On Sunday Kerala reported 9,347 new cases as against Maharashtra’s 10,792. Relaxations in gatherings from the time of Onam, poor enforcement of social distancing, low number of tests and ineffective utilisation of the private health sector are some of the reasons cited by experts as contributing factors behind the sudden surge in Kerala. Restrictions were literally thrown to the winds in Kerala during the Onam season last month. Most major shops and commercial streets were live. In addition, there was an increasing number of participants for events like marriages and relaxations were given to travel to Kerala from other states. Public transport also resumed and there was an increase in political strikes that led to the congregation of people in close proximity. The government should have imposed the controls to the maximum extent possible to avert the surge and people should have been be properly educated on how to remain safe by keeping off from gatherings, said V Ramankutty, public health expert and consultant to Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology, Thiruvananthapuram. With the health ministry officials worrying about the Durga Puja-Dussehra-Eid-Diwali-Chhath season for the next one month in the wake of the Onam experience, Vardhan warned people to stay away from large congregations and celebrate the upcoming festivals at home, with their loved ones, instead of going out to fairs and pandals. "The whole world looked at us and asked us the method to flatten the graph", Health Minister K K Shailaja said. After May 4, things changed as the lockdown was easedand people started returning to the state from abroad, mainly Gulf, and other states. “There is no need to congregate in large numbers to prove your faith or your religion. If we do this, we may be heading for big trouble. Our goal is to finish this virus and save humanity. This is our religion and the religion of the whole world,” the minister said in his weekly social media interaction with the people. The second and third cases were also Wuhan returnees, but it effectively checked any large scale spread then while the three also recovered. From January-March, the state had 499 cases, out of which 33 per cent was through local transmission and there were three deaths. Case fatality rate at that time was 0.5 per cent. When the lockdown was declared on March 24, the government got some time to improve its health system andup to May 3 there were no other cases. Though thousands of persons were booked for flouting social distancing norms in Kerala, it was just the tip of the iceberg as violation of social distancing was visible in every nook and cranny – from transport buses to shops. The rise in the number of cases in Kerala has come to the notice of the Karnataka government too. Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said while there were no immediate plans by Karnataka to reintroduce interstate travel restrictions with Kerala, the government was assessing the situation. "We may take a call on that soon," Pandey said. The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation, which used to run 150 buses everyday to various destinations in the neighbouring state, is now running five to six services. "The number of buses, including private buses, from Kerala has also remained low, at about 5% of the regular operations," a senior official said. On Sunday, India’s Covid-19 tally stands at 70.53 lakhs with 8.67 lakh active cases, out of which 74,383 were reported in the past 24 hours. The death toll stands at 1,08,334. Dr Amar Fettle, state Nodal officer for Covid-19, said though there was a steady increase in cases, the recoveries were also happening. The people were lowering their guard and this will lead to increase in absolute cases. The state was facing a dangerous situation, he said. As part of measures to curb overcrowding, the Kerala government has also clamped prohibitory orders till the end of this month in various districts as per which not more than five people can assemble at a place at a time.   (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-11755-new-covid-19-cases-on-october-10-higher-than-daily-count-of-maharashtra-karnataka-900519.html
11-10-2020||South||Kerala girl gets PM's appreciation for Himachal folk song||Kerala girl Devika S S was on cloud nine with Prime Minister Narendra Modi sharing her Himachali folk song recital that had already caught the attention of music lovers in Himachal. The Prime Minister said in a tweet that he was proud of Devika. Her melodious rendering strengthened the essence of One India, Great India. DH had earlier reported that Devika was enthralling music lovers in Himachal Pradesh after a Himachali folk song she sang went going viral on social media. Devika, a class nine student of Kendriya Vidyalaya at Pattom in Thiruvananthapuram, sang a popular Himachal folk song 'Maaye Ni Meriye' as part of 'Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat' initiative and the school authorities posted it on the social media on September 28. Known Himachal singer Thakur Dass Rathi shared the video with a message appreciating her on September 30. Subsequently, it went viral with lakhs of shares and views in days. Devika said that she never even dreamt of the Prime Minister appreciating her song. With the Prime Minister's appreciation, Devika is being showered with praises. Though she had not received any professional music learning so far, now a teacher even offered to take music classes for her. One of her teachers had suggested the Himachali folk song to Devika. The school authorities posted it on their social media page. Rathi said in his message appreciating Devika that this student was from South India, where Hindi is also spoken very little. But she sang a very beautiful Himachali traditional song. Devika also received appreciation from many music lovers earlier. Kerala law minister A K Balan, who came across her song, also rang up and appreciated her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-girl-gets-pms-appreciation-for-himachal-folk-song-900521.html
11-10-2020||South||Kerala's Covid-19 fight goes topsy-turvy||Kerala, despite being low in terms of the total population, is now emerging as one of the top states in terms of Covid-19 active cases that have almost touched the 1 lakh-mark. Though the state received much appreciation for containing the virus during the initial months as it flattened the curve by May, the scenario has now turned topsy-turvy. Relaxations in gatherings, poor enforcement of social distancing, low number of tests, and ineffective utilisation of the private health sector are cited by experts as key reasons for this. Considering the increasing test positivity rate of around 17 per cent and comparatively lesser number of daily tests, which is below 70,000, the actual number of Covid-19 infected patients in the state could be much higher. This indicates that Kerala is yet to reach its peak. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan also said on Saturday that the present trends indicated that the Covid-19 graph would continue its surge in the coming weeks also. Is low number of testing a reason? Experts differ in the general criticism that the low number of tests was one reason for Kerala's Covid-19 surge. Doctors in the government sector point out that the number of testing in Kerala was kept lower during the initial months of the outbreak to make the health sector prepared to handle patients and hence the mortality rate in the state is still at the lowest rate of 0.35 per cent. The number of testing facilities was also low initially. But Indian Medical Association Kerala chapter secretary Dr. P Gopikumar said that by conducting the maximum number of tests the infected could be isolated at the earliest and thereby the spread could have been minimised. A doctor in the government sector, who preferred not to be quoted, said that the testing strategy needs to change. There is no need to conduct an exit test for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients as the chances of the spread of infection from a Covid-19 patient would be almost nil a week after the infection. Instead, the number of tests among the high-risk groups should be enhanced. Opening up of markets for Onam, relaxations, and strikes Restrictions were literally thrown to the winds in Kerala during the Onam season last month. Most major shops and commercial streets were live. Moreover, an increasing number of participants for events like marriages, relaxations in short-term travel to Kerala from other states for official purposes, resuming of public transport, and surge in strikes were also contributing factors. Known public health expert and consultant at Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology, Dr. V Ramankutty said that the government should have imposed the curbs to the maximum extent possible to avert the surge. People should be properly educated to be safe by keeping off from gatherings. Poor enforcement of social distancing norms Though thousands of persons were booked for flouting social distancing norms in Kerala daily, it seems to be just the tip of the iceberg as a violation of social distancing was visible in every nook and cranny - let it be transport buses or shops. A large section of police personnel were also said to be quite reluctant towards enforcements as the number of police personnel getting Covid-19 infected was also increasing.  Ineffective utilisation of private hospitals Right from the initial weeks of the Covid-19 surge and considering the trends in many parts of the world, government doctors in Kerala have urged that the private hospitals should be also made ready to joining the Covid care.  Dr. Ramankutty pointed out that private hospitals that dominated the state health sector with at least 60 to 70 per cent of the total hospital beds in Kerala should have been utilised more effectively. There were allegations that private hoto make spitals were trying money from non-Covid patients. Kerala Government Medical Officers' Association state president Joseph Chacko said that response of private hospital doctors towards state government initiatives like forming a team of health volunteers was also very bleak. Meanwhile, Dr. Gopikumar of IMA said that lack of infrastructure like separate wings for Covid-19 patients was the reason why most private hospitals initially shown reluctance to join the Covid care. But now many private hospitals are providing Covid care.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-covid-19-fight-goes-topsy-turvy-900524.html
11-10-2020||South||Tamil Nadu BJP plans month-long ‘Vetrivel yatra’ to strengthen party ahead of Assembly polls||BJP’s most successful political weapon – yatra in the name of god – will make its debut next month in Tamil Nadu, where the party has little presence. Titled ‘Vetrivel Yatra’, the month-long tour to be undertaken by the top brass of the Tamil Nadu unit of the BJP, hopes to capitalise on a controversy owing to a YouTube channel uploading a derogatory video on Kandha Sashti Kavasam, a devotional song dedicated to Lord Murugan. Though the Tamil Nadu Police has arrested members of the YouTube channel and the investigation is on, the BJP has kept the issue alive. The yatra will cover all six abodes where Lord Murugan, considered a native God of Tamils, is believed to have lived and are spread across the state. Tamil Nadu BJP President L Murugan will launch the yatra on November 6 from Tiruttani, one of the six abodes located 90 km from here, which will end at Thiruchendur in Thoothukudi district, 640 km from here, in Thoothukudi district on December 6. “The yatra will be a turning point in Tamil Nadu politics,” said Murugan. The party feels the ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ will help it reach out to the masses ahead of the crucial assembly polls due in the first half of 2021. The BJP has been making concerted efforts to project it as an alternative to the Dravidian majors – DMK and AIADMK – by tapping into every major community and attempting a social engineering formula. “The Vetrivel Yatra is aimed at thanking people of Tamil Nadu who supported the BJP’s Vel Pooja call by conducting poojas in their houses on August 9. This yatra will remind everyone that Tamil Nadu is a spiritual land and any insult on Lord Murugan will not be tolerated. We will send across the message that the BJP will always support spiritual causes,” BJP Vice-President and ex-IPS officer K Annamalai told Deccan Herald. Party leaders said that the yatra, which has been a successful method devised by the BJP to reach out to people, will help galvanise party cadre and also send across a message to other political parties that the saffron outfit “cannot be taken for granted” anymore in the state. BJP state general secretary KT Raghavan stated that the yatra would create awareness among the people to not believe the “nefarious designs” of parties like DMK that try to portray Tamil Nadu as a place that is against worshipping gods. “It is not about just a YouTube channel; it is about people behind the channel who are said to be connected to the DMK. This yatra will establish the fact yet again that Tamil Nadu is a spiritual land. We will also send across the message that anything that hurts the sentiments of Tamil people will not be tolerated by the BJP,” Raghavan told Deccan Herald. However, Prof. Ramu Manivannan feels the BJP’s “misplaced northern strategy” of a yatra in the name of a God will lead to resurgence of the Dravidian movement. “The BJP is fighting the Dravidian ideology and it is clear in its action, but it should also keep in mind the love that people of Tamil Nadu have for Lord Murugan is much more than what the party may think. It would not do any good for the BJP in terms of its support base, but might lead to a resurgence of the Dravidian movement,” Prof Manivannan, Head of the Department of Politics and Public Administration, University of Madras, told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-bjp-plans-month-long-vetrivel-yatra-to-strengthen-party-ahead-of-assembly-polls-900538.html
11-10-2020||South||Tamil Nadu: DMK gets ready for 2021 polls; constitutes manifesto committee||Elections to the Tamil Nadu Assembly are seven months away but the principal Opposition, DMK, seems unwilling to take any chances. The party on Sunday constituted an 8-member committee to prepare the election manifesto for the assembly elections due in the first half of 2021. The committee headed by party treasurer T R Baalu will have A Raja, ‘Tiruchi’ N Siva, Anthiyur P Selvaraj, Kanimozhi, and T K S Elangovan, all members of Parliament, and Subbulakshmi Jagadeesan and Prof. A. Ramasamy. DMK, which has been out of power in Tamil Nadu for the past 9 years, is leaving no stone unturned to emerge victorious this election. The party also launched an online membership drive, besides ramping up its presence on social media. “The committee will visit all districts in the state and interact with a cross-section of people and elicit their views. And that is the reason why the committee has been constituted much early. We will meet intellectuals, party cadres, activists, and the general public during our visits,” Elangovan, one of the members of the committee and Rajya Sabha MP, told DH. The committee would take four months to complete visiting all 37 districts of the state and the report would be ready only by February or March. “Manifesto should reflect the aspirations of the people and that is why DMK gives importance to the document. This has been the DMK’s policy,” added Elangovan. The party has hired election strategist Prashant Kishor for its campaign, even as Stalin has begun his election work by interacting with party cadre via video conferencing apps almost on a regular basis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-dmk-gets-ready-for-2021-polls-constitutes-manifesto-committee-900544.html
11-10-2020||South||Demand of money for Covid-19 medal draws flak from Kerala police||A directive of the Kerala police to the police personnel to pay Rs 100 to get a Covid-19 warrior medal has triggered resentment within the force. Many police officials have conveyed to the state police headquarters that they did not intend to 'buy' the medal. State police chief Loknath Behera issued a directive last week that those who wish to have the medal may pay Rs 100. An official at the police headquarters said that a proposal for a similar medal to around 10,000 police personnel who took part in rescue operations during floods and calamities during the previous years was rejected by the government considering the cost factor. Almost all police personnel are engaged in Covid-19 operations. The total numbers would be around 50,000. The financial requirement would be so high that it would not get the government's nod. This prompted the suggestion that those who require the medal may pay Rs 100 each as cost of the medal. Some police unit chief was learnt to have given in writing that no one in the respective unit was willing to pay for the medal. In view of the resentment, the state police chief may review the directive, said sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/demand-of-money-for-covid-19-medal-draws-flak-from-kerala-police-900561.html
11-10-2020||South||Telangana: Ruling TRS party man killed by Maoists||A Telangana Rashtra Samithi party man was killed by Maoists in Mulugu district of Telangana bordering Chhattisgarh, on Saturday night. The slain Maduri Bheemeshwar (48) was stabbed at his house in Bodapuram village of Venkatapuram mandal by the outlawed insurgents. In a letter reportedly left at the spot, the Maoists have accused the local political leaders of autocratic behaviour and targeting of individuals questioning them with the help of the police. The Police claimed the murder as a case of extortion. According to the district Superintendent of Police Sangram Singh Patil, the Maoists had approached Maduri for money several times before and as he refused their demand, they resorted to the killing. The Maoist activity has alerted the police who have set out in their pursuit. The official stated that the Maoists were killing innocent people by tagging them as police informers while also blocking the tribals from availing the benefits of the government’s developmental programs. The Mulugu incident follows a Dandakaranya Maoist unit statement a few days back that they have executed 25 people recently in Bijapur district, including some of their key associates. The Maoists have branded those killed as secret agents, coverts and informers operating for Chhattisgarh police. With incidents like the exchange of fire that killed a few Maoists in recent months, the Telangana police have stepped up its surveillance along the border districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-ruling-trs-party-man-killed-by-maoists-900564.html
11-10-2020||South||Two killed as heavy rains lash Telangana; more rains likely in south India||Several parts of Telangana received heavy rainfall on Sunday as two women were killed and five others injured in a house collapse due to the rains. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), a depression in the Bay of Bengal is likely to intensify further and cross the north Andhra Pradesh coast on Monday and heavy rains have been forecast in isolated places over coastal parts of the state, Telangana and north interior Karnataka. “Extremely heavy rainfall (20 cm per day) is likely at isolated places over north coastal Andhra Pradesh and also over north Kerala and adjoining coastal Karnataka on Monday,” it said in a bulletin. The MeT department said under the influence of the weather system, light to moderate rain with thunderstorms were likely to occur at a few places over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal on Sunday and Monday. The IMD also advised fishermen not to venture into west central, northwest and southwest Bay of Bengal and along and off Odisha-Andhra Pradesh-Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts on October 11 and 12. Meanwhile, the weatherman said the southwest monsoon is unlikely to withdraw from the rest of the country until next week, thus further extending the rainfall season. The ongoing depression over the Bay of Bengal --- a cyclonic circulation --- is likely to intensify into a deep depression during the next 24 hours and cross north Andhra Pradesh coast between Narsapur and Vishakhapatnam during the night of October 12. Besides Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, the system will also bring rains over Telangana, north interior Karnataka, central Maharashtra and Vidarbha, and south Odisha on October 13, it said. “There are very little chances of further withdrawal of the southwest monsoon until next week due to the ongoing depression,” IMD director general Mrutunjay Mohapatra said. The official rainfall season in the country is from June 1 to September 30. This season, the country received above normal rainfall for the second consecutive year. The normal withdrawal date of monsoon from west Rajasthan is September 17. However, this year the monsoon retreated from parts of west Rajasthan and Punjab on September 28, 11 days after its normal withdrawal date.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-killed-as-heavy-rains-lash-telangana-more-rains-likely-in-south-india-900581.html
11-10-2020||South||Congress spokesperson Khushbu Sundar to join BJP?||Popular South Indian actress Khushbu Sundar is all set to quit Congress and is likely to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in New Delhi on Monday, sources in both parties said here on Sunday. On her part, the actress was non-committal to a question of whether she was joining the BJP at the Chennai Airport before she boarded a flight to New Delhi. “No comments,” was all the 50-year-old actor, who was a sensation in the 1990s, told reporters in response to repeated questions on her joining BJP. To a question of whether she was in Congress, the actor merely said, “I do not want to say anything.” “Khushbu is joining the BJP in the presence of senior party leaders in New Delhi on Monday,” a senior BJP leader told DH. Another leader too echoed the sentiments and added that a retired IRS official from Tamil Nadu is also likely to join the BJP on Monday. When contacted, a senior Congress leader said, “It looks like she has taken a decision to quit the party. She also refused to participate in the Congress’ rally in Tiruvannamalai on Sunday.” Khushbu had last week scotched speculation that she was joining the BJP, saying he cannot be forced to respond to “rumors” every time they crop up. She also participated in a protest organised by the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) demanding justice for the 19-year-old girl who was allegedly gang-raped and killed in Hathras in Uttar Pradesh last week.   It is understood that the actor was upset with the Congress leadership over her demand for a “respectable position” within the party not being met. If she joins the BJP, the party will get another popular face in Tamil Nadu and her popularity can also be utilised in the Bihar elections. Khushbu Sundar began her political career with the DMK in 2010 but quit the party to join the Congress in 2014. In 2016, her desire to contest the assembly elections from Mylapore constituency was shot down by the Congress High Command despite her candidature being backed by the then TNCC chief E V K S Elangovan. The actor is also understood to have expected a seat during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections or a Rajya Sabha nomination last year. Born into a Muslim family in Mumbai, Khushbu made Chennai her home as she became one of the most popular actresses in the Tamil cinema industry. She had a devout fan following in the 1990s with some of them even building a temple for her and a variety of idli being named after her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-spokesperson-khushbu-sundar-to-join-bjp-900596.html
11-10-2020||South||DMK sets up panel to prepare Tamil Nadu poll manifesto||The main opposition DMK on Sunday constituted an eight-member committee to prepare the party's manifesto for the 2021 Tamil Nadu Assembly elections. Party treasurer T R Baalu, deputy general secretaries Subbulakshmi Jagadeesan, A Raja and Andhiyur P Selvaraj and deputy parliamentary party leader Kanimozhi are among the members, DMK general secretary Duraimurugan said in a party press release. Assembly elections are due in the state during April- May 2021. Rajya Sabha MPs Tiruchi Siva and TKS Elangovan and prof A Ramasamy, former vice-chairman of Tamil Nadu State Council for Higher Education, are the other members of the panel. The AIADMK wrested power from DMK in 2011 and was voted back in 2016 for the second successive term.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-sets-up-panel-to-prepare-tamil-nadu-poll-manifesto-900610.html
11-10-2020||South||Depression over Bay of Bengal to intensify, cross Andhra Pradesh coast||A depression in the Bay of Bengal is likely to intensify further and cross the north Andhra Pradesh coast on Monday and heavy rains have been forecast in isolated places over coastal parts of the state, Telangana and North interior Karnataka. The well-marked low-pressure area over east-central and adjoining south-east Bay of Bengal concentrated into a depression over west-central Bay and lay centred about 370 km south-southeast of Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh, a bulletin from the India Meteorological Department said on Sunday. "It is very likely to intensify further into a deep depression during the next 24 hours. It is very likely to move west-northwestwards and cross north Andhra Pradesh coast between Narsapur and Vishakhapatnam during 12th October 2020 night," an IMD bulletin issued at 2.30 pm said. Extremely heavy rainfall (20 cm per day) was also likely at isolated places over north coastal Andhra Pradesh and also over north Kerala and adjoining coastal Karnataka on Monday, it said. Several parts of Telangana received heavy rainfall on Sunday and two women were killed and five others injured in a house collapse, the Chief Minister's office said. Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao asked people to be careful and instructed Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar to keep the entire official machinery on high alert, it said. The release said the IMD has warned that thunderstorms accompanied with lightning were very likely to occur at isolated places over the state and heavy to very heavy rain very likely to occur at isolated place still Tuesday. Rao wanted all the officials to stay put in their places, monitor the situation and extend necessary relief measures. In the house collapse incident, a portion of the building in a dilapidated condition came down on Sunday due to heavy rains, police said. The Met department also said under the influence of the weather system, light to moderate rain with thunderstorms were also likely to occur at a few places over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal on Sunday and Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/depression-over-bay-of-bengal-to-intensify-cross-andhra-pradesh-coast-900637.html
11-10-2020||State||As coronavirus peaks in some states, Karnataka to see 25% spike in November: Study||A comprehensive analysis of Covid-19 data across India has found that Karnataka will continue to peak after other states have ceased with cases rising by nearly 23% by November. Worryingly, the analysis shows that of the five most-infected states in the country, including Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh, only Karnataka will see a rise in the number of active cases in the next two weeks. Of equal alarm is the indication that Dasara and Deepavali festivals will add 80,000 active cases to the state’s numbers. The analysis was carried out by Dr Shashank Shah, Southeast Asia Institute Fellow '17, Harvard University, Dr Dave Richards, co-founder of the Innovation Lab at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and Dr Subramanian Sivakumar whose firm, Pratian technologies, a research and development startup in Whitefield, developed the model which was key to the analysis.  “The 7% jump in cases due the festive season will show up as a significant spike,” explained Dr Sivakumar, who added that the festivals will also add about four lakh active cases to India’s overall Covid-19 caseload. India will have overall 20 lakh cases added by November 15. The model, which churns through a high amount of granular data on nationwide Covid-19 outbreak, down to the district level, has found that there is no peak in the sight for Karnataka, at least for the next three weeks. The data packet, which was viewed by DH, appears to indicate this. However, Dr Sivakumar added that there is a silver lining to Karnataka’s plight. “The mortality rate will reduce from 1.42% at present to 1.33% on October 23,” he said. Dr T Jacob John, virologist and former professor at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, concurred that the epidemics are coming down in many of the previously worst infected states such as Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Tamil Nadu and even Uttar Pradesh, which he described as “unbelievable”. “I don’t know what is driving the rise in numbers in Karnataka, but to compare its epidemic with that of Kerala or Tamil Nadu would be like comparing apples and oranges. There is a diverse kaleidoscope of factors which dictate how the epidemic progresses in each state, district or locality, such as prevention measures, testing and surveillance,” he said. Meantime, the short-term predictive analysis indicates that Maharashtra will experience a 17% reduction in active cases over the next two weeks, along with an increased recovery rate, from 78% to 83%. “Peaking is a function of how many active cases there are,” Dr Sivakumar said. Andhra Pradesh will see 40% fewer active cases in a fortnight, coupled with a 94% recovery rate. In Tamil Nadu, the decline will be slightly smaller, at 3%. Uttar Pradesh, which has nine districts where mortality rates are 25% above the national average, is expected to see a “38% drop in active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/as-coronavirus-peaks-in-some-states-karnataka-to-see-25-spike-in-november-study-900283.html
11-10-2020||State||Youth swept away in stream||One of two youths who went to defecate in the open were swept away in flash floods struck a stream near Maski town of the district. Two staff of the Fire and Emergency Services department who went to rescue the youths have also caught in the stream. A rope that was tied between two saplings in the stream had snapped due to the undercurrent of flowing water. It cut while efforts to rescue one of them with the help of the rope was undertaken. Another youth was safe in the middle of the stream. The water level has increased in the stream as water has been let into Maski reservoir after it had filled to its brim.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/youth-swept-away-in-stream-900372.html
11-10-2020||State||Former Chairman of Karnataka Bank Ananthakrishna passes away||Former chairman and CEO of the city-based Karnataka Bank, Ananthakrishna, died at a private hospital here on Sunday after a brief illness, family sources said. He was 74 and is survived by his wife and son. Hailing from Bantwal, Ananthakrishna joined Karnataka Bank as an officer in 1971. He worked in different capacities at the operational and management levels, and was appointed chairman and CEO in the year 2000. He served in the capacity till 2009, after which he continued as non-executive chairman of the bank. Ananthakrishna retired in 2016. Karnataka Bank made quick progress under his leadership, witnessing exponential growth and establishing pan-India presence. He had also served as honorary secretary of Indian Bank' Association and president of the Bankers club, Mangaluru||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/former-chairman-of-karnataka-bank-ananthakrishna-passes-away-900399.html
11-10-2020||State||Karnataka schools to remain shut for midterm holidays from October 12||Schools in Karnataka will be shut for "midterm holidays" for three weeks from October 12 after several teachers contracted Covid-19. “I have observed through media reports that several teachers have been infected with Covid-19. So, in the interest of the health of both students and teachers, I have directed officials to issue an order declaring a three-week interim holiday for schools from October 12 to October 30,” Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said in a statement, and wished all teachers and students a happy Dasara in advance. The CM also pointed out that the government had already decided not to reopen schools and suspend the Vidyagama outreach programme. Yediyurappa’s statement came hours after JD(S) leader HD Kumaraswamy criticised the government for cancelling the midterm holidays. “In spite of the Covid-19 pandemic, teachers from government and private schools are going to schools to work. Government school teachers continue to work on Covid-19 duty and Vidyagama. By cancelling the midterm holidays, the government has ill-treated teachers,” Kumaraswamy said in a series of tweets. ಎತ್ತಿಗೆ ಜ್ವರ ಬಂದರೆ ಕೋಣಕ್ಕೆ ಬರೆ ಎಂಬಂತೆ ಸರ್ಕಾರ ವರ್ತಿಸುತ್ತಿದೆ. ಕೊರೊನಾದ ಸಂಕಷ್ಟದ ಸಮಯದಲ್ಲೂ ರಾಜ್ಯದ ಸರಕಾರಿ ಹಾಗೂ ಖಾಸಗಿ ಶಾಲೆಗಳ ಶಿಕ್ಷಕರು ಶಾಲೆಗಳಿಗೆ ತೆರಳಿ ಕೆಲಸ ಮಾಡುತ್ತಿದ್ದಾರೆ.1/5 The former chief minister said the government had cancelled the midterm holidays that were scheduled from October 3-26. “On what basis was the midterm holiday cancelled? Children aren’t coming to schools due to Covid-19, but teachers are being made to go to school for other works. What is the government trying to achieve?” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-schools-to-remain-shut-for-midterm-holidays-from-october-12-900407.html
11-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Expert panels check Covid-19 hospitals for compliance||Expert committees constituted in various districts to check infrastructure facilities and patient services at Covid-19 hospitals, have come across various lapses. The committees are verifying whether the Covid hospitals have CCTVs, help desks, offer patient counselling through video calls, complying with patient diet and other Covid norms. They are also verifying whether Covid positive dead bodies are being dealt with in a dignified manner. The Supreme Court, in its order to chief secretaries of all states, had directed that CCTV cameras have to be installed in dedicated Covid hospitals to facilitate the management of patients. The Shivamogga district expert committee submitted a report early last month after conducting inspection of one government district hospital and five private hospitals: McGann District Hospital, Sahyadri Narayana Hrudayalaya, Nanjappa Hospital, Subbaiah Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, and Maxx Hospital. The committee found that there were no CCTVs, help desks and dormitories for attendants at McGann hospital, Sahayadri Narayana Hrudayalaya, and Nanjappa Hospital. At Maxx hospital, too CCTVs and help desks were not found. There wasn’t any system for communication (telephonic) between patients and attendants. The committee had received complaints from the public about the hospital not following Covid management protocols. The hospital was instructed to depute a public relations officer for patients. In Kolar, RL Jalappa Hospital was inspected on August 20, and the committee found that the hospital did not have Remdesvir injections. There were also complaints from relatives of patients over delay in handing over dead bodies. “Referral of patients for Covid treatment from Government to be streamlined,” read the committee report. The state expert committee has been constituted under the chairmanship of Jayadeva Hospital Director Dr CN Manjunath. These inspection reports will be presented before the court, Dr Manjunath said. “The committee will visit three hospitals randomly, both government and private, in a week. Through video calls, patients should be able to talk to their families to keep their morale up. Disposal of biomedical waste will also be checked,” Dr Manjunath told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/expert-panels-check-covid-19-hospitals-for-compliance-900363.html
11-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: CM orders school mid-term holidays from October 12 to 30||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Sunday ordered a three-week mid-term holiday for all types of school activities in the state from October 12 to 30 in the wake of many teachers having contracted coronavirus. "I have come to know through the media about many teachers contracting Covid-19 infection, so keeping in mind the health of teachers and students, I have directed senior officials to issue an order declaring mid-term holiday for three weeks from October 12 to 30," Yediyurappa said in a statement. The Chief Minister noted that in the backdrop of Covid-19 infections, orders have already been issued not to open schools for the time being and to halt Vidyagama programme, which enabled continued schooling to government school students by teachers visiting their vicinities. The government had earlier this month cancelled mid-term holidays, scheduled between October 3 to 26, for schools in the state for the year 2020-21. It had said that the Vidyagama programme for government school students and online classes in private schools would continue. Earlier today, JD(S) leader and former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy in a series of tweets had slammed the state government's decision to cancel mid-term holidays and asked whether "teachers were daily wage workers under a dictatorship?" In the wake of reports that 34 students and some teachers tested positive for the Covid-19, the state government on Saturday had decided to halt the Vidyagama programme temporarily. Amid a raging debate on reopening schools in Karnataka, Yediyurappa on Friday had requested parents of children not to pay heed to speculation in this regard and assured them that a decision will be taken only after weighing the pros and cons. Stating that keeping in mind the health and future of children, a meeting of all leaders from all political parties, experts and senior officials will be held to discuss the pros and cons of reopening schools, he had said, "Until then, I request parents not to pay heed to rumours or speculation over reopening of schools, and media to create awareness in this regard."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-orders-school-mid-term-holidays-from-october-12-to-30-900421.html
11-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Udupi MLA tests positive for Covid-19||Udupi MLA Raghupathi Bhat has been tested positive for Covid-19. Taking to Twitter to announce the same, he said “as per the advise of the doctor, I have been admitted to the hospital for treatment. I am unable to receive calls owing to the treatment. Those who were in contact with me for the last four to five days should undergo self-quarantine and be cautious,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/udupi-mla-tests-positive-for-covid-19-900470.html
11-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress demands resignation of Karnataka CM over reported graft allegations against kin, seeks judicial probe||Congress on Sunday demanded resignation of Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and a judicial inquiry into allegations of corruption against him, even as it questioned the silence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the issue. “Mis-governance and corruption have become a signature of the Karnataka government. If Yediyurappa has the slightest sense of shame, he should resign or be sacked,” Congress spokesman Abhishek Manu Singhvi told a press conference here referring to alleged irregularities by the family members of the Karnataka Chief Minister. Singhvi questioned Modi’s silence on the issue and wondered whether the “chowkidar” (watchman) was sleeping over the case allegedly involving Yediyurappa’s family members. The matter relates to a Rs 662-crore construction of an apartment project in Bengaluru, Singhvi said and claimed media reports have "disclosed direct involvement of close relatives like son, son-in-law and grandson in corruption and bribery in connection with the project". “It is unfortunate that you (PM Modi) are being a ‘chowkidar’ for others’ homes but allowing corruption take place in your own home,” Singhvi said. “Why is he not subject to criminal proceedings? Does the Karnataka chief minister enjoy some special leverage,” the Congress spokesman asked. Singhvi also recalled that Yediyurappa had to quit under a cloud of corruption allegations during his previous term as chief minister and was forced out of the BJP. “PM can no longer remain mute. Test of PM’s commitment – Punish Corruption or Be Mute,” AICC General Secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala said. The Congress leader cited a purported communication between a close relative of Yediyurappa and another person referring to a bribe paid by a contractor to a top Bengaluru Development Authority official. Singhvi claimed that an additional bribe was sought and paid through shell companies in Kolkata. He said the Prevention of Corruption Act and the Prevention of Money Laundering Act must be invoked and the allegations probed. "The most remarkable and virtually admitted allegations of unabashed corruption and we don't even find a criminal investigation," Singhvi said, adding that even an FIR was not filed over it. "We demand...appoint a sitting Supreme Court (judge) or a sitting Chief Justice of a High Court as an inquirer for two months," he said. The Congress has been accusing the Yediyurappa government of indulging in corruption, a charge it has categorically denied.   (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-demands-resignation-of-karnataka-cm-over-reported-graft-allegations-against-kin-seeks-judicial-probe-900497.html
11-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||SC notice to Karnataka govt on bail plea by priest in murder case||The Supreme Court has issued notice to the Karnataka government on a plea for bail moved by a priest, who was accused of killing a businessman, from Udupi in conspiracy with the deceased's wife after developing an illicit relationship with her, and burning of his body in a 'homa kund' in 2016. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian sought a reply from the state government within two weeks on the petition by 30-year-old Niranjan Bhat. The petitioner challenged the validity of the High Court's order of July 27. The HC has noted that the top court had on May 10, 2019, disposed of Bhat's plea for bail saying that some material witnesses were yet to be examined, which would take six months. The court had asked Bhat to move his bail plea after that. The HC further pointed out that some witnesses have been recalled at the instance of the accused and they were yet to be cross-examined through video conferencing. In the matter, Shetty's wife Rajeshwari, a co-accused, has been granted bail.  According to the prosecution, Rajeshwari, along with her 20-year-old son, Navneet Shetty threw chilly powder into the eyes of her husband and assaulted him with a rod. Thereafter, the accused tied the victim's hands and feet and administered poison to him. Later, they carried the body of the victim to Bhat's house and burnt it by organising 'Yagna'. Further, to destroy the evidence, the bones and body parts were thrown in the river. The victim suspected the fidelity of his wife and had lodged a police complaint with Manipal police station on July 9 before his murder on July 28, 2016. The police acted on a complaint filed by the victim's mother Gulabi as he went missing. The prosecution relied upon a DNA report to conclude the recovered body parts were the son of the complainant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sc-notice-to-karnataka-govt-on-bail-plea-by-priest-in-murder-case-900534.html
11-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Two Karnataka BJP legislators test positive for Covid-19||Karnataka BJP legislators N Ravikumar and Raghupathi Bhat have tested positive for Covid-19. While Ravikumar is the member of state legislative council (MLC) and Karnataka BJP General Secretary, Bhat represents the Udupi Assembly constituency. Stating that his Covid-19 test was confirmed positive on Saturday, Ravikumar in a tweet said he was asymptomatic and was under home quarantine on the advice of the doctors. He also requested all those who have come into contact with him to get tested and take precautions. Udupi MLA Raghupathi Bhat too in a tweet said, his Covid-19 tests have confirmed positive and that he has been hospitalised under the advice of the doctors. He requested all those who have come into his contact to quarantine and take precautions. Several prominent politicians and legislators from the state have tested positive for Covid. Most of them have either recovered or under recovery. Chief Minister B S Yedyurappa, Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah, several Ministers in the state cabinet are among politicians who have tested positive and recovered. Recently, Union Minister of Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines, and MP from Dharwad- Pralhad Joshi had tested Covid positive. The state has also lost few public representatives due to coronavirus like- Belagavi BJP MP and former Union Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi, BJP Rajya Sabha member Ashok Gasti and Basavakalyan Congress MLA B Narayan Rao.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/two-karnataka-bjp-legislators-test-positive-for-covid-19-900543.html
11-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Police open fire to thwart illegal cattle trafficking in Karnataka||Police opened fire in the air to foil an alleged attempt by cattle traffickers to smuggle cows in a car at Shirthady in Dakshina Kannada district early on Sunday. Sources said a police team, which saw cows being transported in the car, signalled to stop, but the driver of the vehicle tried to escape by reversing it. When a police inspector present there chased the car, the driver stopped and suddenly took it forward to hit the police jeep. Inspector Dinesh fired two rounds in the air in self- defence, and the occupants of the car ran away and escaped in another vehicle that followed the car. Six cows were found jammed inside the car with its back seats removed. The vehicle was confiscated and a search is on for the culprits, sources said. A case has been registered under various sections of the IPC including murder attempt, rash driving, deterring public servant from discharging duty and provisions of Karnataka prevention of slaughter and preservation of cattle Act, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/police-open-fire-to-thwart-illegal-cattle-trafficking-in-karnataka-900563.html
11-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||9,523 new Covid-19 cases in Karnataka, 75 fatalities||Karnataka posted 9,523 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 75 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 7.10 lakh and the toll to 9,966, the health department said on Sunday. The day also saw 10,107 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of 9,523 new cases reported on Sunday, 4,623 cases were from Bengaluru urban alone. As of October 11 evening, cumulatively 7,10,309 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 9,966 deaths and 5.80 lakh discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 1.20 lakh active cases, 1.19 lakh patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 904 are in ICU. Out of the 75 deaths reported on Sunday, 24 are from Bengaluru urban, followed by Mysuru 11, Kolar 7, Dakshina Kannada 5, Chikkamagaluru, Dharwad and Tumakuru 3 and others. Most of the dead are either with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounts for 4,623, Mysuru 541, Hassan 463, Chitradurga 378, Belagavi 331, Tumakuru 285, Mandya 267, Dakshina Kannada 265, Ballari 226, followed by others. Bengaluru urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 2,81,557 infections, followed by Mysuru 42,064 and Ballari 34,431. A total of over 59.52,223 samples have been tested so far, out of which 99,923 were tested on Sunday alone, and 38,731 among them were rapid antigen tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/9523-new-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-75-fatalities-900593.html
11-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||K Sudhakar to be new health minister?||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa is said to be considering a significant change in his Cabinet.  According to sources, B Sriramulu might be divested of the health & family welfare portfolio to be given the plum social welfare department in exchange.  The health portfolio might be given to Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar.  “Discussions have taken place to this effect,” said two sources aware of this.  Currently, Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol is the social welfare minister. Making Sriramulu the social welfare minister could hold political significance for the ruling BJP.  Sriramulu is the party’s warhorse belonging to the ST (Valmiki) community. “If he holds the social welfare portfolio, he will be able to directly deal with the STs,” a source said. Sriramulu, who was projected as a deputy chief ministerial face, is arguably BJP’s tallest ST leader who was able to help consolidate the community’s votes in the party’s favour in the 2018 assembly elections.  Also, when the Covid-19 pandemic broke out, both Sriramulu and Sudhakar were seen having a turf war, much to the government’s embarrassment, giving the Opposition Congress many field days. If the speculated change takes place, Sudhakar will be sole minister in charge of the state’s health systems and services amid the Covid-19 pandemic.  Both Sriramulu and Sudhakar were unavailable for comment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/k-sudhakar-to-be-new-health-minister-900604.html
11-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||New coronavirus cases in Karnataka drop below 10,000-mark||For the first time since Tuesday, the state’s Covid-19 numbers dropped below the 10,000-mark on Sunday. The state reported 9,523 new cases in the day. There is a 24-hour lag in the government’s reporting of the latest case number to the public. This boosts the state’s total number of active cases to 1,20,270, which is only 659 cases more than the number of active cases recorded on Saturday as 10,107 people were also discharged on Sunday. Bengaluru Urban reported 49% of the new cases revealed on Sunday. The rest of the new caseloads were strewn across the state’s 29 remaining districts, with the next highest numbers being in Mysuru (541), followed by Hassan 463, Chitradurga 378 and Belgavi 331. The state also registered 75 new deaths on Sunday with Bengaluru Urban alone accounting for 24. Mysuru district saw 11 fatalities while Kolar reported 5 deaths. The majority of the deaths are a few days old. The youngest fatality was a 39-year-old woman from Dakshina Kannada with a fever and cough. She died on Sunday in a private hospital four days after being identified as Covid-19 positive.  The oldest fatality is a 97-year-old woman in Bengaluru Urban with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), who died on October 9 at a private hospital, four days after being diagnosed with the disease. She was also ailing from Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. On Sunday, 99,923 Covid tests were carried out in the state, which is much lower than the 1.08 lakh tests being conducted on an average since October 6. In Bengaluru, however, the testing numbers have been climbing. On Sunday, 44,679 tests were conducted.  Over the last seven days, the Palike has conducted an average of 42,333 tests, which is significantly higher than the 32,306 tests conducted on average per day over the previous seven-day period from September 28 to October 4. The concentration of new cases in Bengaluru were highest in Yelahanka and West Zone (both of which reported a 16% share). According to calculations as per the official data, the city’s positivity rate is 10.35%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/new-coronavirus-cases-in-karnataka-drop-below-10000-mark-900618.html
11-10-2020||West||Schools won't reopen in Goa unless everybody is on board: Govt||The Goa government will take a decision on reopening schools only after consulting all the stakeholders including teachers, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has said. Teachers' associations are opposed to restarting physical classes immediately, fearing it would be impossible to maintain social distancing in schools. Amid rising coronavirus cases, the safety of students is of paramount importance, Sawant told PTI over the week-end. Sawant said he has asked the state education secretary and director of education to hold consultations with stakeholders, including school managements, parent-teacher associations and teachers' bodies such as the Goa Headmasters' Association and Goa Principals' Forum. The decision to reopen schools will be taken only after getting approvals from all the stakeholders and putting necessary Standard Operating Procedures in place, he said. Sawant had held consultations with the stakeholders in the last week of September, and it was then decided that schools will not reopen immediately from October 1. As part of the Unlock 5.0 guidelines, states have been asked to decide on reopening schools from October 15. Sawant said the Goa government is thinking of starting classes of standards 10th and 12th first, if and when it decides to reopen schools. Teachers' associations opposed immediate reopening of schools during a meeting with Director of Education Santosh Amonkar, sources said. Maintaining social distancing in schools all the time is difficult, teachers' representatives said. "None of the schools have the infrastructure to conduct classes while maintaining social distancing. There are common toilets for students, with hundreds of them sharing a single facility in many schools. This will further spread the viral infection," a representative of the Goa Headmasters' Association said. Teachers are already holding classes online and in some cases even visiting students at their homes, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/schools-wont-reopen-in-goa-unless-everybody-is-on-board-govt-900331.html
11-10-2020||West||Gujarat government may consider reopening schools only after Diwali||The Gujarat government is likely to consider reopening schools only after Diwali, a senior official has said. Vinod Rao, secretary, state education department, said there was no immediate plan to reopen schools. "We are not doing this immediately. We will consider reopening schools only after Diwali (vacation) after assessing the coronavirus situation," Rao told PTI on Saturday. He said the education department has been in touch with representatives of parents and school associations over the issue. Diwali will be celebrated this year on November 14. The state government had earlier decided against reopening schools from September 21 as per the Centre's Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) that allowed students to visit schools to take guidance from teachers with parents' permission. As per the latest SOP, the Centre has allowed states and Union Territories to take a decision on reopening schools in a graded manner from October 15. "The Centre's guideline to reopen schools from October 15 cannot be implemented in Gujarat given its Covid-19 situation. It will be too early to open schools, especially for students below Class 10," said Jatin Bharad, vice- president of the Self-financed Schools Management Association of Gujarat. Even if the government and schools agree to resume classes, parents are unwilling, he said. "If parents do not take responsibility, then schools are not going to do so, because they have to manage hundreds of students, and even one infected student can put them and their family members in danger," Bharad said. If the situation improves in October, one can expect schools to reopen in the second half of November, after Diwali, he said. Most parents are of the view that there is no point in reopening schools in the current academic year, and the government should consider promoting students to the next class, said Naresh Shah, president of the All Gujarat Parents' Association. "Nearly half of the current academic year has already passed as schools remain closed. We have requested the state education minister to consider granting mass promotion to students so that they can begin their next academic calendar without any setback," Shah said. "At the same time, the government should ensure that the board exams of Classes 10 and 12 are held on time in March next year," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-government-may-consider-reopening-schools-only-after-diwali-900353.html
11-10-2020||West||Maharashtra contemplating completion of Covid-19 Unlock process in November||With Covid-19 cases reducing and the number of people getting discharged increasing, Maharashtra Government is planning to complete the Unlock process by Diwali or end of November. In the last seven months, Maharashtra’s progressive total positive cases have gone beyond 15 lakh and the deaths have surpassed 40,000. However, over 12.5 lakh people have recovered. The two vast regions – the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) and the Pune metropolitan region (PMR) - have reported the maximum cases and are limping back to normalcy – though people seem to lower their guard. Three key developments in the last week indicate that the government wants to end the lockdown and go back to its usual self but with the new normal measures and protocols in place. Over the next few days, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray would hold a series of meetings to finalise the plan. “Maharashtra will be unlocked fully by November. We will have to take precautions and live with Covid-19. Let's hope that schools, religious places and gyms will be reopened in the state in phases, and the whole of Maharashtra will be unlocked by November,” state Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope said in Pune. Last week, the government opened restaurants, bars and eateries to 50 per cent capacity and would be scaled up in the months to come. As far as Mumbai-MMR is concerned, much depends on local trains of the Central Railway and Western Railway, considered the lifeline of India’s financial capital. As of now over 1,200 services are being run in the five lines of Mumbai – but only people working with Central and State governments, municipal services, police, banks besides others in essential services are allowed. The Bombay High Court has urged the state to look into the possibility of increasing the frequency of trains. "We are now in partial lockdown. Malls are open, hotels are allowed to remain open, government offices are working with 100 per cent staff and several other sectors are now working. Railway services need to correspond with this…tthe frequency of local trains on all has to be increased to reduce overcrowding,” said a division bench comprising Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni. During the weekly Cabinet meeting last week, Thackeray has asked School Education, Higher and Technical Education departments to plan the opening of schools and colleges and coaching centres in a phased manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-contemplating-completion-of-covid-19-unlock-process-in-november-900368.html
11-10-2020||West||Five held in Goa for betting on IPL matches||Police have arrested five persons for allegedly running an IPL betting racket from a hotel near Calangute beach in North Goa district, an official said on Sunday. The Calangute police conducted a raid at the hotel on Saturday and nabbed five persons for accepting bets on the Indian Premier League (PIL) match between Chennai Super Kings and Royal Challengers Bangalore, a police spokesman said. Those arrested were identified as Manoj Thadani (39), Bunty Dangi (32), Chintu Dhoidhoy (32), all hailing from Indore in Madhya Pradesh, Rupesh Singh (41), belonging to Mumbai, and Jagdish Nepali (47), a native of Nepal, he said. A case was registered against the accused under provisions of the Goa Public Gambling Act, the official said. This is the third IPL betting case registered by the Calangute police in a month, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/five-held-in-goa-for-betting-on-ipl-matches-900385.html
11-10-2020||West||Man arrested for raping 10-year-old daughter in Mumbai||Police have arrested a man for allegedly raping his 10-year-old daughter at his residence in Mumbai's Vakola area, an official said on Sunday. The 40-year-old accused and his wife were staying separately since the last four years. While the man was living with his daughter in Mumbai, his wife was staying at Surat in Gujarat. On Friday, the Vakola police got a call from the Sion Hospital here, alerting them about the rape of the minor girl after she was taken to the hospital by her mother. When the police reached there, the girl informed them that she was allegedly raped by her father, the official said. The girl's mother told the police that her daughter came to visit her in Surat a few days back. The girl complained about pain in her private parts following which her mother took her to doctors there but they could not find the reason for it, the official said. The woman then brought her daughter back to Mumbai and took her to the Sion Hospital where doctors confirmed that the girl was raped, the official said. The girl's mother lodged an FIR against the accused following which he was arrested on Friday, he said. A case was registered against him under various Indian Penal Code sections, including 376 (rape), and provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the official said. A Mumbai court has remanded the accused in police custody till October 15, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-arrested-for-raping-10-year-old-daughter-in-mumbai-900438.html
11-10-2020||West||BJP fields five ex-Congress MLAs in Gujarat bypolls||All the five former Congress MLAs who joined the BJP earlier this year after resigning as legislators have been fielded by the saffron party in Gujarat for bypolls in their respective Assembly seats. By-elections will be held on November 3 in eight seats -- Abdasa, Limdi, Morbi, Dhari, Gadhada (SC), Karjan, Dangs (ST) and Kaprada (ST) -- of Gujarat as eight Congress MLAs had resigned before the Rajya Sabha elections in June. The BJP on Sunday announced its candidates in seven out of these eight Assembly seats in the state. Pradyumnsinh Jadeja, Brijesh Merja, J V Kakadiya, Akshay Patel, and Jitu Chaudhary -- the five who had joined the BJP in June this year after resigning from the Congress -- have been fielded from their respective Assembly seats of Abdasa, Morbi, Dhari, Karjan, and Kaprada. Helped by the resignation of these five MLAs, the BJP had managed to win three out of four Rajya Sabha seats for which elections were held in June. The other three who had resigned from the Congress -- Soma Patel from Limbdi, Mangal Gavit from Dangs and Pravin Maru from Gadhada -- did not join any party. The BJP on Sunday also announced that its former state minister Atmaram Parmar will contest from Dangs and former MLA Vijay Patel from Gadhada. Both these candidates were defeated in the 2017 state Assembly elections by Congress candidates, who later resigned as MLAs. Parmar, who was earlier four-time MLA from Gadhada, a seat reserved for Scheduled Caste (SC) candidates in Botad district, had served as minister for social justice and empowerment, and women and child welfare in the previous Vijay Rupani government. He had earlier also served as the deputy speaker of the state Assembly. Vijay Patel, the BJP's candidate from Dangs, had won the 2007 Assembly election but was defeated in the 2012 and 2017 polls by the then Congress candidate Mangal Gavit. The BJP is yet to announce its candidate in Limbdi, which was vacated after Soma Patel resigned as Congress MLA. Kakadiya, the BJP candidate from Dhari constituency, said he will be in a better position to work for the people of his constituency as an MLA from the ruling party. "I have not done anything wrong by joining the BJP. I took the decision so that I could do something better for the people of my constituency, something I was not able to do while being in the opposition party," he said. Kakadiya also said if he is elected as an MLA of the ruling party, he will address the issues faced by farmers and the poor people in his constituency. "Majority of the people here (in Kakadiya's constituency) are farmers, and I will try and address the issue of water supply that they have been facing," he added. After the Election Commission announced dates for the by-elections, Gujarat Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel and BJP state president C R Paatil had expressed confidence that the party will win in all the seats. "The state government and the party are ready for the by-elections. The BJP will win all the eight seats. The Congress MLAs had resigned from their party due to factionalism," Nitin Patel had said. The opposition Congress is yet to declare its candidates for the bypolls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-fields-five-ex-congress-mlas-in-gujarat-bypolls-900486.html
11-10-2020||West||MNS minorities wing leader urges Maharashtra govt to reopen all places of worship||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena secretary Altaf Khan said the MVA government was opening bars and restaurants and other such establishments as part of its "unlock" process, but was ignoring places of worship since the functioning of the former brought revenue to state coffers. The Uddhav Thackeray government should know faith is equally important to people, Khan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mns-minorities-wing-leader-urges-maharashtra-govt-to-reopen-all-places-of-worship-900501.html
11-10-2020||West||68-year-old man held for raping minor in Rajasthan||A 68-year-old man was arrested for allegedly raping a girl in Rajasthan’s Jhalawar district, police said on Sunday. The incident took place in Jhalrapatan area on Wednesday, after which the family members of the 17-year-old girl, who is mentally challenged, took her to Mahila police station and registered a case of rape against the accused, they said. The man was arrested on Friday night and sent to judicial custody by a court on Saturday, police said. According to the SHO of the Mahila police station, Ramesh Meena, the accused lived in a portion of the girl’s house and ran a shop in the neighbourhood. The parents in the report stated that the girl used to often go to the man’s shop, but on Wednesday noon she was allegedly raped by him, Meena said. The station house officer further said the girl has confirmed “wrong act” by the old man in her statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/68-year-old-man-held-for-raping-minor-in-rajasthan-900517.html
11-10-2020||West||Maharashtra man attempts suicide to convince woman for marriage||A 24-year-old man cut his wrist with a blade while trying to convince his ex-girlfriend for marriage in Ambazari Lake area of Nagpur, and was saved in time after the latter called the police control room to report the incident, an official said on Sunday. The incident happened at 4:30 pm on Saturday, the Ambazari police station official said, adding that the youth, identified as Shubham Doifode, has been booked under IPC sections for attempting suicide. "He was in a relationship with the woman between 2016 and 2018. After she got engaged to another person last week, Doifode tried to convince her to marry him, and to show his sincerity, slashed his wrist with a blade. It was the woman who called police control and Doifode could be shifted to a hospital in time," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-man-attempts-suicide-to-convince-woman-for-marriage-900559.html
11-10-2020||West||Gujarat teen confesses to sending 'rape threat' to Dhoni's daughter, says Kutch police||The Kutch police in Gujarat have traced a 16-year-old boy who allegedly issued rape threats to former Indian cricket team skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni's minor daughter. Police said that the juvenile has reportedly confessed to having posted the threat message on his social media account on Instagram. "We questioned him today after which we found that he had posted the threat messages on his Instagram account. He confessed that he wrote that message as he was angry with CSK (Chennai Super Kings) for losing to KKR (Kolkata Knight Riders). He was also upset with Dhoni for India's loss in the 2019 World Cup," Kutch (West) Superintendent of Police Saurabh Singh told DH. "We have informed the Ranchi police which is investigating the case and allowed the juvenile to go back to his parents for the time being," he said. The minor is a resident of a village in Mundra taluka whose father is a farmer and also involved in construction business. The boy studies in Class 12. Locals said that the boy was a fan of Dhoni but couldn't control his "emotion after CSK's loss in the ongoing Indian Premier League (IPL)." The threat message was highlighted on social media platforms by netizens since Thursday when CSK lost to KKR. Sources said that the Ranchi police got clues that the post was uploaded on Instagram by someone from Kutch district in Gujarat. Based on the inputs, the local police traced the suspect who turned out to be a minor. He will be grilled by the Ranchi police and may be handed over to them if required.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-teen-confesses-to-sending-rape-threat-to-dhonis-daughter-says-kutch-police-900607.html
11-10-2020||West||Metro car shed shift will spike cost by Rs 4,000 crore: Devendra Fadnavis||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Sunday termed as "unfortunate" the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government's decision to relocate metro car shed project from green lung Aarey Colony to Kanjurmarg in Mumbai. The former chief minister also said this decision was taken only to satisfy someone's ego which will escalate the cost of the project by at least Rs 4,000 crore. Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray announced the scrapping of the Aarey metro car shed and said the project will now be shifted to government land in Kanjurmarg and that no cost will be incurred for the purpose. "Unfortunate decision to shift Metro CarShed from Aarey to Kanjurmarg and that too just to satisfy ego. This decision will increase the cost of the project by at least Rs 4,000 crore and this cost escalation is assessed by the committee appointed by this Government," tweeted Fadnavis during whose tenure the work on the carshed began. "Why such a huge burden just to satisfy someone's ego? Whom does government want to suffer and for what?" he asked. Ahead of the 2019 Assembly elections, the BJP's former ally Shiv Sena had opposed the project claiming it would harm environment in the prominent green colony in the city. Fadnavis tweeted that the Kanjurmarg site was earlier considered by his government, but it was under litigation and stayed by the high court. "Some private individuals claimed their rights. The stay was requested to be withdrawn. The High Court wanted the amount to be deposited if the claims got settled in future. This amount was around Rs 2400 crore in 2015. What is the status of that case today? And if someone moves the SC, who will be responsible for the delay?" the leader of opposition in the Legislative Assembly asked. Fadnavis further said since the site in Kanjurmarg is a marshy land, it will require at least two years to stabilise it. "In addition to this, all the previous tenders will have to be scraped and a new process will have to be followed. No DPR or feasibility report has been made for this site. "This means that the Metro project, which would have been in the service of Mumbaikars just next year, has now been postponed indefinitely. Rs 400 crore was already spent for Aarey CarShed, Rs 1300 crore wasted due to staying of project and additional cost escalation of Rs 4000 crore?" he asked in another tweet. "Rs 2400 crore cost burden if in case Kanjurmarg land dispute remains as it was. What will be today's cost. Metro project delayed for indefinite period," he said. Fadnavis questioned the government's "motive" behind "blocking the seamless journey of Mumbaikars" and alleged that the Maha Vikas Aghadi government is misleading Mumbaikars.  This means that the Metro project, which would have been in the service of Mumbaikars just next year, has now been postponed indefinitely.₹400 crore was already spent for Aarey CarShed,₹1300 crore wasted due to staying of project & additional cost escalation of ₹4000 crore❗️||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/metro-car-shed-shift-will-spike-cost-by-rs-4000-crore-devendra-fadnavis-900633.html
