12-10-2020||First Edit||Make suburban rail a reality||The Bengaluru suburban rail project which was first mooted about three decades ago, has belatedly received the approval of the Cabinet Committee of Economic Affairs (CCEA), raising optimism that an end is in sight to the city’s commuting woes. Though this is a welcome move, scepticism is rife because the project has suffered many false starts right from its inception, only to be derailed soon after. Though the project was in the works for several years, it received some concrete shape in 2013 when then chief minister Siddaramaiah made a budgetary allocation for the first time and announced setting up of a special purpose vehicle - Bengaluru Suburban Rail Corporation. The project once again went into a limbo, until it was revived on the eve of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections following a meeting between then chief minister HD Kumaraswamy and Rail Minister Piyush Goel. Though it found a mention in the 2019-20 Union budget, only a token allocation of Rs 1 crore was made, much to the disappointment of Bengalurians. While hopefully the project will not require any more approvals, land acquisition continues to be a ticklish issue. The 148-km rail will have four corridors: KSR Bengaluru city-Devanahalli, Bayapanahalli-Chikkabanavara, Kengeri-Cantonment-Whitefield and Heelalige-Rajanakunte. The Railways will provide Rs 6,000 crore of land in its possession at a token rent of Re 1, while about 65 acres of private land will have to be acquired. The acquisition of land and the clearing of encroachments along the railway line may pose a challenge, considering that 60% of the alignment would be through the metropolitan area. In the 2020-21 budget, the Centre had announced that it would invest 20% in the Rs 20,000 crore project and facilitate external assistance up to 60%, with the rest of the amount coming from the state government. It is now time for both the central and state governments to move beyond announcements and allot the required funds so that work can begin in the right earnest. Though Bengaluru witnessed an exponential growth both in terms of geography and population over the past two decades, no attention was given to setting up a mass public transport system by successive governments, leading to acute traffic congestion and undue pressure on the crumbling infrastructure. With the progress of the Namma Metro extremely slow, the suburban rail has come as a beacon of hope for Bengalurians who are fed up with existing traffic snarls. Now, what is most needed is the political will to ensure that the project does not face any more bureaucratic hurdles and becomes a reality soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/make-suburban-rail-a-reality-900686.html
12-10-2020||In Perspective||Avoiding patents for Covid-19 vaccines||Extreme adverse events and situations bring together victims of the situation. This is what exactly has happened as both India and South Africa have come together to overcome the huge global problem of coronavirus (Covid-19). While the disease has not spared any country in the world, it is well known that the developing and least developed countries (LDC) will indeed have a tough time to overcome the crisis. On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization (WHO) declared the disease to be a pandemic, after having announced a related public health emergency of international concern (PHEIC) on January 30, 2020.  The World Trade Organization (WTO) has cautioned that the “Pandemic represents an unprecedented disruption to the global economy and world trade, as production and consumption are scaled back across the globe”. We have witnessed a breakdown in global supply chains coupled with growing supply-demand gaps. While vaccines for Covid-19 are an important tool for combating global public health problem, it also includes toolkits that are useful for diagnosis and several other appliances and not to forget the drug itself that may cure in some way or treat the disease itself. There are intense efforts by research scientists and medical laboratories all over the world that are engaged in to find some solution to this huge and complex Covid-19. As and when these discoveries are made, they are supposed to meet the needs of the community. This is the real challenge because as discoveries are made by the big drug companies which are mostly situated in the USA and Europe, they may want to create monopoly by patenting the discoveries. And if the patents are granted, then the discovered products will be made available to a few rich persons in rich, developed countries only and thus depriving the vast majority of people its benefits. As companies are helping the governments in the global fight against Covid–19, there are disturbing instances wherein the same companies are also exploring as to how they can make huge profits by creating monopolies by using patents. For example, there are hundreds of patents on things related to N95 mask, which is a very useful tool for frontline healthcare workers. The owners of this patents are the US government, 3M Co (as American multinational company with operations in around 70 countries all over the world), paper and health-related companies and in addition, a few universities. In another unrelated case, early this year, Labrador Diagnostic company filed a patent infringement suit against bioMerieux SA – a French company developing tests to detect Covid-19.    Huge cost Just imagine a situation wherein there is some discovery that will detect, treat or cure a condition but the vast majority cannot access it because of its huge cost as it is patented. Such glaring examples are indeed becoming common. Patent wars have been ravaged in nearly every industry, yet there are questions whether litigators will take a break as the Covid-19 ravages the world.  It is to address this precise situation which may not be far off, that both India and Africa have come together with a common appeal to the TRIPS Council (Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights), which falls under the WTO, to find tangible solution to this.  India and South Africa, through the draft decision text, sought a waiver from certain provisions of the TRIPS Agreement for the prevention, containment and treatment of the pandemic. This intervention is most appropriate and timely. This ambitious proposal, submitted on October 2, 2020, if accepted by WTO membership, would facilitate technology transfer for effective Covid-related vaccines, therapeutics or diagnostic tests as the joint submission covers patents, copyright, industrial designs and undisclosed information including know-how and trade secrets. Thus, the draft by India and Africa goes much beyond patents as it also heralds solidarity among the developing countries. The text of the submission urges that because of the exceptional circumstances that exist globally, the Council for TRIPS recommends to the General Council, a waiver from the implementation, application and enforcement of Sections 1, 4, 5, and 7 of Part II of the TRIPS Agreement which are in relation to prevention, containment or treatment of Covid-19, is given effect to. The request waiver would apply to all WTO members.  The waiver should continue until widespread vaccination is in place globally, and the majority of the world’s population has developed immunity. Hence, it proposes an initial duration of certain period of years from the date of the adoption of the waiver. The next TRIPS Council meeting is scheduled to be held on October 15, 2020 and its member countries are from Canada, the European Union, Japan, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States of America. Just note that most of these countries possess the drug manfacturing companies that seek patents on new innovations. Hence, it will be intriguing to watch the outcome of this meeting. Will the TRIPS Council members think globally or succumb to the greed of the drug companies from their own countries?  (The writer is President, Drug Action Forum, Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/avoiding-patents-for-covid-19-vaccines-900688.html
12-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||People queue up to perform 'sevas' at Kukke Subrahmanya||A large number of devotees visited Kukke Subrahmanya Temple to perform 'Ashlesha bali seva' on Monday. There was a huge queue for the registration of the 'seva' since Sunday night.  The 'Ashlesha bali seva' is performed thrice in the temple in a day. As 'Ashlesha nakshatra' (star) falls on Monday, the demand for the 'seva' has increased. The devotees were standing in a queue for the registration to get the receipt for the 'seva' from Sunday night.  The temple authorities start issuing receipts for the 'seva' daily at 6 am. Only a fixed number of 'sevas' are performed in the temple due to Covid-19 guidelines. On Sunday, a total of 375 'Ashlesha bali seve', 66 'Sarpa samskara', 30 'Nagaprathishte' and other 'sevas' were offered to the deity at the temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/people-queue-up-to-perform-sevas-at-kukke-subrahmanya-900836.html
12-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Former MLA from Harihar passes away at 91||Former MLA and Kuruba community leader K Malllappa passed away at his home in Aanjaneya layout in Davangere. He was 91 years old. He was elected as an MLA from Harihar assembly constituency in 1983 and from Mayakonda assembly constituency in 1985. Besides, he was elected as an MLC once. He had served as the head of Devaraj Urs Backward Classes Development Corporation and Bayaluseeme Development Board. He had also played a key role in establishing Kaginele Mahasamsthana Peetha. He had even demanded the government to include Kuruba community in ST list when Ramakrishna Hegde was the chief minister. He is survived by two sons and a daughter. The last rites would be held in Hindu cemetery at Gandhinagar at 4:00 pm on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/former-mla-from-harihar-passes-away-at-91-900845.html
12-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Poor visibility, clouds lead to diversion of flights from Belagavi||Poor visibility and clouds affected the landing of three flights and had to be diverted to other airports on Monday morning. Belagavi Airport Director Rajesh Kumar Maurya told DH that Indigo's Hyderabad-Belagavi flight was diverted to Hubballi, SpiceJet's Bengaluru-Belagavi flight was diverted to Hyderabad and Trijets Tirupati-Belagavi flight was diverted to Tirupati. Low clouds affected the visibility leading to the diversion of these flights, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/poor-visibility-clouds-lead-to-diversion-of-flights-from-belagavi-900860.html
12-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||15-ft long python rescued from paddy field in Chamarajanagar dist||A huge python was spotted amid the paddy saplings at an agricultural land near Shivanasamudra in Kollegal taluk, Chamarajanagar district, on Monday. The 15-ft long python was spotted by the farmer Umaiah, when he came to work, on Monday morning. He was shocked to find the python amid the crop and immediately alerted environmentalist Raghu, who rescued the python safely. The python is said to be around 15-ft long and weighed 37 kg. The snake was released into the forest, after informing the Forest department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/15-ft-long-python-rescued-from-paddy-field-in-chamarajanagar-dist-900966.html
12-10-2020||Karnataka Politics||K Sudhakar gets additional charge of Karnataka's Health Ministry, Sriramulu given Social Welfare in minor reshuffle||Karnataka Minister B Sriramulu was divested of the Health and Family Welfare portfolio by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday in a Cabinet reshuffle amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The portfolio was allocated to Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar. Significantly, Yediyurappa also took back the Backward Classes Welfare department from Sriramulu, retaining it with himself, in the minor reshuffle. He entrusted Sriramulu with the key Social Welfare department, hitherto handled by Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol in addition to the Public Works department. Karnataka Governor Vajubhai Vala issued an official notification reallocating the portfolios on the advice of the Chief Minister. Sudhakar is now in-charge of the overall Health related affairs in the state, which has been witnessing a spurt in Covid-19 cases. The Chief Minister is said to have taken the decision with an intention of one minister handling the related portfolios - Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education - amid the pandemic, official sources said. Yediyurappa picked Sudhakar as he is a Medical doctor by qualification and has been handling Covid-19 related responsibilities, they said. Also, in early weeks of Covid management, the government had drawn criticism from some sections over its strategy and handling with Sriramulu and Sudhakar seen "competing" with each other to lead from the front, sometimes creating confusion. The opposition has levelled allegations of corruption in procurement of Covid-19 equipment, but the BJP government has rejected them. Speaking to reporters earlier on Monday, Sudhakar said the Chief Minister has told him to take up the responsibility of the health department along with Medical Education and to work effectively in the fight against coronavirus and to provide the best health facility for 6.5 crore people in the state. "I thank him (CM) for the trust he has shown in me and will live up to his expectation," the Minister said, adding that he would focus on bringing Covid-19 under control and work towards decreasing the fatality rate in the state. Noting that the health and medical education departments were interlinked, Sudhakar said, for various reasons they were seperated in 2000, to make room for more Ministers then, and the Chief Minister has now rectified that 'mistake'. He replied in the negative to a question whether changing the health minister amid corruption allegations in the procurement of Covid-19 equipment would send out a wrong message. I have said in the assembly that there is no corruption. However, keeping in mind media queries and Opposition claims, I will study once again," he said. Sudhakar said he has spoken to Sriramulu, who held the health portfolio all these days, after getting to know about reallocation and that the latter was not sulking. "Social welfare is a big department with an outlay of over Rs 25,000 crore and he (Sriramulu) had desired for the department in the past," he noted. Sriramulu getting the social welfare department portfolio is seen as a politically-significant move by the ruling BJP as he belongs to the Scheduled Tribe (Valmiki) community. However, the Chief Minister taking back the Backward Classes Welfare department, the additional portfolio that Sriramulu was holding, has come as a surprise. As the re-allocation of portfolios were declared, Sriramlu met Yediyurappa at his official residence. Deputy Chief Minister Karjol, who also met Yediyurappa said, the Social Welfare Department was an additional responsibility he was handling along with PWD, and the Chief Minister has the complete authority to give it to any one. He also welcomed the move to entrust the responsibilities of Health and Medical Education departments to Sudhakar and said it will be helpful for better management of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/k-sudhakar-gets-additional-charge-of-karnatakas-health-ministry-sriramulu-given-social-welfare-in-minor-reshuffle-900792.html
12-10-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka cabinet reshuffle is proof of govt's failure in handling Covid-19 pandemic: Congress||The Congress in Karnataka on Monday claimed Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa reshuffling his cabinet by changing the Health Minister is proof of the government's miserable failure in handling Covid-19. Minister B Sriramulu was divested of the Health and Family Welfare portfolio by Yediyurappa today and it was allocated to Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar. "The Cabinet Reshuffle done by CM @BSYBJP is proof of this government's miserable failure in handling the COVID Pandemic. The fact that the Health Minister has been changed adds credence to our charge that this Govt's incompetency has led to massive loss of life and livelihood," Shivakumar tweeted. The fact that the Health Minister has been changed adds credence to our charge that this Govt's incompetency has led to massive loss of life and livelihood.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-cabinet-reshuffle-is-proof-of-govts-failure-in-handling-covid-19-pandemic-congress-900893.html
12-10-2020||Karnataka Politics||Won't contest Belagavi by-election but will work towards BJP candidate's victory: Ramesh Jarkiholi's son, Amaranth||The son of Water Resources Minister and KMF director, Ramesh Jarkiholi, Amarnath Jarkiholi, snubbed doubts that he would contest the by-election for the Belagavi parliamentary constituency but said he would work very hard to ensure that BJP was victorious. Ramesh Jarkiholi joined the BJP recently. In a statement issued on Monday, Amarnath Jarkiholi said that his father was a minister in the state cabinet and would work towards party organisation and resolving the grievances of people from Gokak assembly constituency.  "By-election for the Belagavi parliamentary constituency has to be faced due to the sudden demise of union minister Suresh Angadi, who worked tirelessly towards development. I will not contest the by-election but will work with party workers to ensure the victory of a BJP candidate," he said. "I have come across many trolls on social media regarding the by-election. I have sufficient time to grow in politics and will not claim candidature," he said, adding that they would do justice to Angadi and not allow any injustice to be meted out to his family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/wont-contest-belagavi-by-election-but-will-work-towards-bjp-candidates-victory-ramesh-jarkiholis-son-amaranth-900905.html
12-10-2020||Main Article||Voluntarism, the way ahead||Hathras is the first case in independent India where the state has deprived the parents of a sexual abuse victim the right to respectfully cremate their child by forcefully burning the body, also knowing well that it is destroying crucial evidence. The right to a respectful burial has been awarded even to dreaded terrorists and those convicted in the heinous rape and murder of Nirbhaya. There is no point in asking the head of the state to apologise.  The NDA had scored a double political goal to win over Dalits by allaying apprehensions of the reinforcement of caste rule in the guise of Hindu Rashtra and the marginalisation of the Constitution by ensuring that the first citizen is a Dalit. They won most of the SC reserved seats of Lok Sabha both in 2014 and 2019.  Tragically today, India is witnessing a caste contradiction at play, one where both the first citizen and the last, the victim of Hathras, are Dalits. With 591 Dalit MLAs and 89 Dalit Members of Parliament across India, their silence on brutal incidents of caste violence including Hathras is definitely troubling. Is the power of political reservation hollow, as apprehended by Ambedkar? In the case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, the powers at play were hell-bent to prove that it was a case of murder when all the evidence pointed to a case of suicide; whereas in Hathras, the people in power are using all the armament in their arsenal to pass judgement without trial, decreeing that there was no rape, even when all the evidence proves otherwise. The development is worrisome as the role of the state as a reformer is gradually being usurped and replaced with the role of the state as an appeaser of dominant sections of society. The hope for justice dwindles when the minds of people in power are prejudiced. The only ray of hope in the case is the suo motu intervention of the Allahabad High Court. We are witnessing a new model of governance when it comes to the question of caste - the silence of the political leadership in times of social turmoil and the aggressive defense of the administration as it quells civil dissent and unrest. However, this is not the case when it comes to communal violence, where the state preferentially tilts towards its own larger constituency. This only has a message on the wall that the nation, with the predominant leadership of the civil society, has to rise and assume the role of leadership to annihilate the prejudices of caste and gender manifested primarily through violence but conspicuously hiding the increasing social-economic and cultural divide, dismantling the idea of a nation. We are also witnessing a new development. The organising of the dominant castes, with the connivance of politicians in their capacity claimed as personal, to defend their members, irrespective of these members being charged with heinous crimes of rape or murder. Such attempts promote organised communal lust as can be seen in the rising number of gangrapes including that of Nirbhaya and the Hathras victim. Such organisations of dominant castes draw the anger to motivate themselves from the fact that there is a silver-lined cloud emerging in the skies where people transcend caste and religious identities and come forward even at the cost of being persecuted to stand for values of equality and pluralism. Four decades ago, I witnessed in Gujarat villages a situation where dominant caste men felt they were at liberty to enter any Dalit home and do anything they wished with Dalit women. Since there was no protest, such sexual exploitation did not appear to be counted as rape cases. The only difference we witness now is that such exploitative practices have become ‘registered offences’. Wall of inequality It is evident that the present-day caste and gender violence is borne out of irritation and jealousy as both Dalits and women have been steadily dismantling the structural wall of inequality. However, the unease is that we as society have thought less about the prevention of such crimes. To leave the question of justice to the administration and judiciary alone is tantamount to putting all eggs in a single basket. The Manu Smriti justified the vulnerability of women and shudras as subjects. In South Africa, which has among the world’s highest rates of sexual violence, only the rape of white women was prosecuted under the apartheid system while sexual violence against black women was accepted as a part of life. With the change in the democratic structure of governance, we have the strongest legislations in place to counter such inhumanity but have we won the war over prejudice? We cannot win this war unless we focus on prevention. Both Gandhi and Ambedkar had one thing in common - emphasis on education as a tool for social transformation. Unfortunately, the New Education Policy is completely silent on sex education. This is particularly worrisome with the onslaught of the internet where we are exposing our children to the image of women as subjects of sexual gratification. There is a continuous increase in caste violence – 3,662 cases (1971) (526 under civil rights act and 3,136 other IPC offences) to 45,935 cases (2019). Also, there is an increase in rape cases: 2,487 cases (1971) to 32,034 in (2019). In the light of the failure of the state to prevent such crimes, we need to educate citizens from the school level onwards. With the state consciously restricting the space of voluntary organisations, the only visible road ahead to build a less violent society is voluntarism, which has been the successful strategy of all social movements including that of the independence struggle. (The writer is an activist and the founder of Navsarjan, a grassroots Dalit organisation fighting for human rights since the 1970s)  (The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/voluntarism-the-way-ahead-900687.html
12-10-2020||Mysuru||Hanur: Four poachers held; tiger pelt, claws seized||The Forest department officials arrested four youths, for poaching tigers, leopards and other animals in the forests under Male Mahadeshwara Wildlife Sanctuary and BRT Tiger Reserve. The accused are Mahadev, 28, and Kumar, 20, of Nellikatri village, Mahadev, 22, and Rangaswamy, 23, of Gombegallu village, Hanur taluk. Their three accomplices are at large. The officials also seized bones, claws, tiger pelts and deer skin from them, when they were trying to sell them. Four tiger claws, bones of a tiger, claws of a leopard, two deer skins, skins of two wild goats, two jumping squirrel skin and others were seized. Two motorbikes used for the crime have also been seized. All four are said to be Soliga tribal people. This is said to be the biggest poaching haul in Chamarajanagar district in recent years. Six people were arrested in connection with the theft of tusks in 2012, at Kaudalli range. In 2016, one was held for poaching a leopard, using a snare, and its pelt was recovered. Male Mahadeshwara Wildlife Sanctuary Deputy Conservator of Forests V Yedukondalu said, “The accused had been collecting bones and parts of wild animals since a few years and were caught, while trying to sell them.” “The operation was conducted jointly by the officials and staff of MM Wildlife Sanctuary, BRT Tiger Reserve and Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary. The other three accused will be arrested soon,” Yedukondalu added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/hanur-four-poachers-held-tiger-pelt-claws-seized-900646.html
12-10-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on October 12||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 71 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 71,68,338 as of October 12 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 1,09,795  
<!--
{C}<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> No. of people discharged:  61,49,535   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-october-12-900695.html
12-10-2020||National||3.33 crore RTI queries filed in Centre, states since 2005; 38 posts of Information Commissioners vacant||As the transparency law enters 16 years on Monday, over 3.33 crore RTI applications have been filed with the central and state authorities since 2005 with three south Indian states, including Karnataka, finding a place in the top-five list. The analysis by the Transparency International India (TII) also showed that one in almost every four posts of Information Commissioner, 38 out of 160, remained vacant as on October 9, indicating the government's lack of political will to strengthen the transparency regime in the country that has completed 15 years of existence. This included the post of Chief Information Commissioner at the Central Information Commission and those at state commissions in Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Goa. The situation has worsened if compared to the situation last October when only 24 posts out of 155, excluding Jammu and Kashmir, remained vacant. The TII's '2020: State Transparency Report – Journey So Far and Challenges Ahead' showed the ministries and departments under the central government received the highest number of RTI queries during the period clocking 92.63 lakh. Maharashtra followed the Centre with 69.36 lakh queries while Karnataka bagged the third position with  30.50 lakh RTI queries. Tamil Nadu (26.91 lakh) and Kerala (21.92 lakh) also found a place in the top five list. Among the states with more than one crore population, the analysis showed that West Bengal (98,323) and Assam (1.82 lakh) received the least number of RTI applications. Himachal Pradesh with 4.84 lakh and Tripura with 42,111 were among the states which received the higher number of RTI queries among smaller states. Manipur (4,374) and Sikkim (5,120) received the least. Amplifying the concerns of transparency activists about the reluctance of Information Commissioners in imposing a penalty on erring Public Information Officers (PIOs) who refuse information under one pretext or another, the statistics showed that only in 15, 834 cases, a penalty was imposed by State Information Commissions (excluding Central Information Commission) between 2005-06 and 2018-19. The Central Information Commission (CIC) and State Information Commissions (SICs) can impose a penalty of Rs 250 per day to maximum Rs 25,000 under Section 20(1) of RTI Act. "Enacted with the prime objective of bringing about progressive change in the governance of the country, the only concern that remains to be addressed in the 16th year of the Act’s implementation is - Why does the RTI regime have to continuously face challenges on political and social fronts to achieve this objective?" TII Executive Director Rama Nath Jha asked. "Major recognised and national political parties of the country take undue advantage of the claim to create an enabling environment for effective RTI implementation and win the elections and/or pro-transparency image. But once these acquire power, these ruling combinations forget about the promises made and instead make concerted efforts to make the RTI Act lose its strength and vigour," TII Chairperson S R Wadhwa said. The report also said, "Digital India is a mantra but digital governance in India is far from reality as websites of information commissions are not working or providing updated information." It also found out that many State Information Commissions have not published their annual reports for many years, whereas Chhattisgarh is the only state which has published the latest annual report on its website. According to the report, one in almost three public authorities under the Centre are failing to report to the CIC regarding the number of RTI applications they handle in one year, despite the fact that filing of annual RTI returns is mandatory under Section 25 (2) of RTI Act. "This is because of a few genuine reasons such as shortage of manpower, no proper cataloguing and storage of information, the volume of frivolous queries and a grave concern regarding the non-serious attitude of many public authorities. Queries are mostly personal in nature, which is another concern. RTI will serve its purpose more if RTI applications are filed on issues of larger public interests," it said. The report said the activists insist that imposition of penalties and payment of compensation to applicants can be used as tools for ensuring adherence to the norms of providing information within a reasonable time frame. "Probably fixing a time limit for the disposal of first appeals as well as second appeals may go a long way if the government takes a step in this direction as has been prompted through the initiative of Madras High Court recently," it said. Referring to the "biggest challenge" to ensure the protection of information seekers as cases of harassments and murder of RTI applicants is increasing across the country, the report said at least 90 people who had filed RTI applications have been killed while 175 others have been attacked, a dozen committed suicide while hundreds reported being harassed by the powerful in the past 15 years. "Suo motu disclosures under the RTI Act have also been apathetically ignored by the authorities especially those related to health, migrant labourers, finances etc. Instead of voluntarily publishing data on the website portals and providing as much as information as possible to the public regarding the true pictures of the Covid-19 pandemic in India- the authorities are utilizing all kinds of tactics to undermine the sovereignty and right to freedom of information of the citizens," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/333-crore-rti-queries-filed-in-centre-states-since-2005-38-posts-of-information-commissioners-vacant-900694.html
12-10-2020||National||DH Radio | The Lead: GST compensation, a thorn in Centre-State relations||In this episode of The Lead from DH Radio, Finance Minister of Kerala Thomas Isaac speaks about the stalemate between the Central government and the states over the GST compensation.  Ahmed Shariff: Hi and welcome to the Lead. The pandemic has caused havoc in the sphere of the economy.  To bridge the shortfall in the GST compensation, the Centre had offered the states two options— Borrow the estimated cumulative amount of Rs 97,000 crore which doesn't account for the impact of the pandemic or borrow the entire shortfall estimated at Rs 2.35 Lakh crore.The word Borrow is the key. And with the pandemic and its affects compounding by the day, the states are left in the lurch for funds. Some have demanded the Centre to borrow instead. We are joined by Kerala's Finance Minister Thomas Issac to dwell deep into the situation. Hi Sir, welcome to DH Radio. Thomas Issac: Hi. Thank you. Ahmed: My first question to you is about the GST compensation, what should the Centre have done to avoid the stalemate? Thomas Issac: The simplest case would have been that the Centre should have maintained the promised made to the states. They should have borrowed and provided compensation to the states. At least on four occasions, in the GST council, the empowered committee and parliament,  this was the assurance given by none other than the Union finance minister then. That was the simplest option. Straight forward. now the Centre doesn't want to do that for whatever reasons...   To know more about the conversation, tune in to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-radio-the-lead-gst-compensation-a-thorn-in-centre-state-relations-900697.html
12-10-2020||National||DH Toon | Wind turbines to extract water: 'Tech to extract something out before it vapourises'||Rahul Gandhi on Friday taunted Prime Minister Narendra Modi over remarks on using wind turbines to extract water from air moisture to solve drinking water problems in coastal areas, prompting his ministerial colleagues to school the Congress leader on Danish technologies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-wind-turbines-to-extract-water-tech-to-extract-something-out-before-it-vapourises-900700.html
12-10-2020||National||Hathras rape victim's kin leave for Lucknow, to appear before Allahabad HC today||The family members of the 19-year-old Dalit woman who was allegedly raped by four men earlier in September in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district have left for Lucknow amid high security, according to ANI.  They will appear before Lucknow Bench of Allahabad High Court later in the day. The court on October 1 had asked the woman's parents to come to apprise it of their versions of the incident and had also ordered the Hathras district administration to arrange for their travel to the court and facilitate their appearance before it. "The district judge, who has been appointed the nodal officer for the appearance of the Hathras victim's family members before the high court, is in touch with it as to when the case is listed. The family will move accordingly. The family is in Hathras as of now," Superintendent of Police (SP) Vineet Jaiswal told PTI on Sunday morning. Police did not divulge details of their security plan on the movement of the woman's family members. Sixty security personnel have been deployed and eight close circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed at the house of the alleged gang-rape victim in her village here to ensure the safety of her family members, according to police. Deputy Inspector General of Police Shalabh Mathur, who has been sent to Hathras from Lucknow as a nodal officer, had said on Friday that if needed a control room would also be established. With the help of CCTV cameras, the house of the victim is being monitored round-the-clock, police said. The Hathras SP said a register of visitors is being maintained by policemen deployed at the entrance of the house. "Shocked" by the alleged gang-rape and murder of the 19-year-old Dalit woman and her forcible cremation subsequently, the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court on October 1 had summoned top government officials to the court. A division bench of Justice Rajan Roy and Justice Jaspreet Singh had ordered the Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary, state police chief and an additional director general of police to appear before it on October 12 to explain the incident. Taking suo motu cognisance of the case, which has triggered widespread outrage, the bench also ordered Hathras district magistrate and superintendent of police to appear with to apprise the court of various aspects of the case, including the ongoing probe into it. "The incidents which took place after the death of the victim on September 29, 2020, leading up to her cremation, as alleged, have shocked our conscience. Therefore, we are taking suo moto cognisance of the same," the bench had said in its order. The bench had also asked the late woman's parents to come to the court to apprise it of their versions of the incident and ordered the Hathras district administration to arrange for their travel to the court and facilitate their appearance before it. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hathras-rape-victims-kin-leave-for-lucknow-to-appear-before-allahabad-hc-today-900709.html
12-10-2020||National||Aarey issue now a tussle between Thackeray and Fadnavis||A day after Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray announced the scrapping of the Mumbai metro car shed (Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation Ltd) at Aarey forest and shifted it to Kanjurmarg, the state BJP has lashed out the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. It now has compounded into a political clash between Thackeray and ex-Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis. Describing the decision as unfortunate, Fadnavis, a senior BJP leader, said that it would result in escalation of cost. “Unfortunate decision to shift Metro carshed from Aarey to Kanjurmarg and that too just to satisfy ego.This decision will increase the cost of the project by at least Rs 4,000 crore and this cost escalation is assessed by the committee appointed by this Government,” Fadnavis tweeted. According to him, this means that the Metro project, which would have been in the service of Mumbaikars just next year, has now been postponed indefinitely. “Rs 400 crore was already spent for the Aarey car shed, Rs 1,300 crore wasted due to staying of project and additional cost escalation of Rs 4,000 crore,” said Fadnavis. “Rs 2,400 crore cost burden if in case Kanjurmarg land dispute remains as it was. What will be today’s cost…. Metro project delayed for indefinite period," he added. "What exactly does the state government want to achieve by blocking the seamless journey of Mumbaikars? The MVA government is misleading Mumbaikars,” he said. Announcing the decision on Sunday, Thackeray, an ace photographer and nature lover, in a webcast said: "Two Metro corridors -- Colaba-Bandra-Seepz (Metro Line 3) and Swami Samarth Nagar-Vikhroli (Metro Line 6) will be integrated. I am happy to announce that Aarey car shed is now being moved to Kanjurmarg. The plot in Kanjurmarg is government land and it will be provided at zero cost for the Metro car shed. The money used to construct the building -- Rs 100 crore -- will not go waste either as the building will be used for a public purpose.” Immediately after Thackeray’s address, his son and state’s Environment Minister Aditya Thackeray tweeted: “Aarey saved!”. Aditya’s younger brother and naturalist Tejas Thackeray too welcomed the decision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aarey-issue-now-a-tussle-between-thackeray-and-fadnavis-900715.html
12-10-2020||National||Mumbai sees major power outage due to grid failure||The financial capital of Mumbai and the larger Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) went without power on Monday due to a major technical snag. The movement of suburban and upcountry trains on the Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR) was badly affected because of the power failure. Flight operations at the Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport were normal and there was no impact on arrival and departures. There was also an impact on the road traffic because the signaling system was affected. There was no major impact on hospital operations in Mumbai – as this was a major concern because of the Covid-19 pandemic situation. Mumbai City, Mumbai Suburban, Thane, Palghar and Raigad were impacted by this outage Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray spoke to Energy Minister Dr Nitin Raut and reviewed the power situation. In Nagpur, Raut said maintenance work was on in Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company's 400 KV Kalwa-Padgha centre when the technical fault happened in circuit number 2, which was taking the entire load at the time – affecting the supply. “Restoration operations are underway,” he said, adding that in couple of hours the situation is expected to be back to normal. “For us the priority is railway and hospitals,” he said. The Maharashtra government has ordered a high-level probe into the incident and assured that responsibilities would be fixed. One of the Mumbai distributors, Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) said the power supply was interrupted due to Tata's incoming electric supply failure at around 10.15 hrs. The power breakdown hit the lifeline of Mumbai - Central Railway and Western Railway - with all local trains en route till Vasai and Diva coming to a halt. Hapless commuters at many locations jumped down and started walking down to the nearest suburban railway station and taking road transport. However, latest reports said that situation is coming back to normal. Meanwhile, Mumbai’s Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal asked all hospitals to contact their transport garage officers to get enough diesel to operate generators for at least eight hours so that there are no power failures, especially in ICUs. He also asked hospitals to update their respective control room heads about the situation every 30 minutes and directed the disaster management control room and concerned officers to coordinate the operation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-sees-major-power-outage-due-to-grid-failure-900741.html
12-10-2020||National||LeT commander, aide killed in Srinagar gun battle||A top commander of Pakistan-based militant outfit Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) was killed along with a local ultra in a gunfight with the security forces in the uptown Barzulla area of Srinagar on Monday. Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbagh Singh identified the slain commander as Saifullah from Pakistan, who was involved in a series of attacks on security forces including the recent ones in Nowgam, Chadoora, and Kandizaal, Pampore. The other slain militant was identified as Irshad, a resident of south Kashmir's Pulwama. The gunbattle erupted after a joint team of J&K police and paramilitary CRPF launched a cordon-and-search-operation (CASO) in Barzulla following ‘specific’ information about the presence of militants there, police said. As the search party approached towards the suspected spot, the hiding militants fired upon them which was retaliated, in which two ultras were killed, they said and added the militants were offered surrender as part of the standard operating procedure (SOP) “but they refused.” This was the eighth encounter in Srinagar since May which comes as a reminder from the militants that its presence has increased in the city, which was not long ago was considered as a zero-militancy zone. Asked whether the LeT and other militant outfits were trying to set their foot again in Srinagar, J&K police chief said, “Whenever any terror outfit tries to establish a base in Srinagar, we successfully corner the militant with the help of our intelligence and other sources.” He said 18 militants including a top commander of Hizbul Mujahideen have been killed in the city this year. Asked how many militants were still active in Srinagar, Singh said only one ultra was active in the city “who is involved in a couple of attacks.” He asserted that they will soon bring him to justice. Singh said that J&K police have lost its 19 men and CRPF 21 jawans this year in militancy-related incidents. “Army has lost 15 soldiers and the majority of them were killed on the LoC,” the police chief said.   Asked how many local youths were brought back after joining militancy this year, he said with the help of parents and hard work of police, 26 youth, who had joined militancy were reunited with their families.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/let-commander-aide-killed-in-srinagar-gun-battle-900746.html
12-10-2020||National||Modi shattered economy, why are CMs mortgaging the future for him? Rahul on GST issue||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday slammed the BJP government over its inability to pay GST compensation to the States, accusing Prime Minister Narendra Modi of shattering the economy. Rahul accused Modi of favouring a handful of corporates by handing out tax cuts to the tune of Rs 1.4 lakh crore, but not finding the money to pay state governments. “Centre promises GST revenue for States; economy shattered by PM & Covid; PM gives 1.4 lakh Crs tax cuts to Corporates, buys 2 planes for himself for 8400 Crs; Centre has no money to pay States; FM tells States- Borrow,” the former Congress President took to Twitter to sum up the Modi government’s handling of the economy. 1. Centre promises GST revenue for States2. Economy shattered by PM & Covid3. PM gives 1.4 lakh Crs tax cuts to Corporates, buys 2 planes for himself for 8400 Crs4. Centre has no money to pay States5. FM tells States- Borrow Why is your CM mortgaging your future for Modi? “Why is your CM mortgaging your future for Modi,” Rahul asked. The Congress leader’s remarks come on a day when Finance Minister Nirmala Sithraraman is scheduled to chair the meeting of the GST Council to discuss the payment of compensation to the states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-shattered-economy-why-are-cms-mortgaging-the-future-for-him-rahul-on-gst-issue-900751.html
12-10-2020||National||Supreme Court issues notice to Centre on petitions challenging farm laws||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notice to the Centre on a batch of petitions filed by Chhattisgarh Kisan Congress leaders and DMK MP Tiruchi Siva, challenging validity of recently passed farm laws. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian asked Attorney General K K Venugopal and Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to file the response in the matter on behalf of the Union government. "We have Attorney General, Solicitor General, Additional Solicitor General all present here in a case where there is no cause of action. In common parlance, this is called overkill. Merely because a law is passed does not give a cause of action," the bench said. "Ultimately, you have to answer the questions sometime or the other," the bench told the law officers. The petitioners, including Rakesh Vaishnav, claimed the laws in their current form will spell disaster for the farming community by dismantling Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) and operating a parallel unregulated market. This would give enough room for exploitation of the farmers’ community by concentration of power in the hands of a few corporates or individuals.  They also alleged that there was no proper and meaningful representation or consultation and exchange of opinions from the stake holders before passing these Bills. The provisions of the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, Farmers’ Produce Trade And Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 were unconstitutional, manifestly arbitrary, unreasonable, whimsical and highly arbitrary, they contended. The petitioners apprehended that the laws give an "uneven edge over the farmers interest in favour of the sponsor or the farm service provider". "Such powers in the hands of sponsors, middle man and farm service provider sounds a death knell to the interest of the farmer who tills the lands with blood and sweat all year round for the agricultural produces," they said. If the distribution of food grains was left to market demand and the vagaries of corporate influence, they would create artificial scarcity to drive up the price, they felt. "Complete liberalisation amounting to legitimising the black marketing, and stocking would create unequal platform between the haves and have-nots, and the very sustenance of have-nots would be under peril," the plea by Siva claimed. RJD MP Manoj Kumar Jha has filed a separate petition in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-issues-notice-to-centre-on-petitions-challenging-farm-laws-900772.html
12-10-2020||National||Supreme Court allows NEET exam to be conducted on October 14 for students who missed it due to Covid-19||The National Testing Agency would conduct a fresh National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for left out candidates, and declare the results of the test conducted for admission to the MBBS course in medical colleges across the country, on October 16. The Supreme Court on Monday allowed a plea by the Centre to conduct a fresh NEET on October 14 for the candidates, who could not appear for the test held on September 13, due to being stuck in Covid-19 containment zones or having contracted the coronavirus. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian allowed a submission made by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing for the National Testing Agency. He said the examinations for those candidates who missed the exam would take place on October 14 and the result would be declared on October 16. "Students, who were unable to sit for NEET because of being Covid positive or in containment zones, will get the opportunity to appear on October 14 and their results will be declared on October 16," Mehta said.  The NEET (UG), 2020 was originally scheduled to be held on May 3, 2020 and later postponed to July 26, 2020. It was finally held on September 13, amid protests by students and political parties. On September 9, the court had refused to consider a plea to postpone the exam due to the Covid-19 pandemic and flood in some states. Earlier, the court had rejected a plea by six Opposition-ruled States' Cabinet ministers against the August 17 order which allowed holding of JEE Mains and NEET UG examination in September.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-allows-neet-exam-to-be-conducted-on-october-14-for-students-who-missed-it-due-to-covid-19-900777.html
12-10-2020||National||Indian, Chinese military commanders start 7th meeting, likely to discuss measures to avert violent face-offs||The senior military commanders of India and China started yet another round of talks in eastern Ladakh on Monday – primarily to discuss measures to be put in place to avert flashpoints, as the eyeball-to-eyeball stand-off between the soldiers of the two sides along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) is unlikely to end anytime soon. The General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the 14 Corps of the Indian Army, Lt. Gen. Harinder Singh, and Maj Gen Liu Lin of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) met at Chushul close to the LAC – the de facto boundary between the two nations in the western sector. They already had six rounds of talks after the stand-off started following the Chinese PLA’s unilateral move to push the LAC westward and the Indian Army’s counter-deployment in late April and early May. They are likely to review implementation of the agreement the two sides reached during the last meeting on September 21 on stopping further deployment of troops along the LAC.  The two sides are expected to discuss a set of measures to avoid any violent face-off along the LAC as it might take weeks or months to restart the stalled process of mutual withdrawal of troops and end the stand-off. The proposals being discussed include setting perimeters around the forward positions of both sides on the friction points along the LAC. The senior military commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA will try to reach an agreement to avoid breaching perimeters of each other’s positions, as any such action can trigger response from the other side and may fast escalate into a violent face-off, a source in New Delhi told DH. The source said that the efforts to restart the process to pull back soldiers would continue, but both the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA acknowledged the complexity of the disengagement exercise, which would require redeployment of troops by both towards regular posts on the respective sides of the LAC. It would need mutually agreed reciprocal actions and might take several weeks or months. “What however is urgently needed is to ensure stability and avert escalation of tension that could lead to violent face-offs like the one in Galwan Valley,” said the source, who is aware of New Delhi’s discussions with Beijing for resolution of the stand-off. The Indian Army lost 20 of its soldiers in the clash with the Chinese PLA personnel at Galwan Valley – one of the multiple scenes of the current stand-off – on June 15. The PLA too suffered casualties, but never made public the number of its soldiers, who were injured or killed. The Indian Army on August 29-30 night carried out an operation to preempt a move by the Chinese PLA to occupy land on the west of the LAC on the southern bank of the Pangong Tso lake. The PLA on September 7 accused the Indian Army of firing warning shots on its personnel in the same area. New Delhi, however, alleged that the PLA personnel had opened fire in the air to intimidate the Indian Army soldiers. It was the first incident of firing along the India-China disputed boundary since 1975. The sixth round of talks between the senior military commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA on September 21 ended with both sides agreeing to stop sending more soldiers to the disputed boundary between the two nations. They, however, could not end the stalemate over withdrawal of large numbers of troops the two sides already deployed since the stand-off started. The disengagement process they had mutually agreed upon remained stalled since mid-July with the Chinese PLA declining to completely withdraw troops from several “points of friction” along the LAC – like Depsang Y junction, Gogra Post and the northern bank of Pangong Tso. The meeting on Monday is going to be the last Lt. Gen. Singh will have with his counterpart in the Chinese PLA before completing his term as the commander of the 14 Corps of the Indian Army. His successor Lt Gen P G K Menon joined him in the meeting with Maj Gen Liu. He had also done so on September 21. The diplomats from both sides also joined the seventh rounds of talks between the senior military commanders, as they had done during the sixth meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-chinese-military-commanders-start-7th-meeting-likely-to-discuss-measures-to-avert-violent-face-offs-900786.html
12-10-2020||National||Rajnath Singh inaugurates 44 bridges built by BRO in border areas||As many as 44 bridges built in border areas of Ladakh, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir were dedicated to the nation by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday. Inaugurating the bridges at an online event, the defence minister, in his brief address, referred to the situation along India's borders with Pakistan and China. "You are well aware of the situation created along our northern and eastern borders. First Pakistan, and now also by China, as if a border dispute is being created under a mission. We have a border of about 7,000 km with these countries, where the tension remains," he said. The defence minister said, under the "visionary" leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, India is not only facing these crises strongly, but is also bringing major and historical changes in all the areas. Most of the 44 bridges, including seven in Ladakh, are in strategically important areas and they will help the armed forces in ensuring quick movement of troops and weapons, officials said. The defence minister also symbolically laid the foundation stone of the Nechiphu tunnel in Arunachal Pradesh at the virtual event. The inauguration of the bridges built by the Border Roads Organisation comes at a time when India is engaged in a standoff with China in eastern Ladakh. Singh sad construction of the bridges will benefit both the civilian population as well as the military in the areas. "Our armed forces personnel are deployed in large numbers in areas where transport is not available throughout the year," he said, noting improvement in border infrastructure will significantly help armed forces. "These roads are not only for strategic needs, but they also reflect equal participation of all stakeholders in the development of the nation," Singh said. The defence minister also complimented the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) for working tirelessly even during the coronavirus-triggered lockdown period. "The BRO has continued operations in the North Eastern States, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. BRO continued its work while ensuring that snow clearance is not delayed at remote locations," he said. "I am happy to know that over 2,200 kilometers of roads have been cut by the BRO during the last two years, using the latest technologies, and state-of-the-art equipment. Also, surfacing was carried out on about 4200 km of roads," he added. Amid the border standoff with China, India is expediting work on several key projects including on a strategic road linking Darcha in Himachal Pradesh with Ladakh that will criss-cross a number of high-altitude snow-bound passes. The nearly 290-km-long road will be crucial for the movement of troops and heavy weaponry into the frontier bases of the Ladakh region and will provide a crucial link to the Kargil region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-inaugurates-44-bridges-built-by-bro-in-border-areas-900787.html
12-10-2020||National||India's Covid-19 tally crosses 71-lakh mark with 66,732 fresh cases, 816 deaths||India's Covid-19 tally went past 71 lakh with 66,732 fresh cases, while the number of people who have recuperated crossed 61 lakh, pushing the recovery rate to 86.36 per cent, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Monday. The Covid-19 caseload stands at 71,20,538. The death toll climbed to 1,09,150 with the virus claiming 816 lives in a day, the data updated at 8 am showed. For the fourth day in a row, the number of active Covid-19 cases remained below 9 lakh. There are 8,61,853 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which account for 12.10 per cent of the total caseload, the data showed. The case fatality rate due to the coronavirus infection has dropped to 1.53 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5 . It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28 and crossed 70 lakh on October 11. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a total of 8,78,72,093 samples had been tested up to October 11. Of these, 9,94,851 samples were tested on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-crosses-71-lakh-mark-with-66732-fresh-cases-816-deaths-900790.html
12-10-2020||National||Himachal Pradesh CM Jairam Thakur tests positive for Covid-19||Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jairam Thakur on Monday said that he has tested positive for Covid-19. He is under home-isolation.  कुछ दिन पहले किसी कोरोना पॉज़िटिव व्यक्ति के सम्पर्क में आने के कारण मैं बीते एक सप्ताह से अपने आवास पर क्वारंटीन था,गत दो दिनों से कोरोना के कुछ लक्षण आने के कारण आज कोरोना टेस्ट करवाया,जिसकी रिपोर्ट अभी पॉज़िटिव आई है। चिकित्सकों की सलाह पर अपने सरकारी आवास में ही आइसोलेट हूं। More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/himachal-pradesh-cm-jairam-thakur-tests-positive-for-covid-19-900791.html
12-10-2020||National||Child marriage, trafficking on the rise amid Covid-19 pandemic: Report||At a time when the Covid-19 pandemic has forced the world indoors, child marriages, trafficking and labour seem to have risen in the country, a report suggested.  Within these six months, the child helpline received about 27 lakh distress calls. In contrast, the organisation got 36 lakh calls last year, alarming the officials as they had expected the numbers to dip sharply following the nationwide coronavirus-induced lockdown.  Over 10,000 cases of child marriage were tracked during the same time period of which most of were prevented, the report said.  The organisation actively intervened in at least 32,700 cases of trafficking, child marriage, sexual abuse, emotional abuse, begging and cybercrime. It also intervened in 6,800 cases related to child labour. The next few months would be crucial as the economy opens up and industries look for cheap labour with the exodus of migrant labourers from cities, an official of the Childline India Foundation told the publication.  The Union Home Ministry, on July 6, had appealed to the states and Union Territories to sensitise officers at all levels to combat the "serious and deplorable" crime of human trafficking. “Children and youth are more likely to be persuaded or tricked by criminals who take advantage of their emotional instability and missing support system. Once trafficked, the victims fall prey to many forms of unfair treatment such as forced prostitution, forced labour, forced begging, forced marriages, etc,” it said in an advisory on preventing and combating human trafficking especially during the period of Covid-19 pandemic.  The ministry had also advised the states and Union Territories to "immediately" set up new Anti Human Trafficking Units (AHTUs), upgrade the infrastructure of the existing ones in all the districts and make them functional on "most urgent basis". This was supposed to be done with the financial assistance provided by the central government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/child-marriage-trafficking-on-the-rise-amid-covid-19-pandemic-report-900796.html
12-10-2020||National||Not possible for anyone to make Rahul Gandhi understand India-China issue: BJP MP Virendra Singh Mast||BJP MP Virendra Singh Mast has rejected Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's criticism of the government's handling of the India-China issue, saying it was not possible for anyone to make him understand such matters. Targeting the government over the nearly five-month-long military standoff in eastern Ladakh, Gandhi had said last week that during the UPA's rule, "China would not dare to take a step inside our territory". He said had UPA been in power, "we would have evicted and thrown out China and it would not have taken 15 minutes to do so". The BJP MP on Sunday asked Gandhi to study the matter in detail. "It is not possible for any school or social worker to make him understand such matters," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-possible-for-anyone-to-make-rahul-gandhi-understand-india-china-issue-bjp-mp-virendra-singh-mast-900797.html
12-10-2020||National||SC adjourns PIL seeking court-monitored CBI probe into death of Rajput's ex-manager Disha Salian||The Supreme Court Monday adjourned hearing for a week on a PIL seeking court-monitored CBI enquiry into the death of Disha Salian, former manager of late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde deferred the matter as no advocate appeared for the petitioner in the case. "Nobody appearing in this matter? Last time also no one appeared. What should we do? We said last time that you should consider going to the Bombay HC," the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, observed and adjourned the matter for a week. The plea filed by advocate Puneet Dhanda claimed that both the deaths are interconnected as they occurred under suspicious circumstances. “It is after the death of Sushant Singh Rajput, various rumours and conspiracy theories have been linked between the deaths of Disha and Sushant, because both died in suspicious circumstances and at the peak of their successful professional career,” the plea said. Disha, 28, died on June 8 after falling off the 14th floor of a residential building in Malad (west) Mumbai. Rajput, aged 34, was found hanging from the ceiling of his apartment in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14 and since then the Mumbai police has been probing the case keeping in mind various angles. The PIL said that if the top court, after perusal of the investigation report by the Mumbai police, finds it unsatisfactorily then the matter be referred to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for further investigation. The plea also sought directions to Maharashtra police to cooperate in the investigation being carried out by Bihar police in Sushant's death case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-adjourns-pil-seeking-court-monitored-cbi-probe-into-death-of-rajputs-ex-manager-disha-salian-900804.html
12-10-2020||National||36% say they will socialise during festival season raising concerns of rise in Covid-19 cases: Survey||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan may have advised people to stay away from crowds during festivals due to the Covid-19 pandemic and said that no religion or God asks for flamboyant celebrations but a recent survey shows that 36% of the people say they plan to socialise during this festive season. While a majority of 51% said that they will not socialise at all, the survey found that a huge proportion of people said yes to socialising, which could result in a spiraling of Covid-19 cases. Already, experts have warned that the onset of winter may add to Covid-19 numbers, after analysing the trend in the West. According to the survey by LocalCircles, covering 28,000 responses from 226 districts, 3% said they would attend private get-togethers/parties that they are invited to, 23% said they will visit and have over close family and friends, while 7% said they will do all of the above. "Altogether 36% of Indians might be getting ready to socialise, sparking a fear of large scale Covid-19 spread...The prolonged impact of coronavirus has meant that Indians have been avoiding get-togethers, meeting extended family and crowded places, but it looks like the chains are going to be broken during the upcoming festivals," the survey said. It cited the spike in cases in Kerala after the Onam festival in early September. The festivities had resulted in a huge surge in coronavirus cases rising from 4,000 a day to over 10,000 cases a day. This led to the Kerala government invoking Section 144 and banning the assembly of more than five people across the state for all of October, it said. To another question on what was the primary reason they want to socialise this festive season, 17% said it has been a tough year socially for them and their families and socialising and meeting others would cheer them up, while 10% said there will be social pressure so they must do it. "63% said they plan to take precautions and socialise so they should be all right, and 5% said they have already had Covid-19 so it is not a worry. 5% were unsure," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/36-say-they-will-socialise-during-festival-season-raising-concerns-of-rise-in-covid-19-cases-survey-900819.html
12-10-2020||National||India generated over 18,000 tonnes Covid-19 waste since June; Maharashtra biggest contributor||India generated 18,006 tonnes of Covid-19 biomedical waste in the last four months, with Maharashtra contributing the maximum (3,587 tonnes) to it, according to a Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. Around 5,500 tonnes of Covid-19 waste was generated across the country in September - the maximum for a month so far. According to the data received from state pollution control boards, since June, all states and Union Territories have generated 18,006 tonnes of Covid-19-related biomedical waste which is being collected, treated and disposed of by 198 common biomedical waste treatment facilities (CBWTFs). Covid-19 biomedical waste could include PPE kits, masks, shoe covers, gloves, human tissues, items contaminated with blood, body fluids like dressings, plaster casts, cotton swabs, beddings contaminated with blood or body fluid, blood bags, needles, syringes etc. According to the data, Maharashtra generated 3,587 tonnes of Covid-19 waste in four months since June, followed by Tamil Nadu (1,737 tonnes), Gujarat (1,638 tonnes), Kerala (1,516 tonnes), Uttar Pradesh (1,432 tonnes), Delhi (1,400 tonnes), Karnataka (1,380 tonnes) and West Bengal (1,000 tonnes). Around 5,490 tonnes of such waste was generated in September, with Gujarat contributing the maximum 622 tonnes, followed by Tamil Nadu (543 tonnes), Maharashtra (524 tonnes), Uttar Pradesh (507 tonnes) and Kerala (494 tonnes). Delhi generated 382 tonnes of Covid-19 bio-medical waste in September, according to the CPCB data. Around 5,240 tonnes of Covid-19 waste was generated in August, of which 1,359 tonnes was in Maharashtra, and 588 tonnes each in Kerala and Karnataka. In July, the country generated 4,253 tonnes of Covid-19 waste, with Maharashtra (1,180), Karnataka (540) and Tamil Nadu (401) being the top three contributors. India generated 3,025 tonnes of Covid-19 waste in June, with Maharashtra alone accounting for 524 tonnes, followed by Gujarat (350 tonnes), Delhi (333 tonnes) and Tamil Nadu (312 tonnes) The CPCB had in March issued specific guidelines for handling, treatment and disposal of such waste at healthcare facilities, quarantine centres, homes, sample collection centers, laboratories, pollution control boards, urban local bodies and common biomedical waste treatment facilities (CBMWTFs). The apex pollution body had in May developed the “COVID19BWM” mobile application to monitor coronavirus-related biomedical waste and to compile the data through an electronic manifest system. This application tracks Covid-19 waste at the time of generation, collection and disposal. The Supreme Court has made it mandatory for all urban local bodies and state pollution control boards to use the mobile application for tracking biomedical waste daily in a bid to ensure that the waste is collected, transported and sent to the registered CBMWTFs. The directions came on July 30 on recommendations made in a report by the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority. As on Monday, India's Covid-19 caseload stands at 71.2 lakhs while the death toll is 1.09 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-generated-over-18000-tonnes-covid-19-waste-since-june-maharashtra-biggest-contributor-900825.html
12-10-2020||National||Border dispute created by China as if part of a mission: Rajnath Singh on eastern Ladakh standoff||India on Monday accused neighbouring China and Pakistan of escalating tension in the border areas apparently “like a mission”, even as the senior commanders of its army and the communist country’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) held yet another round of talks to resolve the five-month-long stand-off in eastern Ladakh.   “It appears as if tension is being escalated as part of a mission, first by Pakistan and now even by China,” Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said, after remotely inaugurating 44 bridges closer to the western, northern and north-eastern borders of the country.  Singh also said that India shared almost 7000-kilometre-long boundaries with China and Pakistan and often had to deal with tension in the border areas.  His remarks came even as the senior commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA had the seventh round of meeting to resolve the stand-off along the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh.  The General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the 14 Corps of the Indian Army, Lt. Gen. Harinder Singh, and Maj Gen Liu Lin of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) met at Chushul close to the Line of Actual Control (LAC)  – the de facto boundary between the two nations in the western sector. They earlier had six rounds of talks after the stand-off started following the Chinese PLA’s unilateral move to push the LAC westward and the Indian Army’s counter-deployment in late April and early May.  They reviewed the implementation of the agreement the two sides reached during the last meeting on September 21 on stopping the further deployment of additional troops along the LAC. The two sides are expected to discuss a set of measures to avoid any violent face-off along the LAC as it might take weeks or months to restart the stalled process of mutual withdrawal of troops and end the stand-off.  Even as New Delhi is continuing military and diplomatic talks with Beijing to end the stand-off, it sought to send out the message to China and its all-weather ally Pakistan that it would continue to build border infrastructures. The bridges the Defence Minister inaugurated on Monday are spread over seven states and Union Territories – Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim. The bridges were built by the Border Roads Organization.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/border-dispute-created-by-china-as-if-part-of-a-mission-rajnath-singh-on-eastern-ladakh-standoff-900840.html
12-10-2020||National||IIT Madras researchers develop anti-bacterial, biodegradable food wrapping material||Researchers at Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Madras have developed a food wrapping material which is not only anti-bacterial in nature but also biodegradable. According to the team which has also filed a patent for the wrapper, their product can tackle two major problems -- prevent packaged food contamination by bacteria as well as reduce the plastic waste generated in the environment when disposing the wrappers. "Our idea was to design a food wrap that will address two major issues--solid waste and food contamination during storage due to bacterial growth. We have developed a biodegradable wrapping material with in-built anti-bacterial activity to prevent bacterial growth in stored food. The anti-bacterial compound should be safe for consumption as it is approved by the authorities and does not cause any toxicity," said Mukesh Doble, Profesoor, IIT's Department of Biotechnology. "The wrapping material we have developed also degrades at various environmental conditions with the rate of degradation varying from 4 to 98 per cent in 21 days. The wrapping material degraded rapidly in moist conditions when compared to dry ones. Hence, our wrapper is eco-friendly and can play a major role in plastic waste reduction," he added. The films developed by researchers were made with polymeric blends containing starch, polyvinyl alcohol, cyclic beta glycans (CBG). The composition was optimised to achieve the best film with a smooth texture, flexibility, uniform thickness and good clarity. "Our anti-bacterial coated polymer wrapper was used for wrapping paneer, meat and chicken and its performance was tested. Samples were placed in 4 degrees Celsius and 30 degrees Celsius for 10 days and tested for the effect of the coating on reducing the bacterial growth with respect to the uncoated wrapper," said Puja Kumari, research scholar at IIT Madras. "Our study found that 99.999 per cent reduction in bacterial colonies was observed in food samples wrapped with our anti-bacterial wrap and stored at 30 degrees Celsius for 10 days when compared with a plain wrapper. This study also suggests that our anti-microbial wrapper can, to some extent overcome, the reduced availability of cold storage units. Paneer is known to have a very low shelf life (less than 7 days) and hence extending its shelf life is a major advantage," she added. The researchers also found that the wrapping material degraded at various environmental conditions with rate of degradation varying from 4 to 98 per cent in 21 days. The material degraded rapidly in moist condition when compared to dry ones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-madras-researchers-develop-anti-bacterial-biodegradable-food-wrapping-material-900844.html
12-10-2020||National||Narendra Modi paeans to Rajmata Vijaya Raje Scindia as bypolls loom in Madhya Pradesh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday released a Rs 100 commemorative coin in the memory of Rajmata Vijayaraje Scindia on her birth centenary celebrations that have coincided with the assembly bypolls in Madhya Pradesh. Addressing a function to celebrate the birth centenary, Modi recalled his first meeting with the late Rajmata during the Ekta Yatra organised by the BJP under the leadership of the then party President Murli Manohar Joshi. Modi hailed the late leader as a decisive leader and an able administrator who spearheaded agitations from burning of foreign clothes before Independence to fighting the Emergency, and the Ram Janmabhoomi movement. “It is a wonderful coincidence that the struggle for the Ram Janmabhoomi temple she led is set to be a reality in her birth centenary year,” the prime minister said. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also noted that the Rajmata would have been overjoyed as all her family members were now part of the BJP and could complete her unfinished work. The celebrations also come at a time when Jyotiraditya Scindia, who quit the Congress in March to join the BJP, faces the biggest challenge to ensure the victory of his supporters in the assembly bypolls scheduled for November 3. The bypolls were necessitated as 22 Congress MLAs, owing allegiance to Scindia, walked out of the party to join the BJP, bringing down Chief Minister Kamal Nath’s government. BJP has fielded 25 Congress rebels in the bypolls which are now seen as a test of popularity and the influence wielded by Scindia in Madhya Pradesh, particularly in the Gwalior-Chambal region from where he lost the Lok Sabha elections last year. Bypolls for 28 seats will be held on November 3. In the 230-member assembly, the BJP has 107 MLAs and the Congress 88. There are four independent MLAs, two from BSP and one Samajwadi Party MLA. The majority mark in the assembly post the bypolls will be 116.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narendra-modi-paeans-to-rajmata-vijaya-raje-scindia-as-bypolls-loom-in-madhya-pradesh-900846.html
12-10-2020||National||SC asks Centre to respond to plea to protect transgender community under panel laws||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Union government to respond to a plea for making modification and interpretation of sections of the Indian Penal Code to deal with sexual assaults against transgenders, transsexuals and eunuchs.  A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian issued notice to the Centre while terming the plea raised by advocate Reepak Kansal as a "good cause". The court asked senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for Kansal, to give a list of issues where Vishakha-kind (sexual harassment at work places) guidelines could be issued until the law was amended. The petition by Kansal asked the court to direct the Union government to make the sexual harassment mechanisms gender-neutral.  "In cases of sexual assault of transgender, the law enforcement agencies are often at loss to ascertain applicable provisions of law as there is no provision in the Indian Penal Code," he contended. He asked the court to frame guidelines to protect the fundamental rights of the third gender by giving them equal protection before law till such time the law is passed by legislature to protect them from sexual assault etc. He said Section 354 A of IPC should be declared as ultra vires of Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution to the extent that they are interpreted to exclude victims of sexual harassment who are transgenders. The petitioner cited the path-breaking judgement by the Supreme Court passed in 2014 in the matter of National Legal Services Authority vs Union of India granting recognition to transgenders as the third gender, falling under the ambit of Article14 of the Constitution. He said the court should also direct the Union government to pass an Anti-Discrimination Bill that penalises discrimination and harassment on the basis of gender.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-centre-to-respond-to-plea-to-protect-transgender-community-under-panel-laws-900852.html
12-10-2020||National||SC rejects plea to ban 'Halal' killing||The Supreme Court on Monday declined to consider a plea to ban 'Halal' killing of animals for consumption of meat.  A bench, presided over by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul told a counsel, appearing for Akhand Bharat Morcha, "Your petition is mischievous in character." "Court cannot determine who can be vegetarian or non-vegetarian. Those who want to eat 'Halal' meat can eat 'Halal' meat. Those who want to eat 'Jhatka' meat can eat 'Jhatka'," the bench said. 'Halal', an Arabic term, denotes what is permissible and lawful under the Muslim law. As per the practice, an animal, cut from jugular vein, is hung upside down and is allowed to bleed dry before readying it for consumption.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-rejects-plea-to-ban-halal-killing-900867.html
12-10-2020||National||Covid-19 active caseload below 9 lakh for fourth consecutive day||India's Covid-19 recoveries have surged to over 61 lakh, while active cases of coronavirus infection remained below nine lakh for the fourth consecutive day, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. The total recoveries have increased to 61,49,535 and exceed the active infections by 52,87,682 as on date, it highlighted. Also, a total of 71,559 patients have recovered and were discharged in a span of 24 hours against 66,732 new infections reported during the same period.  "India continues to report a trend of steadily decreasing active cases.For the fourth day after the active cases dropped below the 9 lakh mark after a month, the decline continues," the ministry said. There are 8,61,853 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country, according to the data updated at 8 am.  The national recovery rate has progressed to 86.36 per cent, the ministry said. The ministry said that 77 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and UTs . Maharashtra and Karnataka contribute more than 10,000 to the single-day recovery, it said. Also, 81 per cent of the  66,732 fresh Covid-19 cases recorded in a span of 24 hours are from 10 states and UTs, the ministry said. Maharashtra is still reporting a very high number of new cases with more than 10,000 cases followed by Karnataka and Kerala with more than 9,000 cases each. Also 816 case fatalities have been reported in a span of 24 hours. Of these, nearly 85 per cent are concentrated in ten states and UTs. More than 37 per cent of new fatalities reported are from Maharashtra (309 deaths). India's  Covid-19 caseload mounted to 71,20,538 with 66,732 infections being reported in a day while the  death toll climbed to 1,09,150 with the virus claiming 816 lives in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-active-caseload-below-9-lakh-for-fourth-consecutive-day-900871.html
12-10-2020||National||NHRC Foundation Day: Commission received over 73,000 cases in last one year||As it completes 27 years on Monday, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) said it has received over 73,000 complaints claiming violation of human rights in the past one year, including close to 33,000 between April and September this year. In his message, NHRC Chairperson Justice H L Dattu said the Commission has consistently endeavoured to broaden the ambit of human rights with the challenges of changing times for the protection of the civil and political rights of the people including safeguarding their economic, social, and cultural rights. Between October 2019 and September 2020, he said, the NHRC registered 73,729 complaints of which 32,876 were received in the past five months while the country was impacted by Covid-19 pandemic. These also included 29 suo moto cases of human rights violation. Justice Dattu said the NHRC could not organise any function to celebrate its Foundation Day owing to Covid-19 but expressed hope that they could celebrate it along with International Human Rights Day on 10th December. Even as the NHRC celebrated its Foundation Day, an NGO National Campaign Against Torture (NCAT) urged the Commission to recall its "order diluting mandatory judicial inquiries into custodial deaths" claiming that there is no judicial inquiry in 71% cases of deaths in police custody. The NHRC has said that an enquiry by a Judicial Magistrate or Metropolitan Magistrate is mandatory only in those cases of custodial death where there is "reasonable suspicion of foul play or well founded allegation of commission of an offence" All other cases of custodial death where the death is natural or caused by the disease may be enquired into by an Executive Magistrate”, the NCAT said. The NCAT said that the directions of the NHRC had a significant impact on the refusal of the State authorities to not conduct inquiries by judicial magistrate into the cases of custodial death. Citing 'Crime in India' reports between 2010 and 2019, it said 938 deaths or disappearance in police custody were reported from 2010 to 2019 out of which judicial inquiry was ordered only in 276 cases, which is 29% of the total cases. In an overwhelming 71% of cases of  “death or disappearance of persons in police custody”, it said, judicial inquiries were not ordered, among others, because of the leeway or wrongful interpretation of Section 176(1A) CrPC provided by the NHRC. "Since the NHRC as the relevant authority monitoring custodial deaths in India including reporting to it custodial deaths within 24 hours had issued directions that it is not mandatory to conduct judicial inquiries under Section 176(1A), the State authorities/police no longer felt the necessity to conduct mandatory judicial inquiries," Suhas Chakma of NCAT said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhrc-foundation-day-commission-received-over-73000-cases-in-last-one-year-900895.html
12-10-2020||National||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu tests negative for Covid-19||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Monday tested negative for Covid-19 and is expected to resume normal activities soon. The Vice President's Office said in a statement that the 71-year-old Naidu, who was tested positive for Covid-19 on September 29, was examined by a medical team from AIIMS on Monday. He has "tested negative for Covid-19...Naidu is in good health and is expected to resume normal activities soon," it said. Naidu has been under home quarantine after he was diagnosed with Covid-19 last month. Earlier, Home Minister Amit Shah and several union ministers, including Dharmendra Pradhan, and Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had contracted the virus infection and recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vice-president-m-venkaiah-naidu-tests-negative-for-covid-19-900900.html
12-10-2020||National||56% students pass in CBSE Class 10 compartment exam||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) declared the result for class 10 compartment examination on Monday with over 56 per cent of the registered candidates passing the exam. According to officials, a total of 1.57 candidates had registered for the exam and of them, 1.49 candidates appeared for the exam. "A total of 82,903 candidates have cleared the exam taking the pass percentage to 56.55 per cent," a senior board official said. The board had last week announced results for class 12 compartment exam with 59.43 per cent of the candidates clearing the examination. The compartment examination for classes 10 and 12 began on September 22 at 1,268 centres across the country amid strict precautions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The board had also given a chance to class 12 students to appear for the exam if they were unsatisfied with the marks awarded to them on the basis of an alternate assessment scheme after the exams were cancelled due to the Covid-19 outbreak. However, class 10 students had not got any option to improve their performance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/56-students-pass-in-cbse-class-10-compartment-exam-900907.html
12-10-2020||National||Hathras case: UP govt being 'unethical', not doing its job, say Congress leaders Rahul, Priyanka||Stepping up their attack on the Uttar Pradesh government over the Hathras case, Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday accused it of being insensitive and unethical, and said authorities are indulging in victim-blaming instead of putting criminals in jail. A 19-year-old Dalit woman from Hathras district was allegedly raped and attacked by four men, and she later succumbed to injuries at a Delhi hospital. The Congress leaders also launched a social media campaign, urging people, especially women, to speak up for the Hathras victim. "The government's attitude in the Hathras incident is inhuman and unethical. They are engaged in protecting the criminals rather than helping the victim's family," Rahul Gandhi said. "Let us take one step towards change, let us raise our voice against the injustice being done to women all over the country," he said in a tweet in Hindi, using the hashtag "SpeakUpForWomenSafety". The former Congress president said a few days ago, before he could reach Hathras, he was stopped by authorities. "I fail to understand, why was I stopped and not allowed to meet with the Hathras victim's family," he said. Rahul Gandhi alleged that the moment he reached the victim's house and talked to her family, the government started attacking the family. "It is not the government's job to help and protect the perpetrators of the crime but send them to jail and help the victim get justice. The Uttar Pradesh government is not doing its job and that is why I am being stopped," he said in a nearly two-minute video attached with his tweet. The video clip also shows footage of his visit to Hathras and how he was stopped. "I want to tell the government to start doing its job of sending the criminals to jail and protect the victims. This is not the story of just one woman, this is the story of lakhs of women in India. Lakhs of women are looking up to the government, which is not doing its work," Rahul Gandhi said. "We all need to exert pressure on the government and help change the society, because what is being done to the mothers and daughters in the country is grossly unjust," he also said. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi said crimes against women are rising and instead of listening to the truth and the voice of the victim women, allegations are levelled against them and they are defamed. "This is the most shameful and cowardly act," she said. "But the country's women will no longer remain silent. If one sister is victimised, then lakhs of others will raise their voice and stand with them. We will now take responsibility for our own safety. Now only women will have to take the responsibility of women safety," she also said in a tweet in Hindi. The Congress has been on the offensive over the Hathras incident. The Yogi Adityanath government is fighting severe criticism for its handling of the case, particularly after the local police burnt the woman's body at night without the family's approval. However, officials said the cremation was done "as per the wishes of the family". The state government has said that some people were trying to foment caste tensions in the aftermath of the incident. Quoting an FSL (forensic science laboratory) report, it has denied the rape charge. The probe into the case has been taken over by the CBI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hathras-case-up-govt-being-unethical-not-doing-its-job-say-congress-leaders-rahul-priyanka-900909.html
12-10-2020||National||7 Indians kidnapped in Libya, released: MEA||Seven Indians, who were kidnapped at Asshwerif in Libya on September 14, have been released, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said in a statement in New Delhi. The kidnapped Indians were handed over to the officials of the Al Shola Al Mudia, a local company which had employed them. India’s ambassador to Tunisia, Puneet Roy Kundal, spoke to them. "All of them are in good health and are currently staying in the company’s premises in Brega (in Libya. We are trying to complete requisite formalities to enable their return to India,” the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said in a statement. India at present does not have any embassy in Libya. The Embassy of India in Tunisia looks after New Delhi’s diplomatic contacts with Libya. New Delhi conveyed its sincere thanks to the Libyan authorities and the tribal elders of the region for their steadfast cooperation in securing the release of the seven Indians unharmed. “Both our Ambassador to Tunisia and our local consular staff were in constant touch with them and the company all through the crisis,” the MEA stated. The government also reminded that it had imposed a ban on travel of Indian nationals to Libya, irrespective of the purpose, in May 2016 in view of the security situation there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/7-indians-kidnapped-in-libya-released-mea-900918.html
12-10-2020||National||Kejriwal joins Punjab AAP’s protest at Jantar Mantar against farm laws||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday participated in a protest organised here by the Punjab unit of Aam Aadmi Party and demanded a complete rollback of the three recently enacted central farm laws. Addressing his party workers from Punjab at the Jantar Mantar agitation, Kejriwal said the AAP has a very clear stance on the farm laws. "We want a complete rollback of the three laws. It is non-negotiable," he asserted, "Second, a law on MSP (Minimum Support Price) must be brought in the country. The whole of Delhi is standing with farmers in this fight and as Delhi chief minister, I support you in this protest." Kejriwal said some parties are indulging in politics over the three contentious farm laws. "When the bill was being made a leader of the national party was present in the committee, and who congratulated the BJP for making the law, and made sure that the bill got passed and when it was passed they are protesting. Are people stupid?" Kejriwal said without naming anyone. He further claimed that the BJP made a promise of implementing the Swaminathan Commission report but they are doing exact opposite to what was recommended in it. "When they came asking for votes they said they will implement the Swaminathan report, but after winning what did they do? They are removing the MSP. When our government was formed in Delhi, government schools and hospitals were in a bad shape. So what did we do? We did not shut them, we improved them. The BJP has betrayed the farmers of this country," he said. He was joined by senior party leader Sanjay Singh, AAP MP Bhagwant Mann and other party MLAs at the protest. The three laws -- Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- took effect from September 27 after President Ram Nath Kovind's assent. The farmers have expressed apprehension that the Centre's farm laws would pave th way for dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates. The government has maintained that the farm laws will bring farmer better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arvind-kejriwal-joins-punjab-aap-s-protest-at-jantar-mantar-against-farm-laws-900923.html
12-10-2020||National||Nirbhay missile develops technical snag during trial||The Nirbhay subsonic cruise missile, having a range of around 1,000 km, developed a technical snag during a test firing on Monday at a facility in Odisha, forcing its developer DRDO to abort the trial, official sources said. The missile was test-fired by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) from an integrated test range in Balasore in Odisha at around 10:30 AM. "Minutes later, the missile developed a technical snag following which the trial process was aborted. The DRDO is analysing all the details," said a source. The DRDO has already carried out several successful trials of the 'Nirbhay' missile since October 2014. The state-of-the-art missile, which can be deployed from multiple platforms, has a speed less than that of sound (Mach 0.8). Powered by a solid rocket motor booster developed by the Advanced Systems Laboratory (ASL), the missile has an operational range of 1000 km, officials said. In the last few weeks, India has test-fired a number of missiles including a new version of the surface-to-surface supersonic cruise missile BrahMos and anti-radiation missile Rudram-1. India also carried out successful test-firing of a laser-guided anti-tank missile and nuclear-capable hypersonic missile 'Shaurya'. The successful test firing of Rudram-1 is seen as a major milestone as it is India's first indigenously developed anti-radiation weapon. The flight testing of the missiles comes in the midst of India's bitter border row with China in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nirbhay-missile-develops-technical-snag-during-trial-900925.html
12-10-2020||National||Lockdown forcing 'white collar' people to take to crime: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Monday expressed concern over "white collar" people taking to crimes during the lockdown, and called for ensuring that job-providing businesses run for the next six months in cities like Mumbai and Pune. An editorial in Shiv Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' referred to an ATM heist in Pune by two "well-educated" persons as they could not make their ends meet and the alleged suicide by a transport staffer from Nashik for receiving Rs 225 as salary. It termed such incidents as "side-effects" of the pandemic-induced lockdown, and also mentioned about the rise in thefts of 'mangalsutras' (a necklace worn by married women) in Mumbai and Thane. "It will be enough if the alarm bells of white collar people taking to crimes to feed their stomach ring in the ears of the government," the Sena publication said, adding that people seeking employment are ready to break laws for the sake of their children. It also referred to a recent police raid on a dance bar in Mumbai's Goregaon area where 11 women were rescued and 15 customers and four bar staffers were arrested. "Care has to be taken to see each employment-providing business in Mumbai and Pune runs for the next six months. A lot of people will come under the scanner if we were to talk about who follows laws to what extent," the editorial said. It also asked that if industries are to operate at 50 per cent of their capacity, "will the government arrange for the children of the remaining 50 per cent of the people?".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-forcing-white-collar-people-to-take-to-crime-shiv-sena-900931.html
12-10-2020||National||Sambit Patra accuses Farooq Abdullah of making seditious remarks||The BJP on Monday accused National Conference supremo Farooq Abdullah of making "seditious and anti-national" remarks on the issue of restoring the special status of Jammu and Kashmir and said he had become a "hero in China". BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra said that the National Conference MP and former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir in an interview to a TV channel stated that "with China's support", Article 370 of the Constitution, which conferred special status to Jammu and Kashmir, will be restored. Addressing a press conference at the party office, Patra claimed Abdullah has also justified China's recent aggression at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) by saying that the abrogation of Article 370 by the Indian parliament has irked and disturbed the communist country. Underlining that Article 370 was abrogated in a "constitutional manner" by the Indian parliament, the BJP leader said, "Abdullah remarks are seditious and anti-national." Patra said it is painful and worrisome that a former chief minister and sitting MP makes such a statement and "justifies the expansionist attitude of China". Parliamentarians from opposition parties have the right to attack and criticise the government, but "does it suit a sitting MP to speak against the interests of his own country out of frustration against Prime Minister Narendra Modi", he said. Drawing parallels between the remarks of Abdullah and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Patra said they both have a similar mindset and are two sides of the same coin. "It is not just Farooq Abdullah who makes such statements. Rahul Gandhi also does so. If you look back into history and listen to the recent statements of Rahul Gandhi, you will find that both these leaders are two sides of the same coin," Patra said. He said that by questioning the Balakot airstrike, Rahul Gandhi had become a hero in Pakistan and, similarly, with the recent remarks "Abdullah has become a hero in China."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sambit-patra-accuses-farooq-abdullah-of-making-seditious-remarks-900936.html
12-10-2020||National||Wadhawan brothers granted bail in DHFL cheating case||A city court on Monday granted conditional bail to Mumbai-based Wadhawan brothers of DHFL, arrested by the police for allegedly defrauding depositors of crores of rupees. S Sathi Kumar, Judge, Special Court constituted under the Tamil Nadu Protection of Interest of Depositors (TNPID) Act, granted the relief to DHFL promoters Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan, while passing orders on their applications seeking bail. According to the prosecution, an FIR was registered following a direction from the Madras High Court earlier against Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Limited and others on the charge of defrauding investors, allegedly by floating bogus schemes and failing to return about Rs 218 crore to depositors. The two were arrested by the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the police on October 7. The judge granted the bail subject to the conditions that the duo shall deposit Rs 50 lakh each with the court and execute a personal bond for a similar sum for both with two sureties each. One of the sureties shall be a blood relative of the petitioners. On release on bail, they shall report before the Deputy Superintendent of Police, EOW Chennai daily until further orders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wadhawan-brothers-granted-bail-in-dhfl-cheating-case-900949.html
12-10-2020||National||CBI puts Hathras case FIR on its website, removes within hours||Hours after putting the Hathras rape case FIR on its website, the CBI removed it sensing possible violation of a Supreme Court order that FIRs in cases of rape and sexual assault, including those against minors, should not be put in public domain by police. The agency, however, did not retract or remove its media statement from the website. The FIR withheld the name of the Hathras victim, concealed using a whitening ink, but it was decided to withdraw it from public domain to avoid unnecessary controversy, sources said. In December, 2018, a Supreme Court bench headed by Justice Madan B Lokur directed the print and electronic media to not reveal the identity of victims of rape and sexual assault "even in a remote manner". The apex court said FIRs in cases of rape and sexual assault, including those against minors, should not be put in public domain by police. The issue had cropped up when the court was hearing a batch of petitions filed after the rape and murder of a paramedic student on December 16, 2012, in New Delhi to support the initiatives on women's safety across the country. The CBI took over the investigation from UP police into alleged gang rape and murder of a Dalit woman in a village in Hathras district of Uttar Pradesh on September 14 after registering an FIR early Sunday under IPC sections related to gang rape and murder among others, and Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, officials said. It assigned the case to its Ghaziabad unit with a special team to investigate the crime, they said. The 19-year old woman succumbed to injuries at a Delhi hospital on September 29, which was followed by a hushed up cremation at night allegedly forced by the district administration. The UP government later requested a CBI probe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-puts-hathras-case-fir-on-its-website-removes-within-hours-900950.html
12-10-2020||National||Gujarat's amended Disturbed Areas Act gets Prez nod: Minister||President Ram Nath Kovind has given his assent to the amended Disturbed Areas Act passed by the Gujarat Legislative Assembly last year, state minister Pradeepsinh Jadeja said on Monday, adding that the amended law would stop polarisation and keep a check on attempts to cause any "demographic imbalance". The Act bans sale of property by members of one religious community to those from another community without the prior approval of the district collector in areas declared as "disturbed areas". To stop people from acquiring properties in disturbed areas through illegal means, the act proposes imprisonment between three to five years along with a fine of Rs 1 lakh or 10 per cent of the value of the property, whichever is higher, a state government release said. "Honourable President has given his assent to the amended Disturbed Areas Act which was passed by the Assembly last year. This Act will curb the illegal sale or transfer of properties in disturbed areas," Jadeja, the Minister of State for Home, told reporters in Gandhinagar. "The new Act would ensure peace, stop polarisation and keep a check on attempts to cause demographic imbalance," he said. The bill was brought by the BJP government last year to amend the 'The Gujarat Prohibition of Transfer of Immovable Property and Provision for Protection of Tenants from Eviction from Premises in Disturbed Areas Act', 1991, commonly referred to as the Disturbed Areas Act. The government had added some stringent provisions amid complaints from people that the current act was unable to curb the illegal sale or transfer of their properties in such notified disturbed areas. This Act has been in force in some communally sensitive areas of the state, including in Ahmedabad and Vadodara. As per the new provisions, the word "transfer" now includes sale, gift, exchange, lease or taking possession of the property by way of power of attorney. The scope of the term "transfer" in the Act was expanded as some elements were found to be unlawfully acquiring properties in disturbed areas through power of attorney or other illegal means without taking consent of the collector as mandated in the Act, said Jadeja. "Polarisation and demographic changes through such illegal means of property transfer used to compel rightful owners to sell their property at a throwaway prices. The new Act would fix these issues," the minister said. Under the amended Act, the collector can now check if there is any "likelihood of polarisation", "disturbance in demographic equilibrium" or any "likelihood of improper clustering of persons of a community" if the transfer takes place. The collector can reject the application of transfer after making assessment on these grounds, said the release, adding that the aggrieved person can now file an appeal with the state government against the collector's order. The act also empowers the state government to form a "monitoring and advisory committee" to keep a check on the demographic structure in the disturbed areas. Such committee can also advise the collector about various issues regarding the implementation of the act, the release said. Under the amended act, the government can form a special investigation team (SIT) to assist the state government in forming opinion before declaring any area to be a disturbed one. It will also assist the monitoring and advisory committee in gathering necessary information, the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarats-amended-disturbed-areas-act-gets-prez-nod-minister-900957.html
12-10-2020||National||Durga Puja: Pandal hopping on air-conditioned trams to avoid Covid-19 in Kolkata||Calcutta trams have always been a part of Kolkata's charm, and what better time than Durga puja the biggest festival here to take a joy ride across the city and catch a glimpse of the popular marquees, all the while avoiding crowd amid fears of Covid-19 transmission. The West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC) has decided to roll out air-conditioned trams on 'Saptami' and 'Nabami' -- two of the five festival days giving passengers an opportunity to check out the Durga pandals, and click photographs through the large glass windows of the electricity-operated vehicles, an official said. "We will ensure that the festive fever grips each of our passengers, as dhak music will be played all along the journey and snacks will be served on board the decked-up trams," said Rajanvir Singh Kapur, the managing director of WBTC -- which runs the only existing tramway of the country. Passengers would have access to free Wi-fi inside the trams, which would also go past the iconic landmarks in the metropolis, he said. "Amid the COVID-19 gloom, we are trying to revive the charm that the city beholds, weaving the tram ride with the biggest festival," Kapur said. According to the official, the joyride will cost Rs 500 per passenger, including refreshments and on-board guide. Tickets can be booked on 'www.wbtconline.in', he said, adding that adequate safety measures would be taken, and all passengers would have to wear masks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/durga-puja-pandal-hopping-on-air-conditioned-trams-to-avoid-covid-19-in-kolkata-900974.html
12-10-2020||National||This Diwali, 33 crore cow dung diyas will compete with Chinese lights||The Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog is targeting production of 33 crore eco-friendly earthen lamps (diyas) made from cow dung during Diwali next month, in order to counter Chinese products, its Chairman Vallabhbhai Kathiria said on Monday. The Aayog, set up in 2019 for the protection, promotion and conservation of indigenous cattle in the country, has started a nation-wide campaign to encourage the use of cow dung-based products during the forthcoming festival. "Rejecting China-made diyas, the campaign will boost 'Make in India' concept of the Prime Minister and swadeshi movement," Kathiria said in a press conference here. More than 15 states have agreed to be part of the campaign. About 3 lakh diyas will be lit in the holy city of Ayodhya, while 1 lakh diyas in Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh, he said. "The manufacturing has started. We are targeting 33 crore diyas before Diwali," he said. About 192 crore kilo of cow dung per day is produced in India at present. There is huge untapped potential in cow dung-based products, he said. The Aayog said though it is not directly involved in the production of cow dung-based products, it is facilitating and offering training to self-help groups and entrepreneurs seeking to set up businesses. Besides diyas, the Aayog is promoting the production of other products made from dung, urine and milk such as anti-radiation chip, paperweights, Ganesha and Lakshmi idols, incense sticks, candles among others. "The trend needs to be reversed and popular perception about cow and cow-based agriculture and cow-based industry need to be corrected immediately for social and economic rejuvenation of society particularly poor in rural areas," he added. A series of webinars are being organised with stakeholders like farmers, cow shelter operators, entrepreneurs to be part of this campaign, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/this-diwali-33-crore-cow-dung-diyas-will-compete-with-chinese-lights-900988.html
12-10-2020||National||Ravi Kishan will raise in Parliament issue of 'vulgarity' in Bhojpuri songs||BJP MP Ravi Kishan on Monday said he will raise in Parliament the issue of "vulgarity" in Bhojpuri songs and demand a stringent law against it. The film actor said the Bhojpuri language is 1,000 years old and it is spoken by crores of people but some are tarnishing the image of the language by using "vulgar" words in Bhojpuri songs. "I will raise the matter of vulgarity in Bhojpuri songs in Parliament and demand for a stringent law against vulgarity in Bhojpuri songs," the local MP said while addressing a press conference here. "I will also discuss with Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath about setting up a censor board in Uttar Pradesh for films, especially for the Bhojpuri language," he said. The actor said Gorakhpur will soon become a hub of film shoots. "It is a dream which I and the CM have seen and I am very happy that it is coming true. Gorakhpur will become a film shooting hub, especially for regional cinema like the Bhojpuri cinema. Sixty episodes of a web series will be shot here. All the artists will be of Purvanchal in the episodes shot in the city," he said. "I had a discussion with the vice-chancellor of DDU Gorakhpur University and he is planning to open an acting and filmmaking institute," the MP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ravi-kishan-will-raise-in-parliament-issue-of-vulgarity-in-bhojpuri-songs-900994.html
12-10-2020||National||With Khushbu Sundar's entry, BJP aims to strengthen its star power in South||Actor-turned-politician Kushboo Sundar is the latest entrant in the star-studded BJP which has more than half a dozen parliamentarians who were household names for their silver screen presence before entering the political arena. Prominent Bollywood stars Sunny Deol, Hema Malini, Kirron Kher, Bengali actresses Rupa Ganguli and Locket Chatterjee, and the Bhojpuri film industry's Ravi Kishan and Manoj Tiwari are MPs who got elected on BJP tickets. There are many others, such as actor Paresh Rawal, who may not be active in the party's day to day affairs but are its members and never hesitate in hitting the ground for its cause. Not limiting its star power to Bollywood, the party has given equal importance to celebrities from regional film industries as well. Stars from local film industries are more influential in their respective states and regions and can help the party in swaying votes in their favour, political observers feel. As many as 12 film and television stars from West Bengal had joined the BJP in July last year. The development was significant as the party has left no stone unturned to dethrone the Mamata Banerjee-led TMC in the eastern state. BJP had won 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in West Bengal in the general elections last year. Of those elected on the party's ticket were Chatterjee and Babul Supriyo, who is now a Union Minister, both from the Bengali film industry. Political observes feel it is the strategy of the BJP to get film personalities on board from the regions and states where it has not been a force to reckon with and Kushbhoo's entry also suggests the same. With the South Indian actress now becoming a party member, the BJP is aiming to use the popularity of film stars to strengthen its position in Tamil Nadu where it is still to make any mark electorally. The country's Southern and Eastern states are the two regions where the BJP has been focussing on expanding its footprint. It has substantial presence in Northern and Western regions of the country. Therefore, the entry of more film personalities from these two regions into the BJP is expected in the coming days. Interestingly, in 2005 Kushboo's remarks on premarital sex and virginity had set off a major controversy and taken political colour. The Supreme Court had in 2010 quashed 22 criminal cases against her for allegedly endorsing pre-marital sex through her remarks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-khushbu-sundars-entry-bjp-aims-to-strengthen-its-star-power-in-south-901016.html
12-10-2020||National||NEET result 2020 to be declared today||The result of medical entrance exam NEET will be announced on October 16, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' said Monday. "DG_NTA will be declaring the results of #NEETUG 2020 on 16th October 2020. Exact timing of the results will be intimated later. I wish all the best to the candidates," Nishank tweeted. The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test was conducted on September 13 amid strict precautions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. From this year, the admissions to MBBS course in the 13 All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research, Puducherry, will also be made through NEET following the amendment in National Medical Commission Act, 2019, passed by Parliament last year. The test was offered in 11 languages -- English, Hindi, Assamese, Bengali, Gujarati, Kannada, Marathi, Odia, Tamil, Telugu and Urdu this year. Based on the initial report, more than 77 per cent aspirants took the test in English, around 12 per cent in Hindi and 11 per cent in other languages. The exam was earlier postponed twice due to the pandemic and the government decided to go ahead with it, despite opposition by a section, to mitigate any further academic loss. The National Testing Agency had set in place strict standard operating procedures in view of the pandemic, including measures like reducing the number of candidates per room from the earlier 24 to 12. The NTA had also increased the number of centres from 2,546 in 2019 to 3,862 this year to ensure crowd management and staggered entry and exit protocols. Unlike the engineering entrance (JEE), NEET-UG, the medical admission test, is a pen and paper exam and held once a year. Accordingly, the NTA had changed centres for a few candidates this week in compliance with social distancing norms and Covid restrictions. In many places, NTA also arranged buses and private vehicles to transfer candidates who arrived at the centres assigned to them earlier instead of the changed one. While all the candidates were asked to go to the exam centres with masks and sanitisers, once they entered the centre, they were asked to use the three-ply masks provided by the examination authority. The NEET-UG was originally scheduled for May 3, but was pushed to July 26 and then scheduled for September 13.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/neet-result-2020-to-be-declared-today-901021.html
12-10-2020||National||Why not have statutory body to regulate TV news content, asks Bombay HC||The Bombay High Court on Monday asked the Union government why there should not be a statutory body to regulate the content broadcast through television news channels, a poser coming in the backdrop of frenzied media coverage of actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death. The court sought to know why the electronic media should have an "open hand" over its coverage. "Is there a statutory mechanism for (TV news) broadcasters?" the HC asked. "Just as how the Press Council of India exists for the print media, why don't you (Union government) think of a similar council for the electronic media? Why should they have an open hand?" said a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice GS Kulkarni. The bench was hearing a bunch of public interest litigations (PILs) seeking that the press, particularly TV news channels, be directed to exercise restrain in their reportage on the death of Rajput (34) and related probe by multiple agencies. The pleas, filed by several retired senior police officers, activists and private citizens, claim that the press has been conducting a "media trial" into the case, ascribing roles and presuming guilt of the accused persons, thus hampering a fair probe and trial into the matter. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Anil Singh,who appeared for the Union government, told the court that news channels "did not have an open hand as such." "It is not as if the government is not doing anything. It does take action on complaints received (against channels)," Singh said. "But ultimately, the government cannot control everything. The press has freedom and its rights," he said. The bench, however, pointed out that the government's own affidavit, filed previously in the court, showed that on numerous occasions, it had forwarded the complaints it received, to private bodies such as the News Broadcasters Association (NBA) and News Broadcasters Federation (NBF). Earlier in the day, senior advocate Devadatt Kamat, who appeared for the NBA, had told the court that the government should be responsible in matters concerning media reportage, rather than outsourcing the responsibility to private bodies. Kamat said that there existed statutory provisions and rules under the Cable TV Act and it was the Centre's responsibility to enforce these provisions. Instead, the ministry of information and broadcasting often forwarded the complaints it receives to the NBA and NBF, he said. Kamat showed instances of complaints against news coverage in the Sushant case having been "forwarded" by the government to the NBA. In the past, one TV news channel had refused to abide by the NBA's recommendations in another case, saying it was not part of the association, Kamat said. "The question is whether this outsourcing is permissible or whether the authorities have to be responsible to enforce what the statute provides," Kamat said. "When government has a regime in place, where is the question of GOI (Government of India) abdicating its duties and asking these private, self-righteous associations (to look into complaints)?" he said. Kamat argued that a media trial violated an accused's right to life and personal liberty as guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution, and that it amounted to an interference in the administration of justice. He urged the court to look at the "allied issue" of the "leakage of information by investigating agencies" while their probes are going on. The HC will continue hearing the arguments in the case on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-not-have-statutory-body-to-regulate-tv-news-content-asks-bombay-hc-901024.html
12-10-2020||National||Arnab's plea against assembly show cause can be entertained only after any action taken: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday observed that it can entertain journalist Arnab Goswami’s plea challenging the show cause notice issued by the Maharashtra assembly for initiation of breach of privilege motion against him for the reportage on actor Sushant Singh Rajput death case, only after any action has been taken. The top court said that as per its understanding the plea could be entertained only if there is any action on the recommendation of the privilege committee of the house pursuant to the show cause notice issued to Goswami. The show cause notice has been issued to Goswami for making certain remarks against Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackrey in his news debates on Rajput’s case. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde said that the court has to give due regard to the law. "Our understanding of law is that only when any action has been taken by the committee, the plea could be entertained but not when only show cause notice is issued," said the bench which deferred the hearing by two weeks. At the outset, the bench also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian was informed by senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Goswami, said that there is an office report in the case, which says the notice issued in the last hearing of the matter was not served upon the secretary of Maharashtra assembly.   The bench asked Salve why was Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing in the matter as the Union of India has not been made a party in the case. Salve replied that the Union of India has also been served the notice. The bench asked Salve to file an affidavit saying that the notice issued has not been served upon the respondents (Maharashtra assembly secretary). The CJI then told senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, appearing in the matter, that it had asked Salve whether any action had been taken by the privilege committee of the house.   The CJI said that he has some experience in the matter as his father (Arvind Shrinivas Bobde) and noted jurist late Nani Palkiwala had also once received similar notices from the Maharashtra assembly. “In the House, if one member alleges a statement against another member, then the Speaker takes note of it and forwards it to the Privileges Committee. My father and late Mr. Nani Palkhivala were once served such notice by the Maharashtra assembly,” the CJI said. Singhvi said that he also has some experience in the matter, once being a part of such a committee and stated that only when the complaint of breach of privilege is made to the speaker in Lok Sabha or Chairman in the case of Rajya Sabha, the committee submits its report recommending action, if any. He agreed that only after any action has been taken with regard to breach of privilege that the plea could be entertained. Salve said that the only concern for his client is a refusal to accept the notice on behalf of the assembly secretary.   The bench then listed the matter after two weeks and asked Salve to file an affidavit. On September 30, the top court had sought the Maharashtra Assembly secretary's response on Goswami's plea within a week. Goswami through his counsel had earlier said that he has not interfered with either the proceedings of any of the committees of the Assembly or the Assembly itself. The top court had said that there is only a breach of privilege notice and there is no motion initiated.   “Where is this that the committee of privilege has deliberated upon and decided,” the top court had asked Salve, adding, “Your contention is that an outsider cannot be summoned”. Salve had argued that there should be interference in the functioning of the committees of the House or the House itself for initiation of breach of privilege motion against an outsider. Rajput, 34, was found hanging from the ceiling of his apartment in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14. The CBI is probing the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arnabs-plea-against-assembly-show-cause-can-be-entertained-only-after-any-action-taken-sc-901030.html
12-10-2020||National||Covid-19: Drop in numbers, but festive worries continue||Even though the number of daily fresh coronavirus cases has once again fallen below 70,000 and the daily toll under 800 for the second time in six days, experts are worried about a second wave in November as more and more people have started coming out throwing all the cautions out of the window. According to the Union Health Ministry, there were 66,732 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours whereas 816 people lost their lives to the coronavirus in the same period. The last time such a drop was recorded was in the October 5 data. Also for the fourth day after the active cases dropped below the 9 lakh mark, the declining trend continues. Since September 18, the number of new cases is on a steady downward path. But as the festival season draws near, there is palpable tension among the policymakers and public health specialists. "The decline is welcome. But if we fail to continue with the preventive behaviour, then you are proving an opportunity to the coronavirus to spread. We need to be very cautious with the behaviour,” D C S Reddy, a former community medicine professor at the Banaras Hindu University Institute of Medical Sciences and a member of the ICMR research group on Covid-19 epidemiology and surveillance told DH. Both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan appealed to the people to shun the crowd in the festive season and stay indoors in order to fight the epidemic. But the ground pictures from the states reveal an entirely different story with the people thronging the roads, markets and public transports without caring for any social distancing. A large number of them are not even wearing face masks. "You can’t have a society where people will stop mingling. Whenever we try to do administrative control (like a lockdown) we fare badly. You need to give a controlled relief to the people,” said T Sundararaman, former executive director at the National Health Systems Resources Centre, Delhi. Modelling studies carried out by the University of Washington’s Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation showed that near-universal use of masks and following the social distancing norms can prevent up to 200,000 deaths by December. But the government campaign asking people to follow such norms seems to have little effect so far. For the upcoming festival season, Sunderaraman suggested that the administration should fix a threshold on the daily cases or deaths (for a district for example) and monitor the situation closely so that lockdown can be imposed once the threshold is crossed. “But this needs a much higher level of organisation,” he cautioned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-drop-in-numbers-but-festive-worries-continue-901055.html
12-10-2020||National||Handover hospitals to us if you're unable to pay salaries to staff: Delhi govt to MCDs||The Delhi government on Monday asked municipal corporations to consider handing over their hospitals to it if they are unable to pay salaries and dues to doctors, paramedics and other staff who have threatened to go on strike. Urban Development Minister Satyendar Jain said the situation, due to the threat of the strike, has forced the government to shift Covid-19 patients from the North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run Hindu Rao hospital to Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) hospital. Jain directed the additional chief secretary (urban development) to take up the issue with commissioners of the three municipal corporations, ruled by the BJP. In a letter to commissioners of north, south and east Delhi municipal corporations, the additional director (local bodies) of the Urban Development Department said, "If MCDs are unable to pay salaries and facing difficulty in running their hospitals, they may consider handing over their hospitals to Delhi government to avoid any further anguish to medical, paramedical and other staff and inconveniences to patients and their relatives as well as citizens of Delhi during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic." He said the municipal corporations should expeditiously clear all payments of salaries, wages and other dues to doctors, paramedical and other staff of their hospitals and submit a report to the Urban Development minister. "Inability to pay the salaries and other dues in time has led to a situation where proper treatment to Covid-19 patients is not being given and Covid-19 patients are forced to shift from Hindu Rao hospital to Lok Nayak hospital for continued medical care," reads the letter. The letter also said that under recommendations of 5th Delhi Finance Commission, the first and second installments of basic tax assignments by the Urban Development Department and grant in aid by Health and Education departments have already been released to the corporations by the Delhi government for 2020-21. BJP leaders at the three municipal corporations have been accusing the Delhi government of "paralysing" their functioning by holding their financial dues under various heads. Jain, in his letter to the additional chief secretary (urban development), said It has been brought to his notice that medical, paramedical and other staff of Hindu Rao hospital, Kasturba hospital and other hospitals of municipal corporations have not been paid salaries, wages and other dues for months. "Resident doctors’ associations of these hospitals have threatened to go on strike if their dues are not cleared on time and MCD failed to meet the deadlines for paying them on time." The situation has led to "inconvenience and improper treatment" to Covid-19 patients and has forced the Delhi government to shift coronavirus patients from Hindu Rao hospital to LNJP for continued medical care, Jain said. "It is evident that municipal corporations are finding difficulty in proper running and management of their hospital which has led anguish among doctors, paramedical and other staff, and inconvenience to patients, their relatives amid the Covid-19 pandemic," he said. Jain asked the official for an "appropriate direction" to all three MCD commissioners for payments of salaries and other dues on time or hand over the hospitals to the Delhi government. He has also sought an action taken report on the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/handover-hospitals-to-us-if-youre-unable-to-pay-salaries-to-staff-delhi-govt-to-mcds-901056.html
12-10-2020||National||'Baba ka Dhaba' effect: AAP MLA says received over 150 requests from small vendors seeking help||AAP MLA Somnath Bharti on Monday said that he has received 150 requests from small vendors seeking help like one received by 'Baba ka Dhaba' to boost their business. Social media spun its magic a few days back with a video of Kanta Prasad, the owner of 'Baba ka Dhaba', tearfully recounting the desperation of the months since the lockdown being shared widely across platforms. Customers made a beeline to eat his food as did camera crews, bloggers, and journalists. The Dhaba, a little blue box in Malviya Nagar in south Delhi, was the cynosure of many eyes across the country, including celebs from showbiz who posted appeals asking people to go there and get themselves a meal. A day after the heartbreaking video, #Babakadhaba was trending on Twitter and the food joint was flooded with more customers than it had seen in 30 years of being in business. Bharti, who is the MLA from Malviya Nagar, also visited the eatery to promote it. Bharti said he has got over 150 requests from small vendors requesting similar help like 'Baba Ka Dhaba'. He said a team of volunteers of his trust 'Bridging the Gap Foundation' is forming a strategy to help small vendors. Being the area MLA, many are queuing up at my office to seek help which is though a good thing but is challenging too, Bharti said. "I am in receipt of over 150 requests for similar treatment. A team of volunteers from @BridgingTheGapF is working to form a strategy to help all such requests," he tweeted. Bridging the Gap Foundation is a trust founded by Bharti which he says aims "to bridge all bridgeable gaps prevalent in society||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/baba-ka-dhaba-effect-aap-mla-says-received-over-150-requests-from-small-vendors-seeking-help-901058.html
12-10-2020||National||EAM Jaishankar holds talks with US Deputy Secretary of State Stephen Biegun||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and US Deputy Secretary of State Stephen Biegun on Monday held talks on bilateral, regional and key global issues with a focus on the common vision of the two countries for the Indo-Pacific region. Biegun arrived here on a three-day visit primarily to finalise the groundwork for the third edition of two-plus-two dialogue between the two countries later this month. "Pleased to meet US Deputy Secretary of State Stephen Biegun. Useful exchange of views on world politics and regional issues. Appreciated the steady progress of our bilateral cooperation. Confident that our Strategic Partnership would continue to deepen," Jaishankar tweeted. The US embassy, in a tweet, said, Biegun and Jaishankar exchanged views on key regional and global issues impacting the "Indo-Pacific priorities". It is learnt that Jaishankar also apprised the US official about the situation in eastern Ladakh where Indian and Chinese troops are engaged in a bitter border row for over five months. The meeting comes six days after Jaishankar held bilateral talks with US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo in Tokyo on the sidelines of a meeting of foreign ministers of the member nations of 'Quad' or Quadrilateral coalition comprising India, the US, Australia and Japan. The third edition of the two-plus-two dialogue between India and the US is expected to take place on October 26 and 27 here during which both sides are likely to carry out a comprehensive review of their strategic cooperation. US Secretary of State Pompeo and Defence Secretary Defence Secretary Mark Esper are scheduled to visit India for the dialogue. The Indian side at the talks will be represented by Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. The first two-plus-two dialogue was held in Delhi in September 2018 after the mechanism was approved by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Donald Trump. The second edition of the dialogue took place in Washington in December last year. The new framework of the ministerial dialogue was initiated in order to provide a forward-looking vision for the strategic partnership between the two countries. In the third edition of talks, both sides are also expected to delve into the situation in the Indo-Pacific region as well as in India's neighbourhood besides key bilateral issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eam-jaishankar-holds-talks-with-us-deputy-secretary-of-state-stephen-biegun-901066.html
12-10-2020||National||Plea filed in SC to restrain Jaganmohan from making allegations against judiciary and judges||A plea was filed on Monday in the Supreme Court seeking a direction against Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy to not make "frivolous and unsubstantiated allegations against the institution of judiciary and judges". Advocate Sunil Kumar Singh, in his petition, asked the top court to issue a show cause to Reddy after his government's official made public a letter shot off to the Chief Justice of India S A Bobde on October 6 making certain allegations against his successor judge, Justice N V Ramana. "By the conduct of Reddy, the faith of public at large is shaken. Because his conduct is nothing but an attempt to de-stabilise the duly established democratic setup of our country". He contended "the act of Reddy calls for immediate action from this court to tackle this unprecedented situation. Guidelines may be framed to tackle and handle such irresponsible activities." The petitioner claimed Reddy committed contempt of court as a prohibitory order was passed by the Andhra Pradesh HC on September 15 in this regard. It further contended the timing of the allegation was "highly suspicious and doubtful" as the judge is in the service of the Indian judiciary for long but Reddy preferred not to disclose those charges earlier. In the present scenario, our country is going through various socio-economic challenges as well as external disturbance, but Reddy failed to understand and appreciate his "irresponsible statement", which may destabilise the faith of the public at large in the system, it pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-filed-in-sc-to-restrain-jaganmohan-from-making-allegations-against-judiciary-and-judges-901073.html
12-10-2020||National||US says Quad nations ready to work with others for free, open Indo-Pacific||An informal grouping bringing together India, Australia and Japan with the United States could be opened to other countries that support a "free and open Indo-Pacific region", US Deputy Secretary of State Stephen Beigun said on Monday. Washington has been pushing for closer collaboration among the members of the so-called Quad grouping as a bulwark against China's growing regional influence. "The Quad is a partnership driven by shared interests, not binding obligations, and is not intended to be an exclusive grouping," Beigun said in remarks prepared for delivery at an India-US forum in Delhi, where he was beginning a three-day visit. "Any country that seeks a free and open Indo-Pacific and is willing to take steps to ensure that, should be welcome to work with us." The Quad partners could deepen engagement with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) countries and cooperate in defending freedom of the seas, he said. China has denounced the Quad as an attempt to contain its development and urged the United States to drop its "Cold War mentality". Beigun is holding talks with Indian government leaders to lay the ground for an annual dialogue between the two countries' top diplomats and defence leaders expected later this month. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Defense Secretary Mark Esper will likely fly to Delhi for the "2 plus 2" dialogue with Indian Foreign Minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, a government source in Delhi said. US calls for deeper engagement come at a time when India is locked in a military stand-off with China along their disputed Himalayan border. At least 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a clash in June and the two sides have since mobilised thousands of troops in close proximity, raising fears of a wider conflict over a region where they fought a brief but bloody war in 1962. New Delhi, wary of further antagonising China, has been careful to avoid being drawn into US-led alliances. But Beigun said the United States had no plans to impinge on India's strategic autonomy, but to forge a relationship based on shared interests. "We do not seek to change India's traditions. Rather we want to explore how to empower them and India's ability to defend its own sovereignty and democracy and to advance Indian interests, across the Indo-Pacific region," he said. The United States has over the past decade or two emerged as one of India's top arms suppliers, replacing Russia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-says-quad-nations-ready-to-work-with-others-for-free-open-indo-pacific-901079.html
12-10-2020||National||PepsiCo setting up potato chips production unit in UP with Rs 814 crore investment||PepsiCo is setting up a potato chips production unit in Uttar Pradesh with an investment of Rs 814 crore, officials said here on Monday. The greenfield (new) unit is being set up in Kosi, Mathura, on 35 acres of land provided by the UP State Industrial Development Authority (UPSIDA), an official statement issued here said. The unit, which is expected to start commercial production by middle of the next year, will facilitate direct and indirect employments, it added. PepsiCo India Chairman Ahmed El Sheikh said the initial investment in this project was pegged at Rs 500 crore which has been revised to Rs 814 crore. Significantly, the raw material (potato) will be procured through local sources, the statement said. Infrastructure and Industrial Developmental Commissioner Alok Tandon said, "An MoU (memorandum of understanding) was signed by PepsiCo to set up this project with a proposed investment of Rs 500 crore at UP Investors Summit 2018." He further said that as a result of the MoU tracking, land allocation and labour-related reforms, a transparent investment system is being established in the state to suit the industries. As a result of this, PepsiCo has increased its investment from Rs 500 crore to Rs 814 crore, Tandon added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pepsico-setting-up-potato-chips-production-unit-in-up-with-rs-814-crore-investment-901081.html
12-10-2020||National||ICEA forms committee to address labour issues, reforms||Industry body India Cellular and Electronics Association (ICEA) on Monday said it has set up a labour, human resource and training committee under Wistron India's Managing Director to work on reforms around labour norms to benefit both employees and employers. The government expects mobile phone manufacturing sector to create around 8 lakh new jobs in the next five years under the production linked incentives (PLI) and associated schemes which promise incentives of up to Rs 50,000 crore to the industry. "With the NPE, 2019 targets and the PLI applications, there will be a surge in employment in the electronics sector, especially in the mobile handset and component sector. This committee has been formed to evaluate the employment environment and understand the need for the electronics and mobile handset and component industry," ICEA said in a statement. The committee will be headed by Wistron India MD Sudipto Gupta. The international companies whose proposals have been approved under the PLI scheme include Apple's contract manufacturers Foxconn Hon Hai, Wistron and Pegatron, apart from Samsung and Rising Star. Domestic companies whose proposals have been approved include Lava, Bhagwati (Micromax), Padget Electronics (Dixon Technologies), UTL Neolyncs and Optiemus. "To make India 'Atmanirbhar' (self reliant) it is imperative to upskill the population for diverse job roles in the budding electronics and mobile handset ecosystem. This committee will bring reforms and have seminars or webinars to educate both the employees as well as the employers," ICEA Chairman Pankaj Mohindroo said. He further said that the labour situation during the pandemic has made the industry more insightful and will help overcome similar obstacles in the future. The committee has wide representation from industry and trade and also subject matter experts. "This initiative by ICEA is applaudable and will help the industry to overcome all their concerns relating to labour. Further, we intend to make recommendations for existing policies to achieve maximum benefit for both the employees and employers," Gupta said. The 16 domestic and international companies will cumulatively invest Rs 11,000 crore for manufacturing mobile phones and components worth Rs 10.5 lakh crore over the next five years under the scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icea-forms-committee-to-address-labour-issues-reforms-901082.html
12-10-2020||National||Ravi Shankar Prasad to host SCO meeting of law and justice ministers||Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad will host the seventh meeting of Ministers of Justice of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) this week, the Law Ministry said on Monday. The virtual meeting on October 16 will be attended by Law and Justice ministers of China, Pakistan, Russia, Tajikistan, Kazakhstan, and the Kyrgyz Republic. "In the seventh meeting of the Ministers of Justice of the SCO, member-states shall further deliberate on areas of cooperation, creating favorable conditions for resolving disputes and implementation of the Action Plan of the Working Groups of Experts on Forensic Activities and Legal Services," the ministry said in a statement. A joint statement will also be signed. Secretary of the Department of Legal Affairs (Law Secretary) Anoop Kumar Mendiratta will host the second meeting of the Experts Working Group on Tuesday and Wednesday, it said. "The Experts Working Group will discuss and share their experiences, best practices, and the novel steps were taken by them for creating a conducive environment for promoting resolution of disputes and other related activities of the Ministries of (Law and) Justice including legal services and forensic activities," said the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ravi-shankar-prasad-to-host-sco-meeting-of-law-and-justice-ministers-901091.html
12-10-2020||National||PM Modi to rename rural edu body after Balasaheb Vikhe Patil, release his autobiography||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will release the autobiography of former Union minister Balasaheb Vikhe Patil and also rename the Pravara Rural Education Society as 'Loknete Dr. Balasaheb Vikhe Patil Pravara Rural Education Society' on Tuesday via video conferencing, his office said. Patil served as a Lok Sabha member for multiple terms. He died in 2016 at the age of 84. His autobiography is titled 'Deh Vechwa Karani' (dedicating one's life for a noble cause) and is "aptly" named as he dedicated his entire life to the benefit of society through his path-breaking work in various fields, including agriculture and cooperatives, the PMO said. It added that the Pravara Rural Education Society was established in 1964 at Loni in Ahmednagar district with the aim of providing world class education to the rural masses and empower the girl child. The society is currently serving with the core mission of educational, social, economical, cultural, physical and psychological development of students, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-rename-rural-edu-body-after-balasaheb-vikhe-patil-release-his-autobiography-901114.html
12-10-2020||National||Ladakh standoff: India insists on early disengagement by China at 7th round of military talks||India on Monday insisted on restoration of status quo ante of April and comprehensive disengagement of troops by China from all the friction points in eastern Ladakh to resolve the border standoff, government sources said, as the two countries held a seventh round of military talks. The Corps commander-level talks began at around 12 noon in Chushul on the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh and continued beyond 8:30 PM, they said. As the border standoff entered the sixth month, an early resolution to the row appeared dim with close to 100,000 Indian and Chinese troops remaining deployed in the high-altitude region and showing readiness for a long-haul. There is no official word on the talks yet but sources said the agenda was to finalise a roadmap for disengagement of troops from all the friction points. The Indian delegation is led by Lt Gen Harinder Singh, the commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, and includes Naveen Srivastava, Joint Secretary (East Asia) in the Ministry of External Affairs(MEA). It is learnt an official of the Chinese foreign ministry is also part of the Chinese delegation. The sources said India pressed for an early and complete disengagement of troops by China from all the friction points besides demanding immediate restoration of status quo ante in all areas of eastern Ladakh prior to April. The standoff began on May 5. The China Study Group (CSG) comprising Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and the three service chiefs on Friday finalised India's strategy for the military talks. The CSG is India's key policy making body on China. Ahead of the talks, sources said India will also strongly oppose any demand by China for withdrawal of Indian troops from several strategic heights on the southern bank of the Pangong lake to kick-start the disengagement process. During the sixth round of Corps commander talks on September 21, the Chinese People's Liberation Army(PLA) insisted on withdrawal of troops by the Indian Army from several strategic heights in Mukhpari, Rezang La and Magar hill areas around the southern bank of Pangong lake. Indian troops had occupied the strategic heights after the PLA soldiers attempted to intimidate them in the southern bank of Pangong lake on the intervening night of August 29 and 30. India has been maintaining that the disengagement process has to start simultaneously at all the friction points. At the talks, the two sides were expected to further explore steps to maintain stability on the ground and avoid any action that may trigger fresh tension in the region where troops from the Indian army and the PLA will be facing difficult conditions in the next four months due to harsh winter, the sources said. Following the sixth round of military talks, the two sides announced a slew of decisions including not to send more troops to the frontline, refrain from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground and avoid taking any actions that may further complicate matters. The military talks were held with a specific agenda of exploring ways to implement a five-point agreement reached between Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi at a meeting in Moscow on September 10 on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation(SCO) conclave. The pact included measures like quick disengagement of troops, avoiding action that could escalate tensions, adherence to all agreements and protocols on border management and steps to restore peace along the LAC. Days after the military talks, the two sides held diplomatic parleys under the framework of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs, but no concrete outcome emerged from the negotiations on September 30. After the diplomatic talks, the MEA said it was agreed that the next round of the meeting of senior commanders should be held at an early date so that both sides can work towards an early and complete disengagement of the troops along the LAC in accordance with the existing bilateral agreement and protocols. Naveen Srivastava, who has been leading the Indian side at the WMCC talks, also attended the military parleys on September 21 for the first time. It is Lt Gen Singh's last round of talks with the PLA in the current standoff as he is due to take charge as head of the prestigious Indian Military Academy(IMA) this week. His successor at the 14 Corps Lt Gen PGK Menon is also part of the Indian delegation. At the previous six rounds of military talks, the Indian side insisted on complete disengagement of Chinese troops at the earliest, and immediate restoration of status quo ante in all areas of eastern Ladakh prior to April. The situation in eastern Ladakh deteriorated following at least three attempts by the Chinese soldiers to "intimidate" Indian troops along the northern and southern bank of Pangong lake area between August 29 and September 8 where even shots were fired in the air for the first time at the LAC in 45 years. As tensions escalated further, the foreign ministers of India and China held talks in Moscow on September 10 where they reached a five-point agreement to defuse the situation in eastern Ladakh. The agreement was the basis for the sixth round of Corps commander-level talks. In the last three months, the Indian Army rushed tanks, heavy weaponry, ammunition, fuel, food and essential winter supplies to various treacherous and high-altitude areas of the region to maintain combat readiness through the harsh winter of around four months starting around mid-October.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ladakh-standoff-india-insists-on-early-disengagement-by-china-at-7th-round-of-military-talks-901126.html
12-10-2020||National Politics||Khushbu Sundar exits Congress, joins BJP, and praises PM Narendra Modi||Popular South Indian actress Khushbu Sundar on Monday ended her six-year-long association with the Congress and immediately joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), whose leaders she had criticised vehemently in her role as AICC spokesperson. Though she had strongly taken on Narendra Modi in the past, the 50-year-old actor lavished praise on the Prime Minister immediately after receiving the BJP membership card, saying only he can take the country in the right direction and to its glory. Khushbu’s induction into the party will come as a boost for the Tamil Nadu unit of the BJP, which is on a massive recruitment drive, to enhance its presence in the state, whose politics has been hegemonized by Dravidian majors – DMK and AIADMK – for the past five decades. Party leaders feel Khushbu’s popularity will help BJP expand its base in Tamil Nadu. The BJP in Tamil Nadu hardly has any base but is making concerted efforts to emerge as an ideological and political alternative to the Dravidian parties. Recently, the BJP welcomed former Karnataka-cadre IPS officer K Annamalai into its fold and made him the state unit’s vice-president. Khushbu joined the BJP at its headquarters in New Delhi in the presence of General Secretary C T Ravi and BJP’s TN unit chief L Murugan. DH had its October 12 edition reported that Khushbu will join the BJP. Born as Nakhat Khan into a Muslim family in Mumbai, Khushbu, who has acted in nearly 200 films, joined the Congress in 2014 after quitting the DMK. “Over a period of time I have come to an understanding that if the nation has to move forward, we need somebody like our Hon’ble Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji to take the country in the right direction and (to) its glory,” she said, after joining the BJP. To a question on her past criticism of Modi and today’s praise, Khushbu said it was her job as Congress spokesperson to criticise the ruling party, BJP. “I have just changed my party. My ideology remains the same. I am an activist more than a political leader…  What is important for me is who has helped the country and (I feel) there is no corruption in BJP,” she said. Khushbu also said she will work towards the party’s “victory” in the Tamil Nadu assembly elections due in the first half of 2021. Her joining the BJP came a week after Khushbu scotched speculation about her jumping the ship. On Monday morning, she sent in her resignation letter to Congress President Sonia Gandhi after which the actor was removed as party spokesperson. In the letter, Khushbu complained that she was being “pushed and suppressed” by “few elements” who have no connectivity with the ground reality or public recognition. The party also said Khushbu’s exit was no “setback” with the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) getting personal saying, it was the actor’s husband Sundar C who “forced the decision” on her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/khushbu-sundar-exits-congress-joins-bjp-and-praises-pm-narendra-modi-900727.html
12-10-2020||National Politics||Former Congress spokesperson Khushbu Sundar joins BJP||Hours after quitting Congress, popular South Indian actress Khushbu Sundar on Monday joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his leadership.  Khushbu, one of the popular actors who ruled the South Indian film industry in the 1990s, joined the BJP in the presence of chief of the party’s Tamil Nadu unit, L Murugan, and General Secretary, C T Ravi.  In the morning, Khushbu had sent her resignation letter to Congress President Sonia Gandhi following which she was removed as spokesperson of the party. In the letter, Khushbu complained that she was being “pushed and suppressed” by “few elements” who have no connectivity with the ground reality or public recognition. After joining the BJP, the party that she vehemently opposed and criticised till a few days ago, Khushbu said she will towards the party’s victory in the Tamil Nadu assembly elections due in the first half of 2021.  “Over a period of time I have come to an understanding that if the nation has to move forward, we need somebody like our Hon’ble Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji to take the country in the right direction and its glory,” she told the press conference.  Khushbu was one of the vociferous critics of BJP and Modi when she was in the Congress. Even a week ago, Khushbu had criticised the BJP during a protest the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) organised demanding justice for the 19-year-old girl who was allegedly gang-raped and murdered in Hathras in Uttar Pradesh. On Monday, Khushbu also promised to “do my best to fulfil the responsibilities” given to her in the BJP. In her resignation letter, Khushbu said she decided to end the association with the Congress after a long and thorough thought process over a period of time. “Few elements seated at higher level within the party, people who have no connectivity with the ground reality or public recognition are dictating terms and people like me who wanted to work for the party sincerely, are being pushed and suppressed,” she said in the letter.  Khushbu had last week scotched speculation that she was joining the BJP, saying he cannot be forced to respond to “rumours” every time they crop up. It is understood that the actor was upset with the Congress leadership over her demand for a “respectable position” within the party not being met. If she joins the BJP, the party will get another popular face in Tamil Nadu and her popularity can also be utilised in the Bihar elections.  Khushbu Sundar began her political career with the DMK in 2010 but quit the party to join the Congress in 2014. In 2016, her desire to contest the assembly elections from Mylapore constituency was shot down by the Congress High Command despite her candidature being backed by the then TNCC chief E V K S Elangovan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/former-congress-spokesperson-khushbu-sundar-joins-bjp-900788.html
12-10-2020||National Politics||With Khushbu Sundar joining BJP, Congress loses fourth spokesperson in less than one and half years||Earlier another well-known face Priyanka Chaturvedi, who was one of the most articulate spokespersons of Congress on television, had quit the party in April 2019 and joined the Shiv Sena, which was then part of NDA. Chaturvedi was later awarded with a Rajya Sabha bearth. Even in case of Khushbu Sundar, there is a strong speculation that in some time or later, she could be brought in Rajya Sabha before the Tamil Nadu Assembly elections, which is just eight months away. There are also other similarities in the resignation of the two women spokespersons from the Congress, both of whom earlier aggressively took on the parties, which they joined later. For Priyanka, things became easier after some time as Sena later became the lead partner of the alliance government with Congress and NCP in Maharashtra. So she did not have to suffer embarrassment for long over her anti-BJP or anti-NDA stance in the past. Congress could, however, try to embarrass Sundar for a long time to come, citing her previous strong remarks against the BJP. But then even Tom Vadakkan, a spokesperson who was AICC media department secretary for years and was considered close to the Gandhi family, had joined the BJP in March 2019, praising the leadership qualities of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He was associated with the party for nearly two decades. The Kerala leader had joined the BJP just two months before Lok Sabha polls and on a day when Rahul Gandhi was overseeing poll preparations in the Southern state from where Gandhi contested and later became an MP. All the three-Khushbu Sundar, Priyanka Chaturvedi and Tom Vadakkan post their resignation and found fault with leaders of the Congress. Sundar, who was associated with Congress for the last six years, said in her resignation letter that some top leaders of the grand old party, who don't have any connection with the ground situation are dictating terms in the party, whereas the members who really work hard are being suppressed. Chaturvedi, who was sullen on not getting a ticket for Lok Sabha polls in 2019, resigned some time later after an incident in which some party workers suspended for making certain "indecent remarks" against her were restored to their positions after which she alleged that alleged that safety, dignity and empowerment of women promoted by the Congress was not reflected in the actions of some of its members. Vadakkan had said he was hurt at the situation within the Congress where it was not clear who was the power centre and alleged the party started to "use and throw" leaders like him who were committed to the party. In July this year, Sanjay Jha after being removed as Congress spokesperson quit from the post of President of Maharashtra unit of All India Professional Congress. He was dropped from AICC spokesperson's list in June this after his newspaper critical of the way in which the party was functioning. Jha was later suspended from the party after he aggressively backed Sachin Pilot during the Pilot-Ashok Gehlot stand off in the party. Jha later said he was "extremely disappointed" and slammed the party leaders for their willingness for a "change" despite successive losses. Jha is yet to join any other party has been rejecting speculation of his joining the BJP. However, the strongest letter penned by a Congress spokesperson after her resignation was by former Union Minister Jayanthi Natarjan, who had quit in January 2015, writing an explosive letter to Congress President Sonia Gandhi, asking for reasons why she was made to resign from the post Union Minister for Environment and Forest in December 2013. There were strong buzzs about Natarajan joining the BJP but it did not materialise. Apart from these, while former AICC media department Chairman Janardan Dwivedi remains sidelined by the party, his son Samir Dwivedi joined the BJP in February this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/with-khushbu-sundar-joining-bjp-congress-loses-fourth-spokesperson-in-less-than-one-and-half-years-900924.html
12-10-2020||National Politics||Mere announcement: Congress on Centre's fiscal stimulus||Congress on Monday slammed the measures unveiled by the Modi government to stimulate demand in the economy as a “fraud” on the people of the country. “Overall, the measures announced today are merely that – announcements. There was no extra spending to boost demand and the increase in states’ capital expenditure are paltry and untimely,” Praveen Chakravarty, Chairman of the AICC Data Analytics Cell, told reporters in Delhi. Chakravarty and AICC spokesperson Gourav Vallabh ripped apart the proposals presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman saying that the government is only asking its employees to spend their own money, but with conditions. “It is your own money. The Finance Minister has put five conditions on how you can spend it, that you have to spend only on goods, that are with greater than 12% GST? It has to be 3 times more, all kinds of ridiculous conditions for spending your own money,” Chakravarty said. Chakravarty said the “fiscal stimulus” package announced by the Centre was a clear admission that the much-hyped ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ plan announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in May has been a “dismal failure” in protecting and reviving India’s ravaged economy. “Unless there is additional money, the individual is not going to spend more. So, where is the question of a demand stimulus,” Chakravarty said. Chakravarty and Vallabh wanted the government to rationalise the GST rates, increase public spending and take some concrete steps to stimulate the economy. The Congress also dismissed the Rs 12,000 crore extra expenditure as “meaningless”, pointing out that the states have already lined up plans to spend Rs 9 lakh crore on capital expenditure for 2020-21. “It is very clear that the Finance Minister’s intent is really to manage headlines in the belief that the economy will respond to these headlines,” Chakravarty said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mere-announcement-congress-on-centres-fiscal-stimulus-901041.html
12-10-2020||National Politics||Nitish Kumar launches Bihar Assembly polls campaign, ridicules RJD over '10 lakh jobs sanction' claim||Launching poll campaign for the JD(U), Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Monday ridiculed the RJD's claim of approving 10 lakh government jobs at the very first cabinet on coming to power and wondered whether cabinet meetings were held properly during the 15 years of its rule. He, however, did not take any name while making light of the assertion of the opposition party on this count. The RJD's chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Yadav had recently announced that if the Grand Alliance headed by his party comes to power, 10 lakh government jobs will be sanctioned in the very first cabinet meeting. "Did cabinet meetings take place properly during their time?" he asked. Virtually addressing party workers and voters of 11 Assembly constituencies that will go to vote in the first phase on October 28, Kumar highlighted the achievements of his government's during his three terms as CM since 2005, and compared those with the work done during the 15-year rule before that. The RJD was in power in Bihar from 1990 to 2005. Kumar said that he would address another virtual rally on Tuesday for some other constituencies that will see voting in the first round. Altogether 71 constituencies will be held in Bihar's first phase of Assembly election. From Wednesday onwards, he would start touring different constituencies to seek votes for NDA candidates. Seeking to set "15 years vs 15 years" as the poll narrative for the present elections, Kumar urged people to judge the developmental work done during the two equal periods and then vote. The JD(U) president said that if voters give him another chance, his government would unroll "Saat Nischay" (Seven resolves) part II, to take up more developmental programmes in the state. Seven resolves part I, launched by the Nitish Kumar administration for its 2015-20 term, comprised seven schemes to ensure basic necessities such as supply of piped drinking water, construction of toilets and concrete drains and electricity connection to every household. Most of the projects have been completed. Its second part will focus on enhancing skill of youths to brighten their jobs prospect, promoting entrepreneurship among women by providing them financial assistance, irrigation facility to every agriculture field and additional health facilities for people and animals. For enhancing skills of the youths, a separate skill development department would be formed if the NDA is voted to power, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nitish-kumar-launches-bihar-assembly-polls-campaign-ridicules-rjd-over-10-lakh-jobs-sanction-claim-901048.html
12-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi BJP leader booked over video of him abusing cop||A case has been registered against a Delhi BJP leader over a video of him purportedly hurling abuses on an on-duty traffic constable, police said on Sunday.  In the video, which viral on social media, former North Delhi Mayor Yogender Chandolia was seen hurling abuses on a traffic constable. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central) Sanjay Bhatia said a case had been registered under relevant sections and an investigation was underway. Chandolia alleged that the traffic cops took a bribe from local transporters whose goods vehicle were haphazardly parked in Karol Bagh area. "They, however, picked up vehicles of devotees who visited a nearby temple. When I objected to this, the traffic cop abused me and used filthy language," Chandolia told PTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-bjp-leader-booked-over-video-of-him-abusing-cop-900674.html
12-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi's air quality 'poor', shift in wind direction may improve it||The air quality in the national capital and adjacent areas was recorded in the “poor” category on Monday morning, with concentration of fine particulate matter – PM2.5 and PM10 – increasing to the highest recorded levels this season so far. However, the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, said the air quality index (AQI) was likely to improve slightly in the coming days due to a change in the wind direction. The city recorded an overall AQI of 240 at 10 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 216 on Sunday and 221 on Saturday. The AQI in Jahangirpuri (301) and Vivek Vihar (316) hit the “very poor” category. An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. PM10 levels in Delhi-NCR stood at 242 microgram per cubic meter (µg/m3) at 9 am -- the highest this season so far, according to CPCB data. PM10 levels below 100 µg/m3 are considered safe in India. PM10 is particulate matter with a diameter of 10 micrometers and is inhalable into the lungs. These particles include dust, pollen and mold spores.  The levels of PM2.5 – finer particles which can even enter the bloodstream – were 106 µg/m3. PM2.5 levels up to 60 µg/m3 are considered safe. Delhi's air quality had turned poor on Wednesday, the first time in since June 29, with the Central Pollution Control Board recording a 24-hour average AQI of 215. SAFAR said as many as 448 farm fires were observed in Punjab, adjoining Pakistan, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh which impacted Delhi's air quality on Sunday. However, the wind direction will change from northwesterly to southeasterly and the impact of farm fires will reduce, it said. On Monday morning, Delhi's minimum temperature settled at 19.4 degrees Celsius. The maximum wind speed was 4 kilometers per hour. Low temperatures and stagnant winds help in accumulation of pollutants near the ground, affecting air quality. With Delhi-NCR bracing for months of poor air quality, experts have warned that high levels of air pollution can aggravate the Covid-19 pandemic. High level of air pollution in Delhi is a year-round problem, which can be attributed to unfavourable meteorological conditions, farm fires in neighbouring regions and local sources of pollution. According to an analysis by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water, a Delhi-based think tank, transportation contributes the most -- 18 to 39 per cent -- to Delhi's air pollution. Road dust is the second largest source of air pollution in the city (18 to 38 per cent), followed by industries (2 to 29 per cent), thermal power plants (3 to 11 per cent) and construction (8 per cent). This year, the Delhi government has launched a massive anti-air pollution campaign -- “Yuddh Pradushan Ke Viruddh' -- which is being led by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Environment Minister Gopal Rai. A “green war room” with a 10-member expert team has been set up at the Delhi Secretariat to monitor the steps being taken to deal with high levels of air pollution in winters. The environment department has also taken stern action against project proponents at large construction and demolition sites flouting dust control norms. The government will also start the spraying of “Pusa bio-decomposer” solution in non-basmati rice fields in the national capital, starting Tuesday. The solution, experts say, can turn the stubble into manure in 15 to 20 days and therefore, can prevent stubble burning.'  Starting October 15, stricter measures to fight air  pollution will also come into force in Delhi and its neighbourhood as part of the Graded Response Action Plan, which was first implemented in Delhi-NCR in 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-air-quality-poor-shift-in-wind-direction-may-improve-it-900765.html
12-10-2020||North and Central||Power supply in Mumbai, Thane will be restored in next one hour, says Maharashtra energy minister Raut||Maharashtra Energy Minister Nitin Raut on Monday said the power supply in Mumbai and Thane will be restored in the next one hour. The electricity supply was interrupted during maintenance and repair work at circuit one of 400 KV GIS centre, he said. "Repair and maintenance work was underway at Circuit 1 of 400 KV GIS centre and the entire load was put on Circuit 2. However, sudden technical failure in circuit 2 resulted in power being affected in most of the parts of Mumbai and Thane," Raut said. The minister said Mahavitran staffers are working on a war footing basis to address the problem and power supply will be restored in the next one hour. Taking to Twitter, Raut said the Kalwa-Padgha transmission line got tripped, leading to power outages in Thane, Palghar and Navi Mumbai. "Consequently, cascading the power failure to Mumbai-Thane & Mumbai suburban city. It will be restored in approximately an hour," he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/power-supply-in-mumbai-thane-will-be-restored-in-next-one-hour-says-maharashtra-energy-minister-raut-900780.html
12-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi University starts its first fully online admission process||The Delhi University on Monday began its first fully online admission process for undergraduate courses in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, an official said. This year, the admission process is completely being held online and the university has advised students not to visit colleges in person. The university had announced its first cut-off list on Saturday with Lady Shri Ram College pegging the cut-offs for three honours courses at 100 per cent. Shobha Bagai, dean (admissions), said the admission process started at 10 am. She said there are admission branch officials, grievance redressal officials and nodal officers for each college to assist students in the admission process. The official said the guidelines to complete the admission process and calculate the best of four marks have been uploaded on the website and there is an online calculator to help students to calculate whether their best of four marks meet the cut-off criteria of the respective college. The 100 per cent cut-off for undergraduate admissions in Delhi University comes after a gap of five years. The central university's cut-off had last touched the 100 per cent mark in 2015. Lady Shri Ram College For Women has pegged 100 per cent score for three courses for general category aspirants -- BA (Hons) Economics, BA (Hons) Political Science and BA (Hons) Psychology. Over 3.54 applicants had applied to the university for gaining admission to nearly 70,000 seats available in DU.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-university-starts-its-first-fully-online-admission-process-900808.html
12-10-2020||North and Central||BJP worker held for trying to sexually assault woman in Uttar Pradesh||A local BJP worker was arrested here after a woman filed a complaint alleging that he tried to sexually assault her, police said on Monday. Following the woman's complaint, a case was registered against Sahaswan BJP booth president Vipin Mali under Section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and he was arrested on Sunday night, they said. Mali was produced before a court on Monday and sent to jail, the police said. According to the complaint lodged by the woman three days ago, Mali tried to outrage her modesty. He fled after she raised an alarm, they said. He was absconding after the incident but was nabbed on Sunday night, they added. A case under Section 354 of the IPC was lodged against Mali after investigation, said SHO, Sahaswan, Rajeev Sharma. Meanwhile, Budaun BJP president Ashok Bhartiya claimed Mali has been "framed". Mali had gone to Shahvazpur area to get garlands made when he was trapped by some people as part of a conspiracy, he said. Bhartiya said he has full faith in the judiciary. Mali has made headlines in the past for his controversial remarks on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-worker-held-for-trying-to-sexually-assault-woman-in-uttar-pradesh-900810.html
12-10-2020||North and Central||UP government urges Allahabad High Court to dispose of cases of crimes against women, children on priority||The Uttar Pradesh government has requested the Allahabad High Court to ensure disposal of cases related to crimes against women and the POCSO Act on priority basis, a senior official said on Monday. The government also sought directions to all district and sessions court judges to ensure speedy disposal of such cases, said Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Awanish Awasthi. This comes days after the death and alleged gang-rape of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in the state's Hathras district. The incident has triggered widespread outrage across the country. The Uttar Pradesh government made the request in a letter written to the Registrar of the high court. The letter was written by Awasthi on behalf of the state government. In the letter, the government urged the court to hear and dispose of cases related to crimes against women and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act cases on priority. It also requested the court to direct all district and sessions court judges to ensure speedy disposal of such cases. Despite the obstacles posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, accused in 612 cases of crimes against women were awarded punishment and a total of 1,835 such cases were disposed of from January to September this year, the letter stated. The punishment was awarded to the accused in 151 cases under the POCSO Act, it said. Citing the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data, the government said Uttar Pradesh recorded the highest number of convictions in cases of crimes against women 2019 in the country. It said it will run a special campaign on the safety of women and girls from October 17 to 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-government-urges-allahabad-high-court-to-dispose-of-cases-of-crimes-against-women-children-on-priority-900822.html
12-10-2020||North and Central||ABVP affiliated students stage protest against Jammu Cluster University||Dozens of students affiliated with the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) were detained Monday after they tried to take out a march towards the Civil Secretariat to protest against the admission process in the Cluster University of Jammu. Among other prominent demands, the ABVP is seeking fee reduction for the current academic year in view of coronavirus pandemic, reopening of the portal for fresh admissions and refunding of the hostel fees as there was no student on the campus. Police used mild lathi-charge on the students after they blocked the main road leading to the Civil Secretariat, the seat of the Jammu and Kashmir administration. "We were forced on the roads after no action was taken on the memorandum which we had already submitted to the vice-chancellor and the deputy magistrate last week,” State Secretary of ABVP Mukesh Manhas said. He said the admission process in the university needs to be reviewed immediately as every year the intake capacity is being decreased instead of increasing the infrastructure in the affiliated colleges to take more students. "We will continue our protest till our demands are met,” he said. The protesting students raised slogans against the administration and threatened to intensify the agitation if their demands were not met. Some of the students accused police of highhandedness and claimed that they were roughed up by the policemen while being chased away.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/abvp-affiliated-students-stage-protest-against-jammu-cluster-university-900827.html
12-10-2020||North and Central||Hathras case: SC refuses to consider habeas corpus plea against scribe arrested by UP police||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to consider a plea by Kerala Union of Working Journalists for release of a scribe, Sidhique Kappan, arrested by the Uttar Pradesh police, while he was said to be on his way to Hathras to report the incident of alleged gang rape of a 19-year-old Dalit girl. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian asked senior advocate Kapil Sibal as to why he did not approach the right court, i.e. the Allahabad High Court in the matter. Sibal said when the plea was filed, it was a habeas corpus petition. Subsequently, the Uttar Pradesh police filed an FIR and invoked provisions of stringent, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, which would make it difficult for him to seek bail for six to eight months. The court, however, deferred hearing the matter for four weeks, suggesting the counsel to approach the High Court. In its habeas corpus petition, the petitioner-organisation contended that Kappan was illegally arrested on October 5 with a view "to obstruct him from discharge of his duty as a journalist". This was also in violation of his rights to equality, freedom of speech and expression and liberty, the petition filed by advocate Wills Mathews said. It said Sidhique is secretary of the Delhi unit of the organisation and regular contributor of a news website. The Uttar Pradesh police claimed to have arrested Sidhique and three others, Atiq-ur Rehman, Masood Ahmad and Alam on Monday, October 5. They claimed the arrested men, having links with Popular Front of India, tried to disturb peace and foment communal disharmony in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hathras-case-sc-refuses-to-consider-habeas-corpus-plea-against-scribe-arrested-by-up-police-900834.html
12-10-2020||North and Central||Hathras gang rape victim's family complains of shoddy treatment by police, administration||The family members of a teen who was allegedly gang raped before being brutally murdered in Hathras district, told the Allahabad high court on Monday that the local police and the district administration 'harassed' them and did not even allow them to perform the list rites of their daughter. They also said that the district administration tried to exert undue pressure on them while the police did not even file FIR, when they approached the cops immediately after the incident last month. The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court, which has taken suo motu cognisance of the incident, posted the matter for further hearing on November 2nd. During around three hour long hearing, as many as five members of the victim's family narrated their side of the story before the court. The district magistrate and the police chief of Hathras also put forth their contention in the matter. The DM of Hathras Praveen Kumar told the court that the decision to cremate the victim at midnight was taken keeping in view the law and order situation that prevailed at the time in the village. The lawyer for the victim's family sought transfer of the hearing outside the state and protection to the family. Earlier, five members of the victim's family, including her parents, arrived at the court amid tight security arrangements from Hathras. They were escorted by senior police and civil officials. The Dalit teen had been brutally assaulted by four youths and died in the hospital. The family members alleged that she was gang raped. The police allegedly held her family and hostage and cremated the body at midnight. All the four accused have been arrested The police claimed that the postmortem report and forensic examination of the Hathras victim did not confirm 'rape or gang rape' and that she had died owing to injury on her neck. The incident triggered a massive outrage with the opposition leaders targeting Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for failing to ensure safety of the womenfolk in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hathras-gang-rape-victims-family-complains-of-shoddy-treatment-by-police-administration-900842.html
12-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court declines to entertain plea to install fibre internet lines in all court complexes||The Delhi High Court on Monday declined to entertain a plea seeking installation of fibre lines of all telecom operators in every court complex in the city to ensure faster internet for effective hearing of cases via video conferencing during the Covid-19 pandemic. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said that while the issue raised was a good one, no relief can be granted right away as huge expenditure is involved and the government has its own priorities. "This is not the right time for it (laying fibre cables in district courts). We will do it in time, slowly," the bench said. The court however allowed the petitioner, a lawyer, to make a representation before the authorities who, on receiving it, were directed to decide it in accordance with the law, rules, regulations and government policy applicable to the facts of the case and by also keeping in mind its financial priorities. With the direction, the bench disposed of the plea. The petition, seeking laying of fibre cables for faster internet connectivity, had been filed by advocate Satnarain Sharma who has claimed that "due to lack of infrastructure and poor connectivity of internet, hardship is being faced by the judges and lawyers in most of the court complexes" in the national capital. During the hearing, the counsel appearing for Sharma told the bench that fibre cable boxes were being set up in the high court by MTNL at no extra cost and the same can be done in the district courts by the state-run telecom company. Central government standing counsel Anil Soni, appearing for the Department of Telecommunication, told the court that the cost aspect has to be verified. Thereafter, the court asked Sharma to move a representation before the appropriate authorities. Sharma in his plea had said, "To avoid hardships being faced by the lawyers who are working from their chambers in respective courts and to make the virtual courts more effective and efficient, installation of fibre internet of all cellular operators in all court complexes has become indispensable necessity."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-declines-to-entertain-plea-to-install-fibre-internet-lines-in-all-court-complexes-900843.html
12-10-2020||North and Central||Students' groups hold protests against high DU cut-offs||Students' groups on Monday staged protests here against the Delhi University (DU) administration over the high cut-offs announced for undergraduate admission. The protests were held by the Krantikari Yuva Sangathan (KYS) and the Left-affiliated Students' Federation of India (SFI). They alleged that high cut-offs favour students of big private schools and demanded more transparency in the admission process. DU announced its first cut-off list for undergraduate admission on Saturday with Lady Shri Ram (LSR) College for Women pegging the score at 100 per cent for three Honours courses. The 100 per cent cut-off for undergraduate admissions in DU comes after a gap of five years. Activists of the KYS burnt an effigy of the cut-off list to highlight its "discriminatory nature" and demanded that it be done away with immediately, the students' group said in a statement. "This cut-off that is decided on the basis of marks scored by students of big private schools is nothing but a policy of ensuring that the most marginalised student does not have any access to quality higher education. This ensures that students who bear the brunt of substandard public-funded school education are turned away from public-funded universities," they said. KYS activists were detained by police during the protest. Twenty activists of the KYS were protesting at the Arts Faculty, North Campus, a senior police officer said. "Eight of them were detained when they refused to disperse. They were taken to Maurice Nagar police station," the officer said. Meanwhile, the SFI submitted a memorandum to the university Vice-Chancellor "regarding the unfair and unjustifiably high cut-offs for undergraduate admissions," it said in a statement. The memorandum was submitted by SFI Delhi president Sumit Kataria, it said. "We strongly demand a transparent admission process and we stand firmly against such exclusionary methods that only favour the high society," it added. While the 100 per cent cut-offs have been a matter of debate, the required marks were expected to be higher this year as over 1.84 lakh students scored above 90 per cent and more than 41,000 students scored above 95 per cent marks in CBSE Class 12 exams. LSR College has pegged 100 per cent score for three courses for general category aspirants -- BA (Hons) Economics, BA (Hons) Political Science and BA (Hons) Psychology. The college has the highest cut-off among Science courses as well. It has announced a cut-off of 99.75 per cent for admission to B.Sc (Hons) Statistics for general category students, while Hindu College has pegged the score for the same course at 99.25 per cent. Hindu College has announced a cut-off of 99.33 per cent for B.Sc (Hons) Physics. Among the BA programme combinations, aspirants need to have a minimum of 99.25 per cent for gaining admission for a combination of Economics and Political Science in LSR College, the highest among all the combinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/students-groups-hold-protests-against-high-du-cut-offs-900912.html
12-10-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh bypolls: CM Chouhan hits back after Congress' 'nange-bhooke' jibe||A day after a Congress leader called him "nange bhooke ghar ka" (from a poverty stricken household) during a bypoll campaign rally, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan hit back on Monday claiming hailing from a poor background allowed him to understand the pain of the deprived and downtrodden. Addressing a rally on Sunday in Rajpur in Ashoknagar, Congress farmers' cell leader Dinesh Gurjar highlighted Chouhan's humble origins and that of "big industrialist" former chief minister Kamal Nath. "Kamal Nath desh ke doosre number ke udyogpati hai. Shivraj ki tarah nange bhooke ghar ke nahi (Kamal Nath is a big industrialist. He is not like Shivraj (Singh Chouhan) who is from a poverty-stricken household)," Gurjar said in the presence of the senior Congress leader who was state CM till March. Responding on Twitter, Chouhan said. "I am from a nange bhooke ghar ka, and that's why I understand their pain. I am poor and, therefore, ensure poor children go to school by becoming their mama (as the CM is affectionately called by supporters). I am poor, therefore, I perform kanyadaan (giving away the bride) of daughters of poor families." Addressing a rally in Guna, Chouhan lashed out at the Congress over the "nange bhooke" remark and took a swipe at Nath by stating "I understand the pain of the poor but an industrialist won't". The BJP and the Congress are in a bitter tussle for 28 MP Assembly seats where bypolls are scheduled for November 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-bypolls-cm-chouhan-hits-back-after-congress-nange-bhooke-jibe-900913.html
12-10-2020||North and Central||Bihar minister dies of post-Covid-19 complications||Bihar minister for backward and extremely backward class welfare Vinod Kumar Singh died on Monday at a hospital in Delhi due to post-Covid19 complications, family sources said. He was 55. He is survived by wife Nisha and two daughters. Singh, a BJP MLA from Pranpur constituency in Katihar district, had tested positive for Covid-19 on June 28 and subsequently recovered. Shortly after, however, he suffered a brain haemorrhage and had to be airlifted to a private hospital in Delhi, where he breathed his last. Mourning the demise of Singh, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar announced that he would be cremated with full state honours. "He was an efficient administrator and a popular leader. I am personally pained by Singh's untimely demise. His death has caused an irreparable loss to the states political spectrum and the society," Kumar said. Among others, Bihar Legislative Council acting chairman Awadhesh Narayan Singh, Bihar BJP chief Sanjay Jaiswal, agriculture minister Prem Kumar, information and public relations minister Neeraj Kumar mourned Singh's demise. Sources in the BJP said the party is likely to field Nisha Singh from Pranpur constituency, which is set to go to polls along with 77 other seats during the third phase of assembly elections, on November 7.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bihar-minister-dies-of-post-covid-19-complications-900915.html
12-10-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: Teen girl abducted, raped; 2 of 3 accused arrested||A 19-year-old girl was abducted and gang-raped allegedly by three men in Chhattisgarh's Jashpur district, two of whom have been arrested since, police said on Monday. On October 9, Arun Lakra (33), Sushil Chauhan (37) and Firoz Bek abducted the teen from her village in Tapkara area, said Jashpur Superintendent of Police Balaji Rao. "She and her family members were watching television at a kin's house, After a power outage, her family members returned home but the teen went missing. She was found unconscious next morning gagged and bound by her own clothes," he said. On her complaint made from the bed of a hospital in Kunkuri, a gang-rape and abduction case was registered and a joint team of Tapkara and Kunkuri police apprehended two of the accused while efforts were on to nab the third, the SP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-teen-girl-abducted-raped-2-of-3-accused-arrested-900932.html
12-10-2020||North and Central||Crime 'rate card' post goes viral in UP's Meerut district||One must have seen rate cards of different products on social media but in Uttar Pradesh's Meerut district, about 450 km from here, a different kind of rate card, which contained charges for committing different crimes, went viral on social networking sites sending the police into a tizzy. The rate card, which was designed to attract those wanting to avail the services offered, also contained pictures of revolvers, the photograph of a flashy youth and a contact number. While the rate of mere threat was a meagre Rs 1,000, murdering someone was the costliest. One will have to shell out Rs 55,000 for availing the service. Thrashing or wounding someone would cost less, the rate card revealed. According to the sources in the police, the message was posted in a group of businessmen from Meerut town. ''It seems the sender specifically wants to make the traders aware of such a service in their town,'' remarked a local trader. District police officials said that they were aware of the post but added that the cell number mentioned there had no link with Meerut or the adjoining towns. ''We are trying to find out how the message was made viral and by whom...we will trace the offenders and take stern action against them,'' a senior police official said in the district on Monday. Earlier also a more or less similar rate card containing the 'bribe rates' for different types of crimes had gone viral in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/crime-rate-card-post-goes-viral-in-ups-meerut-district-900958.html
12-10-2020||North and Central||Haryana Police increases accidental death insurance cover for retired staff||The Haryana Police has increased the accidental death insurance cover for its pensioners from Rs 17 lakh to Rs 30 lakh, ADGP (Law and Order) Navdeep Singh Virk said on Monday. He said according to the agreement inked with HDFC Bank, Haryana Police pensioners up to the age of 70 will get an enhanced compensation of Rs 30 lakh in case of an accidental death. As per the MoU, the pensioners should have received the last salary in their account with HDFC Bank and continue to get their pension in the same account, a release of the Police Department said. However, if any employee has already retired and wants to get his pension from HDFC Bank, then the retiree may need to open a separate pension account with the bank, which is also empanelled by the Haryana Government for payment of pension through the e-pension system. Keeping in view the arduous nature of duty, Additional Director General of Police Virk said Haryana DGP Manoj Yadava has been frequently taking important decisions for the welfare of officers and jawans. “Now the revision of the agreement will further build a sense of security among pensioners,” said Virk as per the release. In another welfare measure, Virk said the Haryana Police had recently decided that a police official up to the rank of inspector could be posted at the place of his or her choice, including in their home districts, six months prior to attaining the age of superannuation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-police-increases-accidental-death-insurance-cover-for-retired-staff-900963.html
12-10-2020||North and Central||Teachers booked as students, alumni engage in militant activities in Jammu and Kashmir||The Jammu and Kashmir Police have booked three teachers of a religious seminary in south Kashmir’s Shopian district after some of its students and alumni were found involved in militancy. “The school (Jamia Siraj-ul-Uloom) is already under observation. We have booked its three teachers under the Public Safety Act (PSA),” Inspector General Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar told reporters, here. Under the PSA - authorities can detain a person for up to two years without a trial. “About half a dozen other teachers of the school are under surveillance. Right now we are taking action against individuals (but) if need arises, we will take action against the school,” he said. The institution’s alumni include Sajjad Bhat, an accused in the February 2019 fidayeen (suicide) attack on a CRPF convoy in neighbouring Pulwama district that left 40 paramilitary personnel dead. Sources said the seminary came under the surveillance of intelligence agencies after over a dozen of its students joined militant ranks. Most of the students in the seminary are from four south Kashmir districts of Shopian, Kulgam, Pulwama and Anantnag, considered to be the hotbeds of new age militancy in Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/teachers-booked-as-students-alumni-engage-in-militant-activities-in-jammu-and-kashmir-900970.html
12-10-2020||North and Central||Drunk man falls asleep in car with AC on, found dead: Noida police||A man was found dead in his car in which he appeared to have fallen asleep under the influence of liquor leaving the AC of his vehicle on, police said on Monday. The body of the man, in his thirties, was found by his brother on Sunday but the family did not lodge any complaint alleging any foul play in the death, they said. The man died of apparently inhaling poisonous gases like Carbon Monoxide emanating from the car’s engine and sucked inside the vehicle’s cabin by the AC, they said. “Deceased Sundar Pandit lived in Barola village. He had another home in Sector 107 where he had come on the weekend,” a police spokesperson said. “His family members told police that he was a habitual alcoholic. He slept inside his car, which was parked in the basement on Saturday night in an inebriated condition,” he added. “Next morning Pandit's brother found him unconscious in the car and immediately took him to a hospital, where he was declared dead,” the spokesperson said. The family members have carried out the last rites and cremated the body, according to officials of the local Sector 39 police station. No complaint has been made with the police, who have on their own taken note of the incident and gathered basic information related to the matter, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/drunk-man-falls-asleep-in-car-with-ac-on-found-dead-noida-police-900978.html
12-10-2020||North and Central||Post Delhi govt's new norms, committees cancel Ramlila celebrations||Various committees organising huge Ramlila celebrations across Delhi, including at Red Fort grounds, have decided to "not hold the event" this year as the situation is not feasible and there are "too many restrictions" in the fresh guidelines issued for holding events, an official of their umbrella body said on Monday. "We begin our preparations at least two months in advance. Dusshera is on October 25 and DDMA authorities issued fresh guidelines yesterday. Earlier, they couldn't do due to rising number of cases. "But, it is not possible to make arrangements at the last moment, so we have decided to not hold it this year," said Arjun Kumar of Lav Kush Ramlila Committee, which has been organising the event at the Red Fort front lawns for over 40 years. Kumar, also the general secretary of Delhi Shri Ramlila Mahasangh, which is an umbrella body of various Ramlila organising committees in Delhi, said, "Today, we had a talk with representatives of other major organising committees, and we all have decided not to hold the events this year as situation is neither conducive nor feasible to execute the plan now". He claimed that there are about 800 big and small organising committees in Delhi and even the "smaller ones have decided against it". The Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Sunday issued a fresh set of guidelines, including strict adherence to Covid-19 safety protocols, for holding congregations and large events ahead of Durga Puja and Ramlila celebrations. In an order, Delhi Chief Secretary and Chairman of DDMA's state executive committee Vijay Dev said all event organisers will have to obtain requisite permission from concerned district magistrates for organising the events besides obtaining permission from other authorities as per applicable laws and rules. It may be noted that the restriction on gatherings and large congregations imposed by DDMA order on September 30, stands withdrawn to the extent of allowing gatherings and congregations for celebration of upcoming festivals till October 31 only, said the order. Ravi Jain of Shri Dharmik Ramlila Committee, which was established in 1924, said, new guidelines have been issued "at the last moment" and that too with too much restrictions. "If anyone is found standing or sitting, then it won't be allowed. How do we know, what people will do, we can only ask then to follow the guidelines. Also, permissions needed at so many levels, from police to MCD, it is not feasible to hold Ramlila now, in such a short period of time," he said. Lav Kush Ramlila Committee's Kumar said organisers have to get "temporary land allotment" from the ASI Delhi Circle. "Our application is still pending, and now more restrictions. Plus, fairs, 'melas', food stalls and swings are not allowed. It is just not feasible for us to hold it," he added. He said after the ASI nod, tents are pitched two months before, and 'bhoomipujan' happens 30 days before, neither of that has happened and it's already mid-October. "Also, half of our artistes come from Mumbai, we have to make arrangements for their stay and travel. Now, it is so difficult to manage with such little time left," Kumar said. The Lav Kush Ramlila Committee's representative also said experts have said that Covid-19 cases might flare up here due to large gatherings during upcoming festive seasons. "We don't want to put anyone's safety at risk, so in all ways situation not favourable to hold such events," he added. The national capital recorded 29 Covid-19 fatalities on Sunday, taking the death toll to 5,769 while 2,780 fresh cases took the infection tally to over 3.09 lakh, authorities said.  On Saturday, 48 deaths were recorded. On September 29 as well, 48 fatalities were reported in the city, the highest number of deaths recorded in a day since July 16, when Delhi saw 58 fatalities. Earlier in September, some of the Ramlila committees in the national capital had begun preparations for the 10-day celebrations ahead of the Dussehra festival, but were unsure whether the government would allow the performances, which draw a large crowd, year after year. They had, however, expressed concern that it will be difficult to maintain social distancing among actors and will be cumbersome for them to act wearing masks.  Many Ramlila committees had also planned to burn an effigy of coronavirus, along with the traditional effigies of Ravan, Kumbhakarna and Meghnad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/post-delhi-govts-new-norms-committees-cancel-ramlila-celebrations-900981.html
12-10-2020||North and Central||J&K BJP chief visits alleged fake encounter victim families||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Jammu and Kashmir chief Ravinder Raina on Monday visited the families of three slain youths from Rajouri, who were killed in an alleged fake encounter by the army in Shopian on July 18 this year. Raina, an old RSS hand, known as a hardliner, visited Tarkassi Peeri and Dhar Sakri villages of Kotranka tehsil in Rajouri district to offer condolences with the victim families. A local news agency quoting victim families said that Sangh pracharak Raina offered his condolences to them and assured that law enforcement agencies will provide justice on merit. “He also offered condolences on behalf of the Prime Minister and stated that everyone is pained to see the loss of three young lives,” it added. Holding a post-graduate degree in international law and human rights, Raina has been closely associated with the welfare of victims of terrorism in J&K. The development comes days after J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha visited the victim families and assured them that the probe into the killings will be taken to a logical conclusion and justice will be delivered On July 18, the Army had claimed that three unidentified militants were killed in Amshipora village in the higher reaches of Shopian. However, the Amshipora encounter came under scrutiny after three families from the Rajouri claimed that the trio killed were their kin and labourers by profession. Following these claims, the Army and the Police ordered separate inquiries into the matter. The DNA samples of the families were lifted on August 13 and sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) for examination and comparison with the “three unidentified slain militants”. On September 25, the DNA sample reports of the three slain persons matched with their parents. On October 3, the bodies of the three were exhumed and handed over to their families. Earlier, on September 18, the Army initiated disciplinary action against unnamed soldiers and officers involved in the Amshipora encounter. In a brief statement, the Army accepted that its men ‘prima facie’ violated powers under Armed Forces Special Powers Acts (AFSPA). The outcome of the probe into the Amshipora encounter was made public after the J&K LG met Army Chief General Manoj Naravane during the latter’s two-day visit to Kashmir on September 17. Prior to that, the families of the slain had knocked at the doors of the LG demanding a probe and making their DNA reports public.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-bjp-chief-visits-alleged-fake-encounter-victim-families-901002.html
12-10-2020||North and Central||16-year-old pottery worker raped by ex-colleague: Police||A 16-year-old girl working in a pottery in Khurja area of the district raped by her former colleague, police said on Monday. Bulandhaahr’s Senior Superintendent of Police Santosh Kumar Singh said the incident occurred on October 8 and Khurja city police station registered an FIR late Sunday night after coming to know of the incident belatedly on its own. Singh said the accused used to work in the same pottery the girl worked but he had left the job a few months back to work elsewhere. On October 8, he came to his previous workplace and met the girl during which he offered a sedative-laced cold drink to her, he said. He, subsequently raped the girl after she lost consciousness, the SP said. The victim or her family members did not inform the police, said Singh, adding the police registered the FIR after coming to know of the incident on its own. The police have begun looking for the accused and are likely to arrest him soon, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/16-year-old-pottery-worker-raped-by-ex-colleague-police-901007.html
12-10-2020||North and Central||BJP twisting Farooq Abdullah's remarks on Article 370: NC||The National Conference (NC) Monday denied that its President Farooq Abdullah had said Article 370 would be restored with the help of China and accused the BJP of "completely twisting" his remarks made during a TV interview. The party affirmed that Abdullah never justified China's expansionist mindset or its aggression during his interview on Sunday as claimed by BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra at a presser in New Delhi earlier in the day. "Our President articulated the people's anger over the abrogation of Article 370 and 35-A by Parliament on August 5 last year as he has consistently done in recent months. He emphasised that no one in Jammu and Kashmir was willing to accept these changes," an NC spokesman said. He claimed that Abdullah's comments on China in response to a question have been "completely twisted" by Patra, who accused the NC President of justifying Chinese aggression and expansionist mindset. "Sambit Patra has a habit of twisting words and using the bully pulpit of the BJP office to lie when it suits the political agenda of his party,” the NC spokesman said. “Dr. Abdullah never said that together with China we will bring back Article 370 as Mr. Patra claimed at a media briefing in which he also misquoted some previous statements of Dr. Abdullah,". Earlier in the day, Patra accused Abdullah of making "seditious and anti-national" remarks on the issue of restoring the special status of Jammu and Kashmir and said he had become a "heroin China". He said the National Conference MP and former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir in his interview had stated that "with China's support", Article 370 of the Constitution, which conferred special status to Jammu and Kashmir, will be restored.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-twisting-farooq-abdullahs-remarks-on-article-370-nc-901026.html
12-10-2020||North and Central||NIA arrests one more in former Jammu and Kashmir Deputy SP terror link case||The National Investigation Agency Monday arrested one more person in connection with the case related to former DSP Davinder Singh, who has been charge-sheeted by the agency for providing support to the banned terror group Hizbul Mujahideen, a spokesperson said. The former Jammu and Kashmir Deputy Superintendent of Police was arrested with top Hizbul commander Naveed Babu early this year. Tafazul Hussain Parimoo, a resident of Budgam district, has been arrested in connection with the case related to Babu, the NIA spokesperson said Monday. He said Parimoo played a key role in supplying arms and ammunition to another accused named Tariq Mir, a former Sarpanch of Maldera village of Shopian, who further passed them on to Hizbul terrorists in Shopian. Singh, Babu and two others were arrested in January when they were on their way to Jammu in the private vehicle of the former policeman. The charge sheet, filed by the NIA in the first week of July, has accused Singh and others of allegedly waging "war against India" with the help of Pakistan-based terrorists and members of the country’s high commission in Delhi. Besides Singh, others named in the charge sheet are Babu, his brother Syed Irfan Ahmad as well as the group's alleged overground worker Irfan Shafi Mir, alleged accomplice Rafi Ahmad Rather and businessman Tanveer Ahmad Wani, a former president of the Line of Control Traders Association. The NIA is likely to file the supplementary charge sheet in the case against the former sarpanch and Parimoo later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nia-arrests-one-more-in-former-jammu-and-kashmir-deputy-sp-terror-link-case-901050.html
12-10-2020||North and Central||MP teen raped, stabbed in private part, critical; 1 held||A 16-year-old girl was raped and stabbed in her private part allegedly by a 22-year-old man in Rewa in Madhya Pradesh and her condition is critical, police said on Monday. Prime accused Ankit Rawat (22) has been arrested while his accomplice Vanshpati Rawat (27) is on the run, said Superintendent of Police Rakesh Singh. "The duo abducted the girl on Thursday when she was returning from a party. Ankit raped her and stabbed her in her private part. She has been admitted to a hospital and her condition is critical," the SP said. The duo was charged with rape and other offences under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-teen-raped-stabbed-in-private-part-critical-1-held-901078.html
12-10-2020||North and Central||Bollywood drugs case: Accused Prasad moves court for bail||Kshitij Prasad, former executive producer of Dharmatic Entertainment arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with the drugs case related to the Sushant Singh Rajput death case, on Monday approached a special court here for bail. Prasad was apprehended on September 26 by the NCB, which had previously also arrested Rajputs partner, actress Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik and several others in the drugs case. All were booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Rhea Chakraborty is currently out on bail. Prasad, in his bail plea filed before the special court presiding over cases under the NDPS Act, alleged he has been implicated in the case by NCB officials after he refused to give false statements against Bollywood celebrities like director Karan Johar and others. NCBs senior officer Sameer Wankhede told Prasad during his questioning that he would be let off if he implicated Karan Johar or others from Dharma Productions and give a statement that they consume drugs, the plea said. Prasad was briefly associated with Dharmatic Entertainment, a sister concern of Johar's Dharma Productions. When Prasad refused, the NCB officials "humiliated and tormented" him for over two days, the bail petition alleged. The drug law enforcement agency had denied ill-treating Prasad in custody and termed allegations in this regard as "mischievous and completely untrue". "At the end of the two-day period, the applicant under threats from the officials signed a statement prepared by the NCB following which he was arrested, the plea said. During the remand proceedings itself, the applicant retracted this statement and informed the magistrate about the manner in which it was recorded, it said. The plea also pointed out that the Bombay High Court has granted bail to three of the accused Rhea Chakraborty, Samuel Miranda and Dipesh Sawant. The bail plea is likely to be heard on October 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bollywood-drugs-case-accused-prasad-moves-court-for-bail-901083.html
12-10-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh bypolls: Congress accuses BJP MLA of distributing cash||The Congress in Madhya Pradesh on Monday alleged BJP MLA Akash Vijaywargiya had distributed money to voters in Sanver assembly constituency in Indore district for November 3 byelection and cited a video clip doing rounds of the social media. State BJP spokesperson Umesh Sharma has dismissed the allegation. "Vijaywargiya (who represents Indore-3 seat) was actually distributing photos of Lord Shiva," he told PTI. The video purportedly shows the MLA giving away cash as part of a religious ritual to women performing his aarti while campaigning in the Sanver constituency. "In the video, Vijaywargiya is seen giving away currency notes to voters which is an open violation of the model code of conduct," state Congress unit spokesman Santosh Singh Gautam in a statement. He said the Congress will file a complaint with the Election Commission (EC) soon. Akash Vijaywargiya is the son of BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijaywargiya. Sanver is one of the 28 constituencies where by-elections are scheduled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-bypolls-congress-accuses-bjp-mla-of-distributing-cash-901100.html
12-10-2020||North and Central||Roshni scheme one of 'biggest land scams' in J&K history: BJP||The BJP on Monday termed the alleged Roshni land scam "one of the biggest land scams" in the history of Jammu and Kashmir. The comments come after the Jammu and Kashmir High Court had on Friday ordered a CBI probe into the alleged scam in the Roshni land scheme. Petitioner Ankur Sharma of IkkJutt Jammu organisation alleged that an estimated loss of Rs 25,000 crore was caused to the state exchequer. BJP leader Kavinder Gupta said the CBI probe was the need of the hour so that truth prevailed, adding that action should be initiated against the leaders and officers involved in this scam. He alleged that the enactment of Roshni scheme was a "huge political fraud". "It was one of the biggest land scams in the history of erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir. We welcome a probe into it," Gupta said. Taking a dig at other political parties, the BJP leader said: "They were involved in scams worth crores of rupees and accumulated the huge properties." Gupta appealed to the Lt governor to immediately cancel all the allotments done under the Roshni Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/roshni-scheme-one-of-biggest-land-scams-in-jk-history-bjp-901121.html
12-10-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir Congress leader Mohammad Sharief Niaz dies||Congress leader and former minister Mohammad Sharief Niaz died in Jammu on Monday after prolonged illness. He was 75. Niaz, a cousin brother of Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, was suffering from various ailments and undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College, Jammu, where he breathed his last, a party spokesperson said. He had recently tested positive for the novel coronavirus and later recovered, family sources said, adding that his last rites would be performed at his ancestral home in Jammu and Kashmir's Doda district on Tuesday. Niaz was not well for the past month and on oxygen support for the last few days, Congress spokesperson Ravinder Sharma said. He was elected MLA for the first time in 1987 and was a minister of state in the National Conference-Congress government. A three-time MLA, Niaz was also power minister during the PDP-Congress government between 2002-2005 and vacated his assembly seat for the then chief minister Ghulam Nabi Azad in 2006 and was inducted into the Upper House later. He was again elected to the assembly in the by-election in 2009 after the seat was vacated by Azad. Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, state Congress president G A Mir and other leaders expressed condolences over Niaz's demise. The state Congress said a big vacuum had been created in the party by his departure, which would be hard to fill. "His death is a great loss to the party and people of Jammu and Kashmir," it said. Congress state vice president G M Saroori said Niaz would always be remembered for his tireless contribution in ameliorating the lot of peasants, labour fraternity, weaker sections and downtrodden people of Jammu and Kashmir and the Chenab Valley belt in particular.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-congress-leader-mohammad-sharief-niaz-dies-901132.html
12-10-2020||North and Central||No atrocity in Hathras, it was fake incident: BJP MP||A BJP MP from Chhattisgarh has stoked a controversy by reportedly referring to the alleged gangrape and death of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras as a "banavat" (fake) incident, drawing flak from the ruling Congress. Mohan Mandavi, who represents Kanker seat, had made these remarks during a protest held last week by his party in Kondagaon district over the alleged gangrape and suicide by an 18-year-old tribal woman in Dhanora area. "If there will a CBI investigation (into Dhanora case), similar incidents will be unearthed in every four to five villages (of Bastar in Chhhattisgarh)...those who fabricate the false story of Hathras. No atrocity had occurred there. ".....'use banawati banakar, use atyachar banakar' (by making up the Hathras incident), senior Congress leaders have been visiting there where nothing has happened," Mandavi said while addressing a gathering, a video of which has been doing rounds of social media. The BJP leader said atrocities have been taking place on tribals in Bastar. "Why don't they (Congress leaders) come here? Why do they hide their faces? Where are so-called well wishers of tribals have gone? Chief Minister (Bhupesh Baghel) should step down as they are not able to handle the situation here," he had said. He later told local reporters that newspapers have reported that Hathras incident was 'banawati' (fake). "It is viral on twitter. That (Hathras) was a banavat incident while it (which occurred in Dhanora) was a genuine one. Therefore, we have staged a demonstration. "The Congress stages protests for made-up incidents and not for genuine ones. Hathras is located miles away from here where no one has given us votes but the Congress has been going there for staging a dharna," the MP added. Reacting sharply, the Congress said the MP's remarks reflects the mindset of BJP towards the Hathras incident. "Mandavi's statement reflects the mindset of the BJP toward the Hathras incident. It has made clear that senior BJP leaders will only speak on the issues of only those areas where they have got votes. "It is unfortunate that Mandavi went to media to substantiate his false statement," state Congress spokesperson Dhananjay Singh Thakur said. Meanwhile, state BJP spokesperson Sanjeev Shrivastav has slammed Congress for adopting "double standards" over incidents of sexal assaults on women while "keeping mum" on the Dhanora incident. "Recently, a minister in Chhattisgarh described the gangrape occurred in Chhattisgarh as a small incident while comparing it with Hathras incident, which shows shameful political thinking of the ruling party," Shrivastav said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-atrocity-in-hathras-it-was-fake-incident-bjp-mp-901133.html
12-10-2020||Opinion||Why some millennials can’t manage their money||By Anjani Trivedi   In 2008, Jackie and I arrived at our investment banking jobs on Wall Street. Fresh out of college, we were now among the top earners in our peer group. Twenty-hours-plus daily, most days of the week, working hard on pitchbooks, models and deals. We saw eye-to-eye on most things: people, what we were going to eat that night off of seamlessweb.com, and, more or less, life. We were both so-called Millennials, defined as those born between 1981 and 1996. There were a couple of big differences. One was that she thought about savings and investing her earnings. I was more basic, just thinking about spending less than I made. The day Jackie had to run out to set up her Charles Schwab Corp. account, I barely understood what she was doing. She came back with flyers and talked about Pacific Investment Management Co., or Pimco, bond funds. I was bemused. While I could go through companies’ financial statements and run accretion-dilution and discounted cash flow models, I could just about keep track of my personal income. I was basically financially illiterate when it came to my own accounts. That stemmed, as I now see it, from the more fundamental difference between us: We grew up on two sides of the world — she in Maryland, me in Indore, India. Our micro-example is reflected in several surveys showing that financial literacy rates in Asia are far lower than in the US, Canada and the UK. That means possessing a basic understanding of concepts like interest rates, compounding, diversifying risk, and inflation to make decisions about personal savings. Money management behavior is tightly linked to such knowledge. Some of this comes down to cultural investing priorities. In Asia, property and gold – hard assets – have always taken precedence over speculative stocks and bonds. Capital markets haven’t been deep enough for previous generations to participate with confidence. Nor were retail investing products mainstream. A recent survey by China’s central bank that covered more than 30,000 urban households in 30 provinces showed that almost 60% of assets were tied up in real estate. About 70% of liabilities were mortgages. The portion of financial assets was low. To be sure, the privileges of investing and even holding financial assets are often impossible for many people in wealthy countries who are just trying to make ends meet. That’s even more true in emerging economies. Generational attitudes get passed along. My parents didn’t really talk about money at the table or otherwise; it was only ever mentioned in terms of being prudent. (That’s a whole different topic I’ll save for another column.) Jackie’s family had a slightly different approach. Her allowance (and that of her younger brother) was split into four jars: taxes, savings, charity and spending money. They got to choose the charity. That helped create a sense of where money goes. “My dad was always (like) dollars and cents, spend wisely and make good choices,” she told me recently. “But not miserly.” For Millennials, choices are constantly changing. In the US, gurus like @MrsDowJones drop knowledge on their hundreds of thousands of Instagram and Twitter followers. Millennial investing podcasts laud putting money where you spend your time, thinking about your own price per hour when setting out for a new purchase. Gaming is big; experiences are more valuable than things. Millennials tend to think more about wellness and what’s good for the environment (greener packaging, no plastics). Fashion choices are sustainable — vegan leather, you name it.  In Asia, the tech-enabled generation is beginning to take charge of its finances. Millennials have increasingly become a bigger part of the Asian consumer class that has driven travel and spending across the world. In India, savings in physical and financial assets as a portion of gross domestic product has been dropping, while net financial savings as a share of the gross national disposable income has also come down. To this cohort, property and jewelry increasingly look old-school. The permanence of such holdings is a turn-off. These assets are plagued with issues parents faced buying property (especially in India — a pre-sale gone bad, an incomplete project that took their cash) and the shifting relative value of gold. There are also questions of taste and practicality. Will I pull out bling and unfashionable traditional jewelry to go to the office? Unlikely.  Online finance makes growing sense. More people in China are buying wealth management products, or thinking about how to maximize their balance sheets and taking out consumer loans. In India, investing apps such as Groww are all the rage. Backed by the likes of Sequoia India, it has 8 million users for mutual fund offerings and a couple of hundred thousand have bought stocks on it. Zerodha, ETMoney and others are increasingly popular. Economic insecurity from Covid-19 will likely accelerate the change. Millennials will be less quick to splash out on soy lattes and yoga pants, especially in Asia, as they become savers again. What they buy will be higher up the quality ladder – “premiumization.” That behavior will come with smarter ways to put their money to work instead of stashing it away in vanilla bank deposits. Risk profiles should change. I’m still behind the curve on investing my retirement savings, but I’m going to start by setting up four jars for my kids today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-some-millennials-can-t-manage-their-money-900723.html
12-10-2020||Opinion||Spin is back in focus at IPL 2020||When the Chandu Borde-led selection panel met to pick the Indian squad for the World Championship of Cricket in Australia in 1985, Sunil Gavaskar asked specifically that L Sivaramakrishnan be included. The 19-year-old leg-spinner had to yet to play a limited-overs international, but the skipper’s contention was that Siva would be more than a handful on the vast grounds at the MCG and the SCG where the tournament was being staged. Siva didn’t let his captain down. With his mesmeric tricks, he lured batsmen to their doom; true to his captain’s predictions, he picked up wickets with wicked, dipping full-tosses, though it was the way he drew Javed Miandad out of his crease and set up a simple stumping for Sadanand Vishwanath that will remain the abiding memory. Siva’s 10 wickets were the most by any bowler in the competition, a key factor in India’s spectacular title triumph. Currently in the UAE as a television commentator, Siva must be delighted at what’s unfolding in Season 13 of the Indian Premier League. Spinners, once considered superfluous to white-ball skirmishes, are holding their own; specifically, leg-spinners have carved a niche, from the established Rashid Khan to the emerging Ravi Bishnoi. Raw pace thrills and excites, but to watch a high-class spinner tease and torment batsmen is infinitely more exhilarating. Fast bowlers threaten limb and body; spinners challenge egos. One is feral, the other ethereal. It’s not as if, all of a sudden, spin has reared its crafty head. What this season has done is bring them back into focus, thanks largely to the big outfields in Dubai and Abu Dhabi which, thankfully, don’t reward mishits and brute power, and encourage spinners to give the ball air instead of firing it in with an eye on economy alone. In the infancy of the T20 revolution, the big concern was that the slam-bang format would spell the death-knell of cricket’s most compelling discipline. The new format sprung from the belief that audiences would enjoy nothing more than watching the tiny orb sailing miles into orbit. Consequently, boundaries were brought in, every iota of life squeezed out of pitches. Strong and powerful, batsmen were further spurred by wonderful bats with meaty sweet spots and bulging edges, blurring the line between graceful stroke-play and crude hoicks. Bowlers grumbled, complained, snarled and moaned, but knew they were always fighting a losing battle. They had to reinvent themselves. For faster bowlers, that meant yorkers and slower deliveries of various ilk; finger spinners went for the carrom ball. The wrist-spinner had to rely on heart and a sympathetic arm around his shoulder, apart from his vast skill. No one needs a supportive captain more than wrist-spinners. They can be wayward sometimes, but they are wicket-takers and game-changers, even in the 20-over bash. Therefore, it’s imperative that they are treated as such, not expected to compromise on core skills by bowling faster and flatter. In the aftermath of India’s loss to Pakistan in the final of the ICC Champions Trophy in 2017, Virat Kohli decided to plump for wicket-taking options in the middle stages of a 50-over game. Thus, out went the established pair of R Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja, in came the wrist-spinning duo of leggie Yuzvendra Chahal and left-armer Kuldeep Yadav. The results were instantaneous and sustained, until Kuldeep went off the boil during the last IPL, just before the World Cup, and hasn’t been the same bowler since. Chahal has been a loyal servant of the Royal Challengers Bangalore for several years now, the franchise’s leading wicket-taker despite playing a significant percentage of his matches at the unforgiving Chinnaswamy Stadium. In Dubai and Abu Dhabi, he has relished having the safety net of bigger boundaries. Kohli’s faith in Chahal is no secret, but this year more than ever before, the wrist-spinning contagion is sweeping through franchises, more and more think-tanks beginning to recognise the value of taking wickets. RCB have played Chahal and Adam Zampa together, Shreyas Gopal and Rahul Tewatia have figured in all of the matches of the Rajasthan Royals. Rashid and Abdul Samad have operated in tandem for the Sunrisers Hyderabad, as have Bishnoi and M Ashwin for the Kings XI Punjab. Each franchise has multiple wrist-spinners to pick from and their faith has been rewarded even if the top three wicket-takers currently are all pacers. IPL 2020 hasn’t been all about wrist-spin, though. Finger-spinners R Ashwin and Axar Patel haven’t done too shabbily for the Delhi Capitals, while RCB’s Washington Sundar boasts a staggering economy of 4.88 despite bowling most of his 18 overs in the Power Play. Sixes have largely had to be earned, not served on a platter. That’s a welcome, much-needed change from the monotony of 200-plays-200. After all, there’s nothing like spinning a good yarn, is there? (R Kaushik is a Bengaluru-based cricket writer with nearly three decades of experience) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/spin-is-back-in-focus-at-ipl-2020-900806.html
12-10-2020||Opinion||Is Pakistan opening the door to Islamist parties?||By Mihir Sharma While Pakistan’s Islamist parties have been junior parties in government before and can draw large numbers of demonstrators, they have always been electorally marginal. Now, given that the mainstream political parties are unpopular and enfeebled, this might be the moment that Rehman and his colleagues have been waiting for. Egypt has shown us how hard it is for military dictators to fight political Islamism. And in India, Hindu nationalists were similarly marginal to electoral politics until they became part of the alliance, 40 years ago, that defeated the authoritarian Indira Gandhi. If mainstream parties continue to fade, Pakistani politics may well see a three-way tug-of-war between a middle-class populist, an aggressive military establishment and radical Islamists. That’s in nobody’s interest — not even the Pakistan army’s.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/is-pakistan-opening-the-door-to-islamist-parties-900990.html
12-10-2020||Panorama||Off the record: October 12||A celebration The ‘Quad’ ministerial meet in Tokyo on October 6 did result in much to celebrate. The US bid to turn the informal four-nation coalition into a formal “NATO-like bloc” for Indo-Pacific fell flat. India, Japan and Australia were not yet ready to overtly gang up with the US to take on China. The US Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo, slammed China, but neither India’s External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, nor Foreign Ministers of Japan and Australia, Toshimitsu Motegi and Marise Payne, echoed him directly. The mood in the meeting room, however, lightened when a when a cake was brought in and Pompeo, Jaishankar and Payne wished Motegi a “Happy birthday”. The officials also joined in the celebration and greeted the host of the meet. The fact that Japanese Foreign Minister was to turn 65 the next day, did not stop them from celebrating.  Anirban Bhaumik, New Delhi  A message  The farmers’ agitation over three agriculture sector reforms has prompted the Modi government to walk the extra mile to procure the Kharif crop, in a bid to send the message that the MSP regime will continue. Besides procuring, the Centre is also on overdrive on communicating the purchases made every day. The Agriculture Ministry has been releasing statements every day on the quantity of paddy purchased from farmers in Punjab and Haryana and the amount disbursed to them. However, the procurement overdrive does not appear to have moved the farmers, who continue to agitate against the three laws in Punjab. Sagar Kulkarni, New Delhi A political weapon? During the initial months of Covid-19 outbreak in Kerala, the state faced criticism for not conducting enough tests. Political opponents even alleged that the state was trying to gain appreciation by deliberately keeping the figures low. Later, the state enhanced the number of tests rapidly and is now conducting nearly 70,000 daily. Now the whisperings in the political circles is that the government is trying to keep the figures up in order to divert attention from the embarrassing reports against the government in connection to the alleged nexus with the gold smuggling case accused. The government also used Covid-19 surge to flay the stirs against the government by highlighting the number of Covid-19 infection among police personnel and opposition activists. Arjun Raghunath, Thiruvananthapuram  Flipkart shocker E-commerce giant Flipkart drew brickbats on social media after an employee handling its social media handle recently said that their service was not available outside India when a customer from Nagaland capital Kohima asked why it was not delivering goods in Nagaland. “We still didn’t get independence and we are still a part of India. Treat all states equally areeh!,” the user said in a comment. Replying to the customer, the Flipkart handle replied saying “Sorry to hear that. We appreciate your interest in shopping with us. However, sellers do not provide our services outside India.” Flipkart issued a statement, apologising for the incident but netizens, particularly many from the Northeast had already aired their anger and scoffed at the Flipkart employee’s ignorance. Sumir Karmakar, Guwahati  Testing times  The assembly polls in Madhya Pradesh are a test of the influence Jyotiraditya Scindia wields in the Gwalior-Chambal region. Scindia made a shock exit from the Congress in March along with 24 MLAs owing allegiance to him, bringing down Chief Minister Kamal Nath’s government. BJP has fielded 22 Congress rebels in the by-polls, prompting the Congress to make the election campaign Scindia-centric. Congress leaders hit out at Scindia for the grand betrayal and have filled social media with memes mocking the erstwhile royal, asking him whether he acquired certain theatrical qualities after joining the BJP. The test of the Congress campaign as also Scindia’s popularity will be known on November 10. Sagar Kulkarni, New Delhi||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/off-the-record-october-12-900690.html
12-10-2020||Panorama||A message to the universe||It’s said that we are what we attract. The world is full of pulsating energy, so every message we send out attracts similar energy and responds accordingly. Pessimists who see a glass half- empty or the hole in the doughnut, attract negative energy and optimists who see the glass half-full or the ring around the doughnut, attract loads of positive energy.  Many people are in the habit of saying things like, catch anything good happening to me or I don’t think I’m lucky enough to get such chances in life, and believe it or not, they usually don’t get such chances in life. Like author Roald Dahl said, “those who don’t believe in magic will never find it.”  In life, we have to find our own brand of magic and go after it. And the only way we can do this is by changing our level from “I’m not lucky,” to “Of course I’m lucky.” Our thoughts emit energy that attracts responses accordingly. It’s like you when you make faces in the mirror, your image reflects your facial expressions. If you smile, you will see a smiling image emitting cheer and happiness, and if you scowl you will see a grumpy image staring back at you. Which image would you like to pause and stare at? I’m sure all of us avert our eyes when we encounter sulky faces any time of the day, but we stop whatever we are doing to stare at the beauty of a laughing face.  Likewise with our thoughts. Keep them positive and watch good things be drawn towards you like you are a magnet. The universe has a telepathic link to each and every human in the world. It’s time you tap that telepathic link, and use it as your personal mobile phone. That doesn’t mean you send the universe a list as long as a grocery list, of desires. But you shouldn’t act as your own obstacle, by shutting the doors with your negative thoughts.  Send the universe positive messages and it will act accordingly, by paving your way towards happiness, health and success. Try it for a month, if nothing else, it will change your perception in life.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/a-message-to-the-universe-900691.html
12-10-2020||Panorama||Is GST Council missing the bigger picture?||GST laws today are an amazing amalgam of restrictions through percentages, different threshold limits and a bewildering array of dates for filing of returns and complying with different provisions of the law. Composition dealers have a different threshold limit while the small taxpayer has been defined as one with a turnover of less than Rs 5 crore. Different dates for filing have been announced depending on whether the taxpayer is located in South India or North India. The GSTR 3B form which was introduced as a temporary form has become semi-permanent at least till March 31, 2021. But it is in the restrictions though percentage ceilings and floors that the lawmakers truly revel in. Rule 36(4) was introduced in 2019 through a notification that restricted credit that could be availed at 20% of the eligible credit that has been uploaded by the counterparty to the transaction. Seeing an uptick in GST collections after this announcement, the percentage was altered to 10%. The latest meeting of the GST Council continued this fascination for percentages. It announced that as a further step towards reducing the compliance burden particularly on the small taxpayers having aggregate annual turnover of less than Rs 5 crore, the Council’s earlier recommendation of allowing filing of returns on a quarterly basis with monthly payments by such taxpayers would be implemented from January 1, 2021.  Such quarterly taxpayers would, for the first two months of the quarter, have an option to pay 35% of the net cash tax liability of the last quarter using an auto-generated challan. There can be no answers to questions such as why only for the first two months or what was the basis to arrive at 35% apart from a fascination for artificial restrictions by playing the percentage game. Since this is only an option, it is expected to remain that way as the small taxpayer would not be in any mood to account for 35% of  GST payments as advances and the remaining 65% on payment at the end of every quarter. Entities that have common credits and reversal of input tax credit would have nightmares in doing a reconciliation of all these facets. The GST Council also announced that taxpayers with a turnover less than Rs 5 crore would need to fill in six-digit/four-digit HSN/SAC Codes for supplies to registered and unregistered counterparties, respectively. As always, there is a caveat – the government to have the power to notify eight-digit HSN on the notified class of supplies by all taxpayers. The GST law has seen much litigation on HSN Codes – the GST Council would do well to simplify the HSN/SAC Codes before embarking on further changes. Till date, an amicable solution to the GST Compensation issue has eluded the GST Council. There is no doubt that there would be a further extension of the GST Compensation  Cess. State governments would have to agree to a haircut on the promised growth of 14% in the extended period of the compensation cess.  The last has not been heard on this issue - much debate and drama can be expected in times to come.  According to the CAG, the central government, in violation of the GST Compensation Cess Act, 2017, short-credited the GST compensation cess fund to the tune of Rs 47,272 crore during 2017-18 and 2018-19, retaining the amount in the Consolidated fund of India. By doing so, the funds collected through the compensation cess route could be used for purposes other than those provided in the Act. The CAG concluded that this accounting gimmick led to an overestimation of the Centre’s revenue, and as a consequence, an underestimation of its fiscal deficit.  Government accounting has always been a matter of conjecture – reports such as this only add to the mystery surrounding the accounting. Invoicing method  GST laws are still researching on the ideal method for invoicing. The system of e-invoicing has made its entry from October 1, 2020 after a generous (and welcome) increase in the eligibility limit from Rs 100 crore to Rs 500 crore. In its 39th Meeting held in March 2020, the Council had recommended an incremental approach to incorporate features of the new return system in the present scheme.   With a  stated intent to further enhance the Ease of Doing Business and improve the compliance experience, the Council has approved the future roadmap for return filing under GST. The approved framework aims to simplify return filing and further reduce the taxpayer’s compliance burden in this regard significantly, such that the timely furnishing of details of outward supplies by a taxpayer and his suppliers would allow him to view the ITC available in his electronic credit ledger from all sources prior to the due date for payment of tax. This would also enable the system to auto-populate the monthly return through the data filed by the taxpayer and all his suppliers. Right from the beginning, one of the main inefficiencies of the system of filing of returns under GST has been the inability for a taxpayer to revise their returns. GST laws as they stand today are filled with complexities and it is natural for a taxpayer to make unintentional errors. A system of filing a revised return was mooted some time back and draft returns also published but has not seen the light of the day. Since the auto-population scheme depends on what the counter-party does, taxpayers could end up having to pay taxes just for dealing with a person who takes his time in complying with the law.  It is apparent that the GST Council is focusing too much on compliance issues and thereby missing the bigger picture. Maybe they could form a Compliance Committee (akin to the Fitment Committee)  that would take care of the pronouncements on compliance in order that they focus on the bigger picture of revenue sharing,  responding to audit objections and continuing their attempt to make GST a Good and Simple Tax.  (The writer is a Bengaluru-based tax expert)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/is-gst-council-missing-the-bigger-picture-900692.html
12-10-2020||Panorama||Extra pounds may raise risk of severe Covid-19||Obese Americans are more likely to become dangerously ill if they are infected with the new coronavirus. Now public health officials are warning that a much broader segment of the population also may be at risk: Even moderately excess weight may increase the odds of severe disease. The warning, reported by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention this past week, may have serious implications for Americans. While about 40% of U.S. adults are obese, another 32% are simply overweight, among the highest rates of obesity and overweight in the world. By the new calculus, nearly three-quarters of Americans may be at increased risk of severe Covid-19 if infected with the coronavirus. “It’s important to make sure the public and individuals are aware of this potential risk,” said Dr. Brook Belay, a medical officer at the CDC. “The message is to strive to make healthy changes on a daily basis, through healthy food choices, choices about physical activity, and getting sufficient sleep.” Other medical conditions for which there is limited or mixed evidence of increased Covid-19 severity include asthma, cerebrovascular disease and cystic fibrosis, the CDC said. Medical conditions clearly shown to increase the risk of Covid-19 include cancer, chronic kidney disease, heart disease and sickle cell disease, among others. Overweight and obesity are defined by a person’s body mass index, a ratio of an individual’s weight and height. People with a BMI between 18.5 and 24.9 are considered to be of healthy weight; the overweight zone ranges from a BMI of 25 through 29, and obesity starts at a BMI of 30. Someone who is 5 feet, 9 inches and weighs 125 to 168 pounds is in the healthy range, for example; above that, the individual is overweight, and at 203 pounds or higher, is obese. “This greatly expands the risk to a pretty big chunk of the U.S. population,” Barry M. Popkin, a professor of nutrition at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, said of the CDC’s new advice. In a recent review of 75 studies published in August, Popkin found that obese people were twice as likely to be hospitalized with Covid-19, compared with those who were overweight or of healthy weight, and nearly twice as likely to wind up in intensive care. Popkin and his colleagues were unable to pinpoint the risk of being merely overweight, because so few studies have examined that variable. Doctors observed early on in the pandemic that excess weight appeared to pose an extra risk to patients. But since obesity is often accompanied by other medical problems, it took some time for researchers to learn whether excess fat, in and of itself, was the culprit. Many studies now indicate that it may be, at least in some patients. Adipose tissue — the fat accumulated by the body — is itself biologically active, causing metabolic changes and abnormalities. Adipose promotes a state of chronic low-grade inflammation in the body, even without an infection. In addition, abdominal obesity — which is more common in men — may cause compression of the diaphragm, lungs and chest cavity, restricting breathing and making it more difficult to clear pneumonia and other respiratory infections. The CDC based its warning on a small number of studies that successfully differentiated between overweight and obesity, including a paper on risk factors for severe Covid-19 among patients in the United Kingdom and a report analyzing the outcomes of more than 500 patients hospitalized in March and April at Downstate Health Sciences University in Brooklyn. Among those patients, 43% were obese, 30% overweight and 27% of healthy weight. After adjusting for age, diabetes and other such factors, the researchers found that patients who were overweight or obese were at increased risk for requiring mechanical assistance with breathing and were more likely to die. The paper was published in July in the International Journal of Obesity. Surprisingly, the risk of being overweight was even greater than that linked to obesity. Overweight patients were 40% more likely to die than healthy-weight patients, while obese patients were at 30% greater risk, compared with the healthy-weight patients. The findings clearly demonstrated an increased risk of severe Covid-19 in anyone with a BMI of 25 or above, according to the authors of the study, Dr. Mohamed Rami Nakeshbandi, an assistant professor of infectious diseases at SUNY Downstate Health Science University, and Rohan Maini, a medical student. But while obesity increased the risk of death for men, it did not do so for women, they noted. (Other studies have also reported this disparity.) The British study examined lifestyle risk factors among 387,109 men and women, 760 of whom had Covid-19. People with the virus who were overweight were roughly 30% more likely to be hospitalized than those of healthy weight; those who were obese were about twice as likely, compared with healthy-weight individuals. The study, published in July in the journal Brain, Behavior and Immunity, also looked at factors like smoking, alcohol consumption and levels of physical activity, and concluded that moderate exercise reduced the odds that an infected person would be hospitalized. “Socially distanced physical activity may be a good intervention,” Mark Hamer, a professor of sports and exercise medicine at University College London and an author of the paper, said in an email. “It gives immune protection, and also helps with weight loss.” Physical activity, which has been extensively studied, can reduce the risk of developing chronic conditions linked to excess weight, like diabetes and high blood pressure. But it won’t entirely eliminate the risk of impaired immune function and heightened inflammation, Popkin cautioned. “Overweight is quite different than other diseases in terms of inflammation,” he said. “The fat tissue are inflamed for a long period of time, and it affects immune function more over time. It is a continuous insult.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/extra-pounds-may-raise-risk-of-severe-covid-19-900693.html
12-10-2020||Right in the Middle||Coronavirus: Awaiting the messiah||Never in history has mankind so desperately awaited a Messiah so unanimous that the arrival will be acceptable to all, irrespective of religion nation creed or caste-- the Covid 19 vaccine messiah. Explanations and conspiracy theories abound for the pandemic, astrologers suggest the malevolent alignment of six planets or is it the ubiquitous cloud of 5G? China’s creation to gain global control? A time-space warp has become the new-normal as life is put on hold, space has been constricted by lockdowns. Can this sci-fi dystopia get any worse? What if the internet now permanently crashed? Far from feeling a drag of slow days that lack of socialization suggests, I find that time passes surprisingly rapidly--weekly duties of filling my pill-box and winding clocks come around very quickly, and the calendar page has already been flipped to October and monthly bills due again. Surely, an avatar of Gabriel Marquez is writing "Love in the Time of Corona". The drastic reduction in traffic has enabled the corporation to undertake extensive smart city infrastructure. Hopefully, this means putting an end to repeated digging which results in obstacle courses rather than motorable roads. As exercise is important for older people, walking is the most accessible form, as gyms and machines are beyond our capabilities. Though there are home exercise apps, have you tried huffing and puffing in one spot? Hazardous pavements make strolling outside one’s home impossible, not to mention the risk of traffic fumes. Bengaluru's glorious parks are therefore a boon, particularly for Senior Citizens (the latest on the endangered species list).  Besides physical well-being, it is balm for the spirit being out of doors inhaling fresh air, under the generous spread of rain trees and ficus, hearing birdsong, enjoying the fragrance of frangipani and cork trees, and the varied colours of flowers. Cubbon Park has less litter than Lal Bagh, but that is its only advantage. Lal Bagh has been closed permanently to all traffic since 1975, the order to close Cubbon Park two years ago was never implemented, and it has now been reopened to traffic. This park is intersected by several roads, and pollution and noise from incessant traffic make a mocker of “the city’s lung”. No surprises: who benefits most from using the park as a short-cut to get to Vidhana Soudha? Yet another blatant instance of politicians and bureaucrats flouting rules - sadly, no Messiah is capable of tackling that problem!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/coronavirus-awaiting-the-messiah-900689.html
12-10-2020||Second Edit||Government must take steps to boost demand||It was not unexpected that the newly constituted Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) would maintain the status quo on the benchmark repo rate and continue the accommodative stance it has adopted recently till economic growth sees signs of revival. Last Friday’s meeting unanimously decided to keep the rate at 4% and saw the current trend of rising inflation as a temporary phenomenon. It expects inflation to be in the range of 4.5-5.4% in the next few months and drop to 4.3% in the first quarter of the next financial year. It may not go above 6%, which is the upper limit of its inflation-targeting regime, and so there is no need to think of measures to fight it now.  The RBI has rightly decided that giving a push to growth should be prioritised over other considerations now.   The apex bank has predicted that the economy is likely to contract by 9.5% this financial year. After a huge knock in the first quarter, the second and third quarters would see an easing of the contraction. The fourth quarter might see a small pick-up in growth. But the possibility of a downward risk would persist. In a normal year, the festival season provides a big boost to the economy but this year the season’s demand would be much less. Worries over the actual impact of the pandemic, which is yet to peak, add to the uncertainty. So, it is likely that the MPC will maintain the rates for the entire fiscal year. In any case, the scope for any further easing is limited, as it may have an adverse impact on household savings and financial stability.  In a situation of limited possibilities, the aim of the RBI’s liquidity measures was to improve the transmission of previous rate cuts involving many instruments including bonds, state government loans and corporate papers. It has promised measures to ensure the success of the borrowing plans of central and state governments. These may again provide conditions for the flow of more liquidity into the economy and the markets but whether this will indeed happen is the moot question. Much of the implementation of the monetary policy happens through banks and they have been cautious about credit facilitation. Business is unsure about availing credit, even when it is available, because of the uncertainty about demand. In this scenario, it is for the government to create conditions to boost demand through appropriate fiscal policies and measures. The RBI is doing the best it can though liquidity enhancement, but it will serve the purpose only if it is complemented by government action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/government-must-take-steps-to-boost-demand-900685.html
12-10-2020||South||Khushbu's exit: Zero impact on the ground in Tamil Nadu, says Congress||Accusing actor Khushbu Sundar of lacking "ideological commitment", the Congress said on Monday her quitting the organisation would have no impact on Tamil Nadu politics. AICC in-charge of Tamil Nadu, Dinesh Gundu Rao, said she has been criticising the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi till a week ago. Joining BJP which she had been criticising, for some positions suggests that Khushbu has no ideological commitment, he said amid reports that she would embrace the J P Nadda-led party. "It is unfortunate that she is doing this. It will not have any impact on Tamil Nadu politics," Rao told P T I. The Congress is reorganising and overhauling the outfit in Tamil Nadu and preparing for Assembly elections, slated next year, he said. "We will not be sidetracked from that, by all these issues (Khushbu leaving the party)," Rao said. Khushbu's decision would have no impact on the ground in Tamil Nadu, he said, adding, media may play up the issue for a couple of days since she is an actor and the matter would then die down. "It will have no impact, zero impact", he said. The BJP would not gain by her entry as there is a "big anti-BJP feeling" in Tamil Nadu, Rao alleged. Khushbu could be joining the BJP for "some other reasons, not just politics", he said, adding, he does not want to elaborate on this comment. Khushbu who was Congress national spokesperson, on Monday resigned from the primary membership of the party protesting against what she called some leaders "dictating terms" and "suppressing" her. The party, meanwhile, announced in Delhi that Khushbu has been dropped from her post of All India Congress Committee spokesperson with "immediate effect." A popular Tamil actor, she was with the DMK before joining the Congress in 2014.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/khushbus-exit-zero-impact-on-the-ground-in-tamil-nadu-says-congress-900771.html
12-10-2020||South||Kerala youth forced to quit job due to social media trolls||Social media trolls often entertains viewers. But for those being trolled, it's not so, as a youngster in Kerala had to quit his job owing to the embarrassment caused by widespread trolling. Anandapadmanabhan S, hailing from Kollam district in Kerala, was facing the embarrassment of being widely trolled on the social media. He was detained by the police on March 26 on charges of lockdown violation as he was moving around in his car at his native place Paripally, about 20 kilometres from Kollam city. Video footage of the 21-year old breaking down before the police telling that he came out to buy plantain and a circle inspector of police shouting at him and pulling him out of the car had caught much attention. A series of trolls subsequently appeared on the social media based on it. Anandapadmanabhan said that he was forced to quit his job at the outlet of mobile service provider firm at Technopark in Thiruvananthapuram owing to the embarrassment caused by the trolls. "Owing to the widespread trolling people used to identify me easily at public places and at my workplace. I was hurt by queries over the March 26 incident. There were even queries whether I moved around on lockdown day for drug trafficking. I was forced to quit my job as I could not tolerate all these," he said. He also said that though the police assured that posts trolling him would be removed from social media, it had not happened so far. Meanwhile, Kollam city deputy commission of police Jossy Cheriyan said that letters were sent to the social media firms more than once. But there were no response, possibly because the trolls were mainly based on news reports and it did not contain any abusive content. After the police official's action against Anandapadmanbhan triggered widespread protest of police highhandedness in the back drop of lockdown enforcement, the circle inspector who acted against the youth had called on him at his house and tendered an apology.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-youth-forced-to-quit-job-due-to-social-media-trolls-900854.html
12-10-2020||South||Former TRS MP Kavitha wins Telangana Legislative Council bypoll||Former TRS MP K Kavitha, daughter of Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, on Monday won the bypoll to the Telangana Legislative Councilfrom Nizamabad Local Authorities' constituency. The counting of votes in the by-election, held on October 9, was taken up on Monday and Kavitha scored a thumping win over her BJP and Congress rivals, according to official sources. Kavitha thanked the local body representatives who voted for her in the election and the TRS leaders who worked for her victory. Kavitha lost the 2019 Lok Sabha election from Nizamabad to her BJP rival D Aravind. Covid-19 positive people exercised their franchise wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) kits when polling took place in the bypoll on Friday. The administration had made some special arrangements for COVID-19 positive voters on Friday, providing PPE kits and arranging ambulances. The bypoll was necessitated due to the disqualification of sitting MLC Bhoopathi Reddy in 2019 (after he joined the Congress at the time of the 2018 elections).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-trs-mp-kavitha-wins-telangana-legislative-council-bypoll-900857.html
12-10-2020||South||16-year-old girl at the helm of administration in Andhra Pradesh's Anantapuram district, for a day||In an unusual change in administration, a 16-year-old M Shravani took charge as the collector of Anantapuram district in Andhra Pradesh on Sunday. As her first task, Shravani approved a file sanctioning Rs 25 thousand for a girl victim, under the SC/ST prevention of atrocities act. She then signed an order excluding women officers from attending to official calls from 8 PM to 8 AM. Shravani then headed out for inspection in the town and ordered the immediate repair of roads damaged with stagnant water. She also examined the distribution of Jagananna Vidyakanuka free school kits at the municipal girls’ high school. Shravani appears to be in a tearing rush and justifiably so. For the 16-year-old got only one day - the­ International Day of the Girl Child - to preside as the collector and make her first imprint on governance. In a remarkable initiative, all the key administrative responsibilities - 527 in all from collector, joint, sub collectors, municipal commissioners to tehsildars and other officials – were bestowed on girl students for the entire day in the Rayalaseema district close to Bangalore. This was part of the concept Baalike Bhavishyathu (girl child is our future) by collector Gandham Chandrudu to encourage girls, especially from less privileged backgrounds, to gain confidence to excel in academics and careers. Girls studying in various schools were shortlisted and then selected for their specific roles by drawing lots. Shravani is a XII-standard student of a Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya and her father is a marginal farmer. B Manushri, officiating as the joint collector, is a X-standard student of another KGBV and is the daughter of a mechanic. “We are thrilled to be seated in high executive positions. We can never forget this day,” said the two girls.   Speaking to DH, Chandrudu reminisced of one such memorable day in his life 25 years back when the collector visited their school in neighboring Kurnool district. “It was very inspirational for me. These kinds of experiences I believe motivate kids from humble backgrounds, like I am, to aim high,” the collector said.   And the idea is not to stop here, satisfied with a photo op. Chandrudu says that the respective bureaucrats whose seat the kids had engaged would act as a long-term mentor, assisting the girl financially, emotionally etc., till she settles well in her chosen career.   Chandrudu also ratified the documents signed by Shravani to make them governmentally effective.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/16-year-old-girl-at-the-helm-of-administration-in-andhra-pradeshs-anantapuram-district-for-a-day-900882.html
12-10-2020||South||Telangana: KCR's daughter Kavitha elected as MLC||Telangana Rashtra Samithi’s Kalvakuntla Kavitha, on Monday, won from the Nizamabad local authorities’ constituency with a thumping majority. Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s daughter would now be a member of the state’s legislative council. Kavitha who was an MP from Nizamabad in the previous Lok Sabha lost to BJP’s Dharmapuri Aravind in the 2019 general elections. Though it was thought that KCR would nominate her to the Rajya Sabha in March, KCR chose to keep her in state politics. MLC seat election was held on Friday and results were declared on Monday. Out of the total 823 votes, Kavitha received 728 while the BJP and Congress got 56 and 29, respectively. 10 votes were declared as invalid. A section of TRS leaders believes that Kavitha would be given a crucial role sooner or later. Kavitha has thanked TRS’s MPs, MLAs, and MLCs who strived for her victory and the MPTCs, ZPTCs, corporators, etc., for handing a big majority. TRS leaders and cadres celebrated the victory coming ahead of the Dubbaka assembly bypolls to be held on November 3. Elections were necessitated due to the demise of the sitting TRS legislator Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy. KCR has declared Solipeta’s widow Sujatha as the party candidate for the bypolls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-kcrs-daughter-kavitha-elected-as-mlc-900910.html
12-10-2020||South||Kerala's Covid-19 positive cases may be much higher||Even as the Covid-19 test positivity rate in Kerala has been increasing, which is currently around 17 per cent, it seemed that it was not reflecting the real scenario in the state as a major chunk of the daily tests included antigen tests that have a high chance of false-negative results as well as those being tested after undergoing Covid-19 treatment. Tests conducted at private laboratories are also included in the overall tally, which included many who undergo tests for no-Covid-19 reports for traveling abroad. While the average of the Covid-19 test positivity rate of Kerala was 8.05 per cent, it was 16.80 per cent on Sunday. The average of the last seven days till Sunday was 13.86 per cent. As per the data available from the Kerala health department, of the 61,629 tests conducted during the 24 hours between Saturday and Sunday, 45,312 were antigen tests. Antigen tests have a considerable rate of false-negative results and hence symptomatic patients being tested negative in antigen tests were being subjected to further tests as well. Sources in the health department also pointed out that of the total daily tests being conducted in Kerala, about 30 per cent were done at private laboratories. Those approaching private laboratories for the Covid-19 test were generally those with some sorts of concerns of the infection and those who require no-Covid certificate for purposes like traveling abroad. Due to these reasons, the test positivity rate in private laboratories was comparatively very low. The daily tally of coronavirus tests of the state also includes exit tests on those who were under treatment for the infection. The test positivity rate in this category is also quite low. Hence the compiled test rate of the state being publicised by the government did not reveal the real picture.  A doctor associated with the state's coronavirus testing said that the data was being compiled in accordance with ICMR norms. Kerala was much behind other states in respect of daily Covid-19 tests during the initial months of the outbreak. But with Covid-19 tests being allowed in the private sector as well, the number of tests has been increased considerably.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-covid-19-positive-cases-may-be-much-higher-900945.html
12-10-2020||South||Tamil Nadu inks 14 pacts for Rs 10,000 crore more fresh investments||Tamil Nadu on Monday signed Memorandum of Understanding (MoUs) with 14 companies for setting up their manufacturing facilities in the state bringing an investment of Rs 10,00 crore.   The new investments which have been promised even as the state battles the Coronavirus pandemic with over 6.5 lakh cases, promises to generate employment opportunities for over 7,000 people. Some of the major projects include those relating to renewable energy by JSW Energy at an investment of Rs 6,300 crore in Tuticorin, Tenkasi, Tirunelveli, Ramanathapuram, and Tiruppur districts that would provide employment opportunities to 2,420 people. Hiranandani group's Greenbase Industrial Parks would set up an industrial logistics park at Oragadam near here at an estimated cost of about Rs 750 crore, the government said. In a statement, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said the state has so far inked 56 investment pacts totally worth Rs 41,519 crore till date from April during the Covid-19 pandemic. The investments have come at a time the Tamil Nadu government is working hard to woo companies that plan to move its facilities out of China and shift to India to come and invest in the state. The government has already constituted a Special Task Force headed by Chief Secretary K Shanmugam to attract new investments from companies that are likely to exit from “certain countries” and relocate their manufacturing bases in countries like India to “diversify” their supply chain. Tamil Nadu is one of the leading destinations for Foreign Direct Investments (FDI) into the country, having attracted USD 29,848 million in FDI from April 2000 to March 2019. According to figures released by the government, Tamil Nadu had retained its position by attracting USD 2,613 million during 2018-19. It is also the third-largest exporter of goods in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-inks-14-pacts-for-rs-10000-crore-more-fresh-investments-900951.html
12-10-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh High Court orders CBI probe into offensive posts against the judiciary||The Andhra Pradesh High Court on Monday ordered the transfer of the probe on adverse social media comments made against the judiciary, to the CBI. The court which expressed its discontent over the pace of the investigation in the case by the state government’s CID has asked the CBI to submit a report within eight weeks. It also directed the CID and state government to extend support in the inquiry, senior advocate Lakshmi Narayana said. The matter pertains to the disparaging social media posts and comments made allegedly by over 90 YSRCP supporters in response to various judgements they deem have gone against the Jaganmohan Reddy government. The probe was being carried by the state CID based on a complaint from the High Court’s registrar general earlier this year. The court which reviewed the matter on 8 October reportedly pointed to the CID’s indifference in acting swiftly and fairly in the case. At the same time, it also enquired about the unfavourable comments made on it by Andhra Pradesh assembly speaker Tammineni Sitaram, deputy CM Narayana Swamy, YSRCP Parliamentary party leader Vijayasai Reddy and few other legislators. In response, on behalf of the state government, advocate general S Sriram stated they have no objection if the case was handed over to the CBI. Since last year, the Jaganmohan Reddy government is engaged in a tussle with the high court over a series of issues like English medium education, removal of the state election commissioner, Amaravati lands and the three-capital plan. Last week, chief minister Reddy took the conflict to an unprecedented level by writing to the Chief Justice of India S A Bobde alleging a nexus between a sitting Supreme Court judge and the TDP leadership and the influence wielded on sittings of the high court. Reddy even petitioned the CJI to ensure “that the state judiciary’s neutrality is maintained.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-high-court-orders-cbi-probe-into-offensive-posts-against-the-judiciary-900984.html
12-10-2020||South||Deve Gowda dissolves Kerala unit of JD(S) accusing party MLA C K Nanu of destabilising party||Former Prime Minister and Janata Dal (Secular) supremo H D Deve Gowda on Monday dissolved the Kerala unit of the party with immediate effect accusing the state president C K Nanu of destabilising the party. The party patriarch appointed Mathew T Thomas as party's ad-hoc committee president replacing Nanu, who is a JD(S) MLA from Vadakara constituency in Kerala. "I have dissolved the Kerala Pradesh Janata Dal (Secular) with immediate effect. Further, I have appointed Sri Mathew T Thomas as President of the ad-hoc Committee of the Kerala Pradesh Janata Dal (Secular)," the JD(S) patriarch said in his order. Gowda's action came in response to Nanu's reported inaction to take steps as directed by the party's national working president B M Farookh. According to the order, Farookh had served Nanu a notice with a slew of directions on September 24. However, Nanu neither adhered to it nor gave any reply, Gowda said. "Nanu has not taken any steps to strengthen the State Unit of Kerala. On the contrary, he has acted to destabilise the party and has not consulted the Core Committee," Gowda wrote in the order. The other members of the ad-hoc committee are Jose Thettaiyil and Jameela Prakasam, who will serve as vice presidents. Benny Moonjely, V Murugadas, and Bejly Joseph are the general secretaries while Mohammed Sha will be the treasurer, the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/deve-gowda-dissolves-kerala-unit-of-jds-accusing-party-mla-c-k-nanu-of-destabilising-party-900986.html
12-10-2020||South||Sack M K Surappa as Anna University VC: Stalin to government||Anna University, the premier engineering institute in Tamil Nadu, is back in the news with DMK President M K Stalin on Monday demanding the sacking of M K Surappa as its Vice-Chancellor for writing to the Centre directly on the issue of the varsity getting Institute of Eminence (IoE) tag. Mysuru-born Surappa, whose appointment in 2018 was criticised by Opposition parties on the count that he does not belong to the state,  is understood to have written to the Centre maintaining that the prestigious university has the capability to raise Rs 1,500 crore on its own without any assistance from the government for getting the IoE tag. DMK and other parties fear that Anna University may not be able to implement the existing 69 per cent reservation in admission once the institute gets the IoE tag. Though the Centre has orally said the reservation would continue, Opposition parties are not ready to buy the assurance. However, Surappa told Deccan Herald that the existing reservation policy would continue even if the institute gets the IoE tag. “Absolutely. There will no change in the reservation policy and all the existing governing structure would remain the same. Not just policies related to students, but also related to the faculty will remain the same. As for the controversies, I cannot really help,” he said. In the statement, Stalin accused Surappa, Governor Banwarilal Purohit and Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami of “working to cahoots to saffronise Anna University.” The DMK president also questioned how the V-C can write a letter to the Centre by-passing the state government and claim that the varsity has the capacity to raise funds when a committee is going into the issue and is yet to submit its recommendations. “If the Chief Minister has no role in this letter, he should request the Governor to sack Surappa for writing a letter unilaterally to the Centre against the reservation policy and the state’s rights. “The Chief Minister should also write a letter to the Prime Minister in categorical terms that the state would not accept the IoE tag unless there is an assurance from the Centre that the existing reservation policy will be applicable for the institute too,” he said. The university was in the news recently after professors asked the Governor not to give his assent for a Bill passed in the Assembly seeking to bifurcate Anna University. Though the professors said they do not have any objection in bifurcating the university, they opposed “gifting” of the parent university’s name to affiliated private colleges, while the existing institute getting the new name. According to the Bill, four institutes, including the prestigious College of Engineering, Guindy (CEG) and the Madras Institute of Technology (MIT), that are originally part of the varsity will now be known as Anna Technological and Research University (ARTU), while all affiliated colleges would come under Anna University. They scoffed at the renaming of the “parent institute” saying the move would only benefit private colleges as the name “Anna University” is known world-wide. On Monday, the Anna University Teachers’ Association (AUTA) supported Surappa on the issue of IoE status for the institution. “The issue is whether or not the powerful players are willing to allow Anna University comprising the four prestigious campuses to survive with the same name and grow. loE is just an added credit to Anna University whereas the Tamil Nadu Government's reservation policy is bound to continue,” the AUTA said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sack-m-k-surappa-as-anna-university-vc-stalin-to-government-900989.html
12-10-2020||South||Kerala first state to have hi-tech classrooms in all public schools: CM Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala has become the first state in the country to have high-tech classrooms in all public schools, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Monday, describing it as "a proud achievement". Making the announcement through a video conference, he said with the up-gradation of all classrooms to international standards and setting up of Hi-Tech IT labs, children in the state have access to learn and grow with the help of advanced learning systems. Over three lakh digital equipment, including laptops, projectors, webcams and printers, have been provided as part of the project. "Kerala has become the first state to have high-tech classrooms in all public schools", giving a huge boost to the education sector, Vijayan said. The government took a special interest in providing education and presented before the world, a Left alternative, "a Kerala model of education for our future generations," he said. "It was the firm decision of the Left government to make education accessible to all sections of society. Now, all the children in the state have access to the opportunity to learn and grow with the help of advanced learning systems. It's a proud achievement for the state," the Chief Minister said. According to the government, it took up the Public Education Rejuvenation Mission aimed at upgrading all classrooms to international standards and to set-up Hi-Tech IT labs. The Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) was assigned the task with funding from the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). As part of the mission, currently, a total of 42,000 classrooms from classes 8 to 12 have been equipped with laptops, projectors and screens and networked with school studios. It has been ensured that all lower primary and upper primary schools have at least one smart classroom with a computer lab, an official release said. All 16,030 public schools in the state are now equipped with 3,74,274 IT equipment, including 1,19,055 laptops, 69,944 multimedia projectors, 23,098 projector screens, 4,545 LED TVs, 4,578 DSLR cameras, 4,720 Full HD webcams and 4,611 multi-function printers along with high speed Broadband Internet connectivity to 12,678 schools, it said. Vijayan said the issue of loss of an academic year due to Covid-19 was averted with the help of online classes and the schools in the state will open once the conditions become conducive. However, online classes were not an alternative to classroom learning. "We were forced to do it due to the pandemic. When the situation returns to normal, schools would reopen," the Chief Minister said. The state government had on October 4 said that in the light of the severe spread of the virus in the state schools were not likely to open at this juncture. Vijayan said the types of equipment have five-year comprehensive onsite warranty and insurance and to address complaints, a web-portal and call centre was also functional. He also informed that at least 1,83,440 teachers were given special training as part of implementing the digitisation mission. The Public Education Rejuvenation Mission was to transform schools into centres of excellence. This had been made possible to a large extent with concerted efforts of peoples representatives, local self-government institutions, parent-teacher associations, former students, and individuals, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-first-state-to-have-hi-tech-classrooms-in-all-public-schools-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-900992.html
12-10-2020||South||Rains lash Andhra Pradesh, Telangana as deep depression moves towards the coast||Several parts of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana are experiencing heavy rains due to the depression over west-central Bay of Bengal. According to the meteorological department, the depression has intensified into a deep depression and lay centered about 250 km south-southeast of Visakhapatnam. “It is very likely to move west-northwestwards and cross north Andhra Pradesh coast between Narsapur and Visakhapatnam, close to Kakinada during the early morning hours of Tuesday as a deep depression with wind speed of 55-65 kmph gusting to 75 kmph,” the department said in its Monday afternoon bulletin. The weatherman has predicted extremely heavy rainfall (>20 cm per day) at isolated places over East and West Godavari, Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts of north coastal Andhra Pradesh on Monday. Same intense rains would occur at isolated places in Telangana on Tuesday. As the sea condition will be rough, fishermen along the north Andhra coast are warned from venturing into the sea till Tuesday evening. Almost all the reservoirs in the two Telugu states are already brimming with copious rains and inflows from upstream, this monsoon.   Government machinery in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana is kept on alert as rains are battering many areas. Hyderabad too is receiving rains and several roads and colonies are inundated, inconveniencing the public.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rains-lash-andhra-pradesh-telangana-as-deep-depression-moves-towards-the-coast-901013.html
12-10-2020||South||Tiruppur exporters flooded with orders, but shortage of labour a problem||When the Covid-19 outbreak began in March, fear gripped exporters in the knitwear hub of Tiruppur as many thought the international apparel market would take longer time, at least a year, to get back to normalcy. But exporters have been proved wrong just six months down the line with buyers placing huge orders from Tiruppur in the past one month – some of them even exceeding those from pre-Covid times. However, there is a glitch – the exporters are finding it difficult to meet the sudden demand due to non-availability of the required workforce. With over 20 to 25 per cent of the workforce, mostly migrant labourers from North Indian states, yet to return to the knitwear hub, exporters are faced with the strenuous task of completing the orders on time and shipping them to their buyers. Tiruppur alone accounts for 46 per cent of India’s exports in the sector. The Tiruppur Exporters’ Association (TEA) has appealed to the Centre to resume normal train operations to enable migrant workers to return so that the factories can run with 100 per cent workforce. Exporters’ also feel they should grab the opportunity that has come knocking at their doors and try to tap the market that might move out of China due to the Covid-19 fear. “The markets in the EU and US have opened and the response from there is very promising. We have been receiving a good number of orders from the key markets but labour shortage is the major problem that we are encountering. The orders for spring-summer has begun and we will be on the road to prosperity very soon. But the resumption of train service is key,” Raja M Shanmugham, President, TEA, told Deccan Herald. Figures available with the Tiruppur district administration says around 1.27 lakh migrant labourers working in various parts of the district and sectors – not just knitwear -- left for their native states due to Covid-19 scare. Roughly 50 to 55 per cent of them have returned so far, a government official said. The local workforce is also not turning to work completely as many live in near-by villages and they fear to report to work even if there is one Covid-19 positive patient in their hamlet. “Though the number of people reporting to work from rural areas have increased there is still a shortage of labour,” K G Ganeshan, Partner, Swell Knit, told DH. If the situation remains the same and migrant labourers do not return soon, exporters might not be able to deliver orders on time, he said. “We would make profits if we are able to complete the orders on time and send them via sea. However, if we get delayed and are forced to send them via air, we will only incur losses,” he added. Another exporter who deals with the lucrative EU market said their doomsday prediction has fallen flat with orders from buyers in the past one month even crossing the pre-Covid levels. “I feel international brands are filling up their portfolios with new designs in the face of competition. This seems to be the reason behind several popular brands placing fresh orders with exporters here. Fierce competition among the players to make up for the losses may also be a reason for the jump in orders,” he told DH. He added: “The situation is completely reverse of what we had predicted in March. The apparel market has opened completely, and the demand is quite high now, while we are struggling to meet them due to labour shortage.” Besides the regular apparel orders, several units are still engaged in stitching personal protective equipment (PPE) and face masks which are being exported to other countries. Shanmugham said Covid-19 has presented a “wonderful opportunity” for exporters in Tiruppur to make further inroads into the international market as many players would be looking to move away from Chinese suppliers without making it public. “We (exporters) should correct any anomalies in our products and fight for a larger share in the international market. Next to food, apparel has become absolutely necessary to the mankind and that is why the revival is also taking place fast. We should be prepared to welcome the new opportunities,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tiruppur-exporters-flooded-with-orders-but-shortage-of-labour-a-problem-901023.html
12-10-2020||South||Khushbu Sundar, who joined BJP, felt sidelined and underutilised in Congress||That Khushbu Sundar has been upset with the Congress for not getting “due recognition” is well known, but the first indication that the popular actor might actually jump the ship to the BJP came in July when she went against the party line to support the New Education Policy (NEP). The 50-year-old actor joined the Congress in 2014 a few months after she quit the DMK over differences with M K Stalin and had enjoyed much clout in the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) when firebrand E V K S Elangovan was its president. She was a star campaigner for the party in 2016 assembly polls. She was appointed as national spokesperson and was a prominent face of the Congress in Tamil Nadu from 2014. However, Khushbu has been feeling sidelined within the party after Elangovan quit in June 2016 following the DMK-Congress alliance’s defeat in the elections. Elangovan’s successors Su. Thirunavukarasar and K S Alagiri, the incumbent, are alleged to have ignored her. “Few elements seated at a higher level within the party, people who have no connectivity with the ground reality or public recognition are dictating terms and people like me who wanted to work for the party sincerely, are being pushed and suppressed,” Khushbu said in her resignation letter to Sonia Gandhi on Monday. When the news of Khushbu resigning from Congress made headlines, Alagiri made person remarks against the actor and targeted her for not being “rooted to Congress ideology” even when she was in the party. “She was seen more as an actress than a party leader by the cadre,” Alagiri said, adding that her husband Sundar C’s “financial problems” is the reason for her quitting the Congress. Sources said Alagiri met Khushbu twice in the past one month after the High Command asked him to take the actor into confidence. “Our President met her twice asking her to involve herself more in party affairs. She too agreed. But now to say she was not given any prominence is just shifting the blame. We can also ask what her contribution was?” a senior leader asked. Another leader said Khushbu was always seen as one belonging to Elangovan faction and she never got prominence in the faction -ridden TNCC after 2016. Even when Elangovan was the TNCC chief, ‘Karate’ R Thiagarajan had piped her to get Congress ticket from Mylapore constituency in 2016 assembly polls, the leader added.   Sources also said Khushbu was expecting a Rajya Sabha nomination after she could not contest the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “She was offered Theni Lok Sabha seat in 2019 but she had to make way for Elangovan who brought her into the Congress. Since then, she has been sulking,” another leader said. Khushbu Sundar, quite articulate and vociferous on issues concerning women had been keeping away from party functions for the past eight months and the BJP utilised the friction between her and the Congress. The first signs of the tension between her and the party came out in July when she supported the NEP despite the Congress opposing it. “My stand on #NEP2020 differs from my party n I apologize to Rahul Gandhi ji for that, but I rather speak the fact than be a head nodding robot or a puppet. Everything is and cannot be about agreeing to your leader, but about being courageous to voice your opinion bravely as a citizen,” she had said. However, she had scotched rumours about her joining the BJP more than once in the past two months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/khushbu-sundar-who-joined-bjp-felt-sidelined-and-underutilised-in-congress-901047.html
12-10-2020||South||Tamil Nadu: Dalit shepherd forced to fall on feet of Thevar man; 7 arrested||A shepherd from the Dalit community was made to fall at the feet of a person belonging to the dominant Thevar caste in Thoothukudi district in Tamil Nadu over an argument. Members of the dominant community not just made the shepherd fall on the feet of one of them but also recorded a video of the same and circulated on social media. The incident, which took place on October 8 in Olaikulam village in Kayatharu taluk of the district, came to light after Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) chief Thol. Thirumavalavan, Lok Sabha MP from the Chidambaram constituency, shared the video on Twitter. As the video went viral, the Thoothukudi district police swung into action and arrested all seven belonging to the Thevar community involved in the incident. All have been booked under various sections of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and the Information Technology (IT) Act. Thoothukudi District Superintendent of Police (SP) S Jeyakumar said seven persons have been arrested in connection with the incident and promised of strict action against them. He also said the family will be given protection.  In his complaint, 60-year-old A Paulraj said members of both communities have been herding sheep in the village and an argument ensued between him and another person from the Thevar community after one of his goats crossed over to the other side.  “They made me fall on the feet of Sivasangu Thevar several times and while I was being humiliated, a few people from Thevar community were shooting a video of the same. They used casteist slurs and humiliated me to the core. They also threatened that they will kill me,” Paulraj said in his complaint, a copy of which was accessed by DH.  He also said he was herding 90 sheep and 10 goats, while Sivasangu Thevar also had the same number.  Sharing the 10-second video which shows Paulraj repeatedly falling on the feet of Sangili Thevar, Thirumavalavan said such incidents do not happen only in North India but also in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-dalit-shepherd-forced-to-fall-on-feet-of-thevar-man-7-arrested-901107.html
12-10-2020||State||Kannada music composer Rajan passes away at 85||Music composer Rajan passed away at his residence in Bengaluru on Sunday night. He was 85. Rajan was part of the famous Rajan-Nagendra duo. “He was healthy and taking music classes online as well. He suffered from indigestion for the last two days and passed away at our home at 11:00 p.m. on Sunday,” his son R Ananth Kumar told The Hindu. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kannada-music-composer-rajan-passes-away-at-85-900722.html
12-10-2020||State||Women's panel seeks clarification on harassment probe in Mangalore University||The complaint by a female student on alleged sexual harassment against a teaching faculty of Mangalore University two years ago has once again come to light with the State Women’s Commission (SWC) seeking clarification on the same from the university. There are allegations of burying the investigation report. The Syndicate meeting held recently too had taken up the issue seriously. A student had submitted a complaint on alleged sexual harassment by Economics Department professor Dr Arabi to the State Women’s Commission in 2018. Based on the complaint, the university had constituted an internal committee to probe the issue. Mangalore University Vice Chancellor Prof P S Yadapadithaya said that the report on the incident has not been buried. Previous Registrar Prof A M Khan after conducting a probe into the incident had kept the report inside a cupboard. The file containing the report has been sent to the registrar for further action. A notice will be served to Prof A M Khan for not revealing the report. A report on the same will also be submitted to the Women’s Commission if necessary, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/womens-panel-seeks-clarification-on-harassment-probe-in-mangalore-university-900764.html
12-10-2020||State||Report on vegetation in Western Ghats submitted to Biodiversity Board||Dr Shivarama Karantha Pilikula Nisarga Dhama (DSKPND) has submitted a final technical report to Karnataka State Biodiversity Board on the vegetation in the Western Ghats. As part of the study, the project team from DSKPND had selected 46 forest areas for the study in Belagavi, Uttara Kannada, Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru, Udupi, Hassan, Dakshina Kannada, Kodagu and Mysuru districts. A total of 210 field visits were conducted for the floristic study. The team has documented 1,936 species of plants belonging to 194 families. The study also enabled in documenting rediscovered endemic threatened species such as Madhuca Insignis (Radlkofer), Syzygium Kanarense (Talbot), Raizada and Hopea Canarensis Hole and four endemic monotypic generia. In addition, 229 endemic species, represented in life-form like trees (116 species), shrubs (42 species), herbs (29 species), climbers (3 species) and grasses and sedges (39 species) were also recorded, said Principal Scientist Dr H Sooryaprakash Shenoy. Sacred groves In the Western Ghats, apart from natural forests, there are sacred groves managed by the community by assigning such forest patches to gods and goddesses. A study was also conducted on the sacred groves in Dakshina Kannada to document their floristic richness. There are 987 sacred groves in five taluks - Puttur, Belthangady, Moodbidri, Sullia and Mangaluru. Of these, 333 are on government land while 654 are on private land. The team had considered 24 sacred groves for documentation and 290 species were encountered. Among them, 119 are trees, 67 shrubs, 46 climbers, 51 herbs, three epiphytes and four are ferns. The study also helped in documenting six tree species that are considered as vulnerable species— Calophyllum apetalum, Garcinia indica (Thouars), Hydnocarpus pentandrus, Myristica malabarica, Ochreinauclea missionis Ridsdale and Saraca asoca and two critically endangered species Syzygium travancoricum Gamble and Veteria indica from these sacred groves. As part of this study, a herbarium and botanical museum was established at DSKPND. During the project period, a total of 12,805 specimens were identified belonging to 1,936 species and are deposited in the herbarium. The biological collections such as woods, seeds, oil, fibre, non-timber forest products, canes, plant dyes, aromatic plants, and others were collected and assembled at the botanical museum, said Dr Shenoy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/report-on-vegetation-in-western-ghats-submitted-to-biodiversity-board-900769.html
12-10-2020||State||Soldier pays tribute to the army, names daughter Sainya||Little did Havaldar Prashanth Poojary and his wife Asha know that their decision to name their daughter 'Sainya' would be lauded by all. The news has gone viral on social media. Prashanth, from Hebri, has been serving in the Indian Army for the last several years and is now posted in Jammu. As an honour to the profession, the couple decided to name their daughter Sainya (meaning army). "It is an attempt to instil the spirit of patriotism and motivate her to serve the nation when she grows up," Poojary's wife, Asha said The news of the naming went viral on social media and the couple's decision was widely celebrated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/soldier-pays-tribute-to-the-army-names-daughter-sainya-900831.html
12-10-2020||State||Udupi's Padubidri beach gets 'blue flag' recognition||In a major boost to tourism in Udupi, Padubidri beach in the district has been awarded the coveted 'blue flag' tag by the Denmark-based Foundation for Environment Education (FEE). Padubidri is one of the eight beaches selected from India for the blue flag recognition. The FEE had so far selected 4,664 beaches from 50 countries for the eco-label. Kasarkod beach near Honnavar in Uttara Kannada district is the other beach in Karnataka that was awarded blue flag tag along with Padubidri. The blue flag eco-label is awarded based on standards relating to bathing water quality, safety, services, accessibility and environment. A national panel had chosen eight of the 13 beaches being developed for blue flag certification in the country to apply for the label. India secured the recognition for all the eight beaches in the very first attempt, mission leader of blue flag beaches of India Sanjai Jalla said in a statement. With the new label, Padubidri beach has now earned a spot in the global map of tourist attractions. The state Tourism department had developed various facilities at the beach, executing infrastructure projects worth Rs 10.68 crore in the last two years, district tourism assistant director Chandrashekhar Naik said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/udupis-padubidri-beach-gets-blue-flag-recognition-900837.html
12-10-2020||State||From the Newsroom: K Sudhakar takes up health portfolio; US duo win Nobel Economics Prize||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom,  US duo win Nobel Economics Prize; Karnataka Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar takes up health portfolio; Power outage hits Mumbai; Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu tests negative for Covid-19; Supreme Court issues notice to the Centre on pleas challenging the validity of farm laws; govt announces Rs 12,000 crore interest-free 50-year loan to states for spending on capital projects; Hathras victim’s family appears before high court and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh says that China is also creating a dispute at the border with India as if it was part of a mission.    Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom— your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald. Here are the top news of October 12, 2020: After Pakistan, China is also creating a dispute at the border with India as if it was part of a "mission", Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Monday, as Indian and Chinese troops remain locked in a standoff in eastern Ladakh for over five months. The Defence Minister, speaking at an online event after inaugurating 44 bridges, said India is not only facing the situations along the frontiers resolutely, but it is also bringing in major development including in border areas. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Family members of the 19-year-old Dalit woman, who died after allegedly being raped by four men in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras district last month, appeared before the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court on Monday. The family comprising the victim's father, mother and three brothers was brought amid tight security from Hathras earlier in the day. The court had on October 1 asked the woman's parents to apprise it of their version of the incident and had also ordered the Hathras district administration to arrange for their travel to the court and facilitate their appearance before it. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- US economists Paul Milgrom and Robert Wilson won the Nobel Economics Prize on Monday for work on commercial auctions, including for goods and services difficult to sell in traditional ways such as radio frequencies, the Nobel Committee said. The duo was honoured "for improvements to auction theory and inventions of new auction formats," the jury said. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharman on Monday announced a Rs 12,000 crore interest-free 50-year loan to states for spending on capital projects in a bid to boost economy. Addressing a press conference, she said, out of the Rs 12,000 crore, Rs 1,600 crore will be given to north-eastern states and Rs 900 crore will be for Uttrakhand and Himachal Pradesh. She said Rs 7,500 crore will be for the remaining states. Rs 2,000 crore will be given to states that fulfill pre-stated reforms. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The Supreme Court on Monday issued notice to the Centre on a batch of petitions filed by Chhattisgarh Kisan Congress leaders and DMK MP Tiruchi Siva, challenging validity of recently passed farm laws. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian asked Attorney General K K Venugopal and Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to file the response in the matter on behalf of the Union government. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The Congress in Karnataka on Monday claimed Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa reshuffling his cabinet by changing the Health Minister is proof of the government's miserable failure in handling Covid-19. Minister B Sriramulu was divested of the Health and Family Welfare portfolio by Yediyurappa today and it was allocated to Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar. K Sudhakar, who was asked by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to take up the health portfolio alongside medical education, said Monday that as a Health Minister he would focus on bringing Covid-19 under control and work towards decreasing the fatality rate in the state. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Monday tested negative for Covid-19 and is expected to resume normal activities soon. The Vice President's Office said in a statement that the 71-year-old Naidu, who was tested positive for Covid-19 on September 29, was examined by a medical team from AIIMS on Monday. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Train services came to a halt in Mumbai in the morning as a grid failure resulted in massive power outages across the city. The exact reason for the failure was not immediately known, but the Western Railway and the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST), the state-run discom supplying power to the island city, blamed the fault on Tata Power. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday took serious cognisance of the power outage in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and ordered an immediate probe into it. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- That is it today, From the Newsroom. Tune in tomorrow morning for our feature show, The Lead. If you liked this show, please share this podcast with your friends, family and on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/from-the-newsroom-k-sudhakar-takes-up-health-portfolio-us-duo-win-nobel-economics-prize-900946.html
12-10-2020||State||Covid-19 death toll crosses 10,000-mark in Karnataka with 70 new fatalities; state reports 7,606 fresh cases||Karnataka reported 7,606 new Covid-19 cases, 12,030 discharges and 70 deaths on Monday. Total cases in the state rose to 7,17,915, recoveries to 5,92,084 and death toll to 10,036. Active cases stand at 1,15,776. Out of the fresh cases, 3,498 were from Bengaluru Urban alone. A total of 928 patients are in the Intensive Care Units across the state. Bengaluru Urban accounted for 18 deaths on Monday. Belagavi reported 444 fresh cases, Udupi 317, Mysuru 309, and Dakshina Kannada 303. A total of over 60,30,980 samples have been tested so far, out of which 78,757 were tested on Monday alone. Of them, 23,564 were rapid antigen tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-death-toll-crosses-10000-mark-in-karnataka-with-70-new-fatalities-state-reports-7606-fresh-cases-901076.html
12-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||K Sudhakar to be new Karnataka Health Minister?||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is said to be considering a minor, yet significant change in his Cabinet. According to sources, B Sriramulu might be divested of the health & family welfare portfolio and given the plum social welfare department in exchange. The health portfolio might be given to Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar. “Discussions have taken place to this effect,” said two sources aware of this. Currently, Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol is the social welfare minister. Making Sriramulu the social welfare minister could hold political significance for the ruling BJP. Sriramulu, also the backward classes welfare minister, is the party’s warhorse belonging to the ST (Valmiki) community. “If he holds the social welfare portfolio, he will be able to directly deal with the STs,” a source said. Sriramulu, who was projected as a deputy chief ministerial face, is arguably the BJP’s tallest ST leader who was able to help consolidate the community’s votes in the party’s favour in the 2018 Assembly elections. Also, when the Covid-19 pandemic broke out, both Sriramulu and Sudhakar were seen having a turf war much to the government’s embarrassment and giving the Opposition Congress many field days. At present, ministerial responsibilities on Covid-19 are divided. But, if the speculated change takes place, Sudhakar will be the sole minister in charge of the state’s health systems and services amid the pandemic.  Both Sriramulu and Sudhakar were unavailable for comment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/k-sudhakar-to-be-new-karnataka-health-minister-900667.html
12-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Priority will be to bring Covid-19 under control, says Sudhakar||“My first priority is to bring Covid-19 under control, decrease death rate and make sure people get easy treatment,” Sudhakar told reporters.  Sudhakar was speaking to reporters after visiting Adichunchunagiri Mutt pontiff Nirmalananda Swami.  Till now, the Health Department was headed by B Sriramulu, who will now be given the plum social welfare portfolio.  According to Sudhakar, the Health and Medical Education Departments are interrelated. “Technically, they are one. It was to be handled by one person. But, in 2000, the two departments were separated as the then Cabinet had too many members. That has been set right now,” he said.  He said Sriramulu was not sulking. “He’s not disappointed. Social welfare is a big department with an outlay of over Rs 25,000 crore. I believe he wanted this portfolio in the past,” Sudhakar said.  Sudhakar disagreed with reporters when they pointed out that changing the health minister amid corruption allegations in the procurement of Covid-19 equipment would send out the wrong message. “I’ve said in the Assembly that there was no corruption. But, keeping in mind media queries and Opposition claims, I will study once again,” he said.  His first task as the health minister will be to visit Mysuru ahead of the Dasara festival. “I have some meetings lined up, including one with private hospitals.”  Sriramulu, who already holds the backward classes welfare portfolio, is expected to take up social welfare that is currently handled by Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol. Apparently, making Sriramulu in charge of social welfare is being seen as a politically-significant move as he belongs to the ST (Valmiki) community and will be able to connect with them directly.  A formal notification on the change in portfolios is expected later in the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/priority-will-be-to-bring-covid-19-under-control-says-sudhakar-900756.html
12-10-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Self-proclaimed godman cheats lyricist K Kalyan's wife of properties worth Rs 6 crore; arrested||A self-proclaimed godman allegedly cheated Kannada lyricist K Kalyan’s wife and his in-laws of movable and immovable properties worth over Rs 6 crore by promising to perform 'black magic' rituals to help them get rid of their problems. Mal-Maruti police have recovered immovable properties from the possession of the accused, Shivanand Basavaraj Wali, a resident of Bilgi in Bagalkot. They have also booked him under provisions of Karnataka Prevention and Eradication of Inhuman Evil Practices and Black Magic Ac-2017, the first such case in the jurisdiction of Police Commissionerate. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Dr Praveen Amate told reporters here on Monday that K Kalyan in his complaint filed on September 30 had alleged that Shivanand Basavaraj Wali and Ganga Kulkarni from Bagalkot had kidnapped his wife Ashwini, father-in-law Krishna Gundurao Satvik and mother-in-law Radhika Krishna Satvik, residents of Tilak Chowk in Belagavi, and had run away with movable and immovable properties. Police Inspector B R Gaddekar and team members succeeded in arresting Wali and rescuing victims. During interrogation, Wali revealed that he got to know about the family through Kulkarni. He further explained how he had succeeded in making them give gold ornaments weighing 350 grams, silver ornaments weighing 9 kg and money to purchase 10 maxi cabs, of which 9 have been seized. The accused had also got two immovable properties transferred on his name. He added that he had also been holding a general power of attorney for four other immovable properties in Belagavi, Bengaluru and Hubballi.  Another accused Kulkarni, who had joined the Kalyan family as the cook, had succeeded in creating a rift between the couple and she with Wali had been exploiting the family. She is at large and the police have formed a team to search for her.  Dr Amate said names of prominent persons from Belagavi and Bengaluru have come to the fore regarding the deals of immovable properties. He added that they were present in Sub Registrar office in Belagavi when two of the properties were transferred to the name of Wali. Further investigations will make matters clear, he said. Ashwini and her parents have been counselled regarding the acts of Wali. The couple will have to now decide the next course of action, he added. Mal-Maruti police are investigating the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/self-proclaimed-godman-cheats-lyricist-k-kalyans-wife-of-properties-worth-rs-6-crore-arrested-900847.html
12-10-2020||West||Mumbai power outage: BSE, NSE functioning normally||Leading stock exchanges BSE and NSE on Monday said said they were functioning normally, amid a major power outage in large parts of Mumbai. "There is a power failure in south Mumbai. Exchange is working normally. The listing ceremony was concluded successfully for Mazagon Shipbuilders today morning," a BSE spokesperson said. The NSE too said it is functioning normally. Large parts of the financial capital reported a major power outage on Monday morning due to a technical failure. In a tweet, Brihanmumbai Electricity Supply and Transport (BEST) said "the electric supply is interrupted due to TATAs incoming electric supply failure". Multiple operators, including the state-run BEST, Adani Electricity and Tata Power supply power to the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-power-outage-bse-nse-functioning-normally-900763.html
12-10-2020||West||Mumbai municipal commissioner asks hospitals to keep generators ready due to power outage||The Mumbai municipal commissioner on Monday asked all hospitals to keep diesel generator sets ready in case the power outage in the city lasts more that two hours. Large parts of the financial capital reported a major power outage this morning due to a technical failure. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal has asked all hospitals to contact their transport garage officers to get enough diesel to operate generators for at least eight hours so that there are no power failures, especially in ICUs. He also asked hospitals to update their respective control room heads about the situation every 30 minutes and directed the disaster management control room and concerned officers to coordinate the operation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-municipal-commissioner-asks-hospitals-to-keep-generators-ready-due-to-power-outage-900778.html
12-10-2020||West||Maharashtra CM orders probe into power outage in Mumbai||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday took serious cognisance of a massive power outage in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and ordered an immediate probe. Thackeray held a meeting on the issue and instructed authorities concerned to ensure there is no recurrence of the episode, an official statement said. The power supply in majority of areas in the city was restored within three to three-and-a-half hours after it was affected at around 10 am, it said. State Energy Minister Nitin Raut, who attended the meeting via video conferencing, also said reasons behind the technical snag that caused power failure will be probed. Nitin Raut later tweeted that "Power supply to all essential services in Mumbai, Mumbai Suburbs, Kalyan, Thane, Palghar & New Mumbai have been restored". Power supply to all essential services in Mumbai,Mumbai Suburbs, Kalyan, Thane,Palghar & New Mumbai have been restored. Non essential services will also be restored shortly. The meeting, which was held at the Chief Minister's official residence 'Varsha' in afternoon, was also attended by state chief secretary Sanjay Kumar and representatives of power supplying companies like BEST, Tata and Adani. "During the meeting, the Chief Minister instructed a probe into the matter and asked to ensure there is no repeat of the incident," the statement said. The CM has asked to check whether the snag was "expected, unexpected or was caused by dereliction" and directed authorities concerned to remain alert in view of the withdrawing monsoon forecast over the next four days. The circuit 1 at 400 KV Kalwa-Padgha GIS stopped working due to overvoltage at 4:33 am. The supply, however, was unaffected even as the maintenance work on the circuit 1 was on, the statement said. Earlier in the day, Raut said the entire load was then transferred to circuit 2. "Repair and maintenance work of Circuit 1 of 400 KV GIS was underway and the entire load was put on Circuit 2. However, sudden technical failure in Circuit 2 resulted in power being affected in most parts of Mumbai and Thane," Raut said. He also directed the state chief secretary to ensure that the control rooms and fire brigade are on alert to prevent any mishaps due to power outage, it said. In the morning, the power outage paralysed Mumbai, halting local train services, trapping people in lifts and disrupting work from home adopted by millions during the ongoing pandemic. Power restoration efforts began on a "war footing" and pocket-wise resumption in supply was started around 12 noon onwards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-orders-probe-into-power-outage-in-mumbai-900799.html
12-10-2020||West||Mumbai power outage affects local train services, commuters hit hard||Power outage in Mumbai on Monday brought the local trains, considered as the city's lifeline, to a standstill for nearly two-and-a-half hours, causing hardships to commuters, railway officials said. As fans and lights inside the trains also stopped working, many passengers preferred to jump out and walk on tracks to reach the nearest station or road. According to railway officials, this was a rare occurrence in the recent past when the suburban services on both the Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR) routes came to a halt due to power grid failure. Last month, both the CR and WR services, which are currently being run only for essential services staff in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak, were suspended due to water- logging on tracks after heavy rains. Due to a power grid failure in the financial capital on Monday morning, all the suburban and long distance trains here were held up on tracks from 10.05 am, officials said. The Central Railway's services on the harbour line, that connects the city to neighbouring Navi Mumbai, resumed first at 10.55 am, the CR said in a release. Its main line network from the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus to Kasara (in neighbouring Thane) and Khopoli (in Raigad) resumed at 12.26 pm, the release said. According to the Western Railway, which operates local trains between Churchgate and Dahanu (in Palghar) stations, its services were restored at 12.20 pm. "As power supply was restored on the Western Railway's Mumbai suburban section, all overhead equipment charged at 12.20 pm and the suburban train services were restored," a WR spokesperson said. Currently, the Central Railway and the Western Railway are collectively operating 953 suburban services every day. Because of the power failure, several special outstation train services were also hit, forcing the railway authorities to reschedule their departure. The Central Railway in its release said it has rescheduled the Lokmanya Tilak Terminus-Gorakhpur (train no. 01055), LTT-Gorakhpur (train no. 02542), LTT- Thiruvananthapuram, LTT-Darbhanga andLTT-Varanasi special trains. The WR said its Bandra Terminus- Amritsar clone special train, Bandra Terminus-Amritsar Pashchim Express, Ahmedabad-Mumbai Central Karnavati Express,Sayaji Nagri Express and Bandra Terminus-Jodhpur Surya Nagri Express were affected due to the power disruption.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-power-outage-affects-local-train-services-commuters-hit-hard-900801.html
12-10-2020||West||BJP protests across Maharashtra over atrocities on women||The Maharashtra unit of BJP on Monday staged "aakrosh" (anger) protests across the state against "rising atrocities" on women. State BJP unit chief Chandrakant Patil led the protest in Pune, senior leader Ashish Shelar in Thane, while others took part in Parbhani, Jalna, Solapur, etc. "Took part in the Aakrosh protest in Thane as part of BJP's protests in each district of Maharashtra against the rising atrocities against women in the state and submitted a memorandum to the district collector," Shelar, a former state minister, tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-protests-across-maharashtra-over-atrocities-on-women-900828.html
12-10-2020||West||Simultaneous tripping at MSETCL facilities caused power outage: Tata Power||Tata Power on Monday said there was "simultaneous substation tripping" at state-run MSETCL's two facilities, which led to a major power outage in the financial capital and surrounding areas. It said the tripping at the Kalwa and Kharghar sub-stations at 1010 hours caused a huge dip in frequency in the Mumbai transmission system, leading to the tripping of power supply. Trains came to a halt and other activity was also grounded due to what was labelled as a grid failure by officials.  "Restoration work is in progress to bring supply from the 3 Hydro units and Trombay units once the MSETCL (Maharashtra state electric transmission company) transmission lines are connected," the Tata Power statement said. Earlier, Western Railway and state-run discom BEST Electricity had said there was a failure at Tata Power's end, leading to the outages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/simultaneous-tripping-at-msetcl-facilities-caused-power-outage-tata-power-900851.html
12-10-2020||West||BMC sets targets to penalize 20,000 persons daily for not wearing masks||It’s a first-of-its-kind of initiative and comes as a warning. And there are chances that it may be replicated elsewhere in Maharashtra and India. The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has set a target of penalising 20,000 people daily in India’s financial capital for not wearing masks or not wearing masks properly in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. This is being done as a major drive from Monday – a day after Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray expressed concern over people either not wearing masks and or not wearing them properly. “Remember…you have to cover your face and cover your nose….Don't forget to wear masks and comply with social distancing norms…. Since childhood, we are taught to wash our hands after getting home, and it applies even now. It's easy but needs to be followed with discipline. Do not let this virus into your home!” Thackeray said. Mumbai’s Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said it is extremely important and vital to submit here that a large number of citizens in Mumbai do not wear face masks and this can lead to situations getting difficult in future, thereby delaying further opening up of Mumbai.  “From today, BMC is initiating a mass drive of penalising approximately 20,000 citizens per day found without wearing masks in public life and BMC has resolved to continue this drive on a daily basis for next one month, at least, to be monitored personally by me, every evening,” he said. The decision assumes significance in the wake of the fact that Health Minister Rajesh Tope has indicated that the government intends to complete the Unlock process post Diwali, by end of November. When the Lockdown started, the BMC did start penalizing people for not wearing masks but now the drive will be stricter.  During the Lockdown the fine was Rs 1,000 for not wearing masks but it was made Rs 200 mid-September as Unlock speeded up. As the unwinding takes place and more people hit the streets, the BMC does not want to take chances.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bmc-sets-targets-to-penalize-20000-persons-daily-for-not-wearing-masks-900858.html
12-10-2020||West||Vidarbha’s Maruti Chitampalli goes back to his hometown in Solapur||Making the Marathi language richer by 1 lakh words while he roamed the dense jungles of Vidarbha for 45 years, octogenarian writer, conservationist, and naturalist Maruti Chitampalli has left for his hometown in Solapur. People from Vidarbha and its headquarters of Nagpur gave an emotional farewell to the veteran, who will now spend time deciphering his diaries of 45 years and writing books. “It is very difficult for me to describe….as I leave Nagpur for my hometown Solapur,” said the 88-year-old Chitampalli, whose knowledge of flora and fauna and its relationship is unmatched. With a long flowing beard, he is known as ‘Aranya Rishi’, a sage of the jungles. Born on November 5, 1932, in Solapur, he completed schooling and enrolled himself in State Forest Service College in Coimbatore. Thereafter, he joined the forest services in Maharashtra from where he retired as Deputy Chief Conservator of Forest. He is among other things credited with the development of Karnala Bird Sanctuary, Navegaon National Park, Nagzira Wildlife Sanctuary, and Melghat Tiger Project. An author of 25 books on wildlife, he also presided over the Marathi Sahitya Sammelan at Solapur in 2006 – a rare distinction for a wildlifer. Holding back emotions, Chitampalli said, “I roamed in Vidarbha’s rich jungles…I met Adivasis, who speak various languages…..I have learnt one lakh words….I go richer from here…these words that I learnt are very expressive.” Many of the words from the languages of the tribes of Madia, Korku, and Adivasis in Vidarbha's zadipatti forest areas are now part of the Marathi language. Chitampalli, who has written books like Ratawa, Ranvata, Pranikosh, Pakshikosh, Mrugpakshishastra, Shabdanche Dhan, and Jangalache Dene, said that there was much more to be written. “I have my notes, I will keep writing,” he said, adding, “I cannot walk in the jungles…age has caught up…there is no energy for that, but I can surely sit, think and write.” “The younger generation does not want to invest years of dedication. They want everything fast. Hence, I did not exert myself on finding a successor. My readers and various organisations are my successors,” he said as he signed off from his ‘karmabhoomi’ of Vidarbha. Maruti Kaka is a guru and guide to many and is admired by all across Maharashtra and outside the state. “He was a friend of journalists. He was more than willing to help out journalists in their pursuit of writing and understanding about nature. He used to take us to jungles,” said veteran journalist Dharmendra Jore, who hails from Vidarbha and over the past couple of decades, works in Mumbai. “His contribution is unmatched and he guided generations of nature lovers,” added Sachin Main, who is the founder of NEST.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/vidarbha-s-maruti-chitampalli-goes-back-to-his-hometown-in-solapur-900874.html
12-10-2020||West||Humour mills keep ticking amid Mumbai's 'darkest noon'||As Mumbai remained paralysed for hours on Monday due to a massive power outage, netizens kept the 'humour mill' on social media ticking. "Do you have ice-cream in your freezer, Mumbaikar? Eat it now," tweeted a resident from the metropolis. Mahindra Group Chairman Anand Mahindra tweeted a video of 'dancing' pylons, saying, "Mumbai power line trips. Humour lines on the Internet are intact & moving at the speed of light..." Another Twitter user posted a photo of over two dozen mobile phones being charged in a room having power supply through an inverter. Actor-comedian Vir Das tweeted, "It's hard to get things done in Mumbai without power. Also...the electricity is gone." It's hard to get things done in Mumbai without power. Also...the electricity is gone. Broadcaster Star Sports tweeted a photo showing rows of empty chairs in a cricket stadium saying, "We know it can be strange without fans. Hang in there Mumbai." Actor Abhishek Bachchan tweeted a message, which read, "Why is everyone surprised? It is 2020. Someone had to switch the power off." "Mumbai folks, don't feel alone in this hour of crisis. Patparganj stands in solidarity," another user tweeted. Rubbing salt in the wound was @SmokingSkills, who tweeted, "#powercut in Mumbai is trending, its the only way Shivsena can stop people from watching Republic TV."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/humour-mills-keep-ticking-amid-mumbais-darkest-noon-900940.html
12-10-2020||West||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Rhea Chakraborty urges CBI to act against her neighbour||Actress Rhea Chakraborty, accused of abetting the suicide of her actor boyfriend Sushant Singh Rajput, on Monday urged the CBI to take action against her neighbour for giving "false" statements to the media to misled the investigation in the case. In a letter addressed to Nupur Sharma, heading the CBI's special team, Chakraborty said her neighbour Dimple Thawani had falsely claimed that Rajput had dropped her (Chakraborty) to her house in suburban Mumbai in his car on June 13, a day before he was found hanging at his residence in Bandra. "Dimple Thawani made false and bogus allegations against me knowing them to be false and misled the investigation. The allegation was that Sushant Singh Rajput had dropped me to my house in his car on June 13, which is false," Chakraborty said in the letter issued through her lawyer Satish Maneshinde. Thawani did not respond when contacted. "I say that such a conduct makes out a prima facie case punishable under sections 203 (giving false information about an alleged offence) and 211 (false charge of offence) of the Indian Penal Code which is punishable with seven years imprisonment," the letter said. Chakraborty and her family members had been booked by Bihar Police for allegedly driving Rajput to suicide before the case was transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). She was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in September in connection with a drugs case arising out of the investigation into Rajput death case. Chakraborty was granted bail by the Bombay High Court last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-singh-rajput-case-rhea-chakraborty-urges-cbi-to-act-against-her-neighbour-900999.html
12-10-2020||West||Want to make Maharashtra No.1 in world diamond trade: Uddhav Thackeray||The Maharashtra government has initiated deliberations with the leaders and stakeholders of the diamond industry to make the state attain the numero uno position in world diamond trade. “We want to make Maharashtra the number one trading centre for diamonds and jewellery not only in India but the world. I’m inviting the industry to be more interactive so that we can accomplish this vision together,” Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Monday. He assured Maharashtra will do everything to take the jewellery trade to greater heights. “We should also think about how to further enhance our designing institutes to develop them further,” he said, adding that a Jewellery Park is coming up in the Mumbai metropolitan region. “If the industry needs any help from the Maharashtra Government, we are ready to support it. But anything that we do, should provide employment for the people of Maharashtra,” he said, inaugurating the first-ever India International Jewellery Show – IUJS Virtual 2020, powered by GIA – that was hosted by the Gem and Jewellery Export Promotion Council of India (GJEPC). “Today, we are going to showcase our jewellery tradition to the whole world virtually. I congratulate GJEPC in leading the way. When you embrace change, that’s when you make progress. For the development and progress of our country, I welcome you all and I wish all of you the very best. Let’s work together, to make the Indian gem and jewellery sector the number one in the world,” he said. Union Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal said, “In fact, this imbibing of technology to reach out to customers across the world shows the resilience of Indian business, Indian industry, and the commitment to serve customers, particularly with the festival season around the corner, both in India as we celebrate Navratri, Dussera and Diwali; and across the world, where Christmas and the New Year are going to be times when we erupt in joy and bring back the mood in the world. I am also delighted that the best of technology is being used and that we have been able to make this whole virtual experience so real that it almost feels like we are touching that piece of jewellery in the virtual exhibition.” GJEPC Chairman Colin Shah, in his opening remarks, stated, “ The show has been receiving overwhelming response from exhibiting companies and buyers alike. I am confident and optimistic that IIJS Virtual will bring the much-needed momentum in the Gems & Jewellery business ahead of the festive season.   The gem and jewellery industry is actively operational with Surat diamond factories running at 90% capacity GJEPC is constantly pursuing with the government for reforms such as  E-Commerce, Gold Monetisation, SEZ policy, sales at SNZ etc requisite to propel growth in the trade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/want-to-make-maharashtra-no1-in-world-diamond-trade-uddhav-thackeray-901000.html
12-10-2020||West||Power ministry to send central team to study Mumbai outage||A central team comprising officials from the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) would be sent to Mumbai to study the power breakdown in the city on Monday and assist the state government in finding solutions to such situations, Power Minister R K Singh said. "A central team will visit Mumbai to identify the problem and to find out possible solutions against such breakdown," Singh said in a statement issued by the Ministry of Power on Monday evening. Earlier in the day, the minister said the power supply in Mumbai has been restored substantially. "Out of more than 2000 MW which went off, about 1900 MW has been restored, the remaining will be restored soon. The national grid is fine, the problem happened in some parts of the state grid," he added. The minister also said central power sector officers have been rendering assistance for restoring full electricity supply in Mumbai. Large parts of Mumbai and its suburbs faced a power failure on Monday morning due to which several trains were held up. Traffic signals in some areas were also not working. The power outage was mainly because of a failure in the state grid. The city is supplied electricity under an 'islanding system'. Under the islanding system, an area is supplied electricity in such a way that it is insulated from any grid failure or other technical issues happening outside the zone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/power-ministry-to-send-central-team-to-study-mumbai-outage-901012.html
12-10-2020||West||Amid increased crimes involving tourists, migrants, Goa creates two new police districts||Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Monday announced the creation of two new police districts, by splitting two existing districts for better handling of rising crimes related to the tourism sector as well as crimes linked to Goa’s large migrant population.  The two new districts namely Mapusa in North Goa and Ponda in South Goa, are also being formed to cater to the increasing visits by VVIPs in Goa, which puts a lot of stress on government infrastructure, especially the police department whose officials are engaged in law and order duties. Pramod Sawant in a statement said that the splitting up of the existing two districts into four would help “enable better and effective control over law and order, and prevention of crime”. “A large number of tourist arrivals has resulted in tourist-related crimes and other issues. With Goa hosting many international events and the participants and the visitors coming from the higher echelons of the society, it has put a tremendous strain on the police machinery,” the Chief Minister’s Office said in a statement issued here on Monday.   “Likewise, frequent visits of VVIPs, require elaborate police arrangements involving large scale police deployments during their visits. Therefore, in order to handle these situations and keep the Crime and law and order under control, it is necessary to increase the number of Police Districts in Goa, so that there is effective control over the crime and security situation and better supervision over the police force during exigencies,” the CMO statement further said. It also said that the decision had been made in view of the “overall security scenario” and the “upward crime graph needs to increase” in the existing police districts in Goa. “Over the years, the role and tasks of Goa Police have expanded and its functioning has become highly complex calling for a higher degree of professional skills and expertise. Moreover, the work opportunities to the people have led to migration which has resulted in the influx of migrant population,” the statement also said. Goa Police currently has more than 6,000 personnel which caters to a population of near 1.5 million.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amid-increased-crimes-involving-tourists-migrants-goa-creates-two-new-police-districts-901019.html
12-10-2020||West||Covid-19 sees a dip in Maharashtra as state reports less than 8,000 new cases||In what comes as a spell of good news, Maharashtra's Covid-19 cases and deaths seems to be dropping. On Monday, the state reported 7,089 cases and 165 deaths. This has taken the state's progressive total to 15,35,315 and total 40,514 deaths. On the previous Monday (5 October) the state reported 10,244 cases and 263 deaths, while a week before that (28 September), the figures were 11,921 and 180, respectively. Meanwhile, on Monday, 15,656 patients were discharged, taking the total to 12,81,896. The recovery rate in the state is 83.49 per cent. The case fatality rate in the state: 2.64 per cent. Out of 76,97,906 laboratory samples, 15,35,315 have been tested positive (19.94%) for Covid-19 till date. Currently 23,23,791 people are in home quarantine and 25,951 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-sees-a-dip-in-maharashtra-as-state-reports-less-than-8000-new-cases-901020.html
12-10-2020||West||Gujarat bypolls: Congress announces five candidates||The Congress on Monday announced its nominees for five of the eight Assembly seats in Gujarat where bypolls will be held on November 3. The party is likely to announce the names of remaining three contestants on Tuesday, sources said. As per a list released by the Congress, it has given tickets to Dr Shantilal Sanghani from Abdasa in Kutch district, Jayantilal Patel from Morbi and Suresh Kotadia from Dhari, while Mohanbhai Solanki and Kiritsinh Jadeja are the party's picks from Gadhada (SC constituency) and Karjan seats. The ruling BJP had declared its candidates on seven of the eight seats, including five turncoats from the Congress. Meanwhile, state Congress president Amit Chavda said that party-hoppers will taste defeat at the hustings. The bypolls on eight seats became necessary in view of resignations by Congress MLAs after the announcement of Rajya Sabha elections earlier this year. The last date for filing of nomination papers is October 16. Earlier in the day, three forms were filed by different candidates, including Jitu Chaudhary of BJP who is contesting from Kaprada seat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-bypolls-congress-announces-five-candidates-901113.html
