13-10-2020||First Edit||Pandemic’s big casualty: Democracy||The impact of Covid-19 on various aspects of individual and social life of people has been discussed but an aspect that has not received sufficient attention is its impact on the state of democracy, the freedoms of people and human rights. A report recently released by Freedom House, an international non-profit organisation that studies and tracks democratic rights, has said that democratic and human rights have suffered setbacks in most countries after the onset of the coronavirus pandemic. A number of experts who were interviewed by the organisation also thought that these conditions will worsen in the next four or five years. The report concluded that what began as a worldwide health crisis has become part of a global crisis of democracy and that governments in every part of the world have abused their powers in the name of public health, seizing the opportunity to undermine democracy and human rights. According to the report, governments, both democratically elected and authoritarian dispensations, have used the pandemic as an excuse to curb citizens’ rights. Political and civil rights flow from a contract between the people and the State. But governments use calamities and emergencies to suppress or deny these rights. Very often, this is done by undermining the institutions that protect these rights, and sometimes by brazen and direct assaults on the people. The excuse generally is that extreme situations call for extreme measures and people have to make sacrifices and compromises. Elections have been disrupted, governments have become opaque and corruption has increased. There are more restrictions on freedom of expression and media freedom. The report also found that ethnic, religious and other minority groups were especially targeted during this period in democratic countries also. Lockdown measures have been used in a discriminatory manner and regimes have tried to hide their failures by scapegoating minorities and marginalised groups, or by attacking critics. Immigrants’ rights have been violated across nations and internal migrants have suffered.  Another aspect of the assault on rights is the diminished space for protests. Demands for better governance and accountability have met with brutality from autocratic governments and wrong and inadequate responses from democratic regimes. Many democratic governments have degenerated into autocracies. However, the report notes that new protest movements and ways of protest have also arisen, which may be considered a positive sign. It has seen a steady deterioration of citizens’ freedoms and rights all over the world in the last many years, and the pandemic is now being used as a new weapon. The survey was conducted between January and September this year, and its conclusions underline the dangers posed by the pandemic not just to health and economy, but to the very fundamentals of polities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/pandemic-s-big-casualty-democracy-901184.html
13-10-2020||First Edit||Pushing an elephant with a feather||The stimulus package announced by the government to spur demand in the economy is too little, too late and meant for too few people. The Rs 20 lakh crore package, of mostly loans, of May was more a policy package than a set of actual proposals to stall growth decline. Since then the economy has crashed in double digits. It is accepted that demand has to be stimulated by inducing people to spend and businesses to gear up activity. But the present package falls badly short on that score, though it is claimed to amount to Rs 1 lakh crore. The government’s proposed expenditure is less than half of it, and its effect on the economy depends on a number of ifs and buts.   The offer to convert central government employees’ leave travel concession into a reimbursable allowance demands that the employee spend an amount from his side also. It is doubtful if anybody would be ready to do such spending in the current uncertain milieu. The fare component of the LTC would be eligible for a tax break only if three times that amount is spent. Another proposal is to give a festival advance of Rs 10,000 per person to central government staff. The government’s expectation may be that the amount lost in income tax may be made up by the GST on the purchases made with the prepaid Rupay card. These proposals are expected to boost demand by Rs 36,000 crore. But the terms and conditions may limit their usefulness. More important is the impropriety of using taxpayers’ money to give festival advances to central government staff who already enjoy 7th Pay Commission salaries even as millions of poor people, migrant workers and private sector employees who have lost jobs who are in distress are ignored. The other component of the stimulus consists of a 50-year interest-free loan of Rs 12,000 crore to the states and an increase in the central government’s capital expenditure by Rs 25,000 crore. The money for the states is very modest and will not make much difference to their finances. The capex plan of Rs 25,000 crore is also small and it will take much time to be implemented.  The package is unlikely to give any major push to the economy, which is expected to contract by 10% this year. Nudging the economy with it is like trying to move an elephant with a feather. Demand on a scale that is needed can be created only with big increases in consumption and with large investments. That calls for a bigger strategic plan which will encompass most people and sectors of the economy, but the vision for that is lacking.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/pushing-an-elephant-with-a-feather-901521.html
13-10-2020||In Perspective||Afghanistan: A Catch 22 situation for India||As India fights a two-pronged battle against Covid-19 internally and serious Chinese transgressions along the border in Eastern Ladakh, a Catch 22 situation stares it in the face on another front. Though Delhi has followed a consistent friendly policy towards impoverished and fratricidal violence-afflicted Afghanistan over the last two decades, India has to decide -- sooner than later -- as to its stand toward the emerging power arrangement in Kabul that will involve the  medieval-minded and fundamentalist Taliban.  With the changing geopolitical dynamic in the land of the Hindu Kush, the jury is still out in India on what its Afghanistan policy should be.  Surprisingly, many former diplomats and geopolitical analysts opine that India must respond to the changed situation in Afghanistan and not stick to its old stance of not talking to the Taliban. Accordingly, they suggest that India open up channels of communication with them. Notwithstanding the Taliban's past record of grave and recurrent violence against their own people, abject cruelty towards women, their patronising of the drug culture and their utter disdain for democratic and civil norms, our experts are rooting for India to change its stance toward it! The close nexus between the Taliban and its mentor, Pakistan's ISI, appears to be brushed aside at the altar of expedient geopolitics. These experts say that for years, India has been marginalised in Afghanistan and that we have ceded space to Pakistan. It is worth noting that the latter's old quest for strategic space in Afghanistan is a dead concept now, though its machinations to have a pliant regime in Kabul persist. It is well accepted that India's consistent policy of non-interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan while supporting it on peace and development have ensured for India the respect of the Afghan people. India is the largest regional donor in Afghanistan, with its humanitarian support package of $3 billion for power, civil infrastructure projects, hospitals, educational institutions,  the Salma Dam and the Afghan parliament building, apart from medical aid this year to combat Covid-19, besides the assurance to send 75,000 tonnes of wheat this year. Delhi thus has to chart an Afghanistan policy that combines its national interest and strategic clarity while not discarding adherence to human values which are characteristic of an ancient, civilised nation like India.   Pakistan, which has been a consistent mischief-maker in Afghanistan, will naturally like to pursue its own interests and thus mentor the Afghan Taliban till the latter continues to support its nefarious tactical goals. Pakistan, following its traditional and myopic strategy to keep India out of the reckoning in Afghan affairs, is currently endeavouring to show to the US and other stakeholders its supposed influence with the Taliban. Be that as it may, Pakistan is trying to mend fences with the Ashraf Ghani government in Kabul and has just hosted Afghan leader Abdullah Abdullah in Islamabad. Abdullah, though a political rival of President Ghani, is the Chairman of the Afghanistan High Council for National Reconciliation and is engaged in the ongoing talks with the Taliban in Doha. On the other hand, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan is also likely to visit Kabul in the coming weeks. Contrary to Pakistan's policy over the last few years of supporting the withdrawal of US and foreign troops from Afghanistan, Imran Khan has recently stated that a "hasty  international withdrawal from Afghanistan would be unwise" and no early timelines should be fixed for the withdrawal of US troops.  There has to be something more than meets the eye for this U-turn.   Meanwhile, Abdullah, during his recent visit to Delhi and his meetings with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, foreign minister S Jaishankar and NSA Ajit Doval, conveyed that the Afghan establishment will have no problem if India opens up negotiations with the Taliban while India reiterated its support for a democratic dispensation in Kabul.    The ongoing talks in Doha between the US interlocutors, Taliban and the Afghan government do not appear to be progressing as expected due to Taliban intransigence. The Taliban, meanwhile, continues with its gruesomely violent activities inside Afghanistan. It is understood that the Taliban will not agree to any ceasefire till a political settlement agreeable to them has been formalised.  Foreign minister Jaishankar had addressed the Doha talks by video, reiterating the Indian stand that any negotiations and agreement should be "Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled." He had emphasised that whatever agreement is reached there must ensure that Afghan soil will not be used for any anti-India activities. In deciding its future Afghan policy, Delhi must never forget the Taliban's past record of violence, extremism and medieval tenets, and its abject cruelty. India must prevail upon the US to sort out the mess in Afghanistan before it makes what may turn out into an inglorious exit. Delhi must also take the lead to get Russia and Iran on board to help arrive at a peaceful solution to the Afghan conundrum. It must do whatever possible, without putting any 'boots on the ground' to support and sustain a democratic government in Afghanistan. All players must strive for a ‘National Unity’ government in Kabul and the  UN could consider deploying a strong international peace enforcing force. The world community must not forget that Afghanistan was where the Global War on Terror was launched nearly 20 years ago and it remains a basket case. As a regional power, India must take the initiative to help stabilise a nation with which it has had civilizational links and which remains of significant strategic importance to us.   (The writer was the first chief, Defence Intelligence Agency, and deputy chief, Integrated Defence Staff)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/afghanistan-a-catch-22-situation-for-india-901182.html
13-10-2020||In Perspective||Who’s the tax cheat: The lady in jail or the President?||While reading that President Donald Trump had claimed $70,000 in highly dubious tax deductions for hairstyling for his television show, I kept thinking about a homeless African-American woman named Tanya McDowell who was imprisoned for misleading officials to get her young son into a better school district. McDowell was sentenced to five years in prison in 2012, in part for drug offenses and in part for “larceny” because she had claimed her babysitter’s address so her son could attend a better school in Connecticut. In some sense, both Trump and McDowell appear to have cheated on their taxes. McDowell sent her son to a school district without paying taxes there. And according to New York Times’s extraordinary reporting, Trump may have illegitimately claimed a $72.9 million refund that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is now trying to recover.  In addition, my ace NYT colleague James B Stewart reported that hair-styling is not a deductible expense and that, in any case, Trump’s hair expenses for his “Apprentice” TV shows should have been reimbursed by NBC, the TV network — in which case, Trump may have committed criminal tax fraud. The bottom line: We imprisoned the homeless tax cheat for trying to get her son a decent education, and we elevated the self-entitled rich guy with an army of lawyers and accountants so that he could monetise the White House as well. (Sure enough, Trump properties then charged the US Secret Service enormous sums for hotel rooms and other fees while agents were protecting Trump!) The larger point is not that Trump is a con artist, although he is, but that the entire tax system is a con. The proper reaction to the revelations about Trump’s taxes is not to fume at the President — although that’s merited — but to demand far-reaching changes in the tax code. We interrupt this column for a quiz question: What county in the United States has the highest rate of tax audits? The answer is Humphreys County in rural Mississippi, where three-quarters of the population is Black and more than one-third lives below the poverty line, according to ProPublica and Tax Notes. Tax collectors go after Humphreys County, where the median annual household income is $28,500, because the government targets audits on poor families using the earned-income tax credit, an anti-poverty programme, rather than on real estate tycoons who pay their daughters (that’s you, Ivanka!) questionable consulting fees to reduce taxes. The five counties with the highest audit rates in the United States, according to Tax Notes, are all predominately African-American counties in the South. Meanwhile, zillionaires claim enormous tax deductions for donating expensive art to their own private “museums” located on their own property. That’s the kind of scam that works if you’re a billionaire, but not so well if you’re my old friend Mike, who is homeless and once gave his food stamp card to a friend to buy groceries for him. The government responded by suspending Mike’s food stamps. Tax cheats thrive because the US Congress has slashed the IRS budget, so that the risk of audits for people earning more than $1 million per year plunged by 81% from 2011 to 2019. The IRS has opened audits on only 0.03% of returns reporting income of more than $10 million in 2018 (that percentage probably will rise), according to the Centre for American Progress. Need more evidence of systemic unfairness? Trump is still holding on to the almost $73 million that he appears to have bilked out of the IRS a decade ago, even though the IRS is contesting his manoeuvres. For wealthy people like Trump, taxes become something like a long negotiation. An undocumented immigrant housekeeper who had worked for the Trump Organisation posted tax statements on Twitter showing that she had paid more federal income taxes than Trump himself had in many years. And by one estimate, the failure of wealthy Americans to pay their fair share forces everyone else to pay an extra 15% in taxes. At the same time, almost one-fifth of American families with children report that they can’t afford to give their kids enough food. A starting point for a fairer system would be auditing the wealthy as aggressively as impoverished Black workers in rural Mississippi. The economists Natasha Sarin and Lawrence Summers estimate that 70% of tax underpayment is by the top 1% and conclude that tougher enforcement by the IRS could raise $1 trillion over a decade. Investing in the IRS to go after rich tax cheats not only promotes fairness but also pays for itself: Each additional dollar spent on enforcement brings in about $24. Remember Leona Helmsley, the wealthy hotel owner who was prosecuted for cheating on her taxes? She sadly had a point when she reportedly scoffed: “We don’t pay taxes. Only the little people pay taxes.” On the bright side, Helmsley ended up in prison. I generally believe that in America we over-incarcerate, but I’m appalled that we treat a man with a gilded life and $70,000 in hair-styling deductions more gently than a mom who cheats to try to give her son a better future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/who-s-the-tax-cheat-the-lady-in-jail-or-the-president-901522.html
13-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Milk van used for transporting beef seized in Mangaluru||Bajrang Dal activists traced a milk van used for transporting beef in Mangaluru on Tuesday morning and handed it over to the police for further investigation. Acting on a tip-off, the activists along with the police waylaid the vehicle for inspection near Wenlock Hospital. The beef was allegedly being transported from Hassan to Kudroli in Mangaluru. Bunder police are investigating the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/milk-van-used-for-transporting-beef-seized-in-mangaluru-901258.html
13-10-2020||Main Article||In Karnataka: Party politics vs govt mandate||We are currently witnessing an interesting spectacle in the somewhat messy politics of Karnataka. The Chief Minister has been struggling for the past several months to expand his cabinet but is unable to do so, despite the fact that under the Constitution, he alone has the power to choose his ministers, although they are formally appointed by the Governor. This raises a curious question about constitutional propriety vis-a-vis party politics. Under the Constitution, India “shall be a Union of States” and powers are distributed between the Union and the states. These powers are specified under three separate lists. Similarly, the powers to be exercised by the three organs of State -- the legislature, the executive and the judiciary -- are also described. However, in the case of the powers of the chief functionaries of the executive, namely the Prime Minister and the Chief Minister, a certain vagueness creeps in. Their powers and functions are not clearly defined. Formally, all executive power vests in the President at the Centre and in the Governor in the states, but they act on the advice of the Council of Ministers that is responsible to the lower house of the legislature. While the PM and the CM are appointed by the President and the Governor respectively, in fact, they are elected leaders of the legislature party that comes to power and they have the power to constitute the Council of Ministers via the President and the Governor as the case may be. Beyond this constitutional provision, the status and power they enjoy forms part of unwritten convention, as under the British constitution. In any democracy, political parties play the key role in shaping the affairs of a nation, and the ruling party exercises considerable control over the government of the day. In India, while the PM enjoys enormous power, the Chief Minister’s authority is limited by the party high command, especially in the case of a national party like the BJP or Congress. Although the BJP keeps claiming that it is highly democratic, unlike the Congress, in reality, the party bosses call the shots in many major matters. Hence, the CM has to seek their permission to expand the cabinet, select the ministers and allocate the portfolios. In Karnataka, when the BJP seized power from the Congress-JD(S) coalition, after a protracted drama of defections in 2019, the cabinet formation took nearly a month, during which time Chief Minister Yediyurappa had to carry the entire burden of the government on his shoulders. The fact that the state suffered severe floods at the time, demanding the attention of responsible elected representatives, did not matter much to the party high command. It was busy trying to identify who should be appointed deputy chief ministers, although there is no provision for such a post in the Constitution. In any case, what was the purpose in thrusting three DCMs on a CM who never wanted them? The delay in cabinet expansion has added fuel to the fire of the gossip about replacing Yediyurappa as Chief Minister. This has only served to generate speculation about the possible replacement. Even as the media indulge in their own versions and the party bosses keep mum on the issue, Yediyurappa himself issued a clarification that he would continue as CM for the full term. Having promised cabinet berths to defectors from other parties, he must be frustrated at the inexplicable delay in getting the green signal to induct new ministers. What is really a matter of concern is the effect all this will have on the functioning of the ministers and, in turn, on governance. How can the CM function effectively as head of the government when he is constrained in exercising his legitimate powers? The party would do well to recall the happenings during the last tenure of the BJP in Karnataka, when it changed its chief ministers twice, damaged its own image and lost the election in 2013. A somewhat similar story unfolded in another state ruled by Congress. The events relating to Jyotiraditya Scindia’s quitting Congress, leading to its loss of power in Madhya Pradesh, are again indicative of the highhanded manner in which the party high command treats state leaders. This is not to say that the party should have no role to play in the formation of its government in a state or its functioning. Indeed, once the government is in place, it must place trust in the state leadership; its role must be that of a friend, philosopher and guide, rather than of a school headmaster. It can intervene when things go wrong and help to set things on the right course. In a democracy, the relationship between the party and the government could be a delicate one, unlike in authoritarian regimes like in Russia or in China, where the Communist Party of China is supreme. It may be recalled that in 1996, the supremacy of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) came to the fore when it denied Jyoti Basu the opportunity to become Prime Minister, which at a later date, Basu himself termed as a ‘historic blunder.’ Political parties in democratic polities are not bound by the provisions of the constitution and therefore enjoy greater freedom to manage their affairs. But the governments are; and they are also accountable to the people for their actions. As Babasaheb Ambedkar pointed out, a democratic executive must satisfy two conditions: One, it must be a stable executive; and two, it must be a responsible executive. Both are necessary for good governance, and it is the moral responsibility of the party leadership to ensure that these two conditions are satisfied when its government is in power. In particular, the standing of the PM or CM among his cabinet colleagues will have a profound impact on policy processes and governance. Any situation that may lead to instability or signals a war of succession will only weaken his authority to lead. During his last year in office as British Prime Minister, it used be said of John Major that he was “in office, but not in power.” Let us hope that such a fate does not befall Yediyurappa or any other CM in India. Not just the Prime Minister, Chief Ministers must also be strong and decisive to deliver results. (The writer is a former Chief Secretary, Government of Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/in-karnataka-party-politics-vs-govt-mandate-901185.html
13-10-2020||Main Article||Quad’s China conundrum||Speaking at a meeting of the foreign ministers of the Quad (Australia, India, Japan and United States) countries in Tokyo on October 6, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo urged: “As partners in the Quad, it is more critical now that we collaborate to protect our people and partners from the Chinese Communist Party’s (CCP) exploitation, corruption and coercion.” The other three countries did not reciprocate Pompeo’s sentiments. Japan’s chief government spokesman Katsunobu Kato stated: “This Quad meeting is not being held with any particular country in mind.” The Australian foreign minister made no public mention of such concerns. Indian foreign minister S Jaishankar focused on the need for “like-minded countries to coordinate responses to various challenges” and advance their security and economic interests. The Quad’s first “exploratory meeting” was held in May 2007 on the sidelines of an ASEAN Regional Forum meeting in Manila without any formal agenda or a joint statement or plans for future meetings. Thereafter, the Quad receded into the background under the weight of domestic politics in the member countries. It was revived in late 2017 after these four countries witnessed increasing spats with China over political, trade, and border disputes. The Quad senior officials met twice a year in 2018 and 2019; in January 2018, the naval chiefs of the four countries were assembled together at the Raisina Dialogue in New Delhi; in September 2019, the four countries held their first meeting at foreign minister level in New York on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly session. In November 2019, the four capitals hosted the first Quad counterterrorism exercise; in March 2020, they exchanged views on controlling the Covid-19 pandemic. Threat perceptions Though the Quad countries agree that recent Chinese policies and actions constitute a threat to their interests, there are sharp divergences on the nature of the threat due to their geographic proximity, territorial disputes, potential risk of, and ability to withstand, retaliation by China. Japan has a dispute with China over the Senkaku islands; it has bolstered its defence capabilities but due to its pacifist constitution, it cannot depute its self-defence forces (SDF) to fight on the territory of another Quad member. Australia has no direct territorial disputes with China and gets comfort from its alliance with the US; it has relied on the US to play the role of external balancer in the region, but this role is coming under strain as  Chinese national power and assertiveness grows. The US views China as a “revisionist” State challenging its global supremacy and trying to alter the rules of the US-led post-war liberal international order. While the Trump administration has upped its defence spending, it has told its allies and partners not to depend solely on the US and to augment their own military capabilities. Today, its closest allies like Japan, Australia, Taiwan and others are unsure if “a tired and withdrawing” US would intervene in their favour, in case of a military conflict with China. Among the four Quad countries, India is the frontline State with the maximal adversarial relationship with China. The latter’s ability to inflict costs on India makes her reticent in taking any anti-China initiative. India has a 3,500-km land border with China, which the latter has refused to demarcate despite numerous rounds of border talks. In case of a military conflict with China, India will have to fight on its land borders all by itself. As India’s greatest threats are in its immediate region, India has deployed most of its military assets towards countering these threats first. The Indian Navy is left with little resources to project its capabilities in the South China Sea. India has no desire to provoke China in secondary theatres of concern that could invite bigger retribution in its own neighbourhood. India also has to be mindful of the reaction of its traditional defence partner, Russia, which is opposed to the Quad. Also, there are other important partners such as the UK, France and Germany who have significant interests in the Indo-Pacific region but are yet to fully spell out their strategy for it. Strategic orientation Participating in a discussion at the Asia Society, New York, in March 2019, Jaishankar, then the Tata Group’s president of Global Corporate Affairs, had said that the “Quad was intended as a forum for diplomatic consultation and coordination among countries who have convergences with substantial common ground. Assigning to Quad, roles and responsibilities such as weaponisation or naval security were misunderstandings which were never intended for the Quad.” We should leave it there and not expect unrealistic objectives from the Quad. At their Tokyo meeting, the Quad countries agreed to increase practical cooperation on maritime, cybersecurity, counterterrorism, data flows, critical technologies, resilient supply chains and quality infrastructure to reduce their dependence on China. It is quite clear that the current orientation of three Quad countries (excluding the US) is towards a more open and inclusive regime, without naming China, though most Quad activities are aimed at reducing China’s preponderance in both economic and security spheres. These countries want to maintain their cooperative ties with both the US and China; they want to find a solution to their security-related problems with China, bilaterally. As regards the future, much will depend on how China’s aggression and assertiveness play out and its impact on the economic and security imperatives of these countries as well as what approaches the next US President would take to push back against China and the assistance it would be willing to provide to the Quad countries. Former foreign secretary Shyam Saran recently observed that the “Quad is a fallback if China continues to seek unilateral dominance as a means to ensure its security.” In that case, we may see an incremental deepening of the Quad’s activities, with the inclusion of more countries to counter China’s aggression. (The writer is a former Indian Ambassador)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/quad-s-china-conundrum-901523.html
13-10-2020||National||Punjab BJP chief's vehicle attacked in Hoshiarpur||The vehicle of Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma was allegedly attacked by some protesting farmers at the Cholang toll plaza in Hoshiarpur district, police said on Monday evening. Windowpanes of his car were damaged in this incident, though Sharma was safe, they said. The incident took place when Sharma was going back to Pathankot from Jalandhar. When his vehicle reached the Cholang toll plaza near Tanda, a group of protesting farmers shouted slogans and threw punches at the car’s windowpanes, Station House Officer (Tanda) Bikram Singh said. Farmers had laid siege to the toll plaza on October 5, he added. Ashwani Sharma claimed that baseball bats and stones were used to damage his vehicle and his gunmen took it to safety. Sharma said attackers were not farmers and alleged that it was a planned attack. “The attack was only to defame the farmers’ ongoing agitation,” he said. Hoshiarpur Senior Superintendent of Police Navjot Singh Mahal said the Punjab BJP chief was “perfectly alright”. BJP workers and his supporters staged a dharna and blocked vehicular traffic for about 45 minutes at Dasuya on the Jalandhar-Pathankot GT road, demanding action against the culprits. Ashwani Sharma lodged a complaint at the Dasuya police station in this connection. Meanwhile, BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh condemned the incident and alleged that it was “engineered” by the ruling Congress. “Those who attacked Ashwani Sharma are goons of the Congress-led government and wanted to give wrong direction to the farmers' protest,” said Chugh. “Farmers do not resort to such attacks and there has been no such incident ever since their protest began,” said Chugh. He said it was a “security lapse” on the part of the Punjab Police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-bjp-chiefs-vehicle-attacked-in-hoshiarpur-901134.html
13-10-2020||National||DH Radio | The Lead: Dr Rajesh Parikh on his book about the Covid-19 pandemic||In this episode of The Lead from DH Radio, Dr Rajesh Parikh talks about the pandemic and his book "Coronavirus: What you need to know about the global pandemic", co-authored by Dr Swapneil Parikh and Maherra Desai.  Ahmed Shariff: Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and welcome to DH Radio. The pandemic that we are witnessing is one of a kind. It has in ways changed our lives and our history. And when one talks about the history there is always literature to record it. One such is a book titled: "Coronavirus: What you need to know about the global pandemic", authored by Dr Swapneil Parikh, Maherra Desai and Dr Rajesh Parikh. To talk about the book and the pandemic joining us is Dr Rajesh Parikh, who is the Director of Medical Research and Hon. Neuropsychiatrist at the Jaslok Hospital and Research Centre. He is Adjunct Professor of Psychiatry at the University of Iowa, Carver College of Medicine and a former WHO Global Expert on Depression. Trained at the Seth G.S. Medical College and the K.E.M. Hospital, Mumbai and the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Dr Parikh With Harvard Medical School, conducted a large study on stress and depression among college students in Boston and Mumbai. Hi, Dr Parik, welcome to DH Radio. Dr Parikh: Hi, Ahmed. Ahmed: Sir, let's jump in straight with the questions. My first question to you is: What motivated you to write this book? Dr Parikh: What happened was that I was invited to speak at the national conference of the Indian Psychiatry society as part of an Indo-American symposium and following that meeting in Kolkota, my colleague Mr Ram Ranga, who was from the US end of the symposium and I decided to go see the Sunderban tiger. That involved going up the Ganga and waiting patiently for the tiger. While I was waiting, I was following, with great interest, what was happening in Wuhan regarding what then was just an outbreak in one city. I was tracking it in the literature and my knowledge of past pandemics, I realised that it was just a matter of time that it would become an epidemic and then a pandemic and would arrive in India... To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-radio-the-lead-dr-rajesh-parikh-on-his-book-about-the-covid-19-pandemic-901192.html
13-10-2020||National||2.21 lakh RTI appeals pending, nine ICs functioning without chiefs: Report||As the RTI regime entered 16th year on Monday, a new analysis showed that over 2.21 lakh appeals and complaints are pending in central and state information commissions, nine bodies are functioning without a chief while officials delaying or denying information are penalised very rarely. The analysis by the Satark Nagrik Sangathan (SNS) and Centre for Equity Studies (CES) also showed that the State Information Commissions (SICs) in Jharkhand and Tripura are completely defunct with no members while the Central Information Commission (CIC) is functioning without a head and five members. "Fifteen years after the implementation of the law, experience in India, also captured in various national assessments on the implementation of the RTI Act, suggests that the functioning of information commissions is a major bottleneck in the effective implementation of the RTI law," the report said. The 'Report Card on the Performance of Information Commissions in India, 2020' showed that the pending appeals and complaints in SICs and CICs as on July 31 this year was at least 2,21,568 as against 2,18,347 as of March 2019. The number could be much more as only 20 Information Commissions provided data while some have not given statistics till July 31 this year. Maharashtra SIC had the highest number of 59,312 pending cases followed by Uttar Pradesh SIC (47,923) and the CIC (35,653). Bihar and Karnataka are among the states that did not provide relevant data. "Large backlog of appeals and complaints in many commissions across the country have resulted in inordinate delays in disposal of cases, which render the law ineffective," it said. The comparative data from the previous assessment for CIC, and SICs of Haryana, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, MP, Odisha and Rajasthan shows a significant increase in the backlog of appeals/complaints since March 2019. When it comes to imposing a penalty on erring public information officers, the numbers were very less, much to the disappointment of transparency activists. Between April 2019 and July this year, a penalty was imposed only in 1,995 cases while 15,738 show-cause notices were issued to PIOs. In terms of quantum of penalty, Haryana was the leader (Rs 65.43 lakh), followed by Madhya Pradesh (Rs 43.33 lakh) and Uttarakhand (Rs. 35.79 lakh). The CIC imposed penalty amounting to Rs 12.22 lakh. Interestingly, while SIC of Gujarat issued the maximum number of show-cause notices (9,080), a penalty was imposed in only 163 cases, the report said. "Non-imposition of penalties in deserving cases by commissions sends a signal to public authorities that violating the law will not invite any serious consequences. This destroys the basic framework of incentives built into the RTI law and promotes a culture of impunity," it said. Twenty-five out of 29 ICs (86%) had not published their annual report for 2019. Only the CIC and SICs of Chhattisgarh, Gujarat and Mizoram have published their annual report for 2019 and made them available on the official websites. Punjab SIC has not published its annual report after 2012 while the Uttarakhand SIC has not published since 2014. In both cases, the SICs stated that annual reports till the year 2018 had been submitted to the government for approval and for placing them before the legislative assembly of the respective states. "Performance of information commissions, in terms of exercising their powers to ensure proper implementation of the law, has been a cause of great concern to the RTI community. Commissions have been found to be extremely reluctant to impose penalties on erring officials for violations of the law. Unfortunately, the transparency watchdogs themselves have not had a shining track record in terms of being transparent and accountable to the people of the country," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/221-lakh-rti-appeals-pending-nine-ics-functioning-without-chiefs-report-901146.html
13-10-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on October 13||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 71 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 8,758,666 as of October 13 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 129,007 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->  No. of people discharged:  62,27,295      Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-october-13-901195.html
13-10-2020||National||DH Toon | Mumbai power outage: 'Had this feeling I was in Finance Ministry, Delhi!'||The financial capital of Mumbai and the larger Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) went without power on Monday due to a major technical snag. The movement of suburban and upcountry trains on the Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR) was badly affected because of the power failure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-mumbai-power-outage-had-this-feeling-i-was-in-finance-ministry-delhi-901196.html
13-10-2020||National||LTC cash voucher, festival advance schemes: Here's how you can avail benefits||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday announced two measures to spur demand and boost spending in the economy. The measures are said to create additional spending of Rs 1 lakh crore. She said that consumer demand is affected whilst supply constraints have eased. The two measures announced are: 1. Central government and private sector employees will now be allowed to use their Leave Travel Concession (LTC) tax-free benefit for purchases subject to certain conditions. 2. Public sector employees will be given an interest-free festival advance of Rs 10,000. Here how you can use your LTC tax-free benefit: Employees can now use the tax-free benefit on their LTC to buy goods than are in the 12% GST bracket or above. For example, if your LTC fare component is Rs 50,000. You would have to spend Rs 1.5 lakh on purchasing goods on which GST of 12% or more would apply. However, if you don’t spend that amount, you will have to pay tax according to your marginal tax slab on LTC fare component. This benefit is expected to boost GST collection that has been severely impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic and the drop in demand since the lockdown. It is expected that if the government and private sector employees avail the benefit, it would boost consumption and GST collection significantly. Here how you can use your festival advance scheme: As a one-time exemption, the government has reinstated the festival advance scheme. It was abolished under a recommendation of the 7th pay commission. If you are a government employee, you can avail a festival advance of Rs 10,000 in a pre-loaded Rupay card that you can later repay in 10 instalments. This measure can boost demand ahead of the festival season. The Finance Ministry expects to disburse about Rs 4,000 crore under this scheme and if states take part in this scheme, a total of Rs 12,000 crore may be disbursed as a result.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ltc-cash-voucher-festival-advance-schemes-heres-how-you-can-avail-benefits-901236.html
13-10-2020||National||Explosion in Kolkata's Beleghata, no casualties yet||An explosion was reported in Kolkata's Beleghata area on Tuesday, blowing off part of the roof of Beleghata Gandhimath Friends Circle Club, news agency ANI reported. No casualties were reported yet. West Bengal: Explosion reported in Kolkata's Beleghata area. Powerful blast blew off part of the roof of Beleghata Gandhimath Friends Circle Club. Cause of the blast is yet to be ascertained. No casualties or injuries reported The cause of the blast is yet to be ascertained, the agency said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explosion-in-kolkatas-beleghata-no-casualties-yet-901239.html
13-10-2020||National||India's average daily Covid-19 cases declining for 5 weeks||India reported a drop in daily Covid-19 cases with 55,342 fresh infections and 706 deaths on Tuesday. The country has been showing a trend of declining average daily cases over the past five weeks. As of now, India's Covid-19 caseload stands at 71.75, lakh, according to the Ministry of Health data. Active Covid-19 cases stand at 8,38,729, while 62,27,295 people have recovered so far.  India is showing a trend of declining average daily cases over the past 5 weeks. "India continues to report a trend of steadily decreasing active cases. For the fourth day after the active cases dropped below the 9 lakh mark after a month, the decline continues," the ministry had said on Monday. Maharashtra is still reporting a very high number of new cases with more than 10,000 cases followed by Karnataka and Kerala with more than 9,000 cases each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-average-daily-covid-19-cases-declining-for-5-weeks-901251.html
13-10-2020||National||India's coronavirus infections rise by 55,342 to 7.18 million||India's total coronavirus cases rose by 55,342 in the last 24 hours to 7.18 million on Tuesday morning, the lowest daily rise since mid-August, data from the health ministry showed. Deaths from Covid-19 infections rose by 706 to 109,856, the ministry said. India's coronavirus case load topped 7 million on Sunday and the country has added a million cases in just 13 days. It has the second-highest number of infections, behind the United States which is approaching the 8 million mark.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-coronavirus-infections-rise-by-55342-to-718-million-901263.html
13-10-2020||National||Tanishq trolled for promoting 'love jihad,' withdraws advertisement||Titan-owned jewellery brand Tanishq has withdrawn its ad campaign after being trolled by Twitter users. The ad campaign called "Ekatvam" (Oneness) was taken down after it was attacked for glorifying 'love jihad'.  The 45-second clip features a Muslim family celebrating a traditional South Indian baby shower of their pregnant daughter. The advertisement was accused of 'love jihad', a term referring to an alleged venture by Muslims to convert Hindu girls in the name of love. The ad campaign received heavy backlash from various accounts on Twitter with the hashtag #BoycottTanishq. Several claimed that it hurt the sentiments of a religious community and claimed it promoted fake secular ideas.  A part of Twitter came in support of the ad and said it promoted the beauty of inter-faith marriages. Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor also condemned the vicious attack on the campaign. In a tweet, he said, "If Hindu-Muslim “ekatvam” irks them so much, why don’t they boycott the longest surviving symbol of Hindu-Muslim unity in the world -- India? "The boycott of Tanishq is necessary in the same way as the Surf Excel," says Supreme Court Advocate Prashant Patel Umrao.<\p> तनिष्क का बहिष्कार उसी प्रकार आवश्यक है जैसे सर्फ एक्सल का किया था। VHP national spokesperson Vinod Bansal said, "Some people are not getting rid of the petty antics of business due to constant disputes."<\p> Novelist Chetan Bhagat tweeted, "I wonder what Mahatma Gandhi would have said about #Tanishq ad?"<\p> A man who we call father of the nation, a man who we think is so important we print him on every currency note to remind ourselves of him, a man who helped create India. I wonder why we don't listen to him anymore? "As Hindus we need to be absolutely conscious of what these creative terrorists are injecting in to our subconscious, we must scrutinise, debate and evaluate what is the outcome of any perception that is fed to us, this is the only way to save our civilisation," tweeted Kangana Ranaut.<\p> Author Nilanjana Roy tweeted, "The Tatas and #Tanishq have been viciously targetted because their campaign is about values like interfaith harmony, oneness, dismantling prejudices."<\p> The RW can't stomach any ads that treat Hindu-Muslim relationships as normal, or question the poisonous myth of love jihad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tanishq-trolled-for-promoting-love-jihad-withdraws-advertisement-901291.html
13-10-2020||National||Covid-19 vaccine in India may come from more than one source, expected by early-2021: Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday said that Covid-19 vaccine is expected to be available in India by early-2021 and it will come from more than one source, ANI reported the minister as saying at a meeting of Group of Ministers. He also added that experts are formulating strategies to plan the rollout and distribution of the vaccine. India's coronavirus cases rose by 55,342 in the last 24 hours to 71.8 lakh on Tuesday, the lowest daily rise since mid-August, according to health ministry data. Deaths from Covid-19 infections rose by 706 to 109,856. India is the second worst-hit country by the pandemic after the United States.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-in-india-may-come-from-more-than-one-source-expected-by-early-2021-harsh-vardhan-901297.html
13-10-2020||National||Cow dung chip reduces radiation from phone: Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog chief||Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog (RKA) chairman Vallabhbhai Kathiria revealed a ‘chip’ made out of cow dung, claiming that it reduces radiation from mobile phones. Kathiria was speaking at the launch of the ‘Kamdhenu Deepawali Abhiyan’, which showcases the numerous benefits of cow dung.  The ‘anti-radiation chip’ has been named Gausatva Kavach, and is manufactured by Shrijee Gaushala in Rajkot. The leader also went on to say that if dung is brought home, ‘the place will become radiation-free’, emphasising that this method ‘has been approved by science’. “You must have heard a few days ago that the actor Akshay Kumar… He has eaten cow dung. You can eat it. It’s a medicine. But we have forgotten our science,” Kathiria said, referring to the actor’s remarks that he drinks cow urine every day for “Ayurvedic” reasons. “Now we have started a research project. We want to have research on these subjects which we consider a myth,” Kathiria added. When questioned if they were certified by a government laboratory, Kathiria said that they were ‘not certified but tested’. “It can be tested in any laboratory, even in a college,” he added. Other cow dung-based products launched as part of the Deepawali Abhiyan included earthen lamps, candles, incense, paperweights, idols of gods and goddesses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cow-dung-chip-reduces-radiation-from-phone-rashtriya-kamdhenu-aayog-chief-901299.html
13-10-2020||National||India's daily Covid-19 cases drop below 60,000, caseload rises to 71,75,880||The number of new coronavirus infections reported daily across the country dropped below 60,000, even as the caseload surged to 71,75,880 and the total recoveries crossed 62 lakh, the Union Health Ministry data stated on Tuesday. The total cases mounted to 71,75,880, with 55,342 infections being reported in a day, while death toll climbed to 1,09,856 as the virus claimed 706 lives in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. For the fifth day in a row, the active cases of Covid-19 remained below 9 lakh. The country has been recording less than 75,000 new infections daily for the fifth consecutive day and fatalities below 1,000 for 10 straight days. India registered a record single-day increase of 97,894 Covid-19 cases on September 17. There are 8,38,729 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 11.69  per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The Covid-19 case fatality rate due Covid-19 was recorded at 1.53 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5 . It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28 and crossed 70 lakh on October 11. According to ICMR, a cumulative total of 8,89,45,107 samples have been tested up to October 12 with 10,73,014  samples being tested on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-daily-covid-19-cases-drop-below-60000-caseload-rises-to-7175880-901300.html
13-10-2020||National||Rohtang tunnel stone laid by Sonia Gandhi removed before opening by PM Mod, claims Congress||The Himachal Congress on Monday alleged that the foundation stone laid by its national president Sonia Gandhi for the Rohtang tunnel a decade ago was removed before its inauguration by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 3. In a letter to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, state Congress president Kuldeep Singh Rathore said Gandhi had laid the foundation stone on June 28, 2010 in the presence of the then CM Prem Kumar Dhumal and Union minister Virbhadra Singh. Former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, after whom the tunnel has been named, had announced the project during a public meeting at Lahaul-Spiti's Keylong in June, 2000. He had laid the foundation stone for an approach road to the tunnel in 2002. The Congress leader said if not reinstalled within a fortnight, the party will launch a statewide agitation. “This is an undemocratic, unconventional and illegal step ever noticed in the history of Indian democracy that the legally laid foundation stone of any project approved by the then government is removed after its completion to fulfil political goals of a particular ideology,” the Himachal Congress chief said in the two-page letter. Meanwhile, Manali block Congress president Hari Chand Sharma submitted a complaint in this regard to the Kullu police. He complained that the foundation stone laid by Gandhi at the south portal of the tunnel in Manali’s Dhoondi was missing. Sharma told PTI that he has sought an investigation into the disappearance of the foundation stone. He said arrangements should be made to reinstall it at the same place. When asked when he noticed that it was missing, Sharma said he found it “just now”. Sharma alleged it was a "deliberate attempt" to remove the evidence about Sonia Gandhi having laid the stone of the tunnel. Similarly, Lahaul-Spiti Congress chief Gialchhen Thakur submitted a complaint to police in this regard. Keylong Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Hemant Thakur told PTI that the complaint was forwarded to the Kullu police as the stone by Sonia Gandhi was laid in Dhoondi or Solang Nullah in Manali. Kullu SP Gaurav Singh said no FIR has been registered in this regard so far. Meanwhile reacting to the criticism, Himachal BJP president Suresh Kashyap said the Congress had removed foundation stones laid by the Prem Kumar Dhumal government when it came to power in the state. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had inaugurated the all-weather 9.2-km-long tunnel on October 3. Constructed at an altitude of 10,040 feet, it reduced the travel between Manali and Leh by 46 km, saving four to five hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rohtang-tunnel-stone-laid-by-sonia-gandhi-removed-before-opening-by-pm-mod-claims-congress-901315.html
13-10-2020||National||Will examine demand for inquiry into uranium tank leakage: Meghalaya CM||Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K Sangma has said his government would examine a demand for an independent inquiry into alleged leakage of toxic waste from tanks containing uranium effluents in South West Khasi Hills, weeks after locals claimed cracks have developed in them. Sangma also said that experts and government agencies have inspected the concrete tanks and assured him that no such leakage has been detected. "We will get the demand examined... and after holding discussions with the forest and environment department and other agencies, we will take a call on how to move forward on this matter," he told reporters on Monday evening. Several NGOs and environment enthusiasts have earlier said that a high level of radioactive emission has been recorded in areas close to the storage tanks. "We are equally concerned about the situation. As I said, all agencies working on this have clearly indicated that no such leakage has occurred," the chief minister said. Meghalaya is the third uranium-rich state in the country, after Andhra Pradesh and Jharkhand. The Hynniewtrep Youth Council (HYC) -- a splinter group of Khasi Students' Union - had, in particular, demanded an independent probe into last month's alleged leak, and sought the intervention of environment minister James Sangma. It threatened to approach the National Green Tribunal (NGT), if the government fails to address local concerns. "We want the government to immediately institute an independent inquiry by an expert team into the apparent leakage of radioactive effluents from the uranium tanks in South West Khasi Hills district," HYC president Robertjune Kharjahrin told PTI. He said a recent inspection by an HYC delegation found out that four effluent-storage tanks and two other reservoirs have developed wide cracks. "Given the circumstances, the government should take measures to seal these uranium tanks immediately in the interest of local people," Kharjahrin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-examine-demand-for-inquiry-into-uranium-tank-leakage-meghalaya-cm-901316.html
13-10-2020||National||CBI team visits spot where Dalit woman was gang-raped in Hathras||A CBI team on Tuesday visited the spot in Hathras where a 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly gangraped on September 14, officials said. The team called the victim's brother to identify the place and directed the local police to cordon off the crime scene, nearly a month after the woman was allegedly raped and assaulted by four men of the village.  The investigators are likely to return with forensic experts from Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) to carry out a detailed crime scene recreation, they said. The woman had succumbed to her injuries at a Delhi Hospital on September 29 following which the district magistrate ordered cremation of the body allegedly against the wishes of family in the dead of the night. The case was referred to the CBI by the Uttar Pradesh government after alleged apathy of the administration snowballed into a political storm with Congress, Aam Admi Party, Trinamool Congress and other opposition leaders of the state from Samajwadi Party and Rashtriya Lok Dal staged massive protests. The officer concerned of the UP police had registered a case of attempt to murder on a statement by the victim's brother who, as per the FIR at Chandpa police station, had said that the accused tried to strangulate his sister in a millet field and escaped when she raised an alarm. A notification issued by the Centre on the request of the state government had asked the CBI to probe, rape, murder and atrocity and "any attempt, abetment and/or conspiracy, in relation to or in connection with such offence(s) and/or for any other offence committed in the course of the same transaction or arising out of the same facts".  "The complainant had alleged that on September 14, 2020 the accused tried to strangulate his sister in the millet field. The case has been registered by CBI on the request of Uttar Pradesh government and further notification from Government of India," CBI Spokesperson RK Gaur had said after registration of the FIR on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-team-visits-spot-where-dalit-woman-was-gang-raped-in-hathras-901324.html
13-10-2020||National||Noted artist Mohan Sona passes away at 64||Noted artist and dramatist Mohan Sona died in Sullia after a brief illness, family sources said. He was 64 and is survived by his wife and two children. Mohan had been suffering from a liver ailment for some time and passed away on Monday night. Mohan's paintings have been exhibited at various places. Mohan was also a reputed drama director and actor. He had earned fame for starting an open art gallery 'Bayalu Chitralaya' at Sonangeri in Sullia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/noted-artist-mohan-sona-passes-away-at-64-901351.html
13-10-2020||National||BharatNet Govt selects Hughes India to connect remotely located panchayats with satellite broadband||The government has selected Hughes Communications India to connect 5,000 village panchayats in border and Naxal-affected states as well as in island territories with satellite broadband under BharatNet project by March 2021. The 5,000-gram panchayats are located in north-eastern states, including Manipur, Meghalaya, Tripura, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, and the Galwan Valley in Eastern Ladakh as well as in Andaman and Nicobar and Lakshadweep that lack terrestrial connectivity, such as fiber or cable, Hughes said in a statement on Tuesday. "The BharatNet network being created by Bharat Broadband Nigam Limited (BBNL), is to provide affordable high-speed broadband access to rural citizens and institutions of all the Gram Panchayats of the country. "We are very happy to be partnering with Telecommunications Consultants India Limited (TCIL) and Hughes to leverage satellite broadband to connect gram panchayats that are remote or located in difficult terrain," BBNL CMD Sarvesh Singh said. Hughes spokesperson further added that the project includes connecting village panchayats in Naxal-affected states Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand also. "Hughes is committed to the government's vision of enabling Digital India, and we are excited about our partnership with TCIL and BBNL as part of BharatNet to bring high-speed connectivity to the remote gram panchayats," Hughes India president and managing director Partho Banerjee said. Under the agreement, Hughes India will enable Internet service for each gram panchayat using capacity from ISRO's GSAT-19 and GSAT-11 satellites with the Hughes Jupiter System, the de facto standard for satellite broadband implementations, in use on more than 40 satellites worldwide. The government aims to connect all 2.5 lakh village panchayats in the country with high speed broadband services by August 2021. "The completion (of Hughes project) is expected by March 2021. We have delivered 90 per cent of the sites as on date, and commissioned 50 per cent," the spokesperson said. Hughes India will provide solar-powered user terminals, and network operations, install the equipment at each site, and manage the service to deliver speeds up to 10 megabit per second under the deal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharatnet-govt-selects-hughes-india-to-connect-remotely-located-panchayats-with-satellite-broadband-901353.html
13-10-2020||National||NGT notice to Centre on plea for quashing notification on groundwater extraction||The National Green Tribunal Tuesday issued notice to the Centre and the CPCB on a plea seeking quashing of a notification on groundwater extraction on the grounds that its commercial use was adversely affecting the flow of rivers and availability of drinking water in the country. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said the Central Ground Water Authority (CGWA) was repeatedly issuing notification liberalising ground water extraction in water scarcity areas in spite of the need for stringent action, contrary to the very purpose for which it was setup. There was no effective mechanism to check violation by recovery of adequate compensation which was laid down by this tribunal based on expert studies, it said. “We find that the impugned order is statutorily appealable under Section 16 (g) of the NGT Act, 2010. Thus, instead of an application, proper remedy of the appellant is an appeal. We direct conversion of the application to Appeal. “The Registry may accordingly register the matter as Appeal. We are of the view that there are arguable points which are raised in the appeal which will require reconsideration. The appeal is admitted. Issue notice to the Ministry of Jal Shakti,” the bench said. The tribunal also issued notice to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), and said water is a scarce resource on which life is dependent and its extraction has to be duly regulated. In areas where there is water scarcity, extraction can be allowed on stringent conditions of ensuring recharge, it said. “The appellant may serve notices with complete set of papers and file an affidavit of service within one week. The response may be filed within six weeks,” the bench said. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by environmentalist Devi Das Khatri challenging the notification issued by CGWA which issued guidelines to regulate and control the ground water extraction in the country under Section 3 (3) read with Section 5 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. The plea said that extraction in scarce water areas for commercial purposes was against the principle of 'Sustainable Development'. The applicant has pointed out that without any study of carrying capacity, the policy allows concession to Micro and small enterprises drawing ground water less than 10 cubic metre per day as well as for bulk water supply.  There is no uniform policy for monitoring ground water recharge mechanism and to check the depleting ground water levels in the country, the petitioner said. Extraction for commercial purposes was adversely affecting not only the river flow but also availability of water for drinking purposes, the plea said, adding that no effective regulatory mechanism had been set up. According to the applicant, the impugned Notification, instead of complying with the directions of the tribunal, is in reverse direction and destructive of concept of 'Sustainable Development'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-notice-to-centre-on-plea-for-quashing-notification-on-groundwater-extraction-901366.html
13-10-2020||National||Centre working on multiple fronts to place India as global manufacturing hub: Kant||The government has been working on multiple fronts to position India as a truly global manufacturing hub with a strong focus on exports, Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said on Tuesday. Kant, while addressing a virtual FICCI event, further said the government is finalising its plans to expand its production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme to more sectors for boosting domestic manufacturing.         "The Government of India has been working on multiple fronts to position India as a truly global manufacturing hub with a strong focus on exports...Aatmanirbhar Bharat does not mean self-isolation but a very deep integration into the global value chains and using the manufacturing strength of India to become a leading exporter globally," he said.         Kant noted that investment and innovation will drive manufacturing in India.         "Both countries and companies are re-evaluating their trade and manufacturing strategies which can serve as new avenues of growth in India," he said.           Kant pointed out that the PLI scheme for mobile and select electronics will have multiplier impact for both direct and indirect job. "As many as 22 domestic and international manufacturing firms including iPhone maker Apple's contract manufacturers as well as Samsung, Lava, Dixon have given proposals for mobile phone production worth Rs 11 lakh crore over the next five years. "And taking mobile manufacturing as a template, similar schemes have been launched in pharmaceutical, medical devices and now we are finalising schemes for automobile, networking products, food processing, advanced chemistry and solar PV manufacturing," the Niti Aayog CEO said. The government has notified PLI scheme for large scale electronics manufacturing, the scheme for promotion of manufacturing of electronic components and semiconductors, and the modified electronics manufacturing clusters (EMC 2.0) scheme. Kant said India is keen on creating truly global manufacturing champions in sectors of strength through benchmarking, cost disabilities against other manufacturing hubs and developing a bespoke strategy for each sector.         "Manufacturing will lead India's export targets by 2025 in key sectors, including mobile, electronics, pharmaceutical, textiles, engineering products, etc," he said.                 Noting that data must be transformed into actionable insights to create value for governments and businesses, Kant said technologies such as artificial intelligence and augmented reality should be used as virtual means to train people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-working-on-multiple-fronts-to-place-india-as-global-manufacturing-hub-kant-901369.html
13-10-2020||National||Govt does not look crime through the prism of caste or creed, says Union Minister G Kishan Reddy||The NDA government does not believe in viewing crime from the prism of caste, creed or region as any crime is against humanity and peace, Union Minister G Kishan Reddy said Tuesday. Reddy also said the government would never tolerate crime against women and the downtrodden and would take all measures to ensure speedy and decisive justice for all victims. The comment by the union minister of state for home came about a fortnight after the alleged gang rape and killing of a Dalit women in Hathras in Uttar Pradesh sparked nationwide outrage. The central government recently issued an advisory to states on safety of women and how to deal with crime against them, and said probe into rape cases must be completed within two months and dying declaration of a victim can't be discarded merely because it has not been recorded by a magistrate. “The government does not believe in viewing a crime from the prism of caste, creed, religion or region, as crime is against humanity and peace and the government would never tolerate crimes against women and the downtrodden and will take all measures in ensuring speedy and decisive justice for all victims,” Reddy said while digitally inaugurating the 21st All India Conference of Directors, Fingerprint Bureau 2020. An official statement said Reddy also inaugurated the eCyber Lab set up by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). Reddy said Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government believes in zero tolerance in crime and terror and under the leadership of Union Home Minister Amit Shah, the government's aim is to create a crime-free India. The minister said although law and order is a state subject, the Union government has an important role in monitoring and tracking crime, in modernisation of police forces, and in capacity building and extending assistance to state governments in improving policing. He said Shah has emphasised on the importance of modernisation of police forces and during the fiscal 2019-20, the Government of India released Rs 780 crore for the modernisation of different police forces across India. Emphasising on the importance of fingerprints, Reddy said a fingerprint is an essential tool because of its uniqueness, permanency, individuality and ease in acquisition. He said the digitization of records and fingerprint data is an important step forward in documenting and tracking crimes and criminals and expressed confidence that the fully computerised National Automated Fingerprint Identification System (NAFIS) would soon become functional and benefit police forces. While inaugurating the eCyber Lab, Reddy said the month of October is observed as 'National Cyber Security Awareness Month' and eCyber Lab will provide virtual experience in investigation of cyber crimes, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-does-not-look-crime-through-the-prism-of-caste-or-creed-says-union-minister-g-kishan-reddy-901379.html
13-10-2020||National||Top academic institutes sign MoUs for establishing supercomputing infrastructure in India||Several premier academic institutions are partnering to establish an indigenous supercomputing infrastructure that will make India "future-ready" and help tackle challenges in various disciplines, the Department of Science and Technology said Tuesday. The Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, in a virtual ceremony on Monday, signed 13 MoUs with the premier academic and R&D institutions to establish supercomputing infrastructure with assembly and manufacturing for the National Supercomputing Mission in the country. The Rs 4,500-crore mission envisages empowering our national academic and R&D institutions to spread over the country by installing a vast supercomputing grid comprising more than 70 high-performance computing facilities, an official statement said. It also includes the development of highly professional High-Performance Computing (HPC) aware human resource for meeting the challenges of development of these applications. The implementation of the mission will bring supercomputing within the reach of the large scientific and technology community in India and enable the country with a capacity to solve multi-disciplinary grand challenge problems. The MoU was signed with a host of institutes like IISC Bangalore, IIT Kanpur, IIT Roorkee, IIT Hyderabad, IIT Guwahati, IIT Mandi, IIT Gandhinagar, NIT Trichy, NABI Mohali and NSM Nodal Centres for training in HPC & AI at IIT Madras, IIT Kharagpur, IIT Goa, and IIT Palakkad. Sanjay Dhotre, the Minister of State for Electronics and Information Technology, stressed that the MoU signing with the premier institutes marks the beginning of 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat'. DST secretary Ashutosh Sharma mentioned that the signing of the 13 MoUs shows the speed that the mission has picked up, and it is a major boost to computing facility. "In the last 5 years, major changes took place in the mission where the emphasis was given on design and fabrication of hardware and software of the supercomputers in India," he added.   Supercomputing is the key to so many areas like Computational Biology, Molecular Dynamics, National Security, Computational Chemistry, Cyber-Physical Systems, Big Data Analytics, Government Information Systems, Sharma noted. "Armed with artificial intelligence and machine learning makes it a formidable tool. Progress in this mission will break silos to empower people and make India future-ready and tackle future challenges," he added. "Our goal is to develop indigenous hardware encompassing exascale chip design, design and manufacture exascale server boards, exascale interconnects and storage including silicon-photonics at C-DAC to achieve complete self-reliance," C-DAC director-general Hemant Darbari said. The mission is being implemented and steered jointly by the DST and the Department of Electronics and Information Technology for seven years to make India one of the world leaders in supercomputing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/top-academic-institutes-sign-mous-for-establishing-supercomputing-infrastructure-in-india-901391.html
13-10-2020||National||47% of Covid-19 deaths registered among those aged below 60 years: Health Ministry||Nearly half of the Covid-19 deaths in India are of people with less than 60 years of age, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday analyzing more than 109,000 deaths. In addition, more than 1,000 youngsters in the age group of 18-25 years and another 1000 plus children under 17 years lost their lives to the novel coronavirus. The data is a grim reminder of the fact that a fairly large number of relatively younger people are vulnerable that there should not be any slackening of cautions like wearing a mask and maintaining social distancing. As seen in other countries, 53% of Covid-19 deaths happened in the 60 plus population, which is not a surprise. The official data also clearly indicate that those having comorbidity harbours 15 times increased risk of succumbing to Covid-19 infection. The risk is higher in the younger population of less than 60 years of age. On Tuesday, India’s official count of fresh Covid-19 cases dipped to 55,000 plus in the last 24 hours after a gap of nearly two months. The death toll too fell below the 700-mark after several days. Such a drop in the new cases was witnessed last time on August 18. Even the weekly data shows a decline since the September 17 peak with nearly 98,000 cases in 24 hours. But the experts said it was too early to celebrate as the declining trend needs to be seen over a longer period. “It’s not the time to celebrate. Most countries that celebrated their conquest are now grappling with multiple waves. Since we don't really know who is asymptomatically carrying the virus, we need to tread cautiously, letting the transmission cycles to be completely broken. Time is of essence along with strong public health measures - safe physical distance, masks and avoiding high-risk behaviour,” Oommen John, a public health specialist at the George Institute for Global Health, Delhi told DH.  Following the same ideas, the Centre has launched a massive awareness campaign that would run for the next one month, with the aim of reaching out to almost 90 crore population. A part of the campaign would be a new caller tune in which superstar Amitabh Bachchan would deliver the warning messages to the public.  “We do have a worry of a rise in the Covid-19 cases in winter as respiratory viruses like the coronavirus thrive in winter. Several countries saw a second wave with the onset of winter. We need to ensure that the festive season doesn’t turn into a super-spreader event,” said Vinod Paul, NITI Ayog member and a former professor of AIIMS, Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/47-of-covid-19-deaths-registered-among-those-aged-below-60-years-health-ministry-901400.html
13-10-2020||National||CBI initiates inquiry after public prosecutor accuses DIG of punching him in the face||A CBI public prosecutor has accused a Deputy Inspector General of the agency of punching him in his face for delaying the submission of a report in connection with a corruption case involving Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's private Secretary Rajinder Kumar. This has prompted the CBI to set up a fact-finding inquiry into the incident even as Anti-Corruption Bureau DIG Raghavendra Vatsa had filed a complaint against prosecutor Sunil Verma accusing him of misbehaviour, lackadaisical attitude towards work and absence from office, among others. The issue came into the public domain during a court hearing when Verma told the judge that he had filed a police complaint against Vatsa for physically assaulting him. The court has summoned the DIG on October 19. CBI spokesperson RK Gaur said a fact-finding inquiry has been set up to look into the allegations. On October 8, Vatsa gave an official complaint against Verma. The next day, Verma met the DIG at his office where he allegedly misbehaved with the latter and had to be taken away by other officers present, sources claimed. However, Verma disputed this version and filed a police complaint in Lodhi Colony Police Station claiming that the DIG punched him in his face. He claimed that he visited the DIG’s office on October 9 at around 10.30 am where the officer punched him in the face and asked him to sit and talk. Verma claimed that Vatsa punched him for the delay in the framing of charges against Kejriwal’s private secretary. The agency had filed a charge-sheet against Kumar nearly four years back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-initiates-inquiry-after-public-prosecutor-accuses-dig-of-punching-him-in-the-face-901401.html
13-10-2020||National||Indian Railways to run more special trains during festive season||With the festival season starting, Indian Railway Board on Tuesday approved operation of 196 pairs (392) of special trains from October 20 to November 30. The zonal railways has to decide schedule and day of running of these trains. These trains are special trains and will operate at minimum speed of 55 km so that that they remain super speed services. Fare will be "Special Train Fare," the Railway Board said in its communication to zonal railways. "The zonal railways should make efforts to operate these trains with more AC-III coaches in good conditions," said the communication. With the increased demand for trains due to coming festival season, the railways has decided to operate more trains, the officials in the national transporter said.  The Northern Railway on Monday announced operating 40 trains starting from October 15. These trains include Jan Shatbdi, Duronto, Rajdhani and AC Express. The Railway Board also last week approved operation of 39 special trains from different divisions, and will commence its operation from October 15 onwards. "The railways is taking stock of passenger train services on daily basis. Depending on the needs and state government request, the railways will take decision on operating more trains," Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav had said earlier. IRCTC also said it will restart operations of its two Tejas Express trains from October 17 between Lucknow-New Delhi and Ahmedabad-Mumbai. The Railways has currently suspended all regular passenger trains indefinitely. Regular trains have remained suspended since March 22. It started operations of 15 pairs of premium Rajdhani special trains connecting Delhi with different parts of the country on May 12, and 100 pairs of long-distance trains on June 1. It also started 80 trains additionally on September 12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-to-run-more-special-trains-during-festive-season-901408.html
13-10-2020||National||Centre doesn't view crimes from the prism of caste, religion: Kishan Reddy||The Narendra Modi government does not believe in viewing crime from the "prism of caste, creed or region" as any crime is against humanity and peace, Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said on Tuesday. Inaugurating the 21st All India Conference of Directors, Fingerprint Bureau 2020, he also said the government would never tolerate crimes against women and the downtrodden and take all measures in ensuring speedy and decisive justice for all victims. His comments came against the backdrop of the gang-rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit girl in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras. The CBI took over the case on Sunday on the request of the UP government and investigators on Tuesday visited the spot where the girl was sexually assaulted. Reddy said law and order is a state subject but the Centre has an important role in monitoring and tracking crime, in modernisation of police forces, and in capacity building and in extending assistance to State governments in improving policing. In 2019-20, he said, the Centre had released Rs 780 crore for modernisation of police across the country. Emphasizing on the importance of fingerprints, Reddy said that fingerprint is an essential tool because of its uniqueness, permanency, individuality and ease in acquisition. The digitization of records and fingerprint data is an important step forward in documenting and tracking crimes and criminals. The fully computerised National Automated Fingerprint Identification System (NAFIS) would soon become functional and benefit police forces, he said. He also unveiled the e-Cyber Lab set up by NCRB with state of the art cyber forensic tools.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-doesnt-view-crimes-from-the-prism-of-caste-religion-kishan-reddy-901409.html
13-10-2020||National||7th round of Sino-India military talks over LAC 'positive and constructive': Joint statement||The seventh round of military talks between India and China was "positive and constructive", and both sides agreed to earnestly implement the understanding reached by their leaders to not turn differences into disputes, a joint statement by the two armies said on Tuesday. The two sides deliberated on ways to disengage from various friction points in eastern Ladakh during the nearly 12-hour-long talks in Chushul on the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) on Monday. India and Chinese troops are locked in a border standoff in eastern Ladakh for over five months. "The two sides had a sincere, in-depth and constructive exchange of views on disengagement along the Line of Actual Control in the western sector of India-China border areas," the joint press statement said. The statement said both sides were of the view that these discussions were "positive, constructive" and had enhanced understanding of each other’s positions. "Both sides agreed to maintain dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels, and arrive at a mutually acceptable solution for disengagement as early as possible," the statement added. "Both sides agreed to earnestly implement the important understandings reached by the leaders of the two countries, not to turn differences into disputes, and jointly safeguard peace and tranquility in the border areas." At the first informal summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping in April 2018, the two sides had emphasised on not allowing difference to become disputes. This understanding has featured in multiple statements by the two countries since then. The summit had taken place months after the Doklam episode that had significantly strained ties between the two neighbouring countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/7th-round-of-sino-india-military-talks-over-lac-positive-and-constructive-joint-statement-901413.html
13-10-2020||National||From the Newsroom: CBI team visits Hathras crime spot; 3 Dalit sisters attacked with acid in UP||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom,  A CBI team visits the spot of Hathras crime; three minor sisters belonging to a Scheduled Caste attached with acid; Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday said that Covid-19 vaccine is expected to be available in India by early-2021; Attorney General K K Venugopal says the comments made freely on print and electronic media on pending matters in an attempt to influence the judges and public perception was causing great damage to the institution; B Sriramulu rubbishes claims of rift between him and K Sudhakar; Congress corporator R Sampath Raj named as one of the accused in Bengaluru violence; A BJP leader demand that beef supply to Assam zoo be stopped immediately.    Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom— your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald. Here are the top news of October 13, 2020: A CBI team on Tuesday visited the spot in Hathras where a 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly gangraped on September 14, officials said. The team called the victim's brother to identify the place and directed the local police to cordon off the crime scene, nearly a month after the woman was allegedly raped and assaulted by four men of the village. The investigators are likely to return with forensic experts from Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) to carry out a detailed crime scene recreation, they said. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Amid the nationwide outrage over the alleged gang rape and brutal murder of a Dalit teen in Hathras, three minor sisters, hailing from the same community, were attacked with acid in Uttar Pradesh's Gonda district, The sisters, aged 17, 12 and eight respectively, were sleeping on the second floor of their house in Paraspur area in the district, when someone threw acid on them around midnight on Monday. One of the sisters, whose wedding had been fixed, suffered serious injuries on the face, chest and neck. The two other sisters suffered minor injuries, police said. All of them were admitted to the district hospital. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday said that Covid-19 vaccine is expected to be available in India by early-2021 and it will come from more than one source, ANI reported the minister as saying at a meeting of Group of Ministers. He also added that experts are formulating strategies to plan the rollout and distribution of the vaccine. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Attorney General K K Venugopal on Tuesday said the comments made freely on print and electronic media on pending matters in an attempt to influence the judges and public perception was causing great damage to the institution. The top law officer voiced serious concern over media trial in pending cases, while putting forth his arguments before a bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar in a 2009 contempt case against advocate Prashant Bhushan. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The Central Crime Branch, probing the violence in Bengaluru over an 'inflammatory' social media post, has named former Mayor and sitting Congress corporator R Sampath Raj as one of the accused in the case, police said on Tuesday. A top police officer investigating the case told PTI that Sampath was amongst those who had information about the violence and did not share it with the police.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa appeared to have brokered peace between his Cabinet colleagues B Sriramulu and K Sudhakar after it was widely reported that the rift between the two widened following a reshuffle of portfolios. Both Sriramulu and Sudhakar met Yediyurappa and a photo op followed. Referring to Sudhakar as “brother” and “friend”, Sriramulu said: “He’s a doctor. The CM’s idea of making him minister for health and medical education was to usher in some reforms.” ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- A young BJP leader in Assam and a few of his supporters blocked a vehicle carrying beef for carnivorous at the Assam State Zoo in Guwahati on Monday with a demand that beef supply be stopped immediately as the Hindus worship the cows. "Hindus worship the cows. Why can't the beef be replaced with any other meat for the animals in the zoo? They can give the sambar meat to the carnivorous," the leader, Satya Ranjan Borah said while leading the protesters Borah, who has been making communally-sensitive statements ahead of Assembly elections slated next year, said that they would continue with the protests to stop slaughtering of cows for the consumption of animals in the state zoo.Recently, he demanded that Madrassas and the scholarship given to the Muslims be stopped.   ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- That is it today, From the Newsroom. Tune in tomorrow morning for our feature show, The Lead. If you liked this show, please share this podcast with your friends, family and on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-cbi-team-visits-hathras-crime-spot-3-dalit-sisters-attacked-with-acid-in-up-901422.html
13-10-2020||National||Probe all instances of use of force by police in enforcing Covid-19 guidelines: NHRC||Contending that rising stress among personnel is leading to more incidents of police misconduct, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has issued advisory listing measures to be taken, including probing the use of force in enforcing Covid-19 guidelines, addressing cases of domestic violence and minimise factors that lead to various forms of aggression by personnel. While asking the police across the country to take proactive measures to address work-related stress, the NHRC has also asked the administration to ensure that there is an investigation into all instances of the use of force by its personnel in enforcing Covid-19 guidelines like lockdown of containment zones and social distancing norms. As on September 28, more than 1.24 lakh police personnel have tested positive for Covid-19 and 674 died with the NHRC saying that many agencies were caught unprepared for the mental stress that their officers would experience. Apprehending a second wave or future outbreaks of the pandemic, the NHRC said it is to be kept in mind that the pandemic has a "disastrous impact" on the poor and it is important that the police devise sensitive approaches to the hardships and frustrations of the people. Personnel should be sensitised to develop a deep understanding of how people are being affected by the lock-down. In instructions to state police chiefs, the advisory said they should reach out to the personnel more often with circulars and appreciations besides looking into their grievances. Measures also should be taken to build immunity among personnel. Amid complaints that police had committed excesses while enforcing lockdown earlier, the NHRC said that any use of force in managing the assembly must be proportionate and only when necessary and authorised by law in accordance with procedural safeguards. "The SOP should state that all use of force will be investigated, and excess force penalised," the advisory insisted. At the same time, the advisory acknowledged that police personnel have been expected to coordinate local shutdowns, encourage social distancing, and enforce stay-at-home mandates all while completing the responsibilities for which they are "already understaffed and underfunded". "Law enforcement officers are not immune from the stress that Covid-19 placed on the general population...As first responders normally and more so during the shutdown, they may experience increased stress risk due to the prolonged threat of virus exposure and stay-at-home ordinance compliance enforcement," the advisory said adding police personnel are forced deal with implementing "unpopular rules that they did not create" and are challenged on political, legal and economic grounds. The NHRC said that the country is witnessing more incidents of police misconduct, which is associated with an increase in organisational stressors. Therefore, it said, there is a need for soft-skill training as an integral part of the training curriculum. The advisory also asked Station House Officers to avoid arrests in minor and bailable cases. "Arrests and remand to be undertaken only in serious cases. In non-bailable offences, the accused should be produced before the court at the earliest if he or she is no longer required for investigation," it said. Other instructions included wearing masks and gloves during arrest and avoiding long conversations with motorists during vehicle checking.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/probe-all-instances-of-use-of-force-by-police-in-enforcing-covid-19-guidelines-nhrc-901424.html
13-10-2020||National||Inclusion in selection list gives no indefeasible right for appointment: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said mere inclusion in the selection list does not give an indefeasible right to a candidate as the employer has a right to refuse appointment on any valid ground.  A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and M R Shah declined to come to any rescue of a candidate whose final selection in Madhya Pradesh judiciary as a district judge was struck down due to pendency of a dowry harassment case filed by his wife. "The persons who occupy judicial service of the state are persons who are expected to have impeccable character and conduct," the bench said while dismissing a petition filed by Amit Bhardwaj against the High Court's judgement of January 6, 2020.  The HC declined to consider his plea, even on the ground that he had, subsequent to the rejection of his appointment, got acquitted in the case.  The top court pointed out it was not disputed that the criminal case under Section 498A and 406 IPC was pending at the time when he applied for the recruitment, and appeared for the interview and when the result was declared.  However, the character verification report mentioning pendency of the criminal case was the reason for the Appointment Committee to declare him unsuitable to the post, the court added. "The mere fact that subsequently after more than a year when the person whose candidature has been cancelled has been acquitted cannot be a ground to turn the clock backward," the bench said. In such cases, the bench pointed out, the constitutional courts can interfere with the decision of the selection committee only when rejection is arbitrary and actuated by mala fide.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/inclusion-in-selection-list-gives-no-indefeasible-right-for-appointment-sc-901445.html
13-10-2020||National||No fresh allocation of Krishna river water among all basin states: Centre assures||Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat has clarified that his ministry will not go for making fresh allocation of Krishna river water among all river basin states- Karnataka, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, instead the Centre is looking for sharing of water between Andhra Pradesh and Telangana only,  Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs Prahlad Joshi said on Tuesday. "I spoke to Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Krishna river water issue and he said that Krishna river allocation to Karnataka has already completed. Now the Centre is discussing on water allocation between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh," Joshi tweeted. "The Centre will only now refer the Krishna water sharing dispute between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh to Krishna Water Dispute Tribunal. This means, the Tribunal has to share erstwhile united Andhra Pradesh share of 1005 tmc feet of Krishna river water between newly created Telangana and Andhra Pradesh," said an official in the Jalshakti Ministry. Earlier, Union Minister Shekhawat's assurance to Telangana Government to refer the Krishna river water sharing dispute between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh to Krishna Water Dispute Tribunal had triggered speculation if the Centre will open the door for fresh allocation of river water among all river basin states- Karnataka, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. "Shekhawat's assurance to Joshi brings relief to Karnataka. Earlier, the state was apprehending that reopening settled dispute of allocation of Krishna water among riparian states and making fresh allocation, will be a major blow to Karnataka,"  said an official in the Karnataka Government. Singh, in his recent  joint meeting with Telangana Chief Minister K C Rao and Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jagan Reddy for resolving water dispute between the two states, has assured that the Centre is ready to refer the Krishna water allocation issue to the Krishna Water Dispute Tribinal headed by Justice Brijesh Kumar if Telangana withdrew its pending petition in the Supreme Court. Singh was refering to Telangana Government's pending petition in Supreme Court seeking fresh allocation of Krisha river water among all basin states-Karnataka, Maharashtra, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. The Krishna Water Dispute Tribunal, headed by Justice Brijesh Kumar in 2010, had pronounced the award by alloting 911 tmc feet of water to Karnataka, 666 tmc feet to Maharashtra and 1001 tmc feet to erestwhile united Andhra Pradesh. However, the Tribunal gave its final award in 2013 by reducing Karnataka share by 4 tmc feet and alloting it to Andhra Pradesh. Thus, Andhra Pradesh got 1005 tmc feet of water. However,  after forming separate Telangana state, bifurcating united Andhra Pradesh in 2014, Telangana demanded more water and asked for fresh allocation of water among all basin states. Telangana approached the Tribunal, which rejected its plea and in turn asked both Andhra Pradesh and Telangana to share among 1005 tmc feet of water allocated to united Andhra Pradesh. Questioning this, Telangana government had approached the Supreme Court and the matter is still pending. Karnataka, which has been opposing any fresh allocation of water among all river basin states, suggested that both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh should share 1005 tmc feet allocated to erestwhile united Andhra Pradesh. However, the Jal Shakti Ministry did not notify the Tribunal's final award despite Karnataka pressing for early notification.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-fresh-allocation-of-krishna-river-water-among-all-basin-states-centre-assures-901447.html
13-10-2020||National||PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti released from detention: J&K govt spokesperson||PDP president and former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir Mehbooba Mufti is being released after being in preventive detention for more than 14 months following the abrogation of Article 370 last year. "Ms. Mehbooba Mufti being released," JK government spokesman Rohit Kansal tweeted. Mehbooba, who became the first woman chief minister of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir in 2016 as head of the PDP-BJP alliance, was arrested along with other leaders hours ahead of the Centre bifurcating the state into two union territories and abrogating Article 370. She was first detained under Sections 107 and 151 of CrPC but later booked under the controversial Public Safety Act. Initially, Mehbooba was lodged at Cheshma Shahi guest house and then shifted to another government guest house at M A Link Road here. The PDP president was then taken to her residence where she remained under house arrest. Mehbooba's daughter, Iltija, had challenged her detention in the Supreme Court, which last heard the case on September 29. Former Jammu and Kashmir chief ministers and National Conference leaders Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah were released in March after over seven months in detention.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pdp-chief-mehbooba-mufti-released-from-detention-jk-govt-spokesperson-901472.html
13-10-2020||National||Covid-19: Students who missed JEE Advanced to get chance to directly reappear in 2021||Students who missed the Joint Entrance Exam-Advanced for admissions to IITs this year would be allowed to appear for the test next year. “To address the concerns of the affected candidates, while avoiding prejudice to other candidates, it has been decided to allow all the candidates, who had successfully registered to appear in JEE (Advanced) 2020 but were absent in the exam, to appear in JEE (Advanced) 2021, as a one-time measure,” the Joint Admission Board said in a statement here. Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi was responsible for conducting JEE Advanced this year. The JAB has also considered relaxation of the eligibility criteria and decided to permit an extra attempt for those candidates who were unable to appear in JEE (Advanced) 2020 on account of being Covid-19 positive. “To ensure equal opportunity to all, the JAB has also decided that these candidates will not have to qualify JEE (Main) 2021 and will be allowed to directly appear in JEE (Advanced) 2021 on the basis of their successful registration to appear in JEE (Advanced) 2020,” the JAB said. It said this relaxation of existing eligibility criteria will be in addition to proportionate relaxation of age bar. Of the 2.5 lakh students who were eligible to appear for JEE Advanced, only 1.5 lakh had taken the exam. Over 43,000 candidates, including 6,707 girls, have cleared the exam. JEE Main for admission to engineering colleges was conducted from September 1 to 6 and JEE Advanced on September 27 amid strict precautions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Staggered entry and exit of candidates, use of sanitisers at gates, distribution of masks and social distancing as candidates queued up, were followed at examinations centres across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-students-who-missed-jee-advanced-to-get-chance-to-directly-reappear-in-2021-901489.html
13-10-2020||National||Centre's lessons in branding, marketing for tribals||With a growing demand for forest products, Centre on Tuesday launched an initiative with the IIT Kanpur to train tribals to better market their products and help them run micro-enterprises. The Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation of India (Trifed) launched the six-week training programme for tribals that aims to tap the traditional knowledge and skills and add branding, packaging and marketing skills to optimise their income. The ‘Tech for Tribals’ initiative utilises the market-led enterprise model by setting up Van Dhan Kendras across 21 states and one union territory and involving 3.68 lakh tribal gatherers. Trifed has also roped in institutions such as IIT-Kanpur, Art of Living-Bengaluru, Tata Institute of Social Sciences-Mumbai, Kalinga Institute of Social Sciences-Bhubaneswar, Vivekananda Kendra-Tamil Nadu, SRIJAN-Rajasthan, for conducting the training programmes in Chhatisgarh, Kerala, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Odisha, Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan. “Tech for Tribals is a unique program to make tribals of India ‘Aatmanirbhar’, focussing to bridge the gap between tribal entrepreneurs and urban markets,” Pravir Krishna, Managing Director, Trifed, said at a function to launch the initiative. In a bid to promote minor forest produce, the government had launched an initiative to market it and develop a value chain during the lockdown period. “The Van Dhan tribal start-ups, a component of the same scheme, has emerged as a source of employment generation for tribal gatherers and forest dwellers and the home-bound tribal artisans,” Krishna said. The ‘Tech to Tribals’ initiative began on Tuesday with the training of tribals from Chhatisgarh in different facets of micro-enterprise creation, management and functioning. “The training module has been developed by IIT, Kanpur and will be disseminated among beneficiaries in a phased manner through various modes like online lectures and training, online activities and will gradually move to face to face interactions in classrooms, practical, onsite visits and exposure visits,” a Tribal Affairs Ministry statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centres-lessons-in-branding-marketing-for-tribals-901490.html
13-10-2020||National||Ties will keep growing no matter who wins presidential poll: US assures India||The United States has reassured India of continuity in the bilateral strategic partnership, no matter whoever wins the forthcoming presidential elections in America. Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla and the US Deputy Secretary of State, Stephen Biegun, had a meeting on Tuesday to review the bilateral relations and discuss the deliverables of the forthcoming 2+2 dialogue. “For three decades, each successive US administration has successfully built upon and deepened the accomplishments of its predecessor in our relations with India,” Biegun said in a speech he delivered at an event after arriving in New Delhi on Monday. “I am confident that, regardless of the outcome of our presidential election next month, the vital partnership between the US and India will continue and deepen over the decades to come.” The polling on November 3 will decide whether President Donald Trump will get a second four-year term in the White House or former Vice President John Biden will succeed him. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh will host their US counterparts – Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Defence Secretary Mark Esper for the 2+2 dialogue in New Delhi on October 26 and 27. This is going to be the last high-level engagement between New Delhi and Washington D.C. before the US presidential elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ties-will-keep-growing-no-matter-who-wins-presidential-poll-us-assures-india-901527.html
13-10-2020||National||Covid-19: Centre releases norms to manage co-infections||The Union Health Ministry on Tuesday released a set of guidelines for managing co-infections in Covid-19 patients in an effort to aid the doctors who would be seeing many such cases in post-monsoon India. The next few months are tough times for the doctors given the seasonal pattern of epidemic-prone diseases like dengue, malaria, seasonal influenza, leptospirosis, chikungunya, enteric fever and scrub typhus that is routinely seen in some parts of the country or the other. Such diseases pose challenges in clinical and laboratory diagnosis of Covid-19 and have a bearing on clinical management and patient outcomes. Since the case definition of Covid-19 is not very specific, almost of the above mentioned diseases will appear as febrile illness, with symptoms that mimic Covid-19. As a result, in case of a co-infection, it may lead to difficulty and consequent delay in diagnosis. “Symptoms do overlap and that’s where clinical experience and training comes in. There are tell-tale signs that doctors would use to identify the disease because a delay in management may be detrimental and that’s where the guideline will help,” Nitin Gupta, assistant professor of infectious diseases at the Kasturba Medical College, Manipal, told DH. Treating co-infections like dengue in a Covid-19 patient is tricky as some of the treatment options are counter-productive. For instance, patients with severe Covid-19 are at a risk of clotting for which treatment guidelines recommend low-molecular-weight heparin, a blood-thinning medication. But in dengue cases, use of heparin is a strict no-no as it increases the risk of platelet depletion and bleeding. “In concomitant cases of dengue and Covid-19, it’s a call that the treating doctor takes on a case-by-case basis. If the platelet count is too low, we don’t give heparin,” Gupta. Diseases like leptospirosis (caused by rodent urine and seen commonly after flood) and scrub typhus (caused by a mite) too are associated with platelet count drop; but it’s more serious in dengue. Detected in time, both leptospirosis and scrub typhus are curable with antibiotics. Since Covid-19 and seasonal influenza present as Influenza Like Illness (ILI)/Severe Acute Respiratory Illness, all ILI/SARI cases in areas reporting Covid-19 cases must be evaluated and tested for both Covid-19 and Seasonal Influenza, if both viruses are circulating in population under consideration. The Health Ministry guidelines recommend use of the anti-viral oseltamivir for patients co-infected with influenza. In case of an outbreak of seasonal influenza, oseltamivir “blanket therapy” should be considered for all patients with Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-centre-releases-norms-to-manage-co-infections-901528.html
13-10-2020||National||Full list of 196 pairs of special trains for festive season||Ahead of the festive season, which is set to kick start later this month, the Ministry of Railways has released a list of 196 pairs of special trains which will be operated from October 20 to November 30. Additionally, the fare applicable to these trains will be the same as the fare set for previous special trains as per the commercial circular no 30 of 2015. The Railways has ordered the zonal department to make efforts to run these trains with more AC-III tier AC coaches in 'good condition'. Here is the full list of the trains as per the order issued by the Railways:    The Ministry of Railways had suspended normal operations of trains following the imposition of the nationwide lockdown on March 25. It had run 'Shramik Specials' for facilitating the movement of migrants who sought to return to their homes during the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/full-list-of-196-pairs-of-special-trains-for-festive-season-901529.html
13-10-2020||National Politics||Times Now-CVoter opinion poll predicts NDA victory in Bihar Assembly elections||Ahead of the upcoming Bihar Assembly elections, Times Now-CVoter opinion poll has revealed that over 50 per cent of the people are satisfied with PM Modi's performance. It has predicted poll victory for the NDA.  Bihar goes to poll in three phases on October 28, November 3 and 7. The results will be declared on November 10. The poll battle will witness a contest between the BJP-Janata Dal(U)-Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) alliance against the Congress-Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) besides others. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/times-now-cvoter-opinion-poll-predicts-nda-victory-in-bihar-assembly-elections-901267.html
13-10-2020||National Politics||Delhi's air quality hits 'very poor' level, first time this season||The national capital's air quality was in the “very poor” category on Tuesday morning, the first time this season, with calm winds and low temperatures allowing the accumulation of pollutants. According to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi, an increase in farm fires in Punjab, Haryana and neighbouring regions of Pakistan is also going to impact the air quality in Delhi-NCR. The city recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 304 at 9:30 am, which falls in the “very poor” category. The 24-hour average AQI was 261 on Monday, the worst since February. It was 216 on Sunday and 221 on Saturday.   Wazirpur (AQI 380), Vivek Vihar (AQI 355) and Jahangirpuri (AQI 349) recorded the highest pollution levels. An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. A senior scientist at the Delhi Pollution Control Committee said the dip in the air quality can be attributed to low wind speed and temperatures which allowed the accumulation of pollutants. “Stubble burning has also increased in neighbouring states. Also, the ventilation index is low,” he said. Ventilation index is the speed at which pollutants can get dispersed. A ventilation index lower than 6000 sqm/second, with average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersion of pollutants. PM10 levels in Delhi-NCR stood at 300 micrograms per cubic meter (µg/m3) at 9 am -- the highest this season so far, according to CPCB data. PM10 levels below 100 µg/m3 are considered safe in India. PM10 is particulate matter with a diameter of 10 micrometres and is inhalable into the lungs. These particles include dust, pollen and mould spores.  The levels of PM2.5 – finer particles which can even enter the bloodstream – were 129 µg/m3. PM2.5 levels up to 60 µg/m3 are considered safe. NASA's satellite imagery showed a large cluster of fires near Amritsar and Firozpur in Punjab and Patiala, Ambala and Kaithal in Haryana. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research, farm fires contributed 3 per cent particulate matter to Delhi's PM2.5 concentration on Monday. It is likely to be “negligible” for the next two days due to a change in the wind direction from northwesterly to southeasterly, the government agency said. On Tuesday morning, the maximum wind speed was 4 kilometres per hour, according to the India Meteorological Department. Low temperatures and stagnant winds help in the accumulation of pollutants near the ground, affecting air quality. With Delhi-NCR bracing for months of poor air quality, experts have warned that high levels of air pollution can aggravate the Covid-19 pandemic. Severe air pollution in Delhi is a year-round problem, which can be attributed to unfavourable meteorological conditions, farm fires in neighbouring regions and local sources of pollution. According to an analysis by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water, a Delhi-based think tank, transportation contributes the most -- 18 to 39 per cent -- to Delhi's air pollution. Road dust is the second-largest source of air pollution in the city (18 to 38 per cent), followed by industries (2 to 29 per cent), thermal power plants (3 to 11 per cent) and construction (8 per cent). This year, the Delhi government has launched a massive anti-air pollution campaign -- “Yuddh Pradushan Ke Viruddh' -- which is being led by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Environment Minister Gopal Rai. A “green war room” with a 10-member expert team has been set up at the Delhi Secretariat to monitor the steps being taken to deal with high levels of air pollution in winters. The environment department has also taken stern action against project proponents at large construction and demolition sites flouting dust control norms. The government will also start the spraying of “Pusa bio-decomposer” solution in non-basmati rice fields in the national capital, on Tuesday. The solution, experts say, can turn the stubble into manure in 15 to 20 days and therefore, can prevent stubble burning. Starting October 15, stricter measures to fight air pollution will also come into force in Delhi and its neighbourhood as part of the Graded Response Action Plan, which was first implemented in Delhi-NCR in 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/delhis-air-quality-hits-very-poor-level-first-time-this-season-901290.html
13-10-2020||National Politics||Polls for 11 Rajya Sabha seats in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand on November 9||The polling to fill in 11 vacancies in the Rajya Sabha from Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh will be held on November 9, the Election Commission stated on Tuesday. The vacancies will be created on November 25, when 10 Rajya Sabha members from Uttar Pradesh and one from Uttarakhand will retire. The retiring MPs from Uttar Pradesh include union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri, Ram Gopal Yadav of the Samajwadi Party and P L Punia of the Congress. The Congress’s Raj Babbar, who was elected to the Rajya Sabha from Uttarakhand, will also retire on November 25. The EC stated that the notification for the polling would be issued on October 20 while the deadlines for filing and withdrawing nomination had been set as October 27 and November 2. The poll-panel added that every person would put on masks during all activities related to the elections in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Besides, body temperatures of all persons would be checked at the entrance of the halls or rooms used for polling or pre-polling activities related to elections, apart from sanitization.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/polls-for-11-rajya-sabha-seats-in-uttar-pradesh-uttarakhand-on-november-9-901362.html
13-10-2020||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi slams Yogi Adityanath over acid attack on three girls in UP||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday slammed the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh over the acid attack on three sisters in Gonda, claiming that its “politically motivated” narrative of “protecting” perpetrators of crimes against women has emboldened them. Priyanka, the AICC General Secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh, was referring to reports of acid attack on three sisters in Gonda. “The UP government’s politically motivated narrative of justifying and protecting perpetrators of crimes against women has only emboldened criminals across the state,” she said on Twitter. The Congress leader also tagged a short video of the victim’s father narrating the acid attack on his daughters. “This man’s three daughters aged 17, 10 & 8 were asleep in their home when someone entered and threw acid on them,” Priyanka said. Priyanka has been launching sharp attacks on the BJP government in the state in a bid to project Congress, which has been relegated to the margins, as the key challenger to Yogi Adityanath in the state. The sharp attacks also come at a time when the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party appear to be dormant politically in the state. Priyanka had also attacked the Yogi government over the Hathras incident in which a 19-year-old Dalit woman from the district was allegedly raped and attacked by four men.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-slams-yogi-adityanath-over-acid-attack-on-three-girls-in-up-901404.html
13-10-2020||National Politics||No freedom to speak truth in Congress, alleges Khushbu Sundar||Actor-politician Khushbu Sundar on Tuesday claimed she was insulted in the Congress and wondered how the grand old outfit could do good for the nation when there was "no freedom to speak the truth" within the party. A day after joining the BJP, Sundar said though Congress set in motion initiatives like the Goods and Services Tax while it was in power, it was keen on only finding faults, be it the tax reforms or the farm laws of the Centre just for the sake of opposing the saffron party. Even while she was in the Congress, the actor said she had welcomed the National Education Policy and abolition of the triple talaq. "I was insulted (in Congress party) and not invited for party events. I used to get to know about programmes only after seeing newspapers," she claimed, addressing her maiden press conference at the BJP's Tamil Nadu headquarters 'Kamalalayam' here. Despite such an ambience, she remained committed to the Congress till she quit it, she said. She joined the BJP at Delhi on Monday after quitting Congress where she had been its national spokesperson for six years. Pointing to leaders including Jyotiraditya Scindia quitting the Congress and the party "sidelining 23 leaders" who wrote to top leader Sonia Gandhi recently, she asked: "when there is no freedom to speak the truth within the party, how then could one expect it to do good for the country." Asked on her taking part in a recent protest here over the Hathras case and attacking the BJP, she said at that time she was in the Congress and hence toed the party line and she was also requested by office-bearers in Delhi. To a question on switching loyalties between one party to another, she said she would stay put with the BJP for all time. From 2010 to 2014, she was with the DMK. Known for her views espousing the rights of women, the actor said she continued to remain a "Periyarist" (follower of rationalist leader Periyar's ideology) as she would go on to champion the cause of women. She said Periyar fought for the rights of women and oppressed people including Dalits and to be a Periyarist, there was no need to subscribe to all of his ideologies, seen as a reference to his commitment to atheism. Also, she said the BJP as well stood for the rights of women and Dalits. On some in Congress claiming that they saw her as a mere actor when she was with the party, she said it only showed their "male chauvinism" that no woman should come up in her life based on her talent and work. To a question, she said just because that she has joined the party she did not expect the organisation to field her in elections (Assembly elections next year). "I leave it to senior party leaders." Asked about claims that she joined the BJP only because of her husband Sundar C's persuasion, she dismissed it and asserted that she came to the party on her own for doing good to people and not expecting anything.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-freedom-to-speak-truth-in-congress-alleges-khushbu-sundar-901419.html
13-10-2020||National Politics||P Chidambaram counsels patience before GST action||After an acrimonious meeting of the GST Council, 10 Opposition-ruled states are awaiting a response from Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on the options suggested by them to resolve differences over-payment of compensation, before resorting to the legal route. “I would advise patience for a few days to await the government’s decision. Then the states will decide what to do,” former finance minister P Chidambaram said when asked about the stormy GST meeting. He said states such as Punjab and Kerala were exploring options to resolve the GST compensation issue. said the non-BJP states had suggested invoking the dispute resolution mechanism, setting up of a Group of Ministers and some alternative options to resolve the vexatious issue of compensating states for the loss of GST revenue. “I was told that instead of responding the issue, the Finance Minister abruptly rose and left the meeting. This is unfair...you have to debate and come at a consensus,” he said recalling that Sitharaman’s predecessors, including Yashwant Sinha and Arun Jaitley had always worked towards a consensus. Chidambaram dismissed the fiscal stimulus package announced by Sitharaman on Monday as “much ado about nothing”. “The grand announcement on Monday was no stimulus package to push economic growth, it was another sly attempt to dazzle the people with exaggerated numbers and lead them to believe that the government is hands-on and responsive to the needs of the people and the economy,” he told reporters. Chidambaram said Sitharaman’s announcement was also a candid confession that the earlier “so-called s 20 lakh crore package was a massive failure”. “It was a failure because it was a hoax,” he said. Chidambaram rued that the most deserving people – the bottom half of the families in India – who need the money desperately have once again been left in the cold. “The government stubbornly refuses to make a cash transfer to their accounts as recommended by dozens of economists and as demanded by the Congress and other political parties. I am sure they are watching the government's pitiful efforts to revive the economy that will register a de-growth of 10 per cent in 2020-21,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/p-chidambaram-counsels-patience-before-gst-action-901530.html
13-10-2020||North and Central||Schools in Punjab to reopen from October 15||The Punjab government said on Monday that a decision had been taken to reopen schools and coaching institutions from October 15 in a graded manner. Students of only classes 9-12 are permitted to attend schools with parental consent and without making attendance compulsory, according to a statement. However, online classes shall continue to be the preferred mode of teaching and be encouraged. The schools, which are being allowed to open after October 15, will have to mandatorily follow the standard operating procedures, to be issued by the School Education Department. Higher educational institutions only for research scholars and post-graduate students in science and technology streams laboratory work are also permitted to open after October 15, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/schools-in-punjab-to-reopen-from-october-15-901151.html
13-10-2020||North and Central||Media trial causing great damage to the institution, says Attorney General K K Venugopal||Attorney General K K Venugopal on Tuesday said the comments made freely on print and electronic media on pending matters in an attempt to influence the judges and public perception was causing great damage to the institution. The top law officer voiced serious concern over media trial in pending cases, while putting forth his arguments before a bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar in a 2009 contempt case against advocate Prashant Bhushan. "Today, when I watch TV, I see comments about the bail application based on statements stated to be made to police. Another trend, for example, in a case like Rafale, on the day when the bench is taking up the case, there is an article commenting about the case," he said. Venugopal submitted before the court that the issue needs to be addressed. Senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, appearing for Bhushan, for his part, said the issue of sub-judice was already covered by the Sahara judgment by the Constitution bench (2012). He said taking up the issues will expand the cause. He, however, agreed that the questions need to be refined and reformulated. Dhavan also pointed out the petitioner has suggested 10 questions of law and the bench has framed three for adjudication. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for then editor of Tehelka magazines Tarun Tejpal, said that the problem needs to be seen in the light of the new communication systems. Venugopal said he would discuss the questions with Dhavan and Sibal and other parties, for determination by the court. The top court had on September 10 sought assistance from Venugopal in the contempt case, arising out of Bhushan's Tehelka magazine interview accusing half of 16 retired Chief Justices of India of corruption. On August 31, the top court imposed a nominal fine of Re one on Bhushan as sentence after having held him guilty of suo motu criminal contempt in a separate case on August 14 for his tweets.  Among the questions framed for consideration in 2009 case are what procedure should be adopted if statements are made in public alleging corruption in sitting and retired judges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/media-trial-causing-great-damage-to-the-institution-says-attorney-general-k-k-venugopal-901308.html
13-10-2020||North and Central||SC notice to Centre on plea for mechanism to verify social media profiles||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued notice to the Union government on a PIL for bringing in mechanism to ensure age-based control of access to social media and development of profile verification to remove illicit content from such platforms. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian decided to examine the plea filed by law students from Bharti Vidyapeeth, Pune Skand Bajpai and Abhyudaya Mishra. The court sought a response from the Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology and Law and Justice, among others, on the petition. The petitioners claimed multiplicity of accounts and unverified identities facilitated anonymity, making it easier for unscrupulous elements to upload illicit and graphic personal information on social media. They sought a direction for formulating guidelines for verifying the social media profiles and mapping of a cyber offender. They asked the court to direct the government to include online safety in curriculum and bring in legislation to penalise impersonation on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-for-mechanism-to-verify-social-media-profiles-901326.html
13-10-2020||North and Central||Lockdown stories: Snapshots of Delhi frozen into stillness and quiet||Quiet burials, an eerily empty Raisina Road, a shutters down Khan Market and a migrant worker staring wordlessly out of the page…  snapshots of a Delhi frozen into stillness during the lockdown are documented for posterity in a new coffee table book.   When India went indoors in March to curtail the spread of Covid-19, photographer Parul Sharma stepped outside to capture frame by frame the unprecedented weeks and months of silence in the national capital.   The result is the lavishly laid out Dialects of Silence: Delhi Under Lockdown published recently by Roli.   Sharma remembers the day she ventured out with her camera. It was April 3, barely 10 days after India went into lockdown on March 25. She knew what was unfolding before her was a story of a lifetime and so hit the streets with her camera in hand.   "When the lockdown was declared on March 23, no one in the city knew what was happening outside of their doors. There was an eerie silence and the air resonated with fear. Rumours were rife and horror stories were being exchanged on social media platforms. I thought it would be a good idea to get out, drive my car and see the reality," the Delhi-based fine arts photographer told PTI. Her efforts yielded about 10,000 never-before-seen black and white images of a deserted Delhi. Of these, about 120 were chosen for her debut book. What we have is the “frozen reality” of life in Delhi, showing images of empty vistas of Raisina Hills, an unnervingly silent Khan Market, the solitary columns of Connaught Place and the monuments of Old Delhi sans people or activity. Divided into five sections, the book also features photographs of the destitute and the desperate, the migrants, labourers and sex-workers abandoned by a city they had made their home and thousands forced to trudge back to their villages hundreds of kilometres away. "Every morning the first thought was to get out, chart new parts that I had not photographed, and to capture those images that would tell a story painful or otherwise for the years to come about where we lived, and what we lived through," said Sharma, who specialises in urban architectural forms, India's cultural heritage and human portraits. As one month slipped into another, the story went from bad to worse. The spiralling Covid-19 count also took its toll on the "exhaustive and inadequate health system". Through Sharma’s lens, the reader sees the bruised faces of doctors and nurses after hours of layering up in masks, PPE suits, gloves, hooded caps, face shields, goggles, gowns, shoe covers and towels.       Sharma, who visited the AIIMS Covid-19 wards, captured up close and personal moments of patients and frontline warriors facing arguably the biggest battle of their lives.      "Every crisis is made bearable by the kindness and heroism of some. I found kind heroes in abundance in the Covid wards of AIIMS. No PPE could conceal the urgency and determination of the doctors and nurses," Sharma writes in the book.   The inspiring images of dedicated AIIMS staff are followed by heart-wrenching photographs of plastic-wrapped bodies and quiet funerals at the Nigambodh electric crematorium, the Muslim burial ground behind Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg and the Christian cemetery in Mangolpuri.    "The fear of getting infected and dying by Covid overtook the centuries-old requirements of prayer and ritual at these sites of final rites to honour the dead. These stark images will always haunt me," said Sharma.   With so much happening around, wasn't she scared of contracting the virus?   "A photographer does his or her job in a war zone. You cannot be looking here and there to duck bullets or in this case, a virus. You photograph, as close to the action as possible before that image escapes you forever," she said. The last few images in the book, a barber decked in a PPE attending to the coiffure of a solitary client in a salon, a barista wearing a face shield pouring coffee into a cup place on an empty food counter, chronicles the easing of lockdown restrictions since June. Sharma is working on other book projects, including a book on Mumbai's Colaba district. She still takes photographs every day and said the four months were a "once in a lifetime experience" that can’t be replicated. Proceeds from the sales of "Dialects of Silence: Delhi Under Lockdown", priced at Rs 2,995, will support Cosmo Foundation Community's outreach initiative to facilitate educational programmes in several rural districts and schools in Maharashtra, Gujarat and also in the Delhi-NCR region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lockdown-stories-snapshots-of-delhi-frozen-into-stillness-and-quiet-901341.html
13-10-2020||North and Central||States should stop blaming each other on stubble burning, need to take it seriously: Arvind Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said state governments should stop blaming each other and work together to find a solution to the issue of stubble burning, one of the major reasons for the yearly problem of poor air in Delhi-NCR during winters. Kejriwal said while farmers of neighbouring states and people of Delhi are bearing the brunt of stubble burning, “governments have shut their eyes”. “State governments should stop blaming each other. We have to work together to find a solution to the issue… All agencies and governments need to take it seriously now,” he told reporters in Hiranki village in Narela where the spraying of Pusa bio-decomposer solution started on Tuesday. The solution, experts say, can turn the stubble into manure in 15 to 20 days and therefore, can prevent stubble burning. “I am worried about farm fires in neighbouring states. The smoke has started affecting Delhi's air quality…Air pollution was under control for the last 10 months, but it has started increasing again,” the chief minister said. Imagine the impact of stubble burning on the families of farmers who have no option but to burn the crop residue. Farmers don't burn it willfully, he said. While the farmers of neighbouring states and the people of Delhi are bearing the brunt of stubble burning, governments have shut their eyes. I hope that they take concrete steps so that the entire north India gets rid of high levels of air pollution,” he said. The Pusa bio-decomposer is being sprayed free of cost in around 800 hectares of land in Delhi where non-basmati rice is grown. The national capital's air quality hit the “very poor” category on Tuesday morning, the first time since February, with calm winds and low temperatures allowing accumulation of pollutants. According to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi, an increase in farm fires in Punjab, Haryana and neighbouring regions of Pakistan is also going to impact the air quality in Delhi-NCR. The city recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 303 at 8:30 am, which falls in the “very poor” category. An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. NASA's satellite imagery showed a large cluster of fires near Amritsar and Firozpur in Punjab and Patiala, Ambala and Kaithal in Haryana. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research, farm fires contributed 3 percent particulate matter to Delhi's PM2.5 concentration on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/states-should-stop-blaming-each-other-on-stubble-burning-need-to-take-it-seriously-arvind-kejriwal-901358.html
13-10-2020||North and Central||Three Dalit sisters attacked with acid in UP's Gonda, one serious||Amid the nationwide outrage over the alleged gang rape and brutal murder of a Dalit teen in Hathras, three minor sisters, hailing from the same community, were attacked with acid in Uttar Pradesh's Gonda district, about 150 kilometres from Lucknow. According to the police sources here, the sisters, aged 17, 12 and eight respectively, were sleeping on the second floor of their house in Paraspur area in the district, when someone threw acid on them around midnight on Monday. One of the sisters, whose wedding had been fixed, suffered serious injuries on the face, chest and neck. The two other sisters suffered minor injuries, police said. All of them were admitted to the district hospital. ''She has suffered burn injuries on her face, neck and chest,'' said her father, who works as a 'dhobi' (washerman) for a living. As the girls cried in pain, when their parents, who were sleeping on the ground floor, rushed to their room and found them writhing in pain, police said. The attacker managed to flee from the spot, police added. Sources said that the 'sagai' (a ceremony before the marriage) of the eldest sister was to take place after ten days. Police said that a case was registered and the investigations were on. ''We suspect that someone from the locality may have perpetrated the crime,'' said a police official in Gonda on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-dalit-sisters-attacked-with-acid-in-ups-gonda-one-serious-901365.html
13-10-2020||North and Central||MCDs unable to run hospitals because of corruption, alleges Satyendar Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Tuesday alleged corruption in the functioning of the BJP-led municipal corporations and said that's the reason civic bodies have not been able to run their hospitals properly. No reaction was immediately available from the MCDs. Jain, who is also the Delhi urban development minister, had on Monday asked his department to issue letters to all the three MCDs, asking them to clear the dues of healthcare workers and supporting staff at north Delhi's Hindu Rao and Kasturba hospitals or hand over these facilities to the city administration. The doctors say they have not received their salaries for months. "The Delhi government has given them (MCDs) their share of funds. They collect multiple taxes, but all the money goes into their pocket. There is large scale corruption in MCDs and that is the reason they are unable to run their hospitals properly," Jain alleged. "We have already asked them to hand over these facilities to the Delhi government. It will help them save a lot of money," the health minister told reporters. Jain also asked people to take precaution during the festive season and reiterated the importance of wearing a mask. An expert group, headed by Dr VK Paul of NITI Aayog, had recently advised the Delhi government to prepare for a surge of 15,000 per day Covid-19 cases. In its report, it suggested that winter months make respiratory illnesses more severe, and festival-related gatherings could lead to sudden rise in cases and patients from outside Delhi might also arrive in large numbers. The minister said the number of new cases has remained below the 3,000-mark for 11 consecutive days. On Monday, Delhi's cumulative Covid-19 count rose to 3.11 lakh with authorities reporting 1,849 new cases, while 40 fatalities took the number of deaths to 5,809.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mcds-unable-to-run-hospitals-because-of-corruption-alleges-satyendar-jain-901367.html
13-10-2020||North and Central||Eight arrested for blackmail, rape of minor girl in Jhansi hostel||Eight students of a government polytechnic institute here have been arrested after their college mate, a minor girl, was allegedly blackmailed and raped inside the hostel, with the district administration saying it may invoke the stringent National Security Act against the accused. Jhansi Senior Superintendent of Police Dinesh Kumar P said the girl was allegedly raped by one of the accused while others stood outside even as an examination was underway on the campus and the teachers were busy conducting it. “Since, the crime spot -- the hostel -- was a bit away from the college building, nobody noticed it," the SSP said, adding the girl filed a complaint against them. All the accused were arrested by Monday night and they have been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the SSP said. He also said it is a matter of probe as to how the students reached the hostel despite it being closed. He said a case has been registered and it will be taken to a fast-track court so that justice is served expeditiously and the accused given a harsh punishment. “During the probe, it was found that all the accused persons are students of the government polytechnic college. They also extorted Rs 3,000 from the girl by blackmailing her," the SSP said. District Magistrate A Vamsi Tuesday said orders have issued to rusticate all of them from the college. “The district administration is mulling to invoke the stringent National Security Act. At the time of the incident, an examination was underway at the Government Polytechnic and despite this the accused indulged in the act. Hence, a strong message should go to society," he said. Under the NSA, an individual can be taken into preventive detention without a charge for up to 12 months if the authorities are satisfied that the person is a threat to national security or law and order. A Special Investigation Team has been formed at the local level to help the policemen from Sipri Bazar police station, under whose jurisdiction the crime spot falls, to probe the case, SSP Dinesh Kumar P said. A joint team of the Circle officer (city) and city magistrate are probing the matter. He said the girl was being offered counselling so that she or her parents don't face any mental pressure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/eight-arrested-for-blackmail-rape-of-minor-girl-in-jhansi-hostel-901370.html
13-10-2020||North and Central||Harassed by in-laws, woman tries to immolate self before UP assembly building, critical||Woman, an alleged victim of 'love jihad' Muslim youths marrying Hindu girls under false pretenses), attempts to immolate herself in front of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly building in Lucknow as her in-laws refused entry into their house by her in-laws after her husband left for a Gulf country for work on Tuesday. She suffered serious injuries and was admitted to a hospital, where her condition was stated to be critical. According to the police sources, the woman, was a resident of Maharajganj district, about 350 kilometres from the state capital, had earlier married one Akhilesh Tewari but they got divorced after a year. She later married a Muslim youth and converted. Her husband left for a Gulf country for work, a few days back. Sources said that her in-laws threw her out of the house onec her hubby had left. The woman approached the authorities and also embarked on a dharna outside her house, but still was denied entry. Sources also said that she came to Lucknow to meet senior officials and ministers but could not meet them. Anguished, she tried to self-immolate herself by pouring kerosene on her. Police said that some scribes, who were present at the nearby BJP office, and cops managed to douse the flames. BJP leaders said that it was a case of 'love jihad'. The UP government was contemplating a law against 'love jihad', aimed at barring religious conversions through force, cheating and allurements and would also cover conversions under false pretenses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/harassed-by-in-laws-woman-tries-to-immolate-self-before-up-assembly-building-critical-901382.html
13-10-2020||North and Central||UP: 8 arrested after minor student blackmailed, raped in Jhansi hostel; dist admin mulls invoking NSA||Eight college students have been arrested after a minor girl was allegedly blackmailed and raped inside their hostel here, with the district administration saying it may invoke the stringent National Security Act against the accused. Jhansi Senior Superintendent of Police Dinesh Kumar P said the girl was allegedly raped by one of the accused while others stood outside the hostel even as an examination was underway on the campus and the teachers were busy conducting it. “Since, the crime spot -- the hostel -- was a bit away from the college building, nobody noticed it," the SSP said, adding the girl filed a complaint against them. All the accused were arrested by Monday night and they have been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the SSP said. He also said it is a matter of probe as to how the students reached the hostel of government polytechnic institute despite it being closed. He said a case has been registered and it will be taken to a fast-track court so that justice is served expeditiously and the accused are given a harsh punishment. “During the probe, it was found that all the accused persons are students of the government polytechnic college. They also extorted Rs 3,000 from the girl by blackmailing her," the SSP said. Police also said the girl had gone to meet a friend and they were near the college when the accused forcibly took her to the hostel. She said the accused also thrashed her friend when he tried to intervene. District Magistrate A Vamsi said orders have issued to rusticate all of the accused from the college. “The district administration is mulling to invoke the stringent National Security Act. At the time of the incident, an examination was underway at the Government Polytechnic and despite this the accused indulged in the act. Hence, a strong message should go to society," he said. Under the NSA, an individual can be taken into preventive detention without a charge for up to 12 months if the authorities are satisfied that the person is a threat to national security or law and order. A Special Investigation Team has been formed at the local level to help the policemen from Sipri Bazar police station, under whose jurisdiction the crime spot falls, to probe the case, SSP Dinesh Kumar P said. A joint team of the Circle officer (city) and city magistrate are probing the matter. The SSP said the girl was being offered counselling so that she or her parents don't face any mental pressure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-8-arrested-after-minor-student-blackmailed-raped-in-jhansi-hostel-dist-admin-mulls-invoking-nsa-901384.html
13-10-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath to witness star-studded Ramlila at Ayodhya's Lakshman Kila||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will witness this year a star-studded Ramlila at Lakshman Kila in Ayodhya, which will be telecast live in 14 languages, including Urdu, across the country. He will be one of the few in the audience for this year’s Ramlila as no general audience will be allowed to watch the show physically due to the Covid-19 restrictions. The nine-day dramatic folk re-enactment of the life of Lord Ram as per the epic Ramayana will be a virtual affair this year. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic restrictions, Ramlila will be performed without spectators but will be telecast live on social media platforms and Youtube between October 17 and 25. “Yogi ji has accepted our invitation and he may visit Ayodhya on any day of the Ramlila to watch it," said director Subhash Mallik of Delhi Ramlila Committee, which has been allowed by the Uttar Pradesh government to stage Ramlila this year in Ayodhya. Malik said he met the UP chief minister along with Ramlila committee president and BJP MP Pravesh Varma to invite him to watch the show and he consented to it. Describing Varma as the driving force behind the event, Malik said the Yogi government also okayed the telecast of the event in 14 languages, including Urdu, during Dusshera celebrations. “It will be a historic moment when Ramlila will broadcast in Urdu and the star cast will also include Muslim actors like Raza Murad and Shahbaz Khan,” said Malik. Talking of various stars enacting Ramlila this year in Ayodhya, Malik said BJP MP from North-East Delhi Manoj Tiwari will play the role of Angad, Gorakhpur MP and Bhojpuri actor Ravi Kishen will be Bharat and Vindu Dara Singh will re-enact his television role of Lord Hanuman. Actor Raza Murad will portray Ahiravan and actor Shahbaz Khan will bring alive Ravan on stage while Asrani will appear as Narad Muni and Rakesh Bedi will play Vibhishan. “We got the administration's nod for performing at Ayodhya and we will strictly follow the Covid-19 protocols," he said. "A mammoth LED screen will be installed above a grand stage which will mirror the epic ambiance of Ramayana. We'll focus on state-of-the-art light and sound arrangements so that dialogues are clear during seamless translation and broadcast,” Malik added. “A special attraction of the event will be a programme on 'Ramrajya' or places where the Lord’s feet fell and a 30-minute programme on Ayodhya's history,” said Malik. The Ramlila will be held with the cooperation of the tourism and cultural department of the Uttar Pradesh government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-cm-yogi-adityanath-to-witness-star-studded-ramlila-at-ayodhyas-lakshman-kila-901395.html
13-10-2020||North and Central||Moderate intensity quake in Shimla||A moderate intensity earthquake of magnitude 3.1 hit Shimla on Tuesday, the Meteorological Department said. There was no report of any casualty or damage to property. The quake was reported at 4.38 pm with its epicentre at a depth of 5 km north-east in Shimla, the department said, adding that tremors were felt in and around the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/moderate-intensity-quake-in-shimla-901406.html
13-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi's Hindu Rao Hospital removed from list of designated Covid-19 facilities||The civic-run Hindu Rao Hospital, where resident doctors are agitating over unpaid salaries, was on Tuesday removed from the list of designated COVID-19 facilities in Delhi. In an order issued on Tuesday, the Delhi government's health department said, Bara Hindu Rao Hospital was declared a designated hospital on June 14 in view of the surge in COVID-19 cases then. "A request has been received from the Commissioner, North Delhi Municipal Corporation for converting the Bara Hindu Rao Hospital to a non-COVID hospital,” the order said. "The matter has been examined and in view of the low average bed occupancy of the hospital and request received from the NDMC, the hospital is being removed from the list of designated COVID-19 hospitals with immediate effect," the order said. The Delhi government on Saturday had ordered shifting of COVID-19 patients from the civic-run hospital to its own facilities. The move to shift patients had come a day after the resident doctors of the hospital went on a "symbolic indefinite strike" over their salaries remaining unpaid for the past three months. Seventeen patients were shifted to LNJP Hospital and three to Aruna Asaf Ali Hospital, while there in ICU were retained. On Sunday, the sanitisation of the hospital had started, and sources had said, the OPD of the 900-bed hospital was expected to be opened again to the regular patients in a few days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-hindu-rao-hospital-removed-from-list-of-designated-covid-19-facilities-901429.html
13-10-2020||North and Central||Case against Haryana BKU chief for 'derogatory' remarks against PM Modi||The Kurukshetra police on Tuesday booked Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh for allegedly making derogatory remarks against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The complaint was lodged at the Shahbad police station, barely hours after the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader appealed to farmers to burn the prime minister's effigies during the Dussehra festival. The complaint was lodged by a social activist, Sahil. Reacting to it, the farmer leader alleged that the government is using such tactics to suppress the voice of farmers protesting against new farm laws. Police said the BKU chief has been booked for allegedly “promoting enmity” between different groups and the intent to provoke the "breach of peace" besides other charges. “A case has been registered under various Sections of the IPC against him and further investigations are under progress,” Kurukshetra Superintendent of Police Rajesh Duggal told PTI over the phone. The FIR was lodged on the basis of a video message, in which the BKU leader is seen asking farmers to burn effigies of the prime minister in all blocks in protest against the farm laws. Social activist Sahil said in his complaint that he was looking into his Facebook account when he came across the BKU chief’s video message, in which he used “derogatory words” against the prime minister. The complainant further alleged that the video message was inflammatory, which could create unrest and enmity amongst various sections of society. He said if no action is taken against Singh for his statements, it would cause harm to the unity of the country. Kurukshetra SP Rajesh Duggal said similar complaints against Singh, including from former Ladwa BJP MLA Dr Pawan Saini, have been received at various police stations in the district. He said all such complaints will be clubbed with the FIR registered at Shahbad for investigation and necessary action. Reacting to the FIR against him, Gurnam Singh said, “I have learnt that two more cases on similar grounds have been registered against me in the state today.” “The government is using such tactics to suppress the voice of farmers but they will not succeed. They have only one option, which is to withdraw the anti-farmer black laws,” he said. “No matter how many cases they lodge, our protest against these black laws will continue till the time they withdraw these legislations,” he added. When asked about his the remarks against the prime minister, Gurnam Singh said they will burn effigies of the PM in every block to protest against the new farm laws. “Then next month, there will be a one-day nationwide ‘chakka jam’ against these laws,” he said. The FIR against the BKU leader was registered at the Shahabad police station in Kurukshetra district under IPC Sections 120-B, 153-A, 504 and 505 (2), police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/case-against-haryana-bku-chief-for-derogatory-remarks-against-pm-modi-901461.html
13-10-2020||North and Central||Hathras woman's late-night cremation violation of human rights, says Allahabad High Court||The Allahabad High Court has observed that the late-night cremation of the Hathras woman who died after alleged gang-raped was a violation of human rights for which the responsibility should be fixed. The Lucknow bench of the high court also directed the state government to lay down modalities for cremation in Hathras-like situations. Considering the sensitivity of the issue, the court directed Uttar Pradesh officials, political parties and all others to avoid making any statement in public on it. A division bench of Justice Pankaj Mithal and Justice Rajan Roy also expected the electronic and print media to observe restraint while reporting and discussing the matter. The order was issued Tuesday, a day after it was reserved when the bench heard the victim’s family and government officials. It said the cremation in the middle of the night without following rituals violated the victim’s human rights as well as those of her family and relatives. The 19-year-old Dalit woman died at a Delhi hospital a fortnight after her alleged rape by four men from her village in Hathras district on September 14. She was cremated in the middle of the night in her village. Family members claimed that the cremation, which took place well past midnight, was without their consent and they were not allowed to bring home the body one last time. The hurried cremation fuelled outrage over the incident and the high court took suo motu cognizance of it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hathras-womans-late-night-cremation-violation-of-human-rights-says-allahabad-high-court-901480.html
13-10-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh's Covid-19 situation shows signs of improvement, active cases come down||There has been a downward trend in Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh for the last 26 days, with the number of active cases coming down by 44 per cent, a senior official said here on Tuesday. According to Additional Chief Secretary, Medical and Health Amit Mohan Prasad, the number of active cases in the state is 38,082. The number of those treated and discharged is 3,97,570, while 6,466 people have died due to the disease. So far, 1,21,92,619 tests have been done in the state. "In the past 24 hours, the state had 3,033 fresh cases while in the same period 3,662 people were discharged," he told reporters here. On Monday, 1,51,367 samples were tested in Uttar Pradesh, Prasad said. "There were 29 fresh deaths in the state since Monday. The state is witnessing a downtrend in the number of cases from the past 26 days and there is a 44 per cent decline in the number of active cases in this period," the official said. The state witnessed its peak of over 68,000 cases on September 17, he said The recovery rate of the state is now 90 per cent while among the active cases 17,162 are in home isolation, the official said. Among the fresh deaths, the highest seven were from Lucknow, a health bulletin issued here said. Since the Covid-19 outbreak, the highest number of deaths (790) have been recorded in Lucknow, followed by 704 in Kanpur and 302 in Prayagraj, it said. Among the fresh cases, 270 were from Lucknow, 266 from Varanasi, 183 from Moradabad besides other districts, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradeshs-covid-19-situation-shows-signs-of-improvement-active-cases-come-down-901486.html
13-10-2020||Opinion||Political parties need to engage in a deeper way on the question of rape. Here’s how it can be done||Should rape be politicised? India’s political parties can’t make up their mind. If they happen to be in power, such politicisation is unwelcome, sensationalist, smacking of cheap one-upmanship. If they happen to be in Opposition, it is a moral and civic obligation. So, we have a peculiar situation where, at one point of time or another, all major political parties have accused rivals of – and been accused by rivals of – politicising rape. The inconsistency is unacceptable. The case for political engagement with rape, indeed gender violence overall, is strong. And it applies to both ruling and Opposition parties. For this piece, we keep the focus on rape, though much of what is said extends to other forms of gender violence.  Why engagement is a necessity The misogyny, casteism, and power imbalances underlying rape require intervention both in the social and legal domain. Given their opinion mobilisation capacities and the influence they command over lawmaking and implementation, political parties can have a key role in imagining and realising solutions. Even if they are less proactive than they should be (a distinct possibility), there is little prospect of things shaking up without political buy-ins. Moreover, political parties are expected, duty-bound really, to engage with rape, the attitudes, vulnerabilities, and structures that allow it to happen – and happen with impunity. While parties in government are responsible for ensuring women’s safety, law and order, early and full prosecution of the guilty, and victim’s dignified rehabilitation, those in the Opposition are responsible for pressuring governments into ensuring these. The confrontation element in this division of labour notwithstanding, the object remains – or, at least, should remain – common: Preventing the crime and ensuring justice for its victims. The consequences of a ‘consensus’ on not politicising rape will be disastrous. If rulers go silent because crime has been perpetrated under their watch and the Opposition is silent because of this daft consensus, victims and their families would stand further isolated and disillusioned, criminals will be further emboldened, and, we will be on a slippery slope down which would lie many more injustices and conspiracies of silence abetting them.  Finally, the argument that political mobilisation can degenerate into petty politicking and is, therefore, unhelpful holds little water. This is so because the ones making this argument often have questionable motives. It is invariably those in power and in the dock who urge not to politick. What they seek is not space for healing but time for voters to forget, not space for crafting solutions but respite from anger and criticism.  The danger of fundamental issues being forgotten after the ruling party’s interests have been salvaged or the Opposition has extracted the political mileage it was seeking remains, but the chances of such forgetfulness are higher amidst politically-agreed silences, lower if the din lasts.   Contours of a political concensus on fighting rape  This still leaves us with the question of how episodic and partisan mobilisations – valuable as they are – can be complemented with a more considered, sustained, nonpartisan engagement.  For starters, such nonpartisan engagement could focus on arriving at a set of commitments all parties make. These common commitments could be around specific efforts any party in power should make towards strategising attitudinal resets, ensuring professional and sensitive investigations, and delivering timely convictions.  They should also develop in-party mechanisms for handling charges of gender violence brought against party members and clear outlining of offences which would render individuals ineligible for election tickets and organisational responsibilities.  They should also develop simple, measurable, and verifiable indicators for the above on which all parties agree to regularly self-disclose and be assessed through independent audits. It won’t be easy. These commitments are challenging to extract in the best of times. They will be particularly tough at this juncture, a time marked by blind loyalty to party and leader, bitter political relations, and collapsing spaces for introspection and dialogue.  In these circumstances, it is overly optimistic to expect political parties to sit together, agree, and sign off on a basic set of commitments, even if – and this is deeply disturbing – the issue happens to directly bear on the safety and well-being of half the nation’s population.  In the tradition of Track II diplomacy, where backroom players set the stage for front room ones unwilling to be seen hobnobbing, the initial stage-setting for a nonpartisan engagement could be done by women’s organizations, think tanks, and other civil society formations. Of course, they would be working with leaders – Dalits, women, and really anyone amenable to privileging conscience over party loyalty – from across party lines to flesh out these commitments, issue them from a neutral platform, and enjoin all political parties to endorse them.  Sustained pursuit and assessment and dissemination of comparative party performance on identified indicators could further build pressure on parties to sign up. As for political parties who remain lukewarm despite all the effort, let them be shamed, let their record be presented in the people’s court. But if fingers are to be credibly raised, others will have to pick up the gauntlet and act before that.  It is time to make a start. (Manish Dubey is a policy analyst and writer)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/political-parties-need-to-engage-in-a-deeper-way-on-the-question-of-rape-here-s-how-it-can-be-done-901193.html
13-10-2020||Opinion||This Nobel-winning idea has failed India||By Mihir Sharma Economists like to think of themselves as mathematicians — or, if feeling momentarily humbler, as physicists. This year’s winners of the Nobel Prize in economics, however, seem to conceive of themselves more as engineers. Like Alvin Roth and Lloyd Shapley, who won the prize in 2012, Paul Milgrom and Robert B. Wilson are specialists in “market design,” a field which, as Roth wrote in a famous paper, calls for “an engineering approach.” Roth argued that market designers should take bridge-builders as their exemplars: “Engineering is often less elegant than the simple underlying physics, but it allows bridges designed on the same basic model to be built longer and stronger over time, as the complexities and how to deal with them become better understood.” The bridge that Milgrom and Wilson built was the 1994 auction of telecommunications spectrum by the Federal Communications Commission, later called “the greatest auction in history.” In its 50th anniversary volume, the National Science Foundation used the $7 billion in revenue the auction generated as a justification for its years of support of game theorists. Since then, auctions have become the gold standard for the distribution of all sorts of natural resources, from exploration permits to mining leases to railway franchises. It is almost taken for granted that, if properly designed, auctions will find the ideal balance between efficiency and revenue generation. But, it turns out, economists don’t actually work like engineers. The example set by the FCC auction has in many ways turned out to be very unhelpful, particularly in emerging markets. There are lots of reasons for this. One is built into the notion of auction design itself. In much of the early academic literature on auctions, economists tried to maximize the sum of state revenue and consumer surplus. But setting goals is the task of regulators and politicians, not economists. Policymakers may have multiple other considerations, complicating market design considerably. South Africa had three failed auctions between 2010 and 2017, for instance, because regulators sought to design them to further the government’s broader economic inclusion agenda. To general amusement, the government announced last month that it was trying again. It’s even worse when countries try to maximize just one variable, because for bureaucrats and politicians that variable is usually government revenue. Economists generally don’t object because revenue is easier to measure than consumer utility, making their job simpler. In India, for example, the government has grown addicted to using telecom spectrum revenue to help finance its deficits. But the more a company pays for spectrum, the lower its profits and the less it has left to invest in new infrastructure. In India, high fees have led to high levels of debt. Constant demands from the government for cash have caused telecom providers to look for the exit. And spectrum scarcity leads to low-quality service: In 2019, India had 50 times as many subscribers per MHz of spectrum as did Germany. Indians at least should have known this would happen. The country’s telecom revolution — which drove its years of high growth in the 2000s — only took off after the government moved away from auctions and started assigning spectrum to licensees in return for a share of their revenue. Worse, for those who imagine that auctions designed to maximize government revenue would at least maximize government revenue: The new system brought in twice as much in fees as the auction bids would have. And suppose that, in order to ensure government revenue was robust, auctions set their reserve price too high, as has happened in Ghana and Bangladesh? Would consumers be served well by a poor-quality oligopoly or even a monopoly? Would that benefit the broader economy? Can Milgrom, Wilson or their successors design an auction model that takes into account the effect on the overall economic growth of vibrant and cutting-edge telecom infrastructure? Maybe they can. All I can say for certain is nobody has. That doesn’t mean they should not try. This is a well-deserved Nobel prize not because the bridge these economists built can be erected over any kind of river, but because it got built in the first place. The true miracle was the transparent, inclusive, academically informed process that led to its design. It ensured that the specific complexities of that market at that time were clearly reflected in the eventual auction design. Market designers can’t give up because they haven’t been able to replicate that Nobel-worthy success. They need to work harder and think bigger.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/this-nobel-winning-idea-has-failed-india-901217.html
13-10-2020||Panorama||Missed shot at inclusive legal education||The Karnataka High Court on September 28, quashed the NLSIU (Amendment) Act.  The amendment was passed in March of this year and provided a 25% horizontal reservation for students of Karnataka across the existing slots of ‘General, SC and ST’. The National Law School of India University was established in 1986 by the state government upon the recommendation of the Bar Council of India to create a “national-level institution in the State of Karnataka.” The division bench held that the Amendment was contrary to the primary Act itself. NLSIU, like all other National Law Schools (Universities) of the country, does not provide for OBC and EWS reservations. Amidst the chaos of NLS’s NLAT and CLAT, the discussion around the state’s reasoning in the Amendment has been diluted. The Amendment defined students who have studied in a recognised educational institution of the State for not less than ten years as students of Karnataka and confers them with benefits. Its objects and reasons provide that all other National Law Schools provide for domicile reservations and the absence of such reservation (s) at NLSIU had “deprived” students of Karnataka this opportunity.  To understand deprivation in Karnataka, one needs to look at regions like Hyderabad-Karnataka, which consistently remain in the margins. The Hyderabad-Karnataka region is constitutionally recognised (under Article 371-J) and has been recently renamed as Kalyan Karnataka (hereinafter KK). The KK region includes six north-eastern districts of Bidar, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Raichur, Koppal and Ballari, which have consistently underperformed on almost all Human Development Index (HDI) fronts, particularly education. The Karnataka High Court raised questions about who would benefit from this reservation and observed that the reservation must be to uplift, not to hand admissions on a platter. With all of the political rhetoric around ‘renaming’ the region, students from the KK region are left hanging yet again.  It is appalling to see how conveniently the state has forgotten its constitutional obligation to this region while it was conceptualising students of Karnataka for the Amendment. This inquiry is important to put the Act’s envisioned deprivation into perspective. Both the current policy and the arguments presented before the court have reduced the definition of students of Karnataka to mere numbers. In conceptualising students of Karnataka, the legislators have undermined their aspirations. Considering the high entry fee of CLAT which starts at Rs 3,500 - Rs 4,000, and the likelihood of candidates who might benefit, the High Court’s observation that this reservation will largely benefit only students from elite schools in well-connected areas of Karnataka is well-founded. There has been no deliberation over or consideration given to socio-economic realities by our legislators while enacting the amendment. This amendment in no sense strives to make legal education in ‘premiere’ universities like NLSIU accessible to students. By misplacing the focus on reservations based on shallow parameters that neglect the complex and saddeningly stunted reality, and by creating a blanket term for students of Karnataka, the government refuses to engage with realities of regions like KK.  The state needs to acknowledge reality and avoid lip-service amendments of providing opportunity based on easy percentages that neither address real issues nor contribute to betterment, deliberately or inadvertently. The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) for instance accounts for deprivation points which are based on the categories (SC/ ST/ OBC/ PwD and EWS) and the districts the candidates have completed grade X and XII from. This is a better way to actually gauge who is deprived rather than arriving at the conclusion that since an arrangement was missing from the apparatus, a set of students have been or will be deprived of opportunities. The Act does not even address the implementation of OBC and EWS reservations in NLSIU, which could have actually addressed some of the deprivation. Further, the amendment remains vague and ambiguous about what this reservation, with its reductive definition, can do for the students of Karnataka.  The Amendment is contrary to the primary Act and against accessibility to legal education, especially for the students of Karnataka. The policy-makers’ consideration of socio-economic conditions, rather the lack of it, in this policy reflects the deprivation of students from regions like KK. (The writer is a student at NALSAR University of Law)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/missed-shot-at-inclusive-legal-education-901187.html
13-10-2020||Panorama||Moratorium and loan waivers versus credit discipline||Why do people repay a loan? Firstly, because they are bound by a loan contract to repay. If they break the contract, there could be a remedy in the form of a punishment or penalty. Secondly, if the loan is against a pledged collateral, then non-repayment can result in the loss of that collateral. Often, the value of the collateral is more than that of the loan. Hence, it is better to repay rather than suffer a bigger loss. Thirdly, repayment creates good credit history. That becomes part of a public record, which is useful for getting future loans. Indeed, in the case of micro-finance loans, which have zero collateral, repayment helps the borrower remain in good standing in the eyes of the lender. Thus, repayment ensures the availability of repeat loans. In informal markets such as vegetable vending, a loan could be taken every day to buy produce from wholesale markets, which is sold in retail and the loan repaid with interest at the end of the day. A fourth reason for repayment, especially valid in informal markets, could be due to sheer coercive power, or threat of physical harm. Lastly, repayment of a loan could also be due to the moralistic value, that not repaying your debts is a sin. As we can see, there are many angles to loan repayment, and the sum total of all this is what is called ‘credit discipline’. The economy works if credit discipline is sound and ingrained in both borrowers and lenders. It is this which has to be nurtured and reinforced to ensure that credit becomes available to all who need it. It is credit creation which leads to the expansion of economic activity and growth. An individual may take a loan for education or buying a house. It represents borrowing from his or her own future earning to build an asset (education degree or a house) in the present. Similarly, a company may borrow to fund working capital needs or capacity expansion, and loan repayment occurs from future earnings. Underlying all this is the foundation of a strong credit discipline. The banking system critically depends on a credit culture, so that despite legitimate defaults on loans (due to business downturns), it can serve the needs of a growing economy. Hence, when repayment is halted by official sanction, it becomes a very critical decision, with long-term and deep consequences. Thus, when a political decision is taken to give loan waivers to farmers, it has consequences for the credit culture. Firstly, it is unfair on those farmers who toiled hard to repay and avoid default. Secondly, with repeated waivers, it encourages the behaviour of ignoring repayment discipline. Thirdly, it makes bankers and lenders circumspect, and avoid lending altogether. It could lead to credit contraction rather than expansion.    But, of course, in times of acute distress there is no alternative to loan waivers as an emergency medicine. Even in such cases, a moratorium or loan restructuring is preferable, rather than an outright waiver. The former leaves open the possibility of repayment, by adjusting the timetable.   If a waiver, which is less preferable, or a moratorium, which is better for credit culture, is decided by the government, then the lender needs to be compensated from the fiscal resources, that is, by taxpayers. Will the taxpayer agree that this is in the best interest of all? What if the lender has been hurt by willful defaulters? What if there has been fraudulent lending based on collusion and corruption? Is it fair to impose the burden of the consequent bad loans on taxpayers? Are public sector banks and cooperative banks more prone to defaults and fraudulent lending? How do we improve governance and credit management in public sector and cooperative banks? These are questions beyond the scope of the present column. The question of protecting and nurturing credit culture has become relevant due to a public interest litigation in the Supreme Court. The Reserve Bank of India, as regulator of all banks, allowed a six-month moratorium on repayment of all term loans, including home loans, credit card outstanding dues, and other retail loans. This was a temporary measure to help borrowers tide over problems of cash flows caused by the sudden stoppage of economic activity due to the severe lockdown. However, during the moratorium, interest and repayment dues were accumulating. The total amount of loans affected is more than Rs 38 lakh crore, so that the accrued interest during the six months is itself about Rs 2 lakh crore. This accrued interest, whose payment has been postponed, is itself like a fresh loan, whose interest burden, in turn, is about Rs 5,000 crore.        The petitioners in the Supreme Court are seeking a waiver of interest on interest. It amounts to denting credit culture. Paying interest is equivalent to paying the time value of money. It is the interest earnings of banks which allows them to repay their depositors with interest on savings and fixed deposits. If those interest earnings are denied, the banks will suffer, and will have to ask for a fresh equity infusion from their owners, shareholders. Since the Government of India is the principal shareholder of public sector banks, it amounts to asking taxpayers for help. So, we are back to square one. Rather than imposing an unfair burden on banks, it is better that the government takes it squarely on its chin and gives relief directly from the exchequer, i.e. taxpayer funds. Otherwise, waiving of interest will cause harm to the credit discipline and culture built painstakingly over the years. At a time of recession, when the banking system may have additional bad loans amounting to Rs 4 lakh crore by next March, it is critically important to shield banking from the ill-effects of waivers and moratorium extensions. As the RBI itself submitted to the court in its affidavit, the problem now calls for a comprehensive loan restructuring package through fiscal resources, rather than extending waivers and vitiating credit culture. It is imperative that the court recognises this larger danger. (The writer is an economist and Senior Fellow, Takshashila Institution) (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/moratorium-and-loan-waivers-versus-credit-discipline-901524.html
13-10-2020||Panorama||A blow to NGOs||The Centre For Social Impact and Philanthropy in its report has pointed out that there will not only be an increase in school dropouts and child marriages but also a decrease in immunisation and access to healthcare due to the economic downturn induced by Covid-19. This will make it strenuous for India to achieve its sustainable development goals. During such testing times, especially when there have been reports of a 40% plunge in foreign contributions in India, the Foreign Contribution Regulation (Amendment) Act, 2020 (FCRA) has been passed without much debate. The amendments pose grave concerns to the development of non-governmental organisations (NGOs) in India.  The thresholds for administrative expenses of NGOs have been reduced from 50% to 20%. Imposing such a cap not only results in ‘legislative overreach’ but will also adversely affect think tanks and NGOs where the expenses for providing services to the social sector are counted as ‘overheads’. This will greatly hamper innovation, impact measurement, and livelihood of workers at such organisations. It is also believed that the said cap on expenses will result in the closing down of multiple small-scale NGOs that are responsible for vital works among the commons. Under the previous regime, redistribution of funds was allowed only to the FCRA compliant organisations. But the new amendment completely prohibits the redistribution of foreign funds which might disincentivise bigger NGOs from funding smaller NGOs. This will push the funders to support larger organisations instead of smaller ones who focus on the upliftment of marginalised communities. This might result in a dearth of funds for the smaller NGOs, especially when there have been projections of a decline in the social impact funds due to Covid-19 thereby leading to their extinction. The work of smaller NGOs in remote areas will also suffer especially since they work in tandem with the bigger NGOs. The government’s allegations of ‘misuse of FCRA funds’ for anti-national activities by NGOs have never been substantiated with valid proofs. Thus, requiring channeling all the funds through the New Delhi branch of the State Bank of India (SBI) is unnecessary and will result in high transaction costs for such organisations. A public sector bank such as the SBI might exacerbate the constraints imposed on NGO’s through bottlenecks due to their limited knowledge about the FCRA mandates. NGO’s are now required to provide details of Aadhaar cards of all their office-bearers, directors, and key functionaries to the government, supposedly to add accountability of all actors involved in FCRA activity. The Supreme Court ruling in Justice K. S. Puttaswamy (Retd.) and Anr. vs Union Of India And Ors regarding the application of Aadhaar does not support the idea. Although some non-governmental organisations (NGOs) engage in dubious activities, many upright bodies exist among them. It may be indecorous on the government’s part to limit the activities of such organisations. The International Commission of Jurists (ICJ) has stated that the FCRA amendments are not in consonance with India’s international law obligations. The amendments are in violation of the Article 22 of International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) as it obstructs human rights defenders and civil society organisations from carrying out their important activities. Also, the amendments completely disregard the discussions made in the UN Special Rapporteur for freedom of Assembly and Association in 2016’ wherein it was pointed out that such laws could be used to ‘silence any association involved in advocating political, economic, social, environmental or cultural priorities which differ from those espoused by the government of the day.’ While the FCRA has increased bureaucratic control and oversight over the functioning of NGOs in India, it has deteriorated the spirit of unity and cooperation that had been ushered in by such organisations during the Covid-19 pandemic. NGOs often play a crucial role in filling the void created by the inadequacies of the government in its developmental schemes. Hence, undermining the efforts of NGOs by imposing such paralysing restrictions on them might lead to the downfall of the eco-system of NGOs in India. While Amnesty International has shut down its operations in India due to the strict FCRA mandates imposed by the government, the impact of the same on the rest of the NGOs remains to be seen. (The writers are students at School of Law, Christ (deemed to be) University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/a-blow-to-ngos-901525.html
13-10-2020||Panorama||Success, at what cost?||I often mull over my neighbour’s family in Mumbai. A young lady lived with in-laws and a school-going daughter. Once, I had called on them, maybe at an inopportune moment. This schoolkid, being academically feeble, had scored awful marks in class tests. The child’s busy father, being the family’s main bread-winner, couldn’t monitor the child’s progress.  The mother, unperturbed by child’s plumbing scores, was pursuing her passion of procuring her PhD degree. So, on that day when I visited, the couple was having a blazing dispute. The man screamed at his spouse, in stentorian tone, saying, the latter never showed attention to the small child.  The wife riposted, “I can’t ever be babysitting. The kids ought to be ‘rough ‘n tough’. I believe in hurling them in life’s deep-waters! Sink or swim, they eventually learn”! Saying this, as she stormed out, her stupefied mom-in-law started confiding in me.     "I feel sad for the neglected child. When family fabric is in tatters, bahu is busy dreaming of mending others’ lives! Ironically, her research work is of ‘women’s empowerment’! Agreed, men too have duties. But, if the father is busy, then shouldn’t the mother step in to nurture her kids? Isn’t this trait found in birds and animals, too?"  “These people want all rights or privileges of marital status, but not its concomitant duties. Funnily, when their involvement or investment in the family is execrably micro, their expectations from it are extraordinarily macro! By this attitude, they try burning others’ feelings at home. With their low tolerance, any advice from us is a major irritant to them. And, despite being cocooned in comforts, they have no guilt or qualms in playing dirty-games of sullying our family image, all to have their way.”              Well, even today, we do see many men and women, nefariously trying to raze down others’ lives, by juggernaut of selfishness, all for personal glory. Of what use is this ‘pyrrhic victory’ that causes profound pain to others? Are we unaware, ‘when we try building palaces on others’ graves, surely, they’d crash and collapse’ someday?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/success-at-what-cost-901526.html
13-10-2020||Right in the Middle||Corona and couch potato||Stay home: stay safe,” but how long? The first few days were experimental, as there was no need to go for shopping bidden by the Lady of the House, who did the shopping by herself, but during these virus times, it has become tricky. She will add a few items on the grocery list, as soon as you return with a loaded bag as per the first list. During the lockdown, the sarkar running our country had made it clear that if you didn’t stay at home, the long cane of the policeman would land on your you know where, scorching your wanderlust. Fortunately, vegetables and fruits came calling at your doorstep with the vendor’s cry, powerful enough to wake up even Corona victims. Even such relatives who habitually disturb you like an annoying fly lie low. But heavens help if you are past 75, hypertensive, diabetic, or with cardiac complications, having undergone a bypass for triple vessel blocks. Your regimental wife who takes the doctor’s word like gospel truth will tower over your cringing figure until you get up and leg it inside the 1000 sqft flat. The walk you enjoyed early in the breezy morning under the canopy of lush green leaves, on which its feathery residents, the cuckoos, sparrows, parrots would greet the world with their chirping calls are all missed. Such a brisk walk inside the flat in lieu of the conventional one is taboo, as no one can be sure of any lurking Covid-19 virus particles. While you can walk like a soldier goose-stepping in a parade ground, such movement is not possible in a matchbox-like dwelling. Inside the ‘matchbox’ one cannot commence his walk without preparatory work. The furniture in the hall has to be shifted temporarily, tables and chairs pushed to a corner. Easier said than done. The furniture you took pride for their heaviness when you bought them, will remain rooted like the rock of Gibraltar. Some have sharp corners and will go for your kneecaps or toes with vengeance, compelling you to scold them with choice abuses, no doubt in sotto voce. There is indeed one way out, unless you want to be a Harischandra who always spoke the truth, only the truth, and nothing but the truth. When your wife is in the kitchen, or out of your sight, you can claim to have done that day’s ‘walk’ and exercises. All that you will need is a straight face, but you will be cheating yourself.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/corona-and-couch-potato-901188.html
13-10-2020||Second Edit||Nadal, Hamilton and a record Sunday||On a cold Parisian Sunday, Rafael Nadal was chillingly dominant, turning his much-anticipated French Open final against World No 1 Novak Djokovic into a lopsided no-contest. His 6-0, 6-2, 7-5 demolition of the Serb reaffirmed that when it comes to red clay, there is Rafael Nadal, daylight, and then contenders to his throne. In winning a record-extending 13th title in Paris – also his 100th win at Roland Garros -- Nadal equalled his greatest rival and friend Roger Federer’s tally of 20 majors. Djokovic trails the two with 17 Slams. While an astounding 13 triumphs in Paris don't make Nadal a one-surface bully -- he also has one Australian Open, two Wimbledon and four US Open titles -- there is no denying that no one has been more invincible on a surface than Nadal on clay. The build-up to this year's event was anything but ideal for Nadal. The French tournament is usually played in late spring, but Covid-19 pushed it to autumn. The cold weather, experts felt, would be to Nadal’s detriment because it would slow the ball down and take away one of his main strengths, the high-bouncing forehand. It was also feared that the brand of heavier ball requisitioned by the organisers this year would blunt the southpaw's power game and play into Djokovic’s hands. With rain forcing the final to be played under a closed roof, the Serb’s hopes of a second French Open crown were lifted, only to be razed in no time by a ruthless Nadal. It was fitting that the greatest moment in his career came at his spiritual home, where he made his debut in 2005. That he is still the man to beat on the demanding clay of this venue, a decade and a half later, is testimony to his longevity.                Even as Nadal was toying with Djokovic, at Nurburgring in Germany, Lewis Hamilton matched another equally revered sporting achievement -- 91 Formula One wins by Ferrari great Michael Schumacher, who has not been seen in public since a skiing accident in 2013. Hamilton won his first F1 race in 2007 and followed it up with the first of his six World Championship titles the next year. Schumacher had predicted then that Hamilton would be the one to break his tally. Even the ambitious Hamilton might have at times doubted whether he would, but now he looks set to leave the German icon behind and set the benchmark for the rest to chase. Among them, intriguingly, will be Schumacher’s son Mick, slated to make his F1 debut next season.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/nadal-hamilton-and-a-record-sunday-901183.html
13-10-2020||Second Edit||An underwhelming choice for a Nobel||The award of this year’s Nobel prize in literature to American poet Louise Gluck was underwhelming, not because she did not deserve it, but because there are other writers who may have deserved it more. This year’s prize was expected to be non-controversial following a succession of controversies in recent years, from the choice of Bob Dylan in 2016 to the non-award in 2018 as the Swedish Academy itself became mired in scandals of sexual misconduct and corruption, and the selection in 2019 of Austrian author Peter Handke, who held extreme political views. After all these, the Academy was expected to make a safe choice this year, but it went too far into the safe zone. Gluck is a much-admired poet, though she is not very well-known. The Nobel committee said it awarded her “for her unmistakable poetic voice that with austere beauty makes individual existence universal.” She has produced an impressive oeuvre of fine poetry over five decades and has won important literary awards. While she is a good writer, the dissenting point is that there are many other writers who would have made the Nobel grade better than her. The names of a number of better-known writers had been shortlisted. They included Japanese novelist Haruki Murakami, Canadian author Margaret Atwood and Kenyan novelist and poet Ngugi wa Thiong’o, who has been a contender for many years. But the Academy acted true to its past by springing a surprise on the world with the choice of a writer who would be “Louise who’’ for many.  Judgements of literary merit are subjective and depend on personal tastes and values, cultural affinities, critical faculties and other factors. But the Nobel prize is considered the gold standard of literary merit and so the choice should appeal to an international readership and meet the demands of informed validation and acclaim. The academy has been seen to have a bias for western, especially European, male writers, and politics has sometimes played a part in the selection. Of the 117 prize winners to date, 75 were Europeans. Writers like Tolstoy and James Joyce did not get it, and no Indian writer got it after the 1913 prize for Tagore. There may be many issues involved, like the tastes, sensibilities and even the biases of the Nobel committee members, procedures, the translation and many other factors. These have to be rightly addressed if the prizes have to be credible or should at least remain above controversy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/an-underwhelming-choice-for-a-nobel-901520.html
13-10-2020||South||Tamil Nadu CM K Palaniswami's mother passes away||K Davusayammal, mother of Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, passed away in the wee hours of Tuesday due to heart attack at a private hospital in Salem, 345 km from Chennai.  Davusayammal, 93, was keeping unwell for some time and was receiving treatment at the hospital. She is survived by her two sons, including the Chief Minister, and a daughter.  After hearing his mother’s death, Palaniswami cancelled his official engagements scheduled for Tuesday and rushed to Salem by road. He paid last respects to his mother at the family’s ancestral home in Siluvampalayam in the district on Tuesday morning.  Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam, DMK President M K Stalin, and a host of other political leaders condoled Davusayammal’s death and prayed for her soul to rest in peace.  Panneerselvam is likely to travel to Salem later in the day to personally offer his condolences to Palaniswami.  Governor Banwarilal Purohit, Deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, DMK President M K Stalin, PMK founder S Ramadoss, Tamil superstar Rajinikanth, and a host of political leaders condoled Davusayammal’s death and prayed for her soul to rest in peace. Cabinet colleagues of Palaniswami also paid respects to Davusayammal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-k-palaniswamis-mother-passes-away-901240.html
13-10-2020||South||Covid-19 surge doesn't stop Sabarimala tokens from selling like hot cakes||The Covid-19 surge in Kerala seems to be not turning away people from temples as the online booking for darshan at the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple has sold out like hot cakes as soon as the bookings were opened, even as stringent norms like Covid-19 tests have been imposed. Devotees are being allowed at the hill shrine after a gap of around six months as the temple opens for monthly pooja from the evening of October 16 to the night of of October 21. Only 250 devotees would be allowed per day through the police's virtual queue system. The virtual queue booking was opened Saturday night and within hours almost all the slots for the time period when the temple would be open were booked. Only a total of 1,250 pilgrims were given tokens. Normally during monthly poojas there would be at least 3,000 persons per day visiting the shrine for darshan and hence this could be considered as the lowest ever devotee turn out to the temple over the last several years, sources associated with the temple said.  Travancore Devaswom Board that manages over 1,000 temples in Kerala including the Sabarimala, has estimated a revenue fall of around Rs 300 crore as the temples remained closed to devotees due to lockdown. The board president N Vasu told DH that Sabarimala alone suffered a revenue fall of Rs 150 crore. Though restricted entry of devotees are allowed at many temples now, the revenue was only around one-fourth compared to that during the previous year, he said. No mask for trekking Devotees need not wear masks during the trek to the temple as health experts pointed out that it would be quite difficult to trek by wearing a mask. Pathanamthitta district, where the temple is situated, has so far managed to keep Covid-19 under control as it is the district with the third lowest number of Covid-19 cases in Kerala despite having many risk elements like a relatively high population of the elderly. For that reason, the Sabarimala pilgrimage is a cause for concern. Moreover, government doctors have also already expressed concern in deploying additional health workers at Sabarimala as already the state was facing a shortage of health workers. District medical officer A L Sheeja said that since the number of devotees is now restricted to 250 per day, it might be possible to maintain social distancing during trekking.   Covid-19 test conducted within 48 hours before darshan is mandatory for pilgrims from other states, apart from registration on Covid Jagratha portal. Covid-19 tests are mandatory for all pilgrims ahead of trekking, facilities for which are being made at base camps. For the upcoming two month-long pilgrimage season from November 15, the daily number of pilgrims is now fixed at 1,000 on weekdays and 2,000 on weekends. It would be reviewed after analysing the situation of these monthly pooja arrangements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-surge-doesnt-stop-sabarimala-tokens-from-selling-like-hot-cakes-901314.html
13-10-2020||South||Kerala HC stays CBI probe into irregularities in Life Mission project||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday stayed for two months the CBI probe into alleged irregularities in the 'Life Mission', a state housing project envisaging total housing for the homeless. Considering a plea by the Kerala government, seeking to quash an FIR filed by the CBI, naming the project for alleged violation of FCRA, Justice V G Arun granted two months stay on the CBI investigation against "Life Mission". However it allowed the central agency to continue its probe initiated against a private construction firm in connection with the case. The Court granted the partial stay considering the Life Mission's argument that the CBI's inquiry into alleged FCRA violation cannot be maintained. The CBI had filed an FIR in a Kochi court under Section 120 B of the IPC and Section 35 of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010 on a complaint by Wadakkanchery Congress MLA Anil Akkara, listing Santosh Eappen, Managing Director of Unitac Builder, Kochi, as the first accused and Sane Ventures as the second accused. Eappen had also moved the Court seeking to quash the case registered by CBI against him in the Life Mission scam. Life Mission CEO U V Jose in his petition submitted that the FIR was "illegal, arbitrary and nothing but an abuse of the process of law and is, therefore, liable to be quashed." The CBI had questioned Jose on October 6 in connection with the alleged FCRA violation. Reacting to the High Court decision, state Law Minister A K Balan said the project has received exemption from the operation of all provisions of the FCRA. However, Anil Akkara pointed out that the High Court has not quashed the FIR registered by the CBI. During the course of argument last week, the government had submitted that CBI taking over during the pendency state vigilance probe will destroy the federal structure of the state. The CBI counsel had submitted that all that was initiated was an investigation and the state did not have the locus standi to state that it was being targeted by the agency. The alleged FCRA violation and corruption in the project had snowballed into a major political issue with opposition parties alleging that Swapna Suresh, a key accused in the gold smuggling case, had admitted before an NIA court that she had received Rs 1 crore as commission from the project. Red Crescent, an international humanitarian movement, had agreed to provide Rs 20 crore towards the Life Mission project. The opposition has alleged that there was corruption involved in the selection of the contractor by Red Crescent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-stays-cbi-probe-into-irregularities-in-life-mission-project-901355.html
13-10-2020||South||Heavy rains lash Andhra Pradesh as deep depression crosses coast||The deep depression in Bay of Bengal that crossed the coast close to Kakinada in East Godavari district on Tuesday morning left a trail of devastation as it brought with it a massive downpour in several districts of Andhra Pradesh. The State Disaster Management Authority said the deep depression crossed the coast between 6.30 AM and 7.30 AM. A woman was killed when the wall of her house collapsed at Bommuru village in East Godavari district. Rainfall ranging from 11.5 cm to 24 cm was recorded in more than 100 places in the state, primarily in East Godavari, West Godavari, Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam and Krishna districts. A cargo vessel from Bangladesh, which lay anchored in the sea, was swept close to the Tenneti Park beach in Visakhapatnam city due to the heavy wind that accompanied the storm. The Visakhapatnam Marine Police said the ships anchor got snapped because of which it was swept ashore but the 15 crew members have been rescued. Boats of fishermen were swept ashore in the storm but no casualties were reported. AP Maritime Board CEO N Ramakrishna Reddy said 13 international ships were at the Kakinada Inner Anchorage Port. Loading and unloading operations were stopped and the cargo barges were brought back to commercial canal. All 13 ships were asked to shift to Outer Anchorage for safety purpose, he said. While roads in Visakhapatnam, East Godavari and Krishna district remained battered, power distribution network also suffered damages, official sources said. Eastern Power Distribution Company Superintending Engineer A V Suryaprakash said 33 kv and 11 kv power substations suffered damages in more than 50 places. "But we have taken up repairs and restored power supply in most of the places," he said. Agriculture and horticulture crops in hundreds of acres in the two Godavari districts were inundated due to the deluge. Reports from the districts said some 'kutcha' houses collapsed due to the incessant downpour. The downpour also left hundreds of houses in many districts flooded. Tallarevu in East Godavari district recorded the maximum 24.3 cm of rainfall, Rayavaram 22.7 cm, Ramachandrapuram 20.6 cm, Akiveedu in West Godavari 20.2 cm, Mandasa in Srikakulam 17 cm, Chatrai in Krishna district 15.6 cm, Bhimili in Visakhapatnam district 15.5 cm, Visakhapatnam urban 11 cm, Bhogapuram in Vizianagaram 11 cm and Narsipatnam 10 cm of rainfall, according to the Met office here. Small rivers like Tandava, Sarada, Gostani, several rivulets and streams in these districts were overflowing due to the unabated rainfall for the last two days, sources in the SDMA said. The reservoirs in East Godavari, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari districts were filled to the brim, thanks to the rain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/heavy-rains-lash-andhra-pradesh-as-deep-depression-crosses-coast-901361.html
13-10-2020||South||Compensations to AIE crash victims a complicated process||Even two months after the Air India Express flight crash at Kozhikode international airport in Kerala, a compensation announced by the Kerala government is not yet paid, while the compensation announced by the Centre is being clubbed with the insurance compensation eligible for the deceased and survivors. While Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan announced a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh each to the dependents of the deceased and to meet the medical expenses of the injured, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had announced an interim relief of Rs.10 lakh to the dependents of the deceased, Rs. 2 lakh each to the injured and Rs. 50,000 each to those who suffered minor injuries. Puri had even specified that it would be over and above the other compensations like insurance. But Air India Express has paid the interim reliefs in accordance with the one announced by the Civil Aviation Minister and maintained that it would be deducted from the final insurance settlements. Nineteen passengers and two crew members were killed as the AIE flight from Dubai under the Vande Bharat mission skidded while landing at the Kozhikode international airport at Karippur in Malappuram district on August 7. The compensations were announced by Vijayan and Puri on the next day itself. Nishi, the wife of a victim in the crash, Cherikkaparambil Rajeevan, of Baluserry in Kozhikode, told DH that Rs. 10 lakh has been received from Air India couple of weeks back and it was told that the amount would be deducted from the insurance amount. She also said that no other assistance either from the Centre of Kerala government has been received. They also maintained that the interim relief given by the airline was the one announced by the Union Minister only. Renjith Panangad of Kasargod, who suffered injuries in the accident, said that he has only received Rs. 50,000 from Air India so far, apart from the airline authorities meeting the treatment expenses. There has been no information about any other compensations yet. Malappuram district collector K Gopalakrishnan when contacted said that payments of the compensation announced by Kerala Chief Minister were pending as instructions were awaited by the government. Meanwhile, an official at the government secretariat said that the payment process is in the final stages and it would be disbursed soon. An Air India Express spokesperson said that among the 19 dead, dependents of all adults were paid Rs. 10 lakh each and relatives of four children aged below 12 were paid Rs. 5 lakh each. As many as 92 passengers who suffered grievous injuries were paid Rs. 2 lakh each and 73 others were paid Rs. 50,000 each. This was in accordance with the interim relief announced by the Civil Aviation Minister and it would be deducted from the final insurance settlements, which may take some time, he added. Meanwhile, Nishi and Rajeeven said that most of them were of the belief that the compensations announced by the civil aviation minister immediately after the accident was over and above the insurance compensation. Around 50 passengers in the ill-fated flight were either returning owing to job loss or expiry of visa and the majority of the passengers were form average or weak financial background. Two of those injured in the crash were still under treatment and AIE is taking care of their expenses. AIE also assured to bear the follow-up medical expenditure involved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/compensations-to-aie-crash-victims-a-complicated-process-901417.html
13-10-2020||South||24-year-old nurse set on fire by estranged lover in Vijayawada; both die||A 24-year-old nurse serving at a private Covid-19 care centre in Vijayawada died on Monday night after she was doused in petrol and set on fire by her estranged lover. The man, aged 27, also suffered 100 per cent burns after the woman yanked him close to her as she was set ablaze. He succumbed to his injuries at a government hospital later. According to Vijayawada city south zone (in-charge) ACP M Ramesh, the woman, Chinnari, and the man. Nagabhushanam, who operates in the financing sector, were in a relationship for about four years. The incident occurred at a working women’s hostel in Hanumanpet under the Governorpet police station limits where the woman was living. “The two broke up some time back. On October 5, an argument ensued between the two at the same spot with the man demanding to know why she was blocking his calls. She then lodged a complaint with the police but withdrew as the man pledged not to bother her again,” Ramesh told DH. However, on Monday night, Nagabhushanam came prepared with a petrol bottle and ensnared the woman returning from the hospital past 9 pm. “It is not very clear if he poured the fuel on himself too, the petrol spilled on him in the melee or the girl yanked him close as she was set ablaze. The woman died on the spot while the man was shifted to a government hospital in Vijayawada and later to the Guntur Government Hospital where he expired,” the ACP said. A case was registered by the Governorpet police under the IPC Sections 302 (punishment for murder) and 174 CrPC (death under suspicious circumstances).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/24-year-old-nurse-set-on-fire-by-estranged-lover-in-vijayawada-both-die-901439.html
13-10-2020||South||Rains batter Kerala, yellow alert for 13 districts||Incessant rains lashed most parts of Kerala on Tuesday under the influence of deep depression in the Bay of Bengal with the weatherman forecasting more spells including downpour in Kozhikode district. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has put Kozhikode district on Orange alert and others on yellow alert for Tuesday. It has also issued yellow alerts for districts other than Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam and Pathanamthitta on Wednesday. Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod districts have been issued yellow alert on Thursday. In the last 24 hours, rain occurred at most places in the state with Vadakara in Kozhikode district receiving the heaviest spell of 9 cms, followed by Kannur, Vellanikkara in Thrissur district, Palakkad, Kollengode at Palakkad, Cherthala in Alappuzha district, Vythiri in Wayanad district, Mahe in Puducherry UT receiving 4 cms each. Orange alert indicates heavy rainfall to very heavy rainfall ranging from 6 cm to 20 cm of rain while yellow alert is heavy rainfall ranging from 6 cm to 11 cm. "There have been heavy rains across Kerala for the last few days. Several houses in central Kerala suffered minor damages in the rain and heavy wind and at some places trees were uprooted causing minor damage," a senior official from the state disaster management authority told PTI. According to the IMD website, the current spell of rain is due to the "deep depression over west central Bay of Bengal which moved west-northwestwards." The water level at Idukki dam has reached 2,391 feet prompting the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB), which manages the dam, to issue a Blue alert. Blue alert is issued when water level reaches 2,387 feet. The Full Reservoir Level (FRL) of Idukki dam is 2,403 feet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rains-batter-kerala-yellow-alert-for-13-districts-901458.html
13-10-2020||South||Tirumala Navaratri Brahmotsavams to be held without devotees' participation||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams has reversed its October 1 decision to allow pilgrims in limited numbers for the Navaratri Brahmotsavams set to begin from October 16. The temple board has now announced that the events would be held sans the common public participation inside the Lord Venkateswara temple in Tirumala like it was organised during the annual Salakatla Brahmotsavams last month with only the VIPs in attendance. The Brahmotsavams of Lord Venkateswara is the most prominent event on the Tirumala hill which attracts lakhs of devotees every year. Because of 'adhika maasam', there will be two Brahmotsavams this year. The announcement came with a change in the TTD administration last week.    The newly appointed TTD Executive Officer Dr KS Jawahar Reddy said that the latest decision of organising the Navaratri Brahmotsavams too in Ekantham (solitude) “was keeping in accordance with the guidelines of Central and state governments in view of the ongoing spurt in Covid-19 cases across the country.” Reddy, who until a few days back was Andhra Pradesh’s special chief secretary (health and family welfare), said that the decision was taken “in the health interests of the devotees” after prolonged negotiations with the TTD Chairman YV Subba Reddy, Chittoor district collector, police and senior TTD officials. The EO also said that there is no proposal to increase the number of online darshan tickets as of now in view of the Brahmotsavam events.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tirumala-navaratri-brahmotsavams-to-be-held-without-devotees-participation-901462.html
13-10-2020||South||Groupism led to Kerala JD(S) leadership being dissolved||The decision of former Prime Minister and Janata Dal (Secular) supremo H D Deve Gowda to dissolve the Kerala unit of the party is the outcome of the internal fights in the party sate unit. A section of the party was not even going by the directives of the national leadership to have an alliance with Loktantrik Janata Dal. This seems to be the latest provocation of the party national leadership. Owing to the internal tussles in the party, Mathew T Thomas, who is now appointed as president of the ad-hoc committee, had to even quit the minister post for paving way for the entry of K Krishnan Kutty to the present Kerala cabinet. According to sources, Deva Gowda had earlier instructed party-state leadership to initiate merger talks with LJD. But the national leadership got complaints from the state leaders against Nanu's ineffectiveness as president. Nanu even did not give a proper reply to letters sent by national leaders in this regard. These led the national leadership taking the stringent action. Nanu told a section of media that he was still in the dark about the reasons for expelling him from president post He also said that even while accepting the national leadership's decision, it pained him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/groupism-led-to-kerala-jds-leadership-being-dissolved-901487.html
13-10-2020||South||Kerala gold smuggling: Swapna Suresh gets bail in ED case||Swapna Suresh, the prime accused in the gold smuggling case in Kerala, was on Tuesday granted bail by a court here in a case registered by the Enforcement Directorate. The ED is probing the money trail in the sensational case. Suresh, however, will continue to remain behind bars as she is an accused in the alleged terror link of the case probed by the National Investigation Agency. Last week, a court on Economic Offences here had granted statutory bail to Suresh in a case registered by the Customs. Granting bail to Suresh, the Special Court for Prevention of Money Laundering Act cases, today said the right to get 'default bail' is a very important one. The Court said Suresh had satisfied all the requirements for obtaining 'default bail.' As of October 5, 2020, she had put in more than 60 days in custody pending investigation into alleged offences not punishable with imprisonment for a minimum period of 10 years, the Court said and held that Suresh was entitled for default bail under Section 167 (2) of CrPC. The smuggling case came to the fore when Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate, Kochi, seized 30 kg of gold worth Rs 14.82 crore found camouflaged in diplomatic baggage from the UAE on July 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-gold-smuggling-swapna-suresh-gets-bail-in-ed-case-901501.html
13-10-2020||South||Senior CPI leader Gunda Mallesh dies at 73||Senior CPI leader in Telangana and former MLA Gunda Mallesh died at a state-run hospital here on Tuesday while undergoing treatment for various ailments, party sources said. He was 73. Mallesh, who had been elected to the Legislative Assembly for four terms, was undergoing treatment at the Nizams Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) here, the sources said. He represented Asifabadin 1983, 1985, 1994 and Bellampalli in 2009 in the undivided Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly. Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao condoled the death. In a message, Rao recalled his association with Mallesh and conveyed his condolences to the bereaved family. CPI general secretary D Raja, his predecessor S Sudhakar Reddy, state Congress president and MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy, TDPs Telangana unit president L Ramana and several other leaders mourned the death. The demise of Mallesh is a big loss to the party and the Left and democratic movement, a CPI release quoted Raja as saying. Mallesh was a leader with commitment who fought for the upliftment of the poor, the PCC president said. Telangana has lost an honest leader with his death, Reddy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/senior-cpi-leader-gunda-mallesh-dies-at-73-901503.html
13-10-2020||South||Rains pounding the two Telugu states as depression crosses the Andhra coastline||Public life was thrown out of gear in most parts of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana as the depression from the Bay of Bengal moved over Telangana on Tuesday. The ensuing heavy rains are pounding several districts, including Hyderabad, where floodwaters have inundated roads, colonies causing traffic jams and other miseries for the citizens. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation has formed several teams for rescue and relief operations. Government machinery especially the police department is asked to be on alert and people are warned of more rains in the next two days At least four people were killed in a wall collapse and drowning incidents in Andhra Pradesh. About 4,700 people were evacuated from low lying areas of Visakhapatnam and East Godavari. Four NDRF teams are positioned in these two districts. According to the meteorological department, the deep depression in the Bay of Bengal crossed north Andhra Pradesh coast close to Kakinada at around 7 AM on Tuesday. Though the system has further weakened into “a well-marked low-pressure area,” heavy to very heavy rains are predicted to fall in several parts of Telangana, Karnataka, Maharashtra on Tuesday, and Wednesday. On Tuesday, as the system crossed the Andhra Pradesh coastline, East & West Godavari, Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram, Srikakulam and Krishna districts received heavy rains.  In Vijayawada, boulders fell on the ghat road leading to the popular Kanakadurga temple. There was no harm to life as the pilgrim rush was meagre because of the rains and Covid-19 restrictions. In the neighbouring Guntur district, revenue officials served notices to the residents of bungalows along the Krishna river right bank, including former chief minister Chandrababu Naidu. The officials advised the inhabitants to move out to safer places as there is a possibility of about six lakh cusecs of water from upstream swamping the areas near the Prakasam Barrage.     A Bangladeshi ship reportedly waiting for its docking at the Vizag port lost its anchors in the turbulent waters of the Bay of Bengal and is stranded on the city’s shore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rains-pounding-the-two-telugu-states-as-depression-crosses-the-andhra-coastline-901518.html
13-10-2020||State||Covid-19 'retests' skewing epidemic picture in Karnataka, say experts||Karnataka conducts over one lakh Covid-19 tests per day. But the inclusion of a number of “retests” in daily testing figures and epidemiological calculations is giving a skewed picture of the epidemic spread, experts said. About 15%-20% of the tests being done daily are retests, according to a senior official. A retest signifies people who test negative on antigen tests and who are subsequently retested using the more accurate RT-PCR testing. The inclusion of these retest figures in the total daily testing numbers artificially decreases the test positivity rate (TPR), a source said. “Test positivity rate is the most critical yardstick to measure the containment management performance of the administration and also the spread of the virus,” said Sanjeev Mysore, convener of Jeevan Raksha project, a public-private partnership analysing Covid trends. “If the number of retests is added, the calculated TPR will not give a true picture of the virus in the state which, in reality, is much higher,” he said. While the World Health Organisation has determined that the TPR needs to be a maximum of 5% to indicate effective management of the disease, officially, Karnataka’s positivity rate over the last seven days has averaged 10.52%. However, because of “retest cases”, the TPR is actually 1.5% to 2.5% higher, a DH analysis has found. New Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said the inclusion of retesting cases in testing figures is standard procedure. “There is no separate accounting for retests like it is being suggested. As Karnataka has to compare its testing with other states, it is best to adopt a uniform method as followed in the rest of the country,” he said. When asked if the state would increase its testing numbers to compensate for these “retest” cases, Sudhakar said Karnataka has expanded its capacity to conduct one lakh RT-PCR tests alone. “We plan to enhance the capacity of our state labs to 1.25 to 1.5 lakh in near future,” he said. Targeted testing  Noting that increasing testing numbers was important, Dr Giridhar Babu, epidemiologist, stressed the importance of targeted testing. He has been calling for a syndromic approach totesting. “All symptomatics must be tested. If 10 out of 100 infected people are symptomatic, I would not want to miss out on testing even one of these 10, because not only are they at a higher risk of death but they tend to spread the disease to more people,” he said. “We can never test all asymptomatics, and this, depending on overall testing rates, produces a very distorted picture. Only a few people are getting tested, which is the tip of the iceberg,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-retests-skewing-epidemic-picture-in-karnataka-say-experts-901137.html
13-10-2020||State||Former Mayor Sampath Raj named accused in Bengaluru riots case||The Central Crime Branch, probing the violence here over an 'inflammatory' social media post, has named former Mayor and sitting Congress corporator R Sampath Raj as one of the accused in the case, police said on Tuesday. "He (Sampath Raj) has been named as one of the accused in the DJ halli and KG halli violence," a top police officer investigating the case told PTI. According to the official, he was amongst those who had information about the violence and did not share it with the police. Police had twice questioned him for several hours along with Pulakeshinagar Congress corporator Abdul Rakeeb Zakir, but have not arrested them yet. It is not known whether Zakir is also an accused in the case. Sampath Raj's personal assistant Arun Kumar was arrested earlier for allegedly remaining in touch with the ring leaders of the Bengaluru violence. Over 3,000 people went on a rampage on August 11 torching the residences of Congress MLA R Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy, his sister Jayanthi in the city over an inflammatory social media post by the relative of the legislator. The irate mob then set the DJ Halli and KG Halli police stations on fire over suspicion that the relative was in the lockup there. The vandals damaged public and private properties and set many vehicles on fire. To control the angry crowd, police had opened fire killing three people on the spot while the fourth allegedly involved in the violence died in a hospital. So far, 421 people have been arrested, including the Social Democratic Party of India leader Muzammil Pasha. This apart, the National Investigation Agency is also investigating the matter and has nabbed the prime accused of the case. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai had claimed that the internal strife in the Congress coupled with the upcoming BBMP (city corporation) elections had resulted in the violence in Pulakeshinagar. Refuting Bommai's statement, the state Congress chief DK Shivakumar had charged the government with trying to 'cover up' its failure to prevent the riots by giving misleading statements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/former-mayor-sampath-raj-named-accused-in-bengaluru-riots-case-901293.html
13-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Happy with social welfare portfolio, says B Sriramulu after ‘truce’ talks||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa appeared to have brokered peace between his Cabinet colleagues B Sriramulu and K Sudhakar after it was widely reported that the rift between the two widened following a reshuffle of portfolios.  Sriramulu was said to be sulking after he was divested of the health portfolio that was given to Sudhakar, who already had the charge of medical education. Sriramulu was appointed as the social welfare minister.  Both Sriramulu and Sudhakar met Yediyurappa and a photo op followed. “After our party came to power, I asked for the social welfare portfolio. But, I was made the health minister because I had done well in this portfolio in 2008,” Sriramulu told reporters. “But now, the CM wants to help the SC/STs and the poor. So, very happily, I’m accepting the social welfare portfolio without any disgruntlement as being shown in the media,” he said.  Referring to Sudhakar as “brother” and “friend”, Sriramulu said: “He’s a doctor. The CM’s idea of making him minister for health and medical education was to usher in some reforms.”  Sriramulu downplayed the change in the portfolio and said it did not reflect poorly on his performance. “When Sudhakar started looking after Bengaluru, there were 1,000 daily (Covid-19) cases. It has touched nearly 5,000 today. That doesn’t mean he failed. We’re all collectively trying to control the pandemic. When cases rose, we took precautionary measures - beds, oxygen, medicines and other necessary procurement. All of us, including the CM, worked beyond our strengths,” he said.  Merging health and medical education departments was needed, Sriramulu said. “If they’re together, working will be easy and decision-making is simple. Otherwise, there will be issues with doctors, nurses and pay scales,” he said, adding that both Sudhakar and he were discussing this for months on end.  Sudhakar told reporters that Sriramulu got a “promotion” with the social welfare portfolio. “It’s not a demotion as is being made out,” he said. “There were issues with coordination at the ground level. While district health officers reported to the health minister, medical college directors reported to the medical education minister,” he pointed out and said both departments are seen as one in many Indian states.  Sriramulu did not answer questions on whether he was told about the change in portfolios before and why the backward classes welfare portfolio that was with him was taken back by Yediyurappa.  Sriramulu, the BJP’s warhorse and an influential ST (Valmiki) leader, was projected as the deputy chief ministerial face during the 2018 assembly polls, but that did not happen when the BJP came to power. His projection as the ‘future deputy CM’ helped consolidate ST votes.  Some in the party circles believe that as the social welfare minister, Sriramulu will be able to connect directly with the ST community, which can benefit the ruling BJP politically going forward.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/happy-with-social-welfare-portfolio-says-b-sriramulu-after-truce-talks-901302.html
13-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Kangana Ranaut booked by Karnataka police over tweet on farmers||A case has been registered against Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut in Karnataka over her tweet allegedly targeting farmers protesting against contentious central farm laws, police said on Tuesday. The case was registered by police in Tumakuru district on Monday based on the recent order of a local court. It has been registered under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections, including 108 (abetment), wanton vilification upon a community (153A) and intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace (504), police said. The Tumakuru Judicial Magistrate First Class (JMFC) court had on October 9 directed police to register an FIR on a complaint by lawyer L Ramesh Naik who contended that the September 21 tweet on the actor's Twitter handle @KanganaTeam had hurt him. "People who spread misinformation and rumours about CAA that caused riots are the same people who are now spreading misinformation about farmers bill and causing terror in the nation, they are terrorists. You very well know what I said but simply like to spread misinformation," Ranaut had tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kangana-ranaut-booked-by-karnataka-police-over-tweet-on-farmers-901396.html
13-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||BS Yediyurappa woos Piramal Group to expand pharma business in Karnataka||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Tuesday rolled out the red carpet for billionaire Ajay Piramal-led Piramal Group to invest in Karnataka. According to a statement from the chief minister’s office (CMO), the Piramal Group is looking at investment opportunities in Karnataka to expand its pharmaceutical business.  During a virtual meeting with the group’s executive director Anand Piramal, Yediyurappa said the government would extend full cooperation for the conglomerate to invest in the state.  “Due to our recent reforms, the state is attracting more investments from industrialists,” Yediyurappa said during his talks with Piramal. “The government has opened up the state for investment opportunities. While Covid-19 has posed new challenges, our new industrial policy will help sustainable and comprehensive industrial development,” he said.  According to the statement, Piramal said they have vast experience in manufacturing of drugs and that their business was global. “We are interested in expanding this into Karnataka. We’re eager to invest and form a partnership after learning that the state is providing all necessary clearances in a single day,” the CMO said quoting Piramal.  Recently, the government amended the Karnataka Industries (Facilitation) Act, providing temporary clearances to establish industries, and companies will get three years to apply for various clearances.  “The state has a complementary atmosphere for setting up industries, their growth and functioning,” Yediyurappa said, adding that arrangements have been made for investments outside Bengaluru.  “There’s an excellent ecosystem for pharmaceutical exports, research and packaging in Karnataka,” the CM said, citing the presence of Biocon and Zeneca as examples. “Any grievance will be immediately addressed.”  Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar told Piramal that the state’s new industrial policy is pro-business and “there are plenty of investment opportunities at all levels.”  Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Revenue Minister R Ashoka, Health & Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar and Commerce & Industries principal secretary Gaurav Gupta were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bs-yediyurappa-woos-piramal-group-to-expand-pharma-business-in-karnataka-901421.html
13-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Over 6 lakh recoveries so far in Karnataka, 8,191 new cases||Karnataka reported 8,191 new Covid-19 cases and 87 fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 7,26,106 and the death toll to 10,123, on Tuesday. The day also saw 10,421 patients getting discharged, taking the total number of recoveries in the state past the 6-lakh mark. Out of the fresh cases reported on Tuesday, 3,776 cases were from Bengaluru Urban alone. Among the districts, Mysuru reported 416 cases, Tumakuru 391, Belagavi 358, and Dakshina Kannada 314. As many as 61,37,221 samples have been tested so far out of which 1,06,241 tested on Tuesday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-over-6-lakh-recoveries-so-far-in-karnataka-8191-new-cases-901502.html
13-10-2020||West||Have you suddenly turned ‘secular’? Maharashtra Guv Koshyari asks CM Uddhav Thackeray||A major and unprecedented war-of-words broke out in Maharashtra between Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray over the state delaying the re-opening of temples and other places of worship. While Koshyari questioned whether Thackeray has left Hindutva to turn “secular”, the latter has shot back saying that he does not need a “certificate” from the Governor on secularism.Over the past couple of months, various religious groups have been requesting the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, comprising Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, for opening places of worship. The BJP has sided with various Hindu organizations demanding the opening up of temples which are shut for devotees since the commencement of the Lockdown in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. In a letter to Uddhav, the Governor said: “….You have been a strong votary of Hindutva.  You have publicly espoused your devotion for Lord Rama by visiting Ayodhya after taking charge as Chief Minister. You visited Vitthal Rukmini Mandir in Pandharpur and performed the puja on Ashadi Ekadashi.”  What have rattled Uddhav and MVA leaders is what Koshyari said – “I wonder if you are receiving any divine premonition to keep postponing the reopening of the places of worships time and again or have you suddenly turn ‘secular’ yourself, the term your hated.” “It is ironic that while on one hand, the state government has permitted the opening of bars, restaurants and beaches, on the other hand our Gods and Goddesses have been condemned to stay in the lockdown,”  Koshyari said.    Immediately, Uddhav, the Shiv Sena President, in a letter shot back saying: “You have taken oath as a Governor…and secularism is a part of the Constitution.” “However, I don’t need a certificate on Hindutva from anybody, nor do I have to learn it from anyone. Those giving a warm welcome to people who compare my state and its capital (Mumbai) with Pakistan Occupied Kashmir don’t fit in my Hindutva,” Thackeray said referring to the recent episode involving Kangana Ranaut. In the strong response, he asked: “Are you implying that merely opening temples is ‘Hindutva’ and keeping them shut is being ‘secular’?”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/have-you-suddenly-turned-secular-maharashtra-guv-koshyari-asks-cm-uddhav-thackeray-901309.html
13-10-2020||West||Goa: Forest rights committees get six months' deadline to settle land claims||The Goa government on Tuesday gave forest rights committees (FRCs) a deadline of six months to decide on claims made by tribals from Sanguem and Sattari talukas under the Forest Rights Act. Both the talukas have sizeable tribal population who are eligible for ownership of their cultivated land under the Forest Rights Act. Deputy Chief Minister Chandrakant Kavlekar, state tribal welfare minister Govind Gaude, state public works department minister Deepak Pauskar, among others were present for the high-level meetings held at the state secretariat. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Kavlekar said FRCs have been given a deadline of six months to settle all claims under the Forest Rights Act. At least 300 cases per month would be settled by FRCs after following all required procedure, he said. The district collector has been asked to monitor the process and submit monthly reports to the state government, the deputy chief minister said. FRCs were constituted in February, 2019 under the Scheduled Tribes and other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006. Spot verification of land covered under the Act is done by the authorities, Gaude said, adding that by mid- November, first slot of 340 cases would be settled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-forest-rights-committees-get-six-months-deadline-to-settle-land-claims-901333.html
13-10-2020||West||Maharashtra MLC polls: Coivd-19 patients get postal ballot facility||Covid-19 patients and voters above the age of 80 will be given a postal ballot facility for the Maharashtra legislative council's graduates constituency election in Marathwada. While the date of the election is yet to be announced, the district administration has come up with guidelines for voting. Use of masks and social distancing will be mandatory at polling booths, Aurangabad district collector Sunil Chavan said in a meeting with representatives of political parties on Monday. A list of voting centres has been published and people are requested to raise objections if any, over them. As many as 1,000 voters will be casting their votes at each polling booth and there will be separate queues for women, differently abled persons and senior citizens to maintain social distancing, he said. Voters above the age of 80 and Covid-19 patients will be given a postal ballot facility, the collector said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-mlc-polls-coivd-19-patients-get-postal-ballot-facility-901348.html
13-10-2020||West||Don't need your certificate on Hindutva: Maharashtra CM Thackeray to Governor||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has informed Governor B S Koshyari that a decision on reopening places of religious worship will be taken after careful consideration of the Covid-19 situation in the state. Responding to a letter by Koshyari a day earlier, Thackeray on Tuesday wrote to the Governor, saying the state government will consider his request to reopen these places. In his letter, Koshyari had mentioned that he has received three representations from delegations demanding that places of religious worship be reopened. In response, Thackeray pointed out the 'coincidence' that all the three letters Koshyari mentioned were from BJP office-bearers and supporters. An RSS veteran, Koshyari has been BJP's vice president and first president of that party's unit in Uttarakhand, where he also served as chief minister. In the letter to the chief minister, Koshyari had asked, "Have you suddenly turned secular, the term you hated?" Responding to this question, Thackeray wondered if to Koshyari Hindutva meant merely reopening places of religious worship and if not opening them was to him being secular. "Isn't secularism a key component of the Constitution, by which you swore while taking oath as the state governor," Thackeray said. "I don't need your certificate for my Hindutva," Thackeray said, referring to Koshyari's letter. "While considering the sentiments and beliefs of the people, it is also important to take care of their lives and it is wrong to impose and lift lockdown suddenly," he wrote. In his letter, Koshyari told Thackeray that it is "ironical that while on one hand the state government permitted opening of bars, restaurants and beaches, our gods and goddesses have been condemned to stay in the lockdown". Koshyari said during the last three months, several delegations of religious leaders, individuals, NGOs and political leaders had met him to demand reopening of places of religious worship. The governor also reminded Thackeray that the Shiv Sena leader had been a strong votary of Hindutva and had "publicly espoused his devotion to Lord Ram" by visiting Ayodhya after taking over as the chief minister last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dont-need-your-certificate-on-hindutva-maharashtra-cm-thackeray-to-governor-901392.html
13-10-2020||West||Over 7 crore women benefited from Mudra scheme: PM Modi||Over seven crore women, belonging to Self Help Groups in the country, have been given loans totalling more than Rs 3 lakh crore, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said. “The Mudra scheme has enhanced the avenues of self-employment in the village,” Modi said releasing ‘Deh Vechwa Karani’, the autobiography of late stalwart Dr Balasaheb Vikhe-Patil, through video-conference. He renamed Pravara Rural Education Society as Loknete Dr. Balasaheb Vikhe Patil Pravara Rural Education Society – after the name of one of the pioneers of the co-operative movement. Dr Vikhe-Patil is son of Vithalrao Vikhe Patil, who started Asia's first co-operative sugar factory at Loni in Ahmednagar district of Maharashtra. Balasaheb Vikhe-Patil was a minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government. Balasaheb Vikhe-Patil’s son Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil was a former state Minister and ex-leader of Oppositon. Balasaheb Vikhe-Patil's son is now a BJP MLA, while his grandson Dr Sujay Vikhe-Patil is a BJP MP. The Prime Minister said that the boost to self confidence among the poor, in those residing in the villages, will strengthen the resolve for self reliance. “Balasaheb Vikhe Patil also wanted to instill this belief of self-reliance in villages,” he said. The Prime Minister said that after independence, when the country did not have enough food to feed, the priority of the government was how to increase the productivity of the crop. But in this concern for productivity, the focus was not given towards profitability of the farmer. He said the country is now emphasising on increasing the income of the farmer, and has made constant efforts in this direction, such as the decision to increase MSP, neem coating of urea and better crop insurance. He added that due to initiatives like PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana, farmers now do not have to depend on others for small expenses. Moreover, unprecedented work has been done on augmenting infrastructure such as cold chains, mega food parks and agro-processing infrastructure, he said. Referring to Balasaheb Vikhe Patil’s emphasis on the need to preserve the traditional knowledge of farming, wherein farming was done according to the natural conditions, the PM said, "We must preserve that knowledge and must also combine new and old methods in agriculture." In this context, he cited the example of sugarcane crop, where both new and old ways of farming are used. He said now industries are being set up to extract sugar as well as ethanol from sugarcane. The Prime Minister said that Dr. Balasaheb Vikhe Patil always endeavoured to solve the problems in the villages of Maharashtra like the problem of drinking and irrigation water. He added that under the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana, work was done rapidly to complete 26 projects in Maharashtra, which were stuck for several years. Out of these, 9 projects have already been completed. With the completion of these projects, about 5 lakh hectares of land will get irrigation facilities, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-7-crore-women-benefited-from-mudra-scheme-pm-modi-901397.html
13-10-2020||West||Indian Army, Maharashtra police conduct joint anti-terror exercise in Pune||The Indian Army and Maharashtra Police carried out a joint anti-terror exercise in Pune last week. The exercise was carried out on October 9 at Lullanagar in Pune, according to a Ministry of Defence press statement issued here on Tuesday. The aim of the exercise was to harmonize the drills and procedures of both Army and Police for activating anti-terrorist Quick Reaction Teams (QRTs) to counter any terrorist actions in Pune. The exercise involved the participation of QRTs, Dog Squads and Bomb Disposal Teams of the Army as well as Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) and QRTs of Maharashtra Police. A simulated exercise scenario was built up regarding the presence of terrorists in family accommodations at Lullanagar, based on which Quick Reaction Teams of Army initially established the outer cordon. Traffic control on the nearby roads was jointly carried out by Maharashtra traffic police and the Corps of Military Police Army. Joint action was thereafter carried out by the Army’s Counter-Terrorism Task Force (CTTF) and the Quick Reaction Team of the Maharashtra Police to neutralize terrorists, it involved room intervention drill, a search of room for any unidentified items/explosives by Dog squads and their neutralization/ diffusion by Bomb Disposal Units. An equipment display was also organised, showcasing important equipment required for the conduct of this exercise. The exercise was carried out taking all safety norms of Covid-19 into consideration and the strength of participating troops was scaled down accordingly. “The exercise provided an opportunity for both Army and Police to cooperate, coordinate, coopt and streamline their drills and procedures,” the release stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/indian-army-maharashtra-police-conduct-joint-anti-terror-exercise-in-pune-901440.html
13-10-2020||West||Ahead of Gujarat bypolls, several unemployed youths file nominations to oppose BJP||In what seems like a major embarrassment for the Vijay Rupani-led BJP government in Gujarat, hundreds of "educated unemployed youths" have started to file nomination papers for contesting the bypolls in at least four of the eight seats for which pollings will be held on November 3. Their aim is to "defeat BJP" for not giving jobs to thousands of youths despite successfully passing the recruitment examinations. By Tuesday evening, over 200 youths gleaned their nomination forms to contest as independent candidates from Limbdi seat, about 100 km away from Ahmedabad city, in Surendranagar district and Morbi Assembly seat. These youths are part of a group called "Sikshit Yuva Berozgar Samiti" (Educated Youth Unemployed Committee), which is planning to field unemployed youths for at least two more Assembly seats- Dhari in Amreli and Karjan in Vadodara district. The Samiti is asking for funds from various quarters for the past ten days and by Tuesday evening, it is said to have received Rs 10.5 lakh. The candidates would need to deposit money for filing nominations. The Samiti is said to have approached several parties including opposition Congress for financial help. As a matter of fact, over the last couple of years students have led several protests for non-recruitment despite successfully passing in the exams for lecturers, secretariat assistants, non-secretariat assistants, police constabulary among others.  "These candidates are among thousands of youths who competed in the government recruitment examinations in the past five years but are yet to be appointed. They have been agitating, demanding appointments in the respective departments but to no avail. Instead, the state government used force to break the agitation and filed multiple FIRs against them. Hundreds of students are facing FIRs with their cell phones seized by the police," said Dinesh Bambhaniya who is supporting the youths and part of the Samiti. Bambhaniya, a Patidar leader, was closely associated with Gujarat Congress Working Committee President Hardik Patel during the Patidar agitation for reservation in 2015. Bambhaniya said, "Our aim is not to win but to campaign against the BJP in each village of these constituencies and tell people about the Rupani government's atrocities on youths. We are fine if it helps Congress win the polls. We came up with this plan only after the BJP government blocked all options by filing cases against these youngsters." He added that plans are underway to bring activists and celebrities to campaign for these youth candidates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ahead-of-gujarat-bypolls-several-unemployed-youths-file-nominations-to-oppose-bjp-901474.html
13-10-2020||West||We have opened malls, bars, why not temples, asks BJP in Maharashtra||The temple town of Shirdi in Ahmednagar district has turned ground zero of protests against the Maha Vikas Aghadi government with the BJP joining the saints and seers in demanding reopening of temples. Slamming Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, the BJP undertook protests outside temples across the state including the Sai Baba Mandir in Shirdi and the Siddhivinayak Mandir in Mumbai. The BJP is saying that while bars have reopened why not temples, that Shiv Sena should respect ‘Hindu Hriday Samrat’ Balasaheb Thackeray, one of the champions of the Hindutva movement. “Not temples by liquor joints have been opened,” Leader of the Opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis said. “We have opened malls, bars but not temples… why?” his counterpart in Council Pravin Darekar wanted to know. BJP’s state Spiritual Front head Tushar Bhosale along with a group of saints and seers is on a sit-in outside the Shirdi temple demanding that a small group be allowed for symbolic darshans. Shri Saibaba Sansthan Trust CEO Kanhuraj Bagate met the group. “We want to have darshans… let him ask Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Home Minister Anil Deshmukh,” Bhosale said. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said, "Comparing temples with bars is not right. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also said today that the threat of corona in Maharashtra has not been averted. If the PM is so concerned about the situation here, the Governor of Maharashtra should think about it." “You have opened the wine shops and bars but why not temples… we do not understand the logic behind this,” said state BJP President Chandrakant Patil. “Let there be rules, you frame rules like in the case of malls and public places and trains and bars…and allow people in temples,” he said. "Liquor and wine shops have been reopened, even with home delivery options. But who will think about those who want to visit the temple for their mental peace? The government is not thinking about small traders whose livelihood depends on temples," said BJP leader Prasad Lad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/we-have-opened-malls-bars-why-not-temples-asks-bjp-in-maharashtra-901492.html
13-10-2020||West||Youngest 26/11 survivor, eye-witness moves Bombay High Court for home, help||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday directed the Maharashtra government to consider the plea of Devika Rotawan, the youngest survivor and an eye-witness to the 26/11 terror attacks, seeking allotment of residential premises under the economically weaker section (EWS) scheme and a provision for higher education. A division bench of Justices Nitin Jamdar and Milind Jadhav directed the court registry to forward a copy of Rotawan's petition for the consideration of Maharashtra's chief secretary. Rotawan (21), in August this year, filed a petition in HC saying she and her family members were living in penury, and that they would rendered homeless due to inability to pay rent. Rotawan, who was nine years old at the time of the terror attacks on November 26, 2008, was at CST along with her father and brother and received a bullet injury to her leg. Her father and brother too were injured and have been unable to make a living ever since due to co-morbidities. Rotawan's lawyer Utsav Bhains on Tuesday told the court that her plea be considered on compassionate grounds. Rotawan's plea further said several Central and state government officials visited her house after the attacks and assured the family of accommodation under the EWS quota, arrangements for her education as well assistance with medical bills. However, she and her family did not receive any help, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/youngest-26/11-survivor-eye-witness-moves-bombay-high-court-for-home-help-901505.html
13-10-2020||West||Gujarat govt's effort to drop charges fail as court sentences BJP MLA to six months of imprisonment||A court in Jamnagar on Tuesday held BJP MLA Raghavji Patel and four others including three journalists guilty of rioting, damage to public property, among other charges and sentenced them to six months of imprisonment. The court stayed the order for a month for appeal following the request by the convicts' lawyers. Interestingly, the BJP government had decided to withdraw the case against Patel, MLA Jamnagar rural, and others earlier this year but the trial court rejected it. The government challenged it in the sessions court which also refused to entertain the plea. The government approached the high court challenging the lower court's order which was withdrawn today without attributing any reason. Patel had cross-voted in favour of BJP in 2017 Rajya Sabha polls when senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel narrowly escaped defeat. He was among eight Congress MLAs who were expelled by the party for cross-voting. He later joined BJP, contested from Jamnagar rural and won. Judicial magistrate S J Zala pronounced the judgement holding Patel, his close associate Narendrasinh Jadeja and three journalists-Jitu Srimali, Karansinh Jadeja and Jayesh Bhatt guilty of offences including assault on government officer, unlawful assembly, rioting and damages to public property act. The judge sentenced them to six months imprisonment. The court acquitted three other accused. The incident had taken place back in 2007 when Patel, then Congress MLA, and seven other accused had gone to the government hospital in Dhrol, Jamnagar rural, where they assaulted the medical officer and created a ruckus by damaging public properties. The three journalists had defended that they were present on the spot only to cover the visit of the MLA and his supporters. The court had concluded the hearing in March this year and the judgement was awaited. Meanwhile, Jamnagar collector passed an order to withdraw the case against the MLA. Subsequently, the prosecution moved an application under section 321 of the code of criminal procedure (CrPC) seeking permission to withdraw the case. However, the court denied it. Section 321 deals with the withdrawal of prosecution with the consent of court anytime before the judgment is pronounced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-govts-effort-to-drop-charges-fail-as-court-sentences-bjp-mla-to-six-months-of-imprisonment-901509.html
