14-10-2020||Kalaburagi||Heavy rains wreck havoc in Kalaburagi||Heavy showers lashing through Tuesday night have wrecked havoc in Kalaburagi.  Bridges built near Malkhed, Kachoor, Dandooti across Kagina river were submerged. Uttaradi mutt near Malkhed was also under water. Rainwater gushed into houses in Venkateshwar Nagar, Godutai Nagar, Panchasheela Nagar, Pooja colony and others.  Drains were overflowing and roads in low-lying areas and parks were submerged due to incessant rainfall.  Water has also entered the houses located in several lowlying areas in Chincholi and Kalagi. Bhima, Kagina and Kamalavati rivers of the district are in spate due to heavy rainfall.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/heavy-rains-wreck-havoc-in-kalaburagi-901639.html
14-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Flight between Hindon and Hubballi cancelled||Flight service (OG OG115) between Hindon (Delhi) and Hubballi has been on cancelled on October 16 owing to operational reasons at Hindon Airport. Sources in Star Air informed that passengers can opt for a complete refund of the fair or rescheduled their journey on October 18. The return journey of the flight also remains suspended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/flight-between-hindon-and-hubballi-cancelled-901928.html
14-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Hubballi industrialist pays air fare for labourers to restart his leather unit||A leather industrialist from Hubballi is going to pay air-fares for at least 10 technical and non-technical workers from West Bengal and Chennai to ensure that his industry, which has remained shut for more than seven months, reopens. L N Leather Industries owner Chandrakanth Gadikar said that he paying air-fares and other facilities for highly skilled workers from other states is a desperate measure for him to keep his newly started company afloat. In February, Chandrakant had invested Rs 78 lakh to start his company in Gamanagatti and Tharihal Industrial Area, on the outskirts of Hubballi city, after the State government announced subsidy for members of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes to start their leather industries. Of the total investment, he spent Rs 25 lakh to purchase machines and equipments, while he spent another Rs 10 lakh to purchase raw materials. He had even hired skilled labourers to start his venture. However, with the Union government enforcing strict lockdown across the country in March, Chandrakanth was forced to keep his unit shut for more than seven months after a few days of trail work. The labourers, majority of whom were from West Bengal and Tamil Nadu, returned to their home towns. Speaking to DH, Chandrakanth, who is also the secretary of North Karnataka SC/ST Industrialist Development union, said Kolkata is known for its leather industries and the labourers, both skilled and unskilled, from that region have vast knowledge about the leather industry and they work for lesser salaries. “The kind of skill sets that labourers from West Bengal bring to the table is unmatched by the local workers,” he said and added that he is forced to bring such skilled workers from Chennai (who have trained at Central Footwear Training Institute) and Kolkata by paying their flight tickets. He is also providing accommodation for such workers at his unit. To become less dependant on ‘outside’ workers, Chandrakant has now decided to train at least 25 local workers. Similar trend Not just Chandrakanth, many of the industrialists in Gamanagatti and Tharihal Industrial area, are now contemplating to pay the flight fare of the skilled labourers from outside states to ensure that their units start running again. The industrial area in Hubballi houses Aluminium Window frame manufacturing units, plastic manufacturing units, racks, grills and other steel manufacturing units. Majority of these units were dependant on skilled and ‘cheap’ labourers from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha and West Bengal. The industrialists are looking for various means to bring these labourers to work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hubballi-industrialist-pays-air-fare-for-labourers-to-restart-his-leather-unit-901991.html
14-10-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Bypolls: R Ashoka takes RR Nagar fight to D K Shivakumar||Revenue Minister R Ashoka, who is helming the BJP’s campaign in Rajarajeshwarinagar, said on Wednesday that the saffron party would win the November 3 bypoll easily, taking the challenge straight to state Congress president D K Shivakumar. Ashoka has been holding a series of meetings with party workers to drum up support for disqualified legislator Munirathna, who is the BJP’s candidate for the Rajarajeshwarinagar bypoll. “We will win by a margin of 40,000-60,000 votes,” Ashoka told reporters after Munirathna filed his nomination papers. The minister said he represented the erstwhile Uttarahalli constituency three times before Rajarajeshwarinagar was carved out of it in 2008. “I know every inch of this segment and we’re 100% confident of winning.” Ashoka expressed confidence of winning even as there is talk that a section of party workers and supporters is unhappy with Munirathna’s candidature. It remains to be seen what BJP’s 2018 candidate Tulsi Muniraju Gowda, who lost against Munirathna, will do during the bypoll. The RR Nagar is said to have a sizeable number of Vokkaligas, the community that both Ashoka and Shivakumar belong to. Shivakumar and his brother Bangalore Rural MP D K Suresh are looking to retain the Rajarajeshwarinagar constituency. “Shivakumar’s games are confined to Kanakapura,” Ashoka said. “Because of Munirathna, we weren’t able to win. Now that he has come to the BJP and helped us come to power, we will win easily. People’s love and trust is with the BJP and Munirathna,” he said. 'Munirathna ensured development' Ashoka claimed that Munirathna had ensured development of the constituency in terms of roads, streetlights and water. “People will vote for development.” Speaking to reporters, Shivakumar said the Congress’ candidate Kusuma Hanumantharayappa was young and educated. “People here voted for Congress twice in a row. This time, we will win with a higher margin,” he said. “This bypoll has nothing to do with the stability of the B S Yediyurappa government or the Modi administration. But, we want voters to send a message on what (BJP) promised as opposed to what they’re doing now,” he added. Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah, who accompanied Kusuma while she filed her nomination papers, said Munirathna jumped ship to the BJP for the “greed” of power and money. “Also, there were cases against him, so he went to BJP to save himself,” he said. “Munirathna won not as himself, but as the Congress’ candidate. Just because Munirathna cheated the Congress, voters won’t switch sides,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-bypolls-r-ashoka-takes-rr-nagar-fight-to-d-k-shivakumar-901878.html
14-10-2020||National||SC notice to Centre on plea for mechanism to verify social media profiles, regulate minors' access||The Supreme Court Tuesday sought the Centre's response on a plea seeking directions for formulation of laws to regulate minors' access to social media, a mechanism to verify profiles and criminalise morphing and revenge porn. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde agreed to hear the matter and issued notices to the Centre and others on the plea seeking a direction to the Union Law Ministry to formulate a gender-neutral legislation or to amend existing laws to expressly criminalise revenge porn, morphing and impersonation. “Issue notice,” said the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. The plea, filed by two law students Skand Bajpai and Abhyudaya Mishra, has sought direction to the Centre to institute proper investigation and legal proceedings against users of social media profiles who indulge in advertisement, sale and procurement of illicit content like rape videos and private graphic information, and also to ensure their deletion. It said the government should formulate an efficient mechanism to deal with such content in future. The plea has said that the Law Ministry should be directed to formulate appropriate laws or amend the existing laws to increase the accountability of intermediaries towards Indian jurisdictions, encourage mandatory reporting of child sexual abuse materials and also to make them liable with regard to the content featured on their platforms. “There is no law governing age eligibility for using social media in India. The United States of America has a legislation on this subject matter titled as ‘Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act’, wherein the consent of parents or guardians of children below the age of 13 years is taken into consideration while processing data belonging to minors, however this also does not create any age related barrier in access to social media or internet,” it said. Referring to a report published by a Delhi based NGO in April this year, the plea said it has stated that there has been a surge in the search for key words like ‘child porn’. The plea said availability of child sexual abuse materials, rape videos and private graphic on social media violates the right to control dissemination of personal information by affected individuals, infringing their right to privacy. It said concept of revenge porn, online sale of private graphic information and such contents on social media has created a “harassing, exploitative and paedophilic environment” on these platforms. “There is a need to uproot fake social media profiles and catfish accounts and devise a mechanism for verification of these social media profiles as multiplicity of accounts and unverified profiles promote anonymity and impersonation. It makes it gruelling for the law enforcement agencies to trace a cyber offender,” the plea said. It said that verified social media profiles would encourage accountability and deter individuals from engaging themselves in offences in the virtual world. It claimed that incidents of online morphed pictures and videos have been increasing and there is a need to curb this as it leads to harassment and exploitation. “There is a need to hold the intermediaries liable and accountable for the content featuring on their platform and increase their coordination and accountability with regard to Indian jurisdictions,” it said. The plea claimed that no action has yet been taken on the report by the Ad-hoc committee of the Rajya Sabha to study the alarming issue of pornography on social media and its effect on society as a whole. It has also sought a direction to the authorities to notify and enforce the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines (Amendment) Rules) 2018. It said concerned authorities should be directed to upgrade the national education policy and inculcate adolescent sex education as a compulsory subject and also to introduce a subject related to online safety, security and conduct. The plea said the Law ministry should be directed to “formulate an appropriate law regulating minors' access to social media and laying down appropriate age limit for such access in consonance with the present Indian legal framework.” It alleged that people have been purchasing, selling and transmitting private graphic information, rape videos and other such contents of unidentified people on social media platforms in exchange of money received through e-wallets and UPI transactions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-for-mechanism-to-verify-social-media-profiles-regulate-minors-access-901553.html
14-10-2020||National||Three suspected cases of coronavirus reinfection described in India: ICMR||Director General Balram Bhargava said the Indian Council of Medical Research had decided upon a cutoff of 100 days for reinfection if it occurs as, according to some studies, antibodies were also assumed to have a life of four months. "Reinfection was a problem which was first described via a case from Hong Kong. Subsequently, a few cases were described in India -- two in Mumbai and one in Ahmedabad," Bhargava said at a press conference here. "We have got some data from the WHO, which says that there are about two dozen reinfection cases in the world at the moment," he said. "We are looking at the ICMR database and finding out those who have had reinfection and making telephonic contact to get some data out of them." The definition of reinfection, whether it is 90 days, 100 days or 110 days, is still not decided even by the World Health Organization, according to Bhargava. However, the government is taking the cutoff of about 100 days if reinfection occurs because that is "what we have assumed as the life of antibodies", the official said. "So it's work in progress." Referring to reports of reinfection surfacing in various states, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had said on Sunday an analysis by the ICMR had revealed that many cases reported as Covid-19 reinfection had been "mis-classified" because the RT-PCR tests could detect dead virus shed for prolonged periods after recovery. "Actual reinfection would mean a fully-recovered person getting infected by a freshly-introduced virus in his/her body, belonging to the same or different strain. ICMR is commissioning a study to understand the true burden of reinfected cases. Results will be shared in a couple of weeks," he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/three-suspected-cases-of-coronavirus-reinfection-described-in-india-icmr-901564.html
14-10-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on October 14||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 71 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 8,806,436 as of October 14 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 129,601  No. of people discharged:  63,01,927      Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-october-14-901603.html
14-10-2020||National||Heavy rains inundate Telangana; 9, including 3 children, dead as wall collapses in Hyderabad||Incessant rains on Tuesday wreaked havoc at an unprecedented scale in Hyderabad. Nine people of two families including three children were killed after a wall collapsed due to a boulder fall in Chandrayangutta of old city. The extraordinary rains were a result of the depression from the Bay of Bengal that moved over Telangana on Tuesday. Hyderabad Lok Sabha MP Asaduddin Owaisi tweeted about the incident on Wednesday. "HyderabadRains, I was at a spot inspection in Mohammedia Hills, Bandlaguda where a private boundary wall fell resulting in death of 9 people & injuring 2. On my from there, I gave a lift to stranded bus passengers in Shamshabad, now I'm on my way to Talabkatta & Yesrab Nagar,” he tweeted. ...from where I will be going to Karwan The rains this year have been unprecedented & I appeal to all of you to stay indoors. If you are facing any difficulties, you can reach out to me on phone. All my corporators and MLAs are on field & will be there for whatever is required   In the 24 hours since Tuesday morning, 41 automatic weather stations in Telangana, most of them in and around Hyderabad like Malakpet, Charminar, Secunderabad, Begumpet, Uppal reported extremely heavy rainfall of over 20 cms. Thousands of houses, hutments along the Musi river were submerged and locals scampered in the dark for safer places. Hundreds of low-lying colonies in the city were inundated and several cars and vehicles swept away in the gushing waters. Speaking in the legislative council on Wednesday, municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao said that the authorities would forcibly evict the people still staying in low lying and damage prone buildings to prevent any further loss of life. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation has deployed about 20 special relief teams. People were rescued from their flooded homes by boats in some parts of the old city. Heavy rains and inflows have caused the swelling of the Himayat Sagar and Osman Sagar reservoirs on Hyderabad outskirts, which were previously dry. For the first time in many years, water was released by opening four gates from Himayat Sagar, which added to the Musi flood flowing downstream through the Hyderabad city. Though rains have receded from Wednesday morning, authorities have asked people not to venture out unless absolutely necessary. Rains are predicted for two more days. With almost all the rivers and streams in Telangana swelling with flood water, links to many villages were cut off from the outside world. The Hyderabad-Vijayawada highway, the main road link between Andhra Pradesh and Telangana was submerged at Abdullapurmet causing a traffic jam of about 10 kms on Tuesday night. Travellers stuck in rain, without food and water were left to suffer.    The Hyderabad-Bangalore highway was badly damaged at Gaganpahad near Shamshabad, hindering the vehicular movement towards the airport, Kurnool, and Bangalore. Several areas in the East and West Godavari, Visakhapatnam districts, which received very heavy rainfall on Tuesday remained submerged. At the Prakasam Barrage in Vijayawada, over five lakh cusecs of Krishna water are flowing downstream towards the Bay of Bengal. District authorities are warning people in flood prone areas to immediately move to safer locations.    Andhra Pradesh CM Jaganmohan Reddy is reviewing the flood situation with officials. Authorities have raised the second level warning signal at the Prakasam Barrage where the water flow has increased to 6.5 lakh cusecs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heavy-rains-inundate-telangana-9-including-3-children-dead-as-wall-collapses-in-hyderabad-901628.html
14-10-2020||National||60% free cooking gas refills used in 6 months under Ujjwala scheme: Report||The data suggests that affordability may not be the biggest factor for quicker adoption of the clean fuel by beneficiaries of the Ujjwala scheme. In a bid to provide relief to poor families after the Covid-19-forced lockdown was announced in April, the government had offered three free liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) refills to eight crore such households. The Modi-led government transferred money to customers’ bank accounts in advance with the hope that it would encourage them to order refills. As per the relief, poor households were eligible for three refills. If all the households opted for this, oil companies would have received 24 crore orders for refills. However, only about 12 crore orders for refills were received during April-June, following which the government extended the scheme by another three months through September. As of September-end, the total number of demands for refills rose to about 14 crore, or 60 per cent of 24 crore available refills. Around 36 per cent of those who have not availed free refills had used the advance for some other purpose while another 40 per cent were frugal users and didn’t have an empty cylinder at home to order a refill, Gurmeet Singh, marketing chief at Indian Oil Corp, is quoted as saying in the report. These findings were part of a survey conducted by oil companies to understand why consumers were unwilling to order the free refill.  Until now, it was perceived that affordability alone was the reason behind low cooking gas consumption under the Ujjwala scheme but lower intake of even free refills indicates that many consumers are yet to appreciate the advantages of clean cooking, an industry executive told the publication. “Policymakers need to design programmes to truly help shift consumer behaviour,” he said. The government has spent nearly Rs 13,000 crore to give 8 crore poor households free cooking gas connections. This has helped solve the problem of access to clean fuel but its usage remains an area of concern.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/60-free-cooking-gas-refills-used-in-6-months-under-ujjwala-scheme-report-901677.html
14-10-2020||National||India records 63,509 new infections, tally crosses 72.3 lakh||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 72,39,389 with 63,509 infections being reported in a day, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease crossed 63 lakh, according to the Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The recovery rate stands at 87.05 per cent. The coronavirus death toll climbed to 1,10,586 with the virus claiming 730 lives in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. For six days in a row the active cases of Covid-19 remained below 9 lakh.There are 8,26,876 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 11.42 per cent of the total caseload, while the recoveries have surged to 63,01,927, the data stated. The Covid-19 case fatality rate was recorded at 1.53 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past  50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28 and crossed 70 lakh on October 11. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 9,00,90,122 samples have been tested up to October 13 with 11,45,015 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 730 new fatalities include 187 from Maharashtra, 87 from Karnataka, 62 from West Bengal, 57 from Tamil Nadu, 45 from Delhi, 35 from Andhra Pradesh, and 34 from Punjab.  A total of 1,10,586 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 40,701 from Maharashtra followed by 10,371 from Tamil Nadu, 10,123 from Karnataka, 6,466 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,291 from Andhra Pradesh, 5,854 from Delhi, 5,744 from West Bengal, 3,894 from Punjab and 3,584 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-63509-new-infections-tally-crosses-723-lakh-901688.html
14-10-2020||National||Modi govt hopes digital health identification can get economy moving again||By Vrishti Beniwal A $23-million program offering a digital health ID to every citizen could bolster India’s economic growth amid the coronavirus pandemic, according to the head of the country’s health authority. The National Digital Health Mission, which aims to create a repository of doctors and health facilities across India -- in addition to digitizing citizens’ health records -- will lead to cost savings and better economic outcomes, Indu Bhushan, chief executive officer of the National Health Authority, said in an interview. Analysis of Big Data on health “will lead to better planning, budgeting and implementation for states and health programs, which should be a big cost optimizer,” said Bhushan, who compared the gains produced by the “new digital highway” to those from building physical infrastructure such as roads. India is Asia’s third-largest economy but its total spending on health care is only about 3.5% of gross domestic product -- among the lowest rates in the world, according to World Bank data. Efforts to contain the world’s second-highest tally of Covid-19 infections are straining government coffers, while the economy heads for its first full-year contraction in four decades. Implementation of the digital health plan will boost productivity and lead to an additional benefit of as much as $250 billion to India’s GDP over the next 10 years, according to a recent report by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry and Boston Consulting Group. About 600 million Indians are pushed into poverty every year because of health expenses, 60% of which are borne out-of-pocket. This places “substantial constraints on individual welfare and the nation’s economic growth,” said Bhushan, a bureaucrat turned economist who had stints at the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank. He expects that number to decline with the implementation of digital services, which can help in early diagnosis of conditions and weeding out of unqualified health-care workers. Connectivity and Privacy India’s government is among the world’s most aggressive in digitising the identities of its citizens, hoping to reduce crippling inefficiencies and pave the way for future digital innovation. But privacy advocates have warned of the dangers of potential leaks of sensitive information, and linking and uploading health records, in particular, comes with significant risks. The program, announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in August, is voluntary and for now being tested in six federally administered regions. However, with only about half of India’s 1.3 billion population on the Internet and users often encountering poor connectivity, a nationwide rollout could be challenging. Internet or computers would be a luxury in many rural health centres that lack electricity, running water and toilets. Aware of such impediments, the government is designing off-line systems to reach out to the unconnected and “digitally illiterate” in remote areas, Bhushan said. On concerns about privacy and state surveillance, Bhushan said data would be securely stored in the government community cloud, “with strong checks and balances to prevent any misuse.” The digitization push builds on Modi’s national health insurance program, launched in 2018 to give basic coverage for the first time to 500 million of India’s poorest citizens. But the pandemic has exposed the nation’s creaky health infrastructure. The outbreak makes it “all the more important to have digital systems in place to augment and improve health care,” Bhushan said. “There could have been invaluable implications for identifying hot spots, tracing, treatment, identifying pre-existing conditions and risks, and research that could have fundamentally impacted our response to the pandemic.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govt-hopes-digital-health-identification-can-get-economy-moving-again-901695.html
14-10-2020||National||Will ensure security to Hathras rape victim's family, witnesses: Uttar Pradesh govt to SC||The Uttar Pradesh government informed the Supreme Court on Wednesday that a “three-fold protection mechanism” has been put in place for security of the victim's family members and witnesses in the Hathras case in which a Dalit girl was allegedly brutally raped and died due to injuries. The state government, which earlier said that probe into the case may be conducted by the CBI in a time-bound manner, has said that the court “may direct CBI to submit fortnightly status reports on the investigation to the state government which can be filed by the DGP, UP, in the Supreme Court”. The UP government had expressed willingness before the top court to refer the investigation to the CBI on the ground that fake narratives were being spread about the case with political motives. Later, the matter was transferred to the CBI which has already started its probe. In a compliance affidavit filed in the top court, Yogi Adityanath government has said the state is committed to provide complete security to the victim’s family and witnesses to “ensure free and fair investigation” in the case and adequate forces have been deployed for this. “The state government therefore seeks indulgence of this court to be pleased to keep the above petition pending allowing the investigation by the CBI to be conducted under the supervision of this court in a time bound manner,” it said. Giving details of protection and security provided to victim’s family members and the witnesses, the state government has said that adequate number of security personnel, including up to 15 personnel of armed constabulary, have been deployed near and outside her house and eight CCTV cameras have been installed in the outer surrounding of her residence. The compliance affidavit was filed in pursuance to the October 6 direction of the apex court which had termed the Hathras incident as "horrible" while hearing a plea related to the case and asked the Uttar Pradesh government to inform it about the steps taken to protect witnesses. “The Government of Uttar Pradesh is committed to provide complete security to the victim’s family and the witnesses to ensure free and fair investigation,” the affidavit said. It said adequate forces have been deployed to ensure protection of the members of the victim’s family members -- her parents, two brothers, one sister-in-law and her grandmother -- who are residing at Chandpa village in Hathras district. The affidavit said “in order to ensure the security of victim’s family/witnesses, three-fold protection mechanism has been devised” -- armed constabulary component, civil police component comprising of guard, gunners and shadows and installation of CCTV cameras and lights to keep watch of outer surroundings of the victim’s house. It said that at the entrance of victim’s village and near her house, a total of 16 police personnel, including two inspectors and four lady constables, have been deployed. It said outside the victim’s house, two sub-inspectors have been deployed round the clock shift-wise and 1.5 PAC section, comprising of up to 15 personnel, have been deployed outside her house. The affidavit said guards have been deployed on rotation basis in two shifts to ensure safety of victim’s family members/witnesses when they are at their residences. It said personal security gunners/shadows have been deployed for security of family members of victim and a total of 12 constables have been deployed shift-wise for this. It said eight CCTV cameras have been installed in outer surrounding of the victim’s house along with fire extinguisher/fire pressure pumps and 10-12 lights have been installed in surrounding of her house. “The inspector (in-charge) of police station Chandpa has been made the in-charge of the aforesaid entire arrangements and also to deploy suitable police force for the same. He shall supervise the police force and oversee the security arrangement on a daily basis,” it said. “The circle officer, Sadabad, is to ensure robust security arrangement by holding regular clear briefings of the police force and in addition, he shall also inform the family members about the security arrangements provided to them,” the affidavit said. “Further, to deal with any emergency situation, an appropriate QRT team has also been deployed. In addition, the state government has also installed eight CCTVs to ensure 24 hours surveillance/observation of the premises,” it said. “The entire security staff deployed at the village has been strictly instructed to ensure that there is no intrusion in the privacy of the victim’s family/witnesses and that they are free to move and meet the people they want,” the affidavit said. It said that victim’s brother has informed the police in writing that they have engaged advocates on behalf of the family. “However, they have requested that the government advocate should also pursue the case on their behalf,” it said. The 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly raped by four upper-caste men in Hathras on September 14. She died on September 29 at Delhi''s Safdarjung Hospital during treatment. The victim was cremated in the dead of the night near her home on September 30. Her family alleged they were forced by the local police to hurriedly conduct her last rites. Local police officers, however, said the cremation was carried out "as per the wishes of the family".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-ensure-security-to-hathras-rape-victims-family-witnesses-uttar-pradesh-govt-to-sc-901700.html
14-10-2020||National||Who will get the Covid-19 vaccine first in India? Health Ministry prepares plan||The Union Ministry for Health and Family Welfare is hoping to distribute about 400 to 500 million in the country by the middle of next year.  On Tuesday, Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan met a group of ministers to talk about strategies that need to be adopted to distribute Covid-19 vaccines when it gets released, the report said. "The task of identifying frontline workers, recalibration of digital platform, logistics of non-vaccine supplies, cold chain augmentation are being carried out as per the detailed implementation plan,” said Dr VK Paul, who heads the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration. The committee, National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration, which is drawing up the list of potential first candidates for the vaccine consists of Dr VK Paul, AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria, representatives of the ministries of external affairs, biotechnology, information technology, Director General of Health Services, National Aids Research Institute, Indian Council of Medical Research and representatives from states.  Dr Paul said that they have conducted a comprehensive study on which sections of the population to prioritise that would initially get access to the vaccine. The committee has drawn inspirations from US’s Centre for Disease Control and WHO.  The health ministry also said that the eVIN network which can track the latest vaccine stock position, temperature at storage facility, and geo-tag health centres is being repurposed for the delivery of Covid-19 vaccines. Currently, there are three vaccines that are going through the process of clinical trials in India. They include Bharat Biotech International Limited and ICMR’s Covaxin which is also India’s first indigenous vaccine candidate. At present, it is in Phase II of clinical trials. ZyCoV-D by Zydus Cadila is also in the second phase of the clinical trial.  The last and the frontrunner is AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine which is developed by the University of Oxford, manufactured by Serum Institute of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-will-get-the-covid-19-vaccine-first-in-india-health-ministry-prepares-plan-901705.html
14-10-2020||National||Govt invites proposals for development of EV charging infrastructure on major highways||The government has invited proposals for installation of charging stations from entities that intend to build and operate charging infrastructure on major highways and expressways in the country. The Department of Heavy Industries has floated an Expression of Interest for inviting proposals from government organisations, PSUs (State/Central), state-owned DISCOM, Oil PSUs and similar other public and private entities to build and operate Public EV charging infrastructure. Proposals have been invited from interested entities to build and operate EV charging infrastructure on the Mumbai - Pune, Ahmedabad-Vadodara, Delhi-Agra Yamuna, Bengaluru-Mysore, Bengaluru-Chennai, Surat - Mumbai, Agra - Lucknow, Eastern Peripheral and Hyderabad-ORR Expressways. Similarly, proposals have also been invited from entities for highways including Delhi - Srinagar, Delhi–Kolkata, Agra-Nagpur, Meerut to Gangotri Dham, Mumbai - Delhi, Mumbai-Panaji, Mumbai-Nagpur, Mumbai-Bengaluru and Kolkata to Bhubaneswar. Under Phase-II of the FAME India Scheme, Government of India (GoI) intends to support the development of EV charging infrastructure by extending capital grant to organisations for promoting the use of Electric Vehicles (EVs). The Centre has approved Phase-II of FAME India Scheme [Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of (Hybrid &) Electric Vehicles in India], for 3 years commencing from 1st April 2019. Its main focus is the electrification of public and shared transportation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-invites-proposals-for-development-of-ev-charging-infrastructure-on-major-highways-901719.html
14-10-2020||National||Delhi HC asks Centre to clarify stand on same-sex marriage||The Delhi High Court Wednesday sought a response from the Centre on separate pleas by two same-sex couples, one seeking to get married under the Special Marriage Act (SMA) and the other seeking registration of their wedding in the US under the Foreign Marriage Act (FMA). A bench of Justices R S Endlaw and Asha Menon issued notice to the Centre and the Delhi government asking them to clarify their stand on the plea by two women seeking to get married under the SMA and challenging provisions of the statute to the extent it does not provide for same-sex marriages. The court also issued notice to the Centre and the Consulate General of India in New York on the other plea by two men who got married in the US but were denied registration of their marriage under the FMA. The bench listed both matters for hearing on January 8, 2021. During the hearing, the bench said it has no doubts regarding maintainability of the petitions, but added that the concept of marriage emanates from the customary laws which do not recognise same-sex marriages. It also said that marriage is not defined under the SMA and FMA and everyone interprets what marriage is according to the customary laws. It said that once same-sex marriages are recognised under the customary laws, this would be followed by the other statutes like SMA and FMA. The court also said if the petitioners wished to make any changes in their pleas to challenge the definition of marriage, now was the time instead of having to do it at a much later stage in the proceedings. The court further said that SMA was enacted as there were no customs for inter-faith and inter-caste marriages. Senior advocate Menaka Guruswamy, appearing for both sets of petitioners, said the petitioners are not seeking relief under any customary or religious laws, rather they are seeking that the civil laws -- SMA and FMA -- which are applicable to all kinds of couples, including inter-caste and inter-faith, be also made applicable to them. Guruswamy also told the bench that both SMA and FMA are not based on customary laws. One of the counsels, Rajkumar Yadav, representing the central government said that in the 5,000-year-old history of Sanatan Dharma such a situation was being faced for the first time. To this the bench remarked, that the "language in the statutes is gender-neutral. Please try to interpret the law in the interests of every citizen of the country."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-asks-centre-to-clarify-stand-on-same-sex-marriage-901732.html
14-10-2020||National||Cinema halls in Gujarat likely to reopen from October 17||Cinema halls in Gujarat are likely to reopen from Saturday, as not from Thursday as per the government's guideline, as their owners have not been able to reach an agreement with distributors on re-running old films, a representative of the theatre owners said. Cinema halls and multiplexes have been shut since March following the lockdown due to the outbreak of Covid-19. The Gujarat government in its October 1 notification allowed cinema halls to operate from October 15 with 50 per cent capacity while adhering to the standard operating procedures, including social distancing and sanitisation. "We (multiplexes in Gujarat) are not starting from tomorrow, as we have not been able to decide the terms of re-running old movies with distributors in Mumbai," Gujarat Multiplex Owners' Association member said Neeraj Ahuja told PTI on Wednesday. "We will be running mostly old movies, most likely from Saturday," he said, adding that distributors of Gujarati films are also not ready to release any new movie as of now. "To start with, we will screen one or two Gujarati and Hindi movies and then decide on the future course based on the response," said Ahuja, who is the general manager of Essem Entertainment Pvt Ltd, which runs Wide Angle Multiplexes in Ahmedabad and Mehsana. Most multiplexes in Gujarat are facing similar issues and hardly any theatre will be able to screen films starting Thursday, as allowed by the government, he said. Films which were released six to eight months back, before the lockdown was imposed, would be screened from Saturday, he said. Multiplexes and cinema owners have decided to strictly follow the SOPs issued by the central and state governments. While online bookings will be encouraged, ticket counters will also operate by adhering to the social distancing norms, he said. Sanitisers will be kept in cinema halls, he said, adding that theatres will be sanitised twice a day and alternate seats will be kept vacant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cinema-halls-in-gujarat-likely-to-reopen-from-october-17-901747.html
14-10-2020||National||Coal scam: CBI seeks life imprisonment for ex-minister Dilip Ray||The CBI urged a Delhi court on Wednesday to award life imprisonment to former Union minister Dilip Ray who has been convicted in a coal scam case pertaining to irregularities in the allocation of a Jharkhand coal block in 1999. Special Judge Bharat Parashar reserved the order for October 26 after hearing arguments from the CBI as well the convicts. Besides Ray, former minister of state (coal) in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government, the CBI also sought life imprisonment for other convicts in the case including two senior officials of the Ministry of Coal at that time, Pradip Kumar Banerjee and Nitya Nand Gautam, and Castron Technologies Ltd's (CTL) director Mahendra Kumar Agarwalla. Besides, the prosecution sought imposition of maximum fine on CLT and Castron Mining Ltd (CML), also held guilty in the case. The CBI, represented by public prosecutors V K Sharma and A P Singh, told the court in the argument held through video conferencing that white collar crimes are on the rise and maximum punishment was required to send a message to the society. Ray was convicted under various sections including 409 of IPC (criminal breach of trust by a public servant), that varies a maximum punishment of life imprisonment. This is the first conviction in coal scam for the offence carrying maximum punishment of life imprisonment. The convicted persons urged the court to take a lenient view considering their old age and that they have never been convicted earlier. The court reserved the order after hearing the arguments and directed the convicts to pe present before it physically on October 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coal-scam-cbi-seeks-life-imprisonment-for-ex-minister-dilip-ray-901748.html
14-10-2020||National||India should resist misleading allure of domestic market: Ex-CEA Arvind Subramanian||India should resist the misleading allure of the domestic market and should zealously boost exports, according to a research paper co-authored by former chief economic advisor Arvind Subramanian. The paper titled India's Inward (Re)Turn: Is it Warranted? Will it Work? -- jointly authored by Subramanian and Pennsylvania State University professor Shoumitro Chatterjee -- said that India is turning inward, domestic demand is assuming primacy over export-orientation and trade restrictions are increasing, reversing a three-decade trend. "Resisting the misleading allure of the domestic market, India should zealously boost export performance and deploy all means to achieve that. "... abandoning export orientation will amount to killing the goose that lays golden eggs and indeed to killing the only goose laying eggs. Alas, to embrace atmanirbharta is to choose to condemn the Indian economy to mediocrity," the paper noted. Further, it said that the consensus to favour an inward orientation was emerging even before Covid-19 had struck India, reflected in increasing calls to Atmanirbharta or self reliance. This shift is based on three misconceptions that India's domestic market size is big, India's growth has been based on domestic not export markets, and export prospects are dim because the world is deglobalising, it noted. The paper also said that India still enjoys large export opportunities, especially in labour-intensive sectors such as clothing and footwear, but exploiting these opportunities requires more openness and more global integration. "Indeed, given constraints on public, corporate and household balance sheets, abandoning export orientation is akin to killing the only goose that can lay eggs," it said. The paper said that India's real market size, defined as consumers with a modicum of purchasing power is not big. "It is much smaller than the headline GDP number, much smaller than China's, and only a small fraction of the world market. The reason is that India has many poor consumers, while the rich tend to be large savers, limiting their consumption," it added. Similarly, the prognosis that export prospects are dim because the world is deglobalising is overly pessimistic, the paper pointed out. To begin with, it is unclear whether the world is really deglobalising, at least in services. Even if it is, India's export share is so small-even smaller than Vietnam in manufacturing exports-that its exports could grow rapidly by gaining market share, according to the paper. In particular, the paper said that India has major unexploited opportunities in low-skill manufacturing and services, which it could exploit in the post-Covid-19 environment where firms are looking to exit China and diversify their sources of supply. "Meanwhile, protectionism is unlikely to succeed as an export strategy because exploiting the big opportunities in the key labour-intensive sectors requires more openness and more global integration, as the experience of China and Vietnam have shown," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-should-resist-misleading-allure-of-domestic-market-ex-cea-arvind-subramanian-901762.html
14-10-2020||National||Chhattisgarh yet to take call on reopening of cinema halls||The Chhattisgarh government has not yet taken a call on allowing reopening of cinema halls and multiplexes in the state which have been shut since March in view of the coronavirus-induced lockdown. A Central Circuit Cine Association (CCCA) member on Wednesday said they will have to retrench their staff members if the shutdown continues to be in force. "On Tuesday, the state government had issued SOPs for holding social, sports, cultural, religious, political and entertainment events in closed and open spaces. "However, as of now no such permission has been issued for operation of movie theatres," a senior government official told PTI. The Centre has permitted cinema halls and multiplexes to reopen with up to 50 per cent of their seating capacity, but it has left it to states to take a final call on granting the permission. Last week, the CCA submitted a memorandum to Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel seeking reopening of cinema halls and multiplexes. "The cinema hall sector has been going through the worst phase. We have been paying property tax, electricity bills, staff salary and GST from the last seven months without any earnings. "We somehow managed to continue so far by giving 50 per cent salary to our employees but if the shutdown continues, we have to retrench them," said Labhansh Tiwari, a member of the CCCA. He said movie exhibitors have made all preparations to comply with the safety protocols and other precautions as per the Central guidelines for screening of films, but the permission from the state government is still awaited. Tiwari, who runs a cinema theatre in Raipur, also said that it will take around a month to restore normal functioning even if cinema halls are allowed to resume operations now, as no new films are scheduled to be released. Dhamtari-based Shantilal Lunkad, CCCA's in-charge for Chhattisgarh, has sought relaxation from the government in terms of electricity bills and property tax for cinema hall operators. "There are approximately 140 screens, including single screen and multiplexes, in the state which employ about 4,500 workers. The lockdown has resulted in the permanent closure of two famous single-screen theatres in Bhilai and Rajnandagon, and many others are mulling to close their facility," Lunkad said. The state government should soon clarify when it is going to give permission in this regard, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-yet-to-take-call-on-reopening-of-cinema-halls-901765.html
14-10-2020||National||Minister Gowda asks govt run fertiliser firms to ensure sufficient quantity during coming Rabi season||Union Minister of Chemicals and Fertiliser Sadananda Gowda asked state-run fertiliser producing firms to gear up for the upcoming Rabi season, and ensure that farmers get fertiliser in adequate quantity in time. Gowda held a review meeting with the Chairman and Managing Director of the fertiliser PSUs to take stock of their performance as well as their preparedness for the future. He directed CMDs to chalk out a common strategy to encourage cashless transactions for the sale of fertiliser to reduce diversion and leakages of subsidies in line with the overall vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The meeting was attended by  Chhabilendra Roul, Secretary (Fertilisers) and Shri Virendra Nath Datt, CMD (National Fertilisers Limited), S C Mudgerikar, CMD (Rashtriya Chemicals & Fertilisers Limited), Kishor Rungta, CMD (The Fertiliser And Chemicals Travancore Limited),  U Saravanan, CMD (Madras Fertilisers Limited), A K Ghosh, CMD (Brahmaputra Valley Fertiliser Corporation Limited) and Amar Singh Rathore, CMD (FCI Aravali Gypsum and Minerals India Limited). While appreciating the works of the companies in supplying fertiliser during the Covid-19 pandemic,  Gowda said, "Because of efforts of domestic companies and proactiveness of officers of Department of Fertiliser, there was no shortage of urea in the country, even when demand for urea shot up due to better than expected rainfall and a substantial increase in area under farming  Kharif season." The Minister also stressed the need for PSUs to become self-sustainable and said that in the future, PSUs should not depend upon budgetary support from the Government of India. "The need of the hour is to go for diversification of product basket, development of new products such as nano-fertilisers and customized fertiliser, technology up-gradation and if necessary, through revamping of existing plants if they have to sustain in future, and compete with the private sector and imported fertilisers," he said. Roul, Secretary (Fertilisers) said that fertiliser PSUs should also continuously make efforts to strengthen their disaster management plan. During the meeting, CMDs gave brief about the performance of their respective PSUs in the current financial year, and highlighted investment made for technological up-gradation and revamping of their plants to increase their sustainability, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/minister-gowda-asks-govt-run-fertiliser-firms-to-ensure-sufficient-quantity-during-coming-rabi-season-901779.html
14-10-2020||National||Winter could be colder this season due to prevailing La Nina conditions: IMD DG||Winter could be colder this season due to the prevailing La Nina conditions, India Meteorological Department (IMD) Director General Mrutunjay Mohapatra said on Wednesday. He said there should not be an impression that climate change leads to rise in the temperature, but on the contrary, it leads to erratic weather. "As weak La Nina condition is prevailing, we can expect more cold this year. The El Nino and La Nina conditions play a dominant role if you consider the large scale factor for the occurrence of cold wave conditions," Mohapatra said. He was addressing a webinar on 'Cold Wave Risk Reduction' organised by the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA).   "La Nina conditions are favourable for cold wave conditions, while El Nino conditions are unfavourable for it," he added. Mohapatra said Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar are among the states that mostly see deaths due to cold waves. The IMD also releases a winter forecast every year in November which gives predictions on the severity of the winter season starting December to February. La Nina is related to the cooling of the Pacific waters, while the El Nino is linked to its heating. Both factors are also believed to have an impact on the Indian monsoon. For instance, 2020 witnessed an above normal monsoon with nine per cent excess rainfall. The winter season last year had long spells of cold waves.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/winter-could-be-colder-this-season-due-to-prevailing-la-nina-conditions-imd-dg-901792.html
14-10-2020||National||Israel aligned with PM Modi's 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat', 'Make in India' vision: Israeli envoy||Hailing the selection by the Indian government of an Israeli firm for electronics manufacturing in India, Israeli Ambassador Ron Malka has said the development signifies his country's alignment with Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' and 'Make in India' vision. The Ministry of Electronics and Information and Technology (MeitY) has approved 16 eligible applicants under the Production Linked Incentive Scheme (PLI). The PLI for Large Scale Electronics Manufacturing extends an incentive of 4 per cent to 6 per cent on incremental sales (over the base year) of goods under target segments that are manufactured in India to eligible companies, for a period of five years subsequent to the base year (FY2019-20). Welcoming the development, Malka tweeted, "Delighted that NeoLync, an Israeli company is a part of UTL-NeoLync that was selected by the Indian government for electronics manufacturing in India, an important addition to the list of  Israeli companies already actively participating in @PMOIndia's Make In India, export and Atmanirbhar Bharat vision." Speaking to PTI about the selection of the firm, which has 49 per cent Israeli stake, said this shows how much his country is aligned with the Indian vision not only on the government to government basis but also business to business. It also aligns with the vision of 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' because this will make India and Israel self-reliant in these areas of communication and advanced communication, he said. "Israel and India don't compete with each other, they complete each other," he said. Under the mobile phone (domestic companies) segment, Indian companies including Lava, Bhagwati (Micromax), Padget Electronics, UTL Neolyncs and Optiemus Electronics are approved by MeitY. These companies are expected to expand their manufacturing operations in a significant manner and grow into national champion companies in mobile phone production, a ministry statement had said. Six companies are approved under the Specified Electronic Components Segment and they are AT&S, Ascent Circuits, Visicon, Walsin, Sahasra, and Neolync, it said. Over the next 5 years, the approved companies under the PLI Scheme are expected to lead to total production worth more than Rs 10.5 lakh crore and it would entail exports worth an estimated amount of Rs 6.5 lakh crore. The companies approved under the scheme will bring additional investment in electronics manufacturing to the tune of Rs 11,000 crore, while they will generate more than two lakh direct employment opportunities in the next 5 years along with the creation of additional indirect employment of nearly 3 times the direct employment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/israel-aligned-with-pm-modis-aatmanirbhar-bharat-make-in-india-vision-israeli-envoy-901794.html
14-10-2020||National||BJP stalwart Eknath Khadse likely to join NCP||Veteran BJP leader and former minister Eknath Khadse is likely to join NCP.  Khadse has been sulking since June 2016 when he was No. 2 to the then Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis and had to resign in the wake of alleged charges of corruption. In the 2019 Maharashtra Legislative Assembly polls, the BJP leadership had denied him a ticket. Over the past two weeks, Khadse, a grassroots politician, efficient administrator, and a powerful orator, has been in touch with NCP leadership and is expected to join the Sharad Pawar-led party soon. However, neither the NCP nor Khadse or his aides gave any line of confirmation. Khadse (68), who hails from Muktainagar in Jalgaon district of North Maharashtra, is one of the tallest leaders of the BJP who helped the party reach out to people and grow. Groomed by late Pramod Mahajan and then by Gopinath Munde, he has traveled from being a Sarpanch of Kothali village to being the No. 2 in the government. In fact, he was a CM-aspirant, but Prime Minister Narendra Modi and then BJP President Amit Shah chose Fadnavis instead, who had been groomed in legislative affairs by Khadse himself. Since 1989, he had represented Muktainagar constituency from Jalgaon district in the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly. From 1995-99, he served under two CMs – Dr. Manohar Joshi and Narayan Rane and held portfolios like Higher and Technical Education, Finance and Planning, Irrigation, and Command Area Development. From 2009-2014, he was Leader of Opposition and led the charge against the then Congress-NCP Democratic Front government. After the 2014 elections, he lost the bid for the post of CM – but instead settled for 10 portfolios Revenue, Relief and Rehabilitation, Earthquake Rehabilitation, Minorities Development, and Wakf, Agriculture and Horticulture, Animal Husbandry, Dairy Development, and Fisheries and State Excise. However, he had to put down papers following charges of corruption. His daughter-in-law Raksha Khadse is an MP from Jalgaon. In 2019, when he was denied a ticket, the party high command offered the Muktainagar seat to his daughter Rohini Khadse-Khevalkar, however, she lost the polls. The Khadse-camp had accused Fadnavis and his team of engineering of the defeat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-stalwart-eknath-khadse-likely-to-join-ncp-901803.html
14-10-2020||National||Uttar Pradesh government asks SC to allow CBI probe into Hathras incident under its supervision||The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday once again asked the Supreme Court to allow the CBI investigation into the alleged Hathras gang-rape to continue under its own supervision.  On September 29, a 19-year-old Dalit girl died after sustaining injuries after she was allegedly gang-raped by four upper-caste men. In an affidavit, the state government listed out steps taken for security and protection provided to the family members of the girl, which included deployment of armed constabulary, civil police and personal security and installation of eight CCTV cameras. "The entire security staff deployed at the village has been strictly instructed to ensure that there is no intrusion in the privacy of the victim's family and witnesses and that they are free to move and meet the people they want," it said. With regard to the court's query if the victim's family had engaged any lawyer, the state government said it had inquired with them and had been informed that they had already engaged two advocates: Seema Kushwaha and Raj Ratan. Maintaining that it was committed to provide complete security to the victim's family and witnesses to ensure free and fair investigation, the state government asked the court to keep the PIL filed by Satyama Dubey pending and allow the CBI to conduct the probe under its own supervision in a time-bound manner. "The court may direct the CBI to submit fortnightly investigation report to the state government, which can be filed by the DGP UP before it," the government's affidavit said. On October 6 also, the Uttar Pradesh government filed an affidavit asking the court to allow the CBI probe into the Hathras incident under its own supervision in a time-bound manner. The court had then sought to know from the state government as to how it would ensure protection of witnesses in the Hathras case, as it termed the incident as "shocking, horrible and extraordinary".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttar-pradesh-government-asks-sc-to-allow-cbi-probe-into-hathras-incident-under-its-supervision-901808.html
14-10-2020||National||Centre approves new STARS project to strengthen school education system||The Centre on Wednesday set the ball rolling for implementation of the National Education Policy by approving a scheme to improve foundational learning for students and tune-up assessment systems in six states. The Union Cabinet, at a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, approved the Strengthening Teaching-Learning And Results for States (STARS) project which will be implemented with financial assistance from the World Bank. “India has started implementing the new National Education Policy,” Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said. He said that the Rs 5,718 crore project would be implemented in Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala and Odisha and the World Bank would contribute Rs 3,700 crore. He also added that a similar project with aid from Asian Development Bank (ADB) would be implemented in Gujarat, Jharkhand, Uttarakhand, Assam and Tamil Nadu at a cost of Rs 5,800 crore. The STARS project would be implemented as a centrally sponsored scheme and would also involve setting up a National Assessment Centre, PARAKH as an independent and autonomous institution. “We have to improve board exams which will be competency-based. This will impact the processes of education in early childhood and foundational literacy has to be achieved. We have to train teachers and a separate assessment board or institution will come into force,” Javadekar said. Some of the measurable outcomes of the project are an increase in students achieving minimum proficiency in Grade 3 language, improvement in secondary school completion rate, improvement in governance index scores. The STARS project also includes a Contingency Emergency Response Component (CERC) to help the government respond to situations leading to loss of learning such as school closures/infrastructure damage, inadequate facilities, and use of technology for facilitating remote learning. “The CERC component would facilitate the rapid re-categorization of financing and the utilization of streamlined financing request procedures,” an official statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-approves-new-stars-project-to-strengthen-school-education-system-901818.html
14-10-2020||National||Tanishq showroom in Gujarat forced to write apology over its alleged 'Love Jihad' ad||A Tanishq showroom in Gandhidham town of Kutch district was forced to write an apology and paste it on its front door for the advertisement which hit headlines after it was accused of promoting "love jihad" on social media, forcing the jewellery brand to withdraw the ad. Meanwhile, the showroom in Gandhidham has received dozens of threat calls from the district and several parts of the state but the management has yet not approached police with a complaint. After news reports suggesting that the showroom was "targeted by a mob", Kutch (East) Superintendent of Police Mayur Patil told reporters inside the showroom, "No such incident has occurred." However, he said on October 12 that, two persons-one identified as Ramesh Ahir (Maitra)- entered the showroom and sought an apology in Gujarati.  A video of Ahir threatening to write an apology and put it in front of the showroom has gone viral. The showroom management followed the "instruction" and wrote an apology that reads, "The campaign of Tanishq circulated in the media is shameful and Gandhidham Tanishq apologies to Samagra Kutch Jilla Hindu Samaj. " "On 13th October night, the management (showroom) informed us about the threat call and sought police deployment. We did that and increased patrolling in the area. We haven't received any formal complaint from them," Patil told DH over the phone. He added that he was not aware of any mob came to the showroom demanding an apology. Meanwhile, Ramesh Ahir, the man who reportedly forced the showroom to write the apology, told local media that he had indeed gone to the showroom. "I felt that the Tanishq ad was against my religious sentiments. I told them that it is the only showroom in the whole of Kutch and hence it should apologise to the people. The report in the media that the showroom was attacked is completely false. I am a simple businessman and I will never want to destroy a business. I only want that neither mine nor anyone's religion should be insulted."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tanishq-showroom-in-gujarat-forced-to-write-apology-over-its-alleged-love-jihad-ad-901820.html
14-10-2020||National||HMD sends first shipment of 56 million syringes to Covax facility||Hindustan Syringes & Medical Devices on Wednesday said it has sent the first shipment of 56 million auto-disable syringes to Covax facility to help in Covid-19 vaccination. The Covax facility, which is working for global equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines, has ordered 140 million KOJAK AD Syringes from Hindustan Syringes & Medical Devices (HMD) to be supplied between August and December 2020, it said. "We have shipped out more than 56 million pieces of 5 ml auto disabled (AD) syringes for intramuscular syringes to Covax facility and will soon send the next shipment of 28 million Syringes by October end," HMD Managing Director Rajiv Nath said. About the availability of the syringes in India, Nath said: "Should the government need 100 million KOJAK auto-disable syringes for Covid-19 vaccines by the end of this year, we can easily offer them to lift the outstanding orders placed with us". As India gets ready for Covid-19 vaccine, the government should be well equipped with a secured stock of syringes in advance to administer a vaccine when it is approved and ready, HMD said. Covax facility is a global initiative that brings together governments and manufacturers to ensure eventual Covid-19 vaccines reach those in greatest need, whoever they are and wherever they live.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hmd-sends-first-shipment-of-56-million-syringes-to-covax-facility-901821.html
14-10-2020||National||Covid-19 tests in India cross 9 crore; 20 states, UTs report positivity rate less than national average||The total number of tests for detection of Covid-19 has crossed nine-crore in India, while the cumulative positivity rate is 8.04 per cent and is on a "continuous decline", the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. Very high countrywide testing on a sustained basis has also resulted in bringing down the national Covid-19 positivity rate, the ministry underlined. "This indicates that the rate of spread of infection is being effectively contained," the ministry said. "Twenty states and UTs have a positivity rate less than the national average. The cumulative positivity rate is 8.04 per cent and is on a continuous decline," it highlighted. India has been registering more new recoveries than the new cases consistently in the recent days.  As a result, the active cases are steadily declining and stand at 8,26,876 as on date and comprise only 11.42 per cent of the total caseload of the country, the ministry stressed. With 11,45,015 tests conducted on Tuesday, the cumulative tests for detection of Covid-19 have reached 9,00,90,122 in the country.   With 1,935 testing labs in the country including 1,112 government laboratories and 823 private laboratories, the daily testing capacity has got a substantial boost. "Higher testing across wide regions leads to early identification of positive cases, prompt tracking through efficient surveillance and tracing, and timely and effective treatment in homes/facilities and in hospitals for the severe cases. These measures in tandem eventually lead to lower mortality rate," the ministry underscored. A total of 74,632 Covid-19 cases have recovered and discharged in a span of 24 hours whereas 63,509 new infections were reported during the same period, according to the data updated at 8 am.  "Higher number of recoveries has aided the national Recovery Rate to further improve to 87.05 per cent," the ministry said. The total recoveries have surged to 63,01,927 and exceed active cases of Covid-19 by 54,75,051.  Also, 79 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and UTs --- Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, and Delhi, the ministry said. Maharashtra continues to contribute the maximum with more than 15,000 single day recoveries. The ministry said that 77 per cent of the 63,509 new infections registered in a span of 24 hours are from 10 states and UTs --Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnatala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Odisha. Kerala with 8,764 new cases has outnumbered Maharashtra (8,522) with the highest number of new reported cases. Top three contributing states, Kerala, Maharashtra and Karnataka, reported more than 8,000 cases followed by Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh, both contributing more than 4,000 cases each. Also, 730 case Covid-19 fatalities have been reported in a span of 24 hours. Of these, nearly 80 per cent are concentrated in ten states and UTs. More than 25 per cent of new fatalities reported are from Maharashtra (187 deaths).  India has demonstrated an exponential increase in the number of Covid-19 cumulative tests since January 2020.  The country's testing capacities have multiplied manifold with more than 1900 labs across the country and with collaborative efforts of the Centre and state and UT governments. More than 15 lakh samples can be tested every day, the ministry said. Progressive expansion in testing infrastructure has played a crucial role in the steep rise of testing numbers, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-tests-in-india-cross-9-crore-20-states-uts-report-positivity-rate-less-than-national-average-901838.html
14-10-2020||National||Agharkar Research Institute develops new high yield wheat variety||A new high-yield wheat variety that grows fast and scores high on quality has been developed by farmers, thanks to the Pune-based Agharkar Research Institute (ARI). This wheat variety called MACS 6478 developed by scientists from ARI, an autonomous institute of the Department of Science and Technology (DST), has doubled the crop yield for farmers in Karanjkhop, a village in Maharashtra. The farmers of the village in Koregaon tehsil of Satara district in Maharashtra are now getting a yield of 45-60 quintal per hectare with the new variety as against earlier average yield ranging 25-30 quintal per hectare when they cultivated Lok 1, HD 2189 and other old varieties. The newly developed common wheat or bread wheat, also called high yielding Aestivum, matures in 110 days and is resistant to most races of leaf and stem rust. The amber-coloured medium-sized grain contains 14% protein, 44.1 ppm zinc and 42.8 ppm iron which is higher than other cultivated varieties, the ARI said. A research paper on this variety has been published in ‘International Journal of Current Microbiology and Applied Sciences’. The chapati quality of flour of this wheat is excellent, having a score of 8.05 with good bread quality scoring 6.93. Maharashtra state seed agency for seed multiplication, ‘Mahabeej’ is carrying out certified seed production of MACS 6478 for use by farmers. With the efforts of a former seed certification officer and support from ARI staff, so far 10 farmers of the village have cultivated this variety on fourteen acres of land. Farmers of Karanjkhop have planned to establish a company for further seed production and other agricultural produce. "We needed one spark to motivate us and that is provided by ARI wheat variety MACS 6478. Now, we will never look back,” Ramesh Jadhav, a farmer, who witnessed all this change said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/agharkar-research-institute-develops-new-high-yield-wheat-variety-901844.html
14-10-2020||National||Indian economy in tatters, colossal downfall in pursuit of PM Modi's 5 trillion dream: Abhishek Banerjee||Senior TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee on Wednesday said the country's economy is in "tatters", and described IMF's projections of Bangladesh surpassing India in terms of per capita GDP as "our colossal downfall" in pursuit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "5 trillion dream". Abhishek, who is an MP and also president of TMC youth congress, posted a news clip on his Twitter handle to take a dig at the Union government. "Indian Economy in tatters, as even Bangladesh is set to overtake us in Per Capita GDP as per @IMFNews's World Economic Outlook. Listen carefully, it's not their resurgence, but our colossal downfall, in pursuit of @narendramodi Ji's 5 Trillion dream!," Abhishek, the nephew of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, said. The PM has set a goal of making India a USD 5-trillion economy by 2024. The International Monetary Fund had said on Tuesday said the Indian economy, severely hit by the coronavirus pandemic, is projected to contract by a massive 10.3 per cent this year. India however, is likely to bounce back with an impressive 8.8 per cent growth rate in 2021, thus regaining the position of the fastest-growing emerging economy, surpassing China's projected growth rate of 8.2 per cent, the IMF said in its latest World Economic Outlook report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-economy-in-tatters-colossal-downfall-in-pursuit-of-pm-modis-5-trillion-dream-abhishek-banerjee-901848.html
14-10-2020||National||Farmers' leaders walk out of meeting with Agriculture Secretary||Leaders of 29 farmers’ unions from Punjab on Wednesday stormed out of a meeting with Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Agarwal after “unsatisfactory discussion” over the three new farm sector laws that have angered farmers in the state. The delegation of farmers’ leaders submitted a memorandum to Agarwal demanding the repeal of the three farm sector law enacted by the Centre, make MSP a legal right for all crops and implement the Swaminathan Commission report recommendations on higher MSP to farmers. A delegation of 50 leaders reached Krishi Bhawan on Wednesday of which a smaller team of seven members met Agarwal. However, the leaders were upset at the Centre’s approach of listing out the virtues of the three laws, instead of hearing out the concerns voiced by farmers’ organisations. “We were not here to listen to the virtues of the Act. We expected the government to hear our concerns. Moreover, we expected the minister to be present at the meeting and not a government official,” Jagjit Singh Dallewal, who heads a faction of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, told DH. He said the Union Ministers were touring Punjab speaking against the farmers who were agitating against the three laws, but have not found time to meet us in Chandigarh. Farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws will pave a way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates. The Agriculture Ministry, in a statement, said that representatives of 29 farmers’ unions from Punjab had a two-hour meeting with the Agriculture Secretary. “At the end of this meeting, two memoranda on behalf of the Farmers' Unions were given to the Secretary,” the ministry statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-leaders-walk-out-of-meeting-with-agriculture-secretary-901849.html
14-10-2020||National||Sonia Gandhi-laid Rohtang Tunnel’s foundation stone secure with construction firm: HP Police||Congress president Sonia Gandhi-laid Rohtang Tunnel’s foundation stone is secure with the construction company which built the tunnel, the Himachal Pradesh police said on Wednesday. The police made the clarification two days after the Himachal Congress alleged that the foundation stone laid by Sonia Gandhi for the tunnel a decade ago had been removed before its inauguration by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 3. Kullu superintendent of police Gaurav Singh said the Border Road Organisation had kept the stone in the mechanical workshop of the tunnel's construction company SAJV so that it could not get damaged during the construction. The SP said Lahaul-Spiti police had got a complaint from district Congress regarding the missing stone and it was forwarded to the Kullu police. This came to light during investigation that the foundation stone is secure and lying in the workshop, he added. Earlier in a letter to Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, state Congress president Kuldeep Singh Rathore on Monday said Gandhi had laid the foundation stone on June 28, 2010, in the presence of the then CM Prem Kumar Dhumal and Union minister Virbhadra Singh. Former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, after whom the tunnel has been named, had announced the project during a public meeting at Lahaul-Spiti’s Keylong in June 2000. He had laid the foundation stone for an approach road to the tunnel in 2002. The Congress leader said if the stone is not reinstalled within a fortnight, the party will launch a state-wide agitation. “This is an undemocratic, unconventional and illegal step ever noticed in the history of Indian democracy that the legally laid foundation stone of any project approved by the then government is removed after its completion to fulfill political goals of a particular ideology,” the Himachal Congress chief had said in a two-page letter. Manali block Congress president Hari Chand Sharma had submitted the complaint in this regard to the Kullu police. He had complained that the foundation stone laid by Gandhi at the south portal of the tunnel in Manali's Dhoondi was missing. Similarly, Lahaul-Spiti Congress chief Gialchhen Thakur submitted a complaint to Lahaul-Spiti police in this regard. Keylong Deputy Superintendent of Police (DySP) Hemant Thakur had told PTI that the complaint was forwarded to the Kullu police as the stone by Sonia Gandhi was laid in Dhoondi or Solang Nullah in Manali. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had inaugurated the all-weather 9.2-km-long tunnel on October 3. Built at an altitude of 10,040 feet, Rohtang’s Atal Tunnel reduces the travel between Manali and Leh by 46 km, saving four to five hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sonia-gandhi-laid-rohtang-tunnel-s-foundation-stone-secure-with-construction-firm-hp-police-901870.html
14-10-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Bihar CM addresses four election rallies; NIA grills two Bengaluru Congress MLAs||In your evening news brief, From the Newsroom, A vaccine against Covid-19 will be first made accessible to those who need it most regardless of the fact that if they can afford it or not, the committee created to decide who gets the vaccine first said. CM Nitish Kumar after two days of virtual rallies, held four short rallies on the ground in Bihar today. Deaths directly or indirectly attributable to the first wave of Covid-19 infections across 21 wealthy nations earlier this year exceeded government tallies by 20 per cent on average, according to a study.  Here are the top stories of the day, October 14, 2020: A vaccine against Covid-19 will be first made accessible to those who need it most regardless of the fact that if they can afford it or not, the committee created to decide who gets the vaccine first said. The Union Ministry for Health and Family Welfare is hoping to distribute about 400 to 500 million in the country by the middle of next year. On Tuesday, Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan met a group of ministers to talk about strategies that need to be adopted to distribute Covid-19 vaccines when it gets released. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) officials, who have taken up two cases of DJ Halli and KG Halli riots in East Bengaluru, have questioned two congress MLAs, BZ Zameer Ahmed Khan of Chamarajpet constituency and Rizwan Ahmed of Shivaji Nagar constituency. According to NIA officials, the two MLAs have been asked to appear for questioning if summoned again. Zameer was questioned on Monday while Rizwan was questioned on Tuesday. Zameer and Rizwan were summoned by the NIA to explain their presence at the riot spot on August 11 and why were seen in many videos talking to locals and police officers. Now, on to news from the Bihar’s Assembly Elections. Congress is now likely to field Luv Sinha, son of former Lok Sabha member from Patna Sahib, Shatrughan Sinha, as the party nominee from one of the Assembly seats in the Bihar’s State capital, Patna. “Luv Sinha is likely to be the Congress candidate from Bankipore Assembly seat in Patna. A formal announcement will be made shortly,” a source close to actor-turned-politician Shatrughan Sinha told DH. CM Nitish Kumar after two days of virtual rallies, held four short rallies on the ground in Bihar today. He said in the rally that the government has worked towards empowerment of the poor and women and said that women who complete class 12, will receive Rs 25,000 and an undergraduate degree, Rs 50,000. He urged voters to look at JD(U)’s record so far and vote accordingly. He added that Bihar is his family and that service is his dharma. Cricket fans have slammed icon Mahendra Singh Dhoni for apparently bullying umpire Paul Reiffel into changing a wide call during an Indian Premier League game. The incident occurred Tuesday when Dhoni-led Chennai Super Kings paceman Shardul Thakur bowled outside the off stump of Sunrisers Hyderabad batsman Rashid Khan. Umpire Reiffel, who played 35 Tests for Australia before retiring, appeared to start the signal for a wide -- both arms outstretched at shoulder height -- when Dhoni began protesting. Reiffel then seemed to change his mind midway through the signal and the ball went down as legitimate in the crucial penultimate over of Hyderabad's unsuccessful chase of 168. Deaths directly or indirectly attributable to the first wave of Covid-19 infections across 21 wealthy nations earlier this year exceeded government tallies by 20 per cent on average, according to a study. Looking at the period from mid-February through May 2020, researchers reported 206,000 more deaths than would have been expected without the pandemic. But only 167,148 were officially attributed to the coronavirus that has swept the globe since the start of the year, infecting tens of millions. That is it today, From the Newsroom. Tune in tomorrow morning for our feature show, The Lead.  If you liked this show, please share this podcast with your friends, family and on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-bihar-cm-addresses-four-election-rallies-nia-grills-two-bengaluru-congress-mlas-901873.html
14-10-2020||National||If customary laws define marriage to include same-sex union, other statutes will recognise it: Delhi HC||If the definition of marriage in customary laws is changed to include the same-sex union then such relationships would be recognised under statutes like Special Marriage Act (SMA) and Foreign Marriage Act (FMA), the Delhi High Court observed on Wednesday. A bench of Justices R S Endlaw and Asha Menon said the concept of marriage emanates from customary laws which do not recognise same-sex marriages and what is a marriage is not defined under the SMA or FMA. It said everyone interprets what a marriage is according to the customary laws and once they recognise same sex marriages other statutes would too. The observations by the bench came while hearing the pleas of two same-sex couples, one seeking to get married under the SMA and the other for registration of their wedding under the FMA. The court further said that SMA was enacted as there were no customs for inter-faith and inter-caste marriages.   The bench raised a doubt as to whether the definition of marriage under the customary laws also needed to be challenged by the petitioners. It suggested that if the petitioners wished to make any changes in their pleas to challenge the definition of marriage, as provided under the customary laws, now was the time instead of having to do it at a much later stage in the proceedings. During the hearing of the plea, the bench also said that "language in the statutes is gender neutral. Please try to interpret the law in the interests of every citizen of the country". The remark came in response to a submission by advocate Rajkumar Yadav, representing the Ministry of External Affairs, that in the 5,000-year-old history of Sanatan Dharma such a situation was being faced for the first time. Senior advocate Menaka Guruswamy, appearing for both set of petitioners, said the petitioners are not seeking relief under any customary or religious laws, rather they are seeking that the civil laws -- SMA and FMA -- which are applicable to all kinds of couples, including inter-caste and inter-faith, be also made applicable to them. Guruswamy also told the bench that both SMA and FMA are not based on customary laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/if-customary-laws-define-marriage-to-include-same-sex-union-other-statutes-will-recognise-it-delhi-hc-901882.html
14-10-2020||National||Loan moratorium: Implement interest waiver as soon as possible, SC tells Centre||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said that it is not fair on the part of the Centre to take a month to implement its decision to grant waiver off interest on interest on a loan up to Rs 2 crore in specified categories during the six months moratorium. It remarked that the common man's Diwali is in government's hands now. A bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan asked the Union government to ensure issuance of notifications in this matter by November 2. The bench, also comprising Justices M R Shah and R Subhash Reddy told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, that it does not require one month time to implement its decision on waiver off interest on interest on loans up to Rs 2 crore. "This is not fair on the part of the government. When you have decided, then why it is taking time," the bench asked Mehta. The bench said that the Centre should issue necessary orders based on its decision so that the common man can receive the benefits. The bench said that the government should see the plight of the common man, as they know that Centre has taken a decision in their favour but they want some concrete result. Mehta mentioned that the government would not gain anything by delaying its decision unnecessarily, but there are certain formalities which have to be completed. He added that banks will waive interest on interest and then they will get reimbursement from the government. "To implement this, we have to ensure banks give us proper format," he submitted. The court state that it wanted the Centre's decision should be translated into action practically. The government had earlier informed the court of its decision to waive off compound interest on MSME and personal loans up to Rs two crore during the moratorium.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/loan-moratorium-implement-interest-waiver-as-soon-as-possible-sc-tells-centre-901890.html
14-10-2020||National||Arun Shourie denies irregularity in Udaipur hotel sale||Former Union minister Arun Shourie on Wednesday denied any irregularity in the sale of an Udaipur hotel at an alleged loss of Rs 244 crore to the exchequer during the NDA government at the Centre around two decades ago. He said this while talking to the media in Jodhpur after furnishing a bail bond in a CBI court in the case pertaining to the sale of public sector Indian Tourism Development Corporation’s Laxmi Vilas Palace Hotel to a private firm. The property was sold to Bharat Hotels Ltd for Rs 7.52 crore when Shourie was the minister in charge of disinvestment in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led National Democratic Alliance government at the Centre. During a preliminary investigation by the CBI, the property was valued at Rs 252 crore, suggesting a loss of Rs 244 crore to the exchequer. Last month, a special CBI court had issued arrest warrants against Shourie and four others. The Rajasthan High Court stayed the arrest warrants while asking the accused to furnish bail bonds and sureties in the trial court. Denying the allegations, the former Union minister said a strict procedure was adopted under Vajpayee’s supervision. “This was my principle and direction of Atalji to adhere to the procedure,” he told reporters in Jodhpur. He stressed that the matter had first come up before an inter-ministerial committee after which it was taken up by a committee of secretaries and then the cabinet committee on disinvestment, which was headed by the late prime minister. Shourie said the investigation into the matter had started in 2014 following an anonymous complaint. “The CBI filed a closure report twice, stating that there was no irregularity in the deal. There were 14 points in support of the CBI's observation and the high court has also admitted it,” he said, adding that even if the CBI court felt there was something wrong, let the re-inquiry happen. Earlier in the day, the former Union minister appeared in a CBI court to furnish his bail bond and two sureties. Shourie furnished a bail bond of Rs 2 lakh while two sureties of Rs 1 lakh each were furnished by former Barmer-Jailsalmer MP Manvendra Singh Jasol and his wife Chitra Singh. The CBI court has listed the matter for hearing on October 15. The other accused in the case are former disinvestment secretary Pradip Baijal, MD of Lazard India Limited Ashish Guha, MD of Bharat Hotels Limited Jyotsana Suri and hotel's valuer Kantilal Vikamsey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arun-shourie-denies-irregularity-in-udaipur-hotel-sale-901913.html
14-10-2020||National||Cabinet gives nod to Rs 3,874 crore spending on stocking oil||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday gave approval to Rs 3,874 crore spending on stocking low priced oil in India's three strategic underground crude oil storages. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) also allowed Abu Dhabi National Oil Co, which has hired a part of the strategic storage, to trade the stocked oil, Union Minister Prakash Javadekar told reporters here. India saved over Rs 5,000 crore when the country in April-May used two-decade low international oil prices to fill up its three strategic underground crude oil storages. India, the world's third-biggest oil importer, has built strategic storages in underground rock caverns at three places to meet any contingency. Taking advantage of the low crude oil prices in the international market, India purchased 16.71 million barrels (mbbl) of crude in April-May 2020 and filled all the three Strategic Petroleum Reserves created at Visakhapatnam, Mangaluru and Padur. The Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas spent Rs 3,874 crore on buying such oil and the Cabinet on Wednesday gave a post-facto approval for the same, he said. The average cost of procurement of crude oil was $19 per barrel, as compared to $60 a barrel prevailing during January 2020. This helped save $685.11 million or Rs 5,069 crore. Javadekar said the cabinet also allowed Abu Dhabi National Oil Co (ADNOC) to trade the oil it has stocked at the strategic reserves. The Indian Strategic Petroleum Reserves Ltd (ISPRL) built the underground storages at Mangaluru and Padur in Karnataka and Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh as insurance against supply and price disruptions. Mangaluru storage has a total capacity of 1.5 million tonnes. Of this, half had previously been hired by ADNOC to store its crude oil. The remaining half was in April-May. The arrangement with ADNOC allows India to have a first right over the crude oil stored in the reserves during any emergency, he said. Padur, the biggest of the three storages, has a total capacity of 2.5 million tonnes (about 17 million barrels). ADNOC had in November 2018 signed up to hire half of this capacity but never actually stored oil in it. India meets 85 per cent of its oil needs through imports and the three storages meet 9.5 days' requirement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-gives-nod-to-rs-3874-crore-spending-on-stocking-oil-901915.html
14-10-2020||National||Cinemas reopen in new Covid-19 normal but with old fare||Sushant Singh Rajput’s last theatrical release “Chhichhore” is among the films that will get a big screen re-release on Thursday as cinemas in several parts of the country ready to open after seven months in the shadow of a pandemic. While theatres and multiplexes will remain closed in states like Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Chhattisgarh, they will open this week in several places, including Delhi and parts of Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat, with stringent dos and don’ts in keeping with the new Covid-19 normal. Ushering in a new era of movie watching, the Union government allowed multiplexes, cinema halls and theatres to reopen from Thursday within the framework of a set of standard operating procedures (SOPs). The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) left it to states to take a final call on the matter. PVR Cinemas, India’s largest film exhibitor with 845 screens in 176 properties across 71 cities, on Wednesday said 10 states and four union territories have given their go-ahead for the reopening of cinemas. Accordingly, PVR will start operations in 487 screens from Thursday and hope that other states will soon give their green signal too. The SOPs mandated by the Union government include one seat distance in halls, 50 per cent capacity, masks at all time, proper ventilation and air conditioner temperature settings at above 23 degrees Celsius. The multiplex chain said it hopes to build customer confidence with an ‘Evangelism’ phase which will give people a chance to experience its enhanced safety features first-hand. This phase will involve goodwill screenings for the company’s employees, health workers and the police force and their children. The movie screenings will begin from Friday, October 16, and tickets will go live on their website as well as other ticketing platforms from midnight. Like the others in the business, INOX Leisure Ltd said it has introduced security checks like mandatory masks and temperature checks besides staggered entries, intermissions and exits. The theatre chain will completely rely on e-tickets instead of paper tickets and an all-in-one SMS with links for the QR code, auditoriums seat chart and access to F&B menu. “We are also looking to innovate with private screenings, where families or smaller groups of guests can book the entire auditorium and enjoy the content of their choice,” its CEO Alok Tandon said in a statement. Cinemas have to deal with the double whammy of Covid-19 fears and old content and have their fingers crossed as they prepare to rollout a different kind of movie going experience. As theatres managements scrupulously sanitise their premises in preparation for the big day and hope for audiences to warily trickle back in, the fare is likely to be a mix of international, Hindi and regional language cinema but basically old titles. It will take a while before new content returns. The release of two major Bollywood movies -- “83”, about India’s cricket world cup victory, and “Sooryavanshi” starring Akshay Kumar -- has been pushed to Christmas and next year, respectively. So, if PVR will screen earlier hits such as Keanu Reeves’ “John Wick 3”, Ajay Devgn’s “Tanhaji” and Tapsee Pannu starrer “Thappad”, Bihar-based exhibitor Vishek Chauhan, who runs the Roopbani Cinema in Purnea will play Rajput-starrer “Chhichhore”. The hope is perhaps that audiences will return to theatres to watch Rajput, the Bihar-born actor whose death in June has the nation agog. “Even before we had shut down, the business was skewed towards big films... We will be back only when we get a 'Sooryavanshi', '83', or 'Radhe'. Till then, it's all about getting our act together,” Chauhan told PTI. PVR Cinemas CEO Gautam Dutta was optimistic the industry will emerge stronger and more robust. Cinepolis India CEO Devang Sampat told PTI they had lined up an exciting bouquet of Hollywood and Bollywood hits of the past. “(We have) ‘1917’, ‘Bala’, ‘Malang’, ‘Shivaji Surathakal’ and ‘Thappad’ to name a few. We are communicating our safety protocols to patrons through multiple media channels to address the hesitation of the people,” Sampat said. According to industry insiders, India has around 8,750 screens -- 3,100 in multiplexes and 5,650 single screens operating mostly in Tier 2 and 3 cities. Many cinema halls shut down even before the nationwide lockdown came into effect from March 25 and managements are hoping desperately to get back to work. In Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal called a meeting of theatre owners to discuss the last minute details before they open their doors to the public. However, several key states such as Maharashtra have not yet taken a decision. "Maharashtra is an extremely important market for us, occupying the largest percentage of our screen share," said PVR’s Dutta. Nitin Dattar, owner of a theatre in Karad in the state and president of the Cinema Owners and Exhibitors Association of India, said it will be difficult for owners to stay in business if cinema halls do not open in Maharashtra soon "Our losses are huge. (Hindi cinema) producers will be reluctant to release their new films if theatres don’t open in Maharashtra,” Dattar told PTI. Stakeholders are also fine-tuning details in various states. In Gujarat, for instance, cinema halls are likely to reopen from Saturday because theatre owners have not been able to reach an agreement with distributors on re-running old films. "We (multiplexes in Gujarat) are not starting from tomorrow, as we have not been able to decide the terms of re-running old movies with distributors in Mumbai," Gujarat Multiplex Owners' Association member said Neeraj Ahuja told PTI. In Chhattisgarh and in Punjab, the respective state governments have not yet given their permission for halls to reopen. Central Circuit Cine Association (CCCA) member Labhansh Tiwari said they will have to retrench their staff members if the shutdown continues to be in force. “Because we have a higher case fatality ratio, we are not opening cinemas in Punjab,” a senior official of the Punjab home department said on Wednesday. Theatre owners in Karnataka said they are sceptical about the success of their operations as the movie buffs have already watched all the latest movies on OTT platforms. "Multiplexes and theatre owners are ready to start their business by following the standard operating procedure laid down by the Central government but they are facing the challenge of lack of content," Uday Garudachar, BJP MLA from Chickpet in Bengaluru and owner of the Garuda Mall, told PTI. Film exhibitors in Andhra Pradesh have decided not to reopen from Thursday despite the Centre's nod. Besides the financial burden, exhibitors are reluctant to resume business because of the lack of new titles. It's likely to be all quiet in Assam and the rest of the northeast too. "We have not received any notification or confirmation from the government in this regard. We have also not received any programmes from anywhere. As far as we know, the cinema halls will not open tomorrow anywhere in the entire region," Siddharth Goenka of Goenka Enterprises, North East's biggest film distributor, told PTI. In Kolkata, multiplex chains are ready to open some of their theatres from Thursday but several single screens will take one more week before opening their doors for cinegoers. In Madhya Pradesh, however, a few theatres are readying to open their doors. Bhopal Cine Owners Associations secretary Aizazuddin told PTI that "except a multiplex, no other cinema hall will reopen in the state capital on October 15 because of unavailability of the audience". In Indore, Central Circuit Cine Association director O P Goyal said two multiplexes and two single-screen cinema halls will reopen. Theatres will open in several parts of Uttar Pradesh too, but possibly start screening films from Friday. Novelty cinema manager Rajesh Tandon said the company's employees were tested for Covid-19 on Wednesday. The results will come on Thursday and the hall will be opened to the public on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cinemas-reopen-in-new-covid-19-normal-but-with-old-fare-901918.html
14-10-2020||National||Bollywood Drugs case: NCB opposes Kshitij Prasad's bail plea||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Wednesday opposed a bail plea filed by Kshitij Prasad, former executive producer of Dharmatic Entertainment. He was arrested on September 26 in the drug case related to actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death. Rajput's girlfriend and actor Rhea Chakraborty is among the accused in the case. Rhea is now out on bail. In his application for bail before the special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act court, Prasad claimed that he was implicated in the case by the NCB after he refused to give false statements against Bollywood celebrities such as director Karan Johar and others. Prasad was briefly associated with Dharmatic Entertainment, a sister concern of Johar's Dharma Productions. In its written reply filed before the court on Wednesday, the agency denied his allegations. It also termed Prasad's claim of being insulted by probe officials as "baseless". He gave the statement voluntarily and no false claims were inserted in it, the NCB said. Prasad, along with other accused, was part of a drug procurement and distribution racket, it alleged. The NCB also claimed that Prasad was trying to get section 27A (financing illicit traffic and harboring offenders) of the NDPS act, under which he has been booked,dropped in return for signing his statement. If released, he could tamper with evidence, it said. The court will hear the bail application on October 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bollywood-drugs-case-ncb-opposes-kshitij-prasads-bail-plea-901920.html
14-10-2020||National||All 4 labour codes likely to be implemented from April 1, 2021: Labour Secretary||All four labour codes are likely to be implemented in one go from April 1, the beginning of the next fiscal year, Labour Secretary Apurva Chandra said on Wednesday. Parliament in its just concluded session passed three labour code bills: Industrial Relations (IR) Code, the Social Security Code, and the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code (OSH). The Wage Code Bill, 2019 was passed by Parliament last year. Last month, Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar had said that efforts would be made to complete the labour reforms by implementing all four labour codes by December this year. The labour ministry had circulated the draft rules on the Wage Code Bill last year but held back its finalisation and implementation. The ministry wanted to implement all the four codes and rules under those in one go as all of them are interlinked. Talking to reporters, Chandra said, "We have started work on firming up draft rules of the recently passed three labour codes in Parliament. We are trying to notify draft rules by the middle of November to seek feedback. We will give 45 days time for feedback." He further said that the four codes are likely to be implemented from April 1, with notification of firmed-up rules. After the passage of legislation in Parliament, it is sent for the President of India's assent. The three codes on IR, OSH and social security have already got the assent of the President of India. A law comes into force after notification of rules. Initially, draft rules under a law is notified with a stipulated time period (45 days) to receive feedback. Thereafter, these rules are finalised and implemented for bringing the law into force. Chandra said the labour ministry is expected to get the feedback on three codes on IR, OSH and social security by December-end and thus it would take some time to analyse that for firming up the rules. Once the firmed-up rules of the four codes are notified, the four labour codes would become law of land to complete game-changing labour reforms in the country. The government aims to catapult India to among the top 10 countries in World Bank's ease of doing business rankings with the comprehensive labour reforms. As per the 'Doing Business' 2020 report, India had jumped 14 places to the 63rd position in the ease of doing business rankings. India has improved its rank by 79 positions in five years (2014-19). The higher ranking would boost investment and job creation in the country. Chandra also said that he has written to all chief secretaries of the states last week, asking them to frame rules under these codes. He informed that the central government would frame rules pertaining to those sections or clauses of the codes which fall under its domain and states would firm up rules on remaining. Labour is a concurrent subject under the Constitution of India. Thus states can also frame and amend rules which fall in their domain. Chandra said that he has urged the states to take this work on priority so that all sections or clauses of the four codes are implemented simultaneously.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-4-labour-codes-likely-to-be-implemented-from-april-1-2021-labour-secretary-901924.html
14-10-2020||National||'UPI transactions help save 0.10% of GDP'||Amid the jump seen in unified payment interface (UPI) transactions, a digital economy professor closely aligned with the ruling BJP on Wednesday claimed that the shift to this mode has helped India save over 0.10 per cent of GDP from going out of the country. The uptick in transactions, which touched 1.8 billion in September, has also helped the economy from an "enablement" perspective, Arvind Gupta, a professor of digital economy who spearheaded BJP's national technology department for three consecutive terms, told reporters. "From the research hat that I wear, I can tell you that the initial study suggests that just by using UPI payments, we have saved upwards of 0.10 per cent of GDP which remains back in the country," Gupta said at an event organised by the fintech Earlysalary. Without elaborating on the research methodology or specifying the period in which the gains were made, Gupta added that the UPI has "enabled" another 0.10-0.15 per cent of economy every year and termed the same as an incredible achievement. Before UPI, which was indigenously developed by the National Payments Corporation of India, the country depended on foreign-owned payments platforms and the constant concerns are being raised about money going out as a result of reliance on such platforms. "India has seen a remarkable move towards a truly digital-first approach. We have seen the highest digitalisation in the past six months ever," Gupta said. A profile posted on the World Economic Forum's website says Gupta led the digital, social media and communication campaign for the BJP and Narendra Modi in the 2014 polls. He has also served as the chief executive of Mygov.in and is the head of Digitalindia Foundation. Speaking at the same event, NPCI Chief Operating Officer Praveena Rai said all the stakeholders, including regulators, policymakers and merchants, are becoming more open to digitisation now and exuded confidence that they will embrace it more. Consumer lending platform Earlysalary on Wednesday launched a 'salary card' to meet the growing demand for digital credit in collaboration with the NPCI for instant loans. The card offers flexibility of setting up a dynamic credit limit for shopping, medical, travel, entertainment and other needs, as per a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/upi-transactions-help-save-010-of-gdp-901927.html
14-10-2020||National||India's GDP 11 times more than Bangladesh in terms of Purchasing Power Parity||India's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in terms of purchasing power parity was 11 times more than that of Bangladesh in 2019, government sources said on Wednesday as they played down IMF projections of India slipping below the neighbouring nation on per capita GDP this year. Earlier in the day in a tweet, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took a dig at the government over IMF growth projections showing Bangladesh closing in on India in terms of per capita GDP this year and described it as a "solid achievement" of six years of BJP's "hate-filled cultural nationalism". Solid achievement of 6 years of BJP’s hate-filled cultural nationalism: Bangladesh set to overtake India. The government sources, on their part, emphasised that under the Modi government, the per capita GDP has increased from Rs 83,091 in 2014-15 to Rs 1,08,620 in 2019-20, representing an increase of 30.7 per cent. In 2019, India's GDP in Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) terms was 11 times more than that of Bangladesh while population was eight times more. In PPP terms, India's per capita GDP in 2020 is estimated by IMF at USD 6,284 as compared to USD 5,139 for Bangladesh, according to the sources. Under UPA 2, the sources said that it had increased from Rs 65,394 in 2009-10 to Rs 78,348 in 2013-14 which is an increase of 19.8 per cent. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has estimated India's GDP to grow at 8.8 per cent in 2021, twice that of Bangladesh at 4.4 per cent, they added. According to IMF, India is set to drop below Bangladesh in terms of per capita Gross Domestic Product (GDP) as the economy is projected to contract by a massive 10.3 per cent this year. However, India is likely to bounce back with an impressive 8.8 per cent growth rate in 2021, thus regaining the position of the fastest-growing emerging economy, surpassing China's projected growth rate of 8.2 per cent, the IMF said in its latest 'World Economic Outlook' report. Released ahead of the annual meetings of IMF and the World Bank, the report said global growth would contract by 4.4 per cent this year and bounce back to 5.2 per cent in 2021. America's economy is projected to contract by 5.8 per cent in 2020 and grow by 3.9 per cent the next year, IMF said. China is the only country, among the major economies, to show a positive growth rate of 1.9 per cent in 2020, it said. IMF in its report said that revisions to the forecast are particularly large for India, where GDP contracted much more severely than expected in the second quarter. "As a result, the economy is projected to contract by 10.3 per cent in 2020, before rebounding by 8.8 per cent in 2021," it said. In 2019, India's growth rate was 4.2 per cent. Last week, the World Bank said India's GDP this fiscal is expected to contract by 9.6 per cent. "India's GDP is expected to contract 9.6 per cent in the fiscal year that started in March," the World Bank said in its latest issue of the South Asia Economic Focus report. The Reserve Bank of India has projected the country's economy to contract by 9.5 per cent in the current financial year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-gdp-11-times-more-than-bangladesh-in-terms-of-purchasing-power-parity-901934.html
14-10-2020||National||PM assures Andhra, Telangana CMs help after heavy rains cause loss of lives, damage||Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao and Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday after the two southern states were hit by heavy rains and assured them of all possible support and assistance from the Centre in the rescue-and-relief work. At least 10 and 15 people were killed in rain-related incidents across Andhra Pradesh and Telangana respectively, following torrential downpour in the last 48 hours. In a tweet, the prime minister said, "Spoke to @TelanganaCMO KCR Garu and AP CM @ysjagan Garu regarding the situation in Telangana and AP respectively due to heavy rainfall. Assured all possible support and assistance from the Centre in rescue & relief work. My thoughts are with those affected due to the heavy rains."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-assures-andhra-telangana-cms-help-after-heavy-rains-cause-loss-of-lives-damage-901937.html
14-10-2020||National||Railways approves Alstom's e-locos to run freight trains at maximum speed of 120 kmph||The Railway Ministry has approved Alstom-built 12,000-horsepower (HP) electric locomotives to run freight trains at a maximum speed of 120 kmph, a statement from the French company said on Wednesday. Earlier in the year, the railways had inducted WAG 12B electric locomotives, the most powerful ones to run on Indian tracks, according to the company. These locomotives have clocked over 1 million kilometres, providing a significant fillip to the country's freight logistics sector. "In line with India's push towards self-reliance, we have successfully leveraged our local engineering and manufacturing capabilities. Alstom is also committed to support IR in reducing its carbon footprint and adopt cleaner technologies in its quest to transform into the world's largest Green Railway network," Alain Spohr, managing director of Alstom India and South Asia, said. "Equipped with insulated gate bipolar transistors-based propulsion technology, it would lead to considerable savings in energy consumption due to the use of regenerative braking. The technology is also helpful towards making the acceleration process more efficient by reducing the heat generation and traction noise. Additionally, the move will not only bring down the operational costs, but also reduce the congestion faced by the Indian Railways," he added. Electric locos allow heavy freight trains to haul 6,000 tonnes at a top speed of 120 kmph. Planned to be deployed for operations on major freight routes of the railways, including the dedicated freight corridors (DFCs), they are expected to increase the average speed of freight trains in the country by at least 20-25 kmph, the company said. Despite the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, with the advent of Unlock 1.0, Alstom restarted significant production at all its manufacturing facilities, ensuring all necessary permissions and adhering to government protocols. The company's focus is to give maximum support and protection to all teams and workforce in the present adverse situation, it said in a statement. Alstom has four industrial sites in the states of Bihar (Madhepura), Andhra Pradesh (SriCity), Tamil Nadu (Coimbatore) and West Bengal (Kolkata). India also houses the largest engineering centre for Alstom outside France in Karnataka (Bengaluru). Additionally, Alstom has a localised sourcing and supply chain to the extent that over 75 per cent of its projects are built from indigenous materials, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-approves-alstoms-e-locos-to-run-freight-trains-at-maximum-speed-of-120-kmph-901940.html
14-10-2020||National||Army Chief Gen MM Naravane to visit Nepal in November||Army Chief Gen M M Naravane will travel to Nepal in the first week of November, the maiden high-level visit from India since ties between the two neighbours came under strain after the Himalayan nation came up with a new political map in May claiming several areas in Uttarakhand to be part of its territory. Officials said Gen Naravane will be conferred the honorary rank of 'General of the Nepal Army' by Nepalese President Bidya Devi Bhandari during his visit, in continuation of an age-old tradition that first started in 1950, reflecting the strong ties between the two militaries. India also confers the honorary rank of 'General of Indian Army' to the Nepal Army Chief. "The Chief of Army Staff will travel to Nepal early next month. The dates of his visit are being finalised," said an official. During his visit, Gen Naravane is scheduled to hold extensive talks with the top military brass of Nepal including his Nepalese counterpart General Purna Chandra Thapa and Defence Minister Ishwar Pokhrel, the officials said. "Ways to further deepen defence cooperation between the two countries will be explored during the Chief of Army Staff's visit to Kathmandu," said a senior official. The ties between the two countries came under strain after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated an 80-km-long strategically crucial road connecting the Lipulekh pass with Dharchula in Uttarakhand on May 8. Nepal protested the inauguration of the road claiming that it passed through its territory. Days later, Nepal came out with the new map showing Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura as its territories. In the midst of the row, Gen M M Naravane said that there were reasons to believe that Nepal objected to the road at the behest of "someone else", in an apparent reference to a possible role by China in the matter. The comments triggered angry reactions from Nepal. India too had published a new map in November 2019 showing the areas as its territories. After Nepal released the map, India reacted sharply, calling it a "unilateral act" and cautioning Kathmandu that such "artificial enlargement" of territorial claims will not be acceptable to it. In June, Nepal's Parliament approved the new political map of the country featuring areas which India maintains belong to it. In its reaction, after Nepal's lower house of parliament approved the bill, India termed as untenable the "artificial enlargement" of territorial claims by the neighbouring country. India said Nepal's action violates an understanding reached between the two countries to resolve the boundary issues through talks. Nepalese Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli has been asserting that Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura belong to his country and vowed to "reclaim" them from India. The Lipulekh pass is a far western point near Kalapani, a disputed border area between Nepal and India. Both India and Nepal claim Kalapani as an integral part of their territory - India as part of Uttarakhand's Pithoragarh district and Nepal as part of Dharchula district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-chief-gen-mm-naravane-to-visit-nepal-in-november-901941.html
14-10-2020||National||J&K parties to meet today over Ladakh Special Allocation, other issues||The Centre on Wednesday announced an economic package of Rs 520 crore for implementation of a scheme to provide self-employment and skilled wage employment opportunities for poor households in the villages of the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) and Ladakh. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre announced the package as preparations started to hold bye-elections to fill 13,000 vacancies in the panchayats in J&K. It was approved even as the leaders of the political parties opposed to the BJP in the Union Territory convened a meeting on Thursday. Apart from the leaders of the National Conference and the Congress, it will be attended by the People’s Democratic Party’s president Mehbooba Mufti, who was released after 14-month-long detention on Tuesday.  Mufti agreed to attend the meeting, when NC leaders, Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah, met her at her residence in Srinagar on Wednesday.  The meeting is likely to be attended by all the political parties, which had signed the “Gupkar Declaration”—a resolution adopted at the end of an all-party meeting on August 4, 2019, a day before the Union Government initiated the move to strip the then state of J&K of its special status and reorganize the state into two UTs.  The signatories of the “Gupkar Declaration” had unanimously resolved that they would be united in their effort to protect and defend the identity, autonomy and special status of J&K against all attacks and onslaughts. They had met again on August 22 this year and vowed to fight for the restoration of the special status of J&K.  The leaders of the NC, PDP, Congress and other parties, which had signed the Gupkar Declaration, are likely to attend the third meeting on Thursday to discuss the future course of action as well as the issue of participation in the forthcoming panchayat polls.  The BJP and the newly created Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party are opposed to the “Gupkar Declaration”.  The special allocation of Rs 520 crore for implementation of the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana - National Rural Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NRLM) in J&K and Ladakh was approved by the Union Cabinet during a meeting, which was chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government. The allocation also came just ahead of the elections to the Ladakh Autonomous Hill District Council (LAHDC) scheduled to be held on Friday.  The Union government said that the special allocation would ensure sufficient funds under the mission to meet the requirement of J&K and Ladakh in line with its efforts to universalize all centrally-sponsored beneficiary-oriented schemes in the two UTs. This is based on the outcomes of the evaluation pointing to the potential of the mission to improve the quality of life of rural households and women's empowerment and given the changed circumstances in the UTs of J&K and Ladakh. The special allocation for the DAY-NRLM followed an announcement of an economic package of Rs 1350 crore announced by J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on September 19 to give a boost to tourism and other sectors hit by the restrictions enforced after the August 5, 2019 move by the Centre as well as earlier this year to contain the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-parties-to-meet-today-over-ladakh-special-allocation-other-issues-901946.html
14-10-2020||National||No one to turn to? Women labourers 'learn to ignore' sexual abuse at work||From lewd comments to demands for sex, women working in India's vast informal sector rarely report sexual harassment for fear of losing their jobs, labour rights campaigners said on Wednesday, three years after the #MeToo movement began. From street vendors and factory workers to maids, 95% of Indian women work in the informal sector and many are exploited regularly, despite a law ordering employers to set up committees to resolve harassment complaints, Human Rights Watch (HRW) said. The Ministry of Women and Child Development did not respond to repeated requests for comment. It launched an online complaint box for sexual harassment at work in 2017, which received about 600 complaints in its first two years. Shalini, a maid who was sexually harassed by a security guard for months while working at a private residence on the outskirts of the capital New Delhi, said ordinary women were too scared to speak out. "Some families blame the woman and start beating her. If you tell your employer, then they will fire you ... Police are the worst. They ask really inappropriate questions," said Shalini, whose name has been changed to protect her identity. "With no one to turn to, most women just bottle it all up inside. They learn to ignore or normalise it," she told the Thomson Reuters Foundation, adding that in her case, the guard was transferred after her family complained to his employer. The #MeToo campaign led to complaints of sexual misconduct by prominent journalists, film stars, and executives across India but had little effect in remote, rural areas where sex crimes are rife, according to women's rights activists. "The #MeToo movement helped to shine a light on violence and harassment at work, but the experiences of millions of women in India's informal sector remain invisible," said Meenakshi Ganguly, HRW South Asia director. "India has progressive laws to protect women from sexual abuse by bosses, colleagues, and clients, but has failed to take basic steps to enforce these laws." 'That law has failed' Reporting of sex crimes increased in India after the fatal gang-rape of a student on a bus in 2012, with the introduction of tougher penalties, including a 2013 law to combat sexual harassment at work. Although the groundbreaking law mandates employers with at least 10 workers to set up women-led complaint committees with the power to fine or fire those found guilty of harassment, it remains largely an idea on paper, local researchers found. Only about 30% of 655 districts surveyed said they had formed committees, found a 2018 study by the Martha Farrell Foundation, a women's rights group, and PRIA India, a research centre. "The implementation of the law has failed in the informal sector," said Anagha Sarpotdar, chairwoman of a complaints committee in Mumbai, India's most populous city, adding that lack of awareness about the system led to few reports. Shalini Sinha, the country representative for WIEGO, a network that helps informal workers, said it was important to form and bolster associations, self-help groups, and trade unions to empower women. "These can strengthen women so that this sense of isolation that they feel while trying to report sexual harassment is not there," she said, adding they can also raise women's awareness on their rights. But Shalini, the maid, said she still would not report sexual harassment, even though she knew her rights, as "people like me do not get justice". Instead, she jots down her employers' phone numbers, addresses and her work hours in each home so that her family knows where she is at all times. "Some employers are good, some are bad. But because of previous experiences, there is always a fear inside me," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-one-to-turn-to-women-labourers-learn-to-ignore-sexual-abuse-at-work-901947.html
14-10-2020||National||17-year-old girl, who ran away from home, gang-raped for 22 days at Odisha farm: Police||A 17-year-old girl, who ran away after a fight with her parents, was taken to a poultry farm in Odisha's Cuttack by a man who offered to drop her home in his motorcycle and allegedly gang-raped over 22 days, police said on Wednesday. A native of Tirtol in the neighbouring Jagatsinghpur district, the girl had run away from home after a fight with her parents last month, they said. While she was waiting to board a bus at the OMP Square in Cuttack to return home, a man offered to drop her home in his motorcycle, the girl told the district Child Welfare Committee. But instead of going to Tirtol, the youth took her to the poultry farm in the Gatiroutpatna village in the Chauliaganj police station area and kept her confined to a room forcefully for 22 days, she said. Two men then raped her repeatedly at the farm, she added. The girl was rescued during the day as the farm was raided after locals tipped-off the police, suspecting some wrongdoing in the compound, officials said. One of the accused was also arrested and efforts are on to nab the other one, a police official said. "A police team has been formed to apprehend the absconding friend of the accused," said Cuttack city Deputy Commissioner of Police Prateek Singh. She was later produced before the district Child Welfare Committee (CWC) from where she has been sent to an orphanage, he said. A case has been filed under IPC sections 376(2)(c) and 376(2)(g) that relates to rape and gang rap, and section 34, which is slapped when a criminal act is done by several persons. The incident drew sharp criticism from different quarters with the opposition BJP and Congress launching a scathing attack on the BJD government in the state. BJP's state general secretary Lekhashree Samantsinghar accused the Naveen Patnaik government of having failed to ensure the safety and security of women. Noting that the girl hails from Tirtol where a by-election is scheduled to be held next month, she wondered as to how the ruling BJD will face the people in the constituency. Attacking the state government in the same vein, Congress spokesperson Nishikant Mishra said the gang rape showed that women in the state are not safe and secure at all. Demanding assistance of Rs 25 lakh for the family of the girl, he said the incident should be investigated by the crime branch.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/17-year-old-girl-who-ran-away-from-home-gang-raped-for-22-days-at-odisha-farm-police-901957.html
14-10-2020||National||Government to give incentives to build rental housing complexes||Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Wednesday said that the central government will provide incentives and benefits including concessional project finance under affordable housing fund & priority sector lending, an exemption in Income Tax and GST for building Affordable Rental Housing Complexes(ARHCs) for urban migrants and poor. The Minister was speaking after launching a portal for the ARHC scheme and released the guidelines and guidebook. “To make this a lucrative and viable business opportunity for entities, the Central government will provide concessional project finance under affordable housing fund & priority sector lending, an exemption in Income Tax and GST and Technology Innovation Grant for promotion of innovative technologies in ARHCs. Further, State/UT Govt. will provide Use Permission changes, 50% additional FAR/FSI free of cost, Single Window Approval within 30 days, Trunk Infrastructure facility and Municipal charges at par with residential property," a statement by the ministry said. "Total 24 states agreed to implement the scheme. For other states and union territories, I am personally writing them requesting to join the scheme, "Puri said while addressing a digital press conference. The Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry announced the  ARHC scheme in May and got cabinet nod in July. The ARHC under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana ( Urban) aimed at providing budgeted rental accommodation to urban migrants and poor including industrial & construction workers, migrants working with market associations, employees of different sectors and students who always facing difficulties in getting accommodation. As per the scheme, existing vacant government-funded housing complexes across key cities will be converted into ARHCs, and offered to concessionaires for 25 years to rent out the units to urban poor and migrant workers. Another model, roping private or public entities and allowing them to build housing complexes in their own land in cities. The state and civic bodies have to select private developers through bidding to build housing complexes. Already three developers shown interest to build ARHCs in Bengaluru, Jaipur, Vadodara and Bahadurgarh, Puri said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-to-give-incentives-to-build-rental-housing-complexes-901959.html
14-10-2020||National||Samajwadi Party leader Mulayam Singh Yadav tests positive for Covid-19 ||Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav tested positive for the novel coronavirus, the party tweeted on Wednesday. "Samajwadi Party founder Mulayam Singh Yadav has tested positive for Covid-19, and is being monitored by doctors. As of now, there are no COVID symptoms in him," it said.   समाजवादी पार्टी संस्थापक आदरणीय नेताजी श्री मुलायम सिंह यादव जी की कोरोना टेस्ट रिपोर्ट पॉजिटिव आने के उपरांत चिकित्सकों की देख रेख जारी है। फिलहाल उनमें कोरोना के एक भी लक्षण नहीं हैं।||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/samajwadi-party-leader-mulayam-singh-yadav-tests-positive-for-covid-19-901963.html
14-10-2020||National||CBSE, Intel set Guinness World Record for maximum users to take online AI lesson in 24 hrs||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Intel India set a Guinness World Record on Wednesday for maximum users to take an online artificial intelligence (AI) lesson in 24 hours. The record was set after delivering a virtual lesson focused on demystifying the impact of AI and key considerations around its use to 13,000 students from class 8 and above between October 13-14. The training was part of the ongoing AI For Youth Virtual Symposium organised by Intel and CBSE. "Artificial Intelligence continues to be one of the most crucial technologies of the future, with the potential to leapfrog India's digitalisation journey. It is more important than ever to cultivate AI-readiness in the country by empowering India's students with the right skill set and mindset as early in their learning journey as possible. "I congratulate CBSE and Intel on their commitment to nurturing the right AI-related skill set and mindset among school students under the AI For Youth programme, and setting a world record along the way," said Biswajit Saha, Director, Trainings and Skill Education, CBSE. The AI For Youth Virtual Symposium scheduled from October 13-17, is seeing participation from students (class 8 and above), principals and teachers from across the country. Attendees are able to access sessions with national and international speakers to hear diverse perspectives on the transformational power of AI, building digital readiness and democratising emerging technologies. They can also interact with presenters, join in the experiential zone and attend live webinars. "Our collaboration with the CBSE has so far led to several milestones in nurturing AI-readiness in the country, including the roll-out of an AI curriculum for students, setting up focused AI Skills Labs in the country and skilling facilitators across CBSE schools. "The enthusiastic response to the virtual AI lesson from students across the country that helped set a record with Guinness World Records shows India's youth is engaged and eager to explore and innovate," said Shweta Khurana, Director, Global Partnerships and Initiatives at Intel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-intel-set-guinness-world-record-for-maximum-users-to-take-online-ai-lesson-in-24-hrs-901971.html
14-10-2020||National||Why are fewer stars forming now? Indian astronomers have the answer||In a landmark discovery, Pune and Bangalore astronomers have used India's biggest radio telescope to pick up extremely faint signatures of elusive hydrogen gas from an epoch 8 billion years ago to answer a key question - why fewer stars are forming now than in the early universe? Using the Giant Metrewave Radio Telescope near Pune, the scientists studied 7,653 galaxies and found that a few billion years after the Big Bang, those massive star clusters contained about 2.5 times more hydrogen than galaxies of today. Such an excess of hydrogen was the reason for the high rate of star formation in the early universe. The star formation activity in galaxies peaked about 8-10 billion years ago and has been declining steadily since then. The cause of this decline is unknown, mostly because there is hardly any information about the amount of atomic hydrogen gas, the primary fuel for star formation, in galaxies in these early times. What scientists at the National Centre for Radio Astronomy and Raman Research Institute did is to measure for the first time, the atomic hydrogen gas content of star-forming galaxies about 8 billion years ago, using the upgraded GMRT. “To understand the evolution of the galaxies, we need to know about the stars and gases. While we do have good ideas about stars, we know barely anything about the gas (atomic hydrogen) as they are hard to detect. The measurement of atomic hydrogen will now provide a complete picture on the evolution of the galaxies,” Jayaram Chengalur, NCRA scientist and a team member told DH. “Given the intense star formation in these early galaxies, their atomic gas would be consumed in just one or two billion years. And, if the galaxies could not acquire more gas, their star formation activity would decline, and finally cease”, said Aditya Chowdhury, a PhD student at NCRA and lead author of the study. “The observed decline in star formation activity can thus be explained by the exhaustion of the atomic hydrogen.” This explains why far more star formation happened 8-10 billion years ago than now. In fact, more than half of the stars seen in the night were of that vintage, said Nissim Kanekar, another team member from NCRA. The discovery was made after the radio telescope was upgraded to improve its sensitivity and outreach. GMRT was set up in the 1990s by the pioneering Indian radio astronomer Govind Swarup who passed away last month and discovery of the signature of atomic hydrogen, incidentally, was one of GMRT’s scientific goals. But the radio telescope in its original avatar was not sensitive enough to catch such a feeble signal coming from the other end of the universe. Indian astronomers used a new method to capture the signals of the ancient hydrogen gas because of the upgraded GMRT’s ability to look at nearly 8000 galaxies for a far longer time. In its original form it could see only around 800 galaxies in a similar sky-scan. “It is a watershed moment in our understanding of how regular (baryonic) matter is taken up and used by the galaxies,” commented Chris Carilli from the National Radio Astronomy Observatory, New Mexico, USA who is not associated with the Indian research work. The study has been published in the journal Nature on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-are-fewer-stars-forming-now-indian-astronomers-have-the-answer-901974.html
14-10-2020||National||Sushant Singh Rajput's sister Shweta Singh Kirti returns to Twitter, Instagram||Sushant Singh Rajput's sister Shweta Singh Kirti is back on Twitter and Instagram after she deactivated her accounts earlier on Wednesday. Kirti has been at the forefront of #JusticeForSSR campaign since the demise of Rajput on June 14. Earlier in the day, several users noted that Kirti's Twitter and Instagram pages were inaccessible. It was not clear whether Kirti herself deactivated her accounts as she did not announce quitting social media before her profiles disappeared. The deactivation had left many Rajput fans puzzled, who took to Twitter sharing screenshots of the same. Kirti later made a comeback on social media, saying there were "attempts" by unknown people to log into her accounts. "Sorry, there were multiple log in attempts being made on my social media accounts so had to deactivate them," she wrote after returning on Twitter. Rajput's death ignited discussions on the nepotistic nature of the industry and its gate-keeping attitude but took an entirely different angle after the actor's family filed an FIR against his girlfriend, actor Rhea Chakraborty. The family of the late actor, known for films like Kai Po Che!, MS Dhoni: The Untold Story, and Chhichhore, accused Chakraborty of abetting Rajput's death, laundering his money and isolating him from his family. The case, which was initially investigated by the Mumbai Police, was later handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) while the Enforcement Directorate and the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) also got involved. Chakraborty, who was arrested by the NCB in connection with the drug trail in Rajput's death, was released on October 7 after 28 days in jail. Her brother Showik Chakraborty is still in the prison.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushant-singh-rajputs-sister-shweta-singh-kirti-returns-to-twitter-instagram-901975.html
14-10-2020||National||India to take call on latest proposal from China for mutual withdrawal of troops from LAC||India will soon take a call on the new set of proposals it received from China to restart withdrawal of troops from the scenes of the face-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh held a meeting with National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and other senior military and intelligence officials on Wednesday and discussed the latest set of proposals New Delhi received from Beijing for withdrawal of the troops from the face-off points on the LAC – the de facto border between the two nations. A decision on New Delhi’s response to the proposals from Beijing will be taken soon, sources said after the meeting. China conveyed its new “disengagement proposal” to India when Lt Gen Harinder Singh, the then General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the 14 Corps of the Indian Army, had a meeting with Maj Gen Liu Lin of the communist country’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) at Chushul close to the LAC on Monday. Singh was also accompanied by Lt Gen P G K Menon, who succeeded him on Tuesday. The diplomats of the two sides also took part in the meeting. The senior military commanders of two sides earlier had six rounds of talks after the stand-off started following the Chinese PLA’s unilateral move to push the LAC westward and the Indian Army’s counter-deployment in late April and early May. The disengagement process they had mutually agreed upon remained stalled since mid-July with the Chinese PLA declining to completely withdraw troops from several “points of friction” along the LAC – like Depsang Y junction, Gogra Post and the northern bank of Pangong Tso.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-take-call-on-latest-proposal-from-china-for-mutual-withdrawal-of-troops-from-lac-901983.html
14-10-2020||National||25-30% drop in TB case notifications in India, Indonesia, Philippines from January-June||A drop of around 25-30 per cent in tuberculosis case notifications was reported in three high-burden countries — India, Indonesia and the Philippines — between January and June 2020, compared to the corresponding period in 2019, according to a WHO report released on Wednesday. The global number of TB deaths could increase by around two lakh to four lakh in 2020 alone if health services are disrupted to the extent that the number of people with TB who are detected and treated falls by 25-50 per cent over a period of three months, the report noted. "In India, Indonesia, the Philippines and South Africa, four countries that account for 44 per cent of global TB cases, there were large drops in the reported number of people diagnosed with TB between January and June 2020. "Compared with the same six-month period in 2019, overall reductions in India, Indonesia and the Philippines were in the range of 25-30 per cent," the World Health Organization (WHO) report said. The economic impact of the pandemic is predicted to worsen at least two of the key determinants of TB incidence: GDP per capita and undernutrition. Modelling has suggested that the number of people developing TB could increase by more than 10 lakh per year in the 2020–2025 period. The impact on livelihoods resulting from lost income or unemployment could also increase the percentage of people with TB and their households facing catastrophic costs. In line with WHO guidance, the actions that countries have reportedly taken to mitigate the impacts on essential TB services include an expanded use of digital technologies for remote advice and support (108 countries, including 21 high-TB burden nations) and reducing the need for visits to health facilities by giving preference to home-based treatment and providing TB patients with a one-month supply of drugs (100 countries, including 25 high-TB burden nations). The negative impacts on essential TB services include the reallocation of human, financial and other resources from TB to Covid-19 response, the report said. Globally, an estimated 29 lakh TB cases went unreported to national TB programmes across the world in 2019, according to the report. In India, of the estimated 26.4 lakh TB cases emerging in 2019, 24 lakh were reported to the Union government — a gap of 2.4 lakh patients who are going unreported, it showed. However, the notifications have seen a significant increase in the last few years — from 17.4 lakh in 2015 to 24 lakh in 2019. The total TB incidence rate in India has decreased by almost 50,000 patients over the last year. In 2018, India had an estimated 26.9 lakh tuberculosis patients, which has come down to 26.4 lakh in 2019 — incidence per one-lakh population has decreased from 199 in 2018 to 193 in 2019. In India, notifications of people newly diagnosed with TB rose from 12 lakh in 2013 to 22 lakh in 2019. Drug-resistant TB continues to be a public health threat. In 2019, around five lakh people developed rifampicin-resistant TB (RR-TB) worldwide, of which 78 per cent had multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB), the report said. The three countries with the largest share of the global burden were India (27 per cent), China (14 per cent) and the Russian Federation (eight per cent), it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/25-30-drop-in-tb-case-notifications-in-india-indonesia-philippines-from-january-june-901989.html
14-10-2020||National||CBSE extends deadline for 2021 board exam fee payment till October 31 in view of pandemic||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Wednesday extended the deadline for payment of examination fees for classes 10 and 12 students till October 31, according to officials. "Looking into the problems faced by schools and parents, the last date for submission of List of Candidates (LOC) for classes 10 and 12 for 2021 board exams without late fees has been extended from October 15 to 31 and with late free from November 1 to 7," said Sanyam Bhardwaj, CBSE's Examination Controller. "From various sources it has come to the notice of CBSE that schools and parents are facing problems in completing LOC because of the situation created due to COVID-19 pandemic," Bhardwaj added. The Delhi government last week wrote to CBSE requesting for an extension of the deadline for payment of examination fees for the 2021 board exams from October 15 to November 14. The government had earlier written to the CBSE seeking a waiver of the examination fee for students of classes 10 and 12 in its schools citing financial crunch in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, CBSE had expressed its inability to waive the examination fees. The letter further said due to the ongoing pandemic, a large number of parents have lost their jobs and their incomes have been affected badly while their savings have already been used to meet their daily needs. "It is submitted that certain people and organizations have expressed their desire to offer financial support as a welfare measure and wish to pay the examination fee of some students of some schools as a noble cause. In view of that, CBSE is requested to kindly extend the date of submission of Examination fee upto November 14 in place of October 15," the Directorate of Education of the Delhi government had said in its letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-extends-deadline-for-2021-board-exam-fee-payment-till-october-31-in-view-of-pandemic-901992.html
14-10-2020||National Politics||Sharad Pawar writes to PM Modi over Maharashtra Governor's 'language'||Concerned with Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari’s letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray over the reopening of place of worship, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar has shot off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the language used by the governor. “I also appreciate the prerogative of the governor to convey his views to the chief minister. However, I am shocked and surprised to see the letter of the governor... And the kind of language used,” Pawar informed Modi, as the Maha Vikas Aghadi allies Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress stood behind Thackeray and hit out at Koshyari. “In the very Preamble of our Constitution, the word ‘secular’ is added that equates and shields all religions, and hence (the Chair) of the chief minister must uphold such tenets of the Constitution,” Pawar pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sharad-pawar-writes-to-pm-modi-over-maharashtra-governors-language-901601.html
14-10-2020||National Politics||DH Toon | Khushbu Sundar joins BJP: 'Feel at home, Khushbu ji. He'll be here for acting masterclass!'||Actor-turned-politician Khushbu Sundar is the latest entrant in the star-studded BJP which has more than half a dozen parliamentarians who were household names for their silver screen presence before entering the political arena.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-khushbu-sundar-joins-bjp-feel-at-home-khushbu-ji-hell-be-here-for-acting-masterclass-901617.html
14-10-2020||National Politics||Solid achievement of BJP's hate-filled cultural nationalism: Rahul Gandhi on IMF projections||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday took a dig at the government over IMF growth projections showing Bangladesh closing in on India in terms of per capita GDP this year and described it as a "solid achievement" of six years of BJP's "hate-filled cultural nationalism". Gandhi also shared a graph citing its source as the International Monetary Fund's World Economic Outlook report which showed Bangladesh closing in on India and almost catching up with it in terms of per capita GDP this year. Solid achievement of 6 years of BJP’s hate-filled cultural nationalism: Bangladesh set to overtake India. "Solid achievement of 6 years of BJP's hate-filled cultural nationalism: Bangladesh set to overtake India," Gandhi said in a sarcastic tweet accompanied by clapping emojis. The IMF said on Tuesday that the Indian economy, severely hit by the coronavirus pandemic, is projected to contract by a massive 10.3 per cent this year. However, India is likely to bounce back with an impressive 8.8 per cent growth rate in 2021, thus regaining the position of the fastest growing emerging economy, surpassing China's projected growth rate of 8.2 per cent, the IMF said in its latest 'World Economic Outlook' report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/solid-achievement-of-bjps-hate-filled-cultural-nationalism-rahul-gandhi-on-imf-projections-901667.html
14-10-2020||National Politics||Aap Dream11 pe team banao: AAP scores double dig against BJP, Congress||While the Congress and BJP have been at continuous loggerheads, blaming the other for corruption in the country, the Aam Aadmi Party seemed to have the last laugh with their latest dig on both parties on social media platform Twitter. The tweet referenced popular fantasy sports platform saying, “Congress was looting our country, then BJP came and said..."Ye main kar leta hu, tab tak aap Dream-11 pe team banao". Congress was looting our country, then BJP came and said... "Ye main kar leta hu, tab tak aap Dream-11 pe team banao" The Modi-led government has been accused by the Opposition for engaging in corrupt means through the implementation of demonetisation, GST and over the handling of the coronavirus outbreak. The Congress has also questioned the government over the recent farm laws passed in the Rajya Sabha. The incumbent government, however, chooses to blame the previous government for corruption and former ‘PM Nehru’ for being one of the prime reasons for the current state of affairs. Netizens were quick to react to the witty tweet, and managed to come up with: Robert Clive to Shah Alam II regarding Tax collection: NDA Alliances Were Busy Bootlicking BJP Party Leaders , Than AAP Came and Said - "Ye main kar leta hu, tab tak aap Dream-11 pe team banao"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aap-dream11-pe-team-banao-aap-scores-double-dig-against-bjp-congress-901697.html
14-10-2020||National Politics||Will continue struggle for restoration of Article 370, resolution of Kashmir issue: Mehbooba||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, who was released from detention after 14 months, has vowed to continue her struggle for the restoration of Article 370 and the resolution of the Kashmir issue. She said the Centre's decision of August 5 was a "daylight robbery". "We all have to pledge that we will take back what was snatched illegally, undemocratically and unconstitutionally on August 5 last year. We will also have to work for the resolution of Kashmir issue for which thousands of people have laid down their lives," Mehbooba said in an 83-second audio message on Twitter late on Tuesday night. The PDP leader said it will not be an easy task as there will be difficulties in "this path but our steadfastness and determination will be our aides in this struggle". The Centre had ended the special status of Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcated it into union territories on August 5 last year. Mehbooba also demanded the release of Kashmiri people languishing in various jails. "As I have been released, all other persons (from Kashmir) who are detained in various jails across the country should also be released," she said. Mehbooba was released on Tuesday night after the Union Territory administration revoked the Public Safety Act charges against her, more than a year after she was detained following the abrogation of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. The development came barely two days before the Supreme Court was to hear the matter related to her detention. Mehbooba, 60, who was initially put under preventive custody on August 5 last year and later booked under the stringent PSA on February 6, was shifted to her official residence on April 7 after it was declared a subsidiary jail by the authorities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/will-continue-struggle-for-restoration-of-article-370-resolution-of-kashmir-issue-mehbooba-901707.html
14-10-2020||National Politics||PDP members gather at Mehbooba's residence as she vows to fight back||The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was almost written off after most of its top leaders deserted it last year, but the scenes at the residence of party president Mehbooba Mufti after her release on Tuesday night following 14 months in preventive detention suggest that there is a lot of fight left in her. From a 70-year-old party worker from south Kashmir to whatever remains of the senior party leadership, PDP members on Wednesday made a beeline to Fairview Bungalow -- the official residence of Mehbooba -- hoping to meet the woman who is now being dubbed by her admirers as the 'Iron Lady of Kashmir'. She is ready for the fight, was the common refrain of those who met her. The PDP is using social media to the hilt to enhance the image of Mehbooba, the first and last woman chief minister of erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir state, by posting videos and photographs of her meetings with her party workers. Noor Mohammad, a party worker from south Kashmir who can barely stand upright due to old age, was among the people who met Mehbooba Mufti less than 24 hours after her release. "I left home at 6 AM to ensure that I return only after meeting my sister and leader Mehbooba ji. Her father (late Mufti Mohammad Sayeed) was blessed, so is she," the elderly man said. The scenes at Mehbooba's residence were in complete contrast to last year when leader after leader deserted the PDP and later joined hands with Altaf Bukhari -- a former minister and close aide of the PDP president who floated his own political outfit later. "Mehbooba Ji was detained for the longest period which shows how much the BJP government at the Centre is frightened of her popularity among the masses," Bashir Ahmad, a party worker from Anantnag district, said after meeting the PDP president. Several PDP leaders, including former MLA from Wachi Aijaz Mir, posted laudatory tweets about the party leader. "After a detention period of 1 year and 2 months, our party president @MehboobaMufti sahiba released today. We salute her steadfast determination & exemplary courage!" Mir tweeted. Mehbooba, who led the PDP-BJP alliance government from April 2016 to June 2018, was arrested along with other leaders hours ahead of the Centre bifurcating the state into two union territories and abrogating Article 370. After being released on Tuesday night, she said the Centre's decision of August 5 was a "daylight robbery". "We all have to pledge that we will take back what was snatched illegally, undemocratically and unconstitutionally on August 5 last year. "We will also have to work for the resolution of Kashmir issue for which thousands of people have laid down their lives," Mehbooba said in an audio message on Twitter. Mohit Bhan, a spokesman of the PDP, praised Mehbooba for her message. "That's how a leader talks. No 4G restoration demands. No Statehood restoration demands. One and only demand and resolve to fight for it. Restore our dignity, restore our pride and restore our rights," Bhan said. Firdous Tak, a former MLC, said it was the pressure of the Supreme Court that has worked in getting Mehbooba Mufti released. Besides party workers, senior National Conference leaders Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah visited Mehbooba Mufti at her residence. Senior Congress leader Karan Singh welcomed Mehbooba Mufti's release and expressed the hope that she will strengthen the democratic process by taking her agenda to the people once fresh elections take place. DMK chief M K Stalin also expressed happiness over her release and urged the government to free other political detainees. "The democratic processes, which have been suspended during this time, must also be reinstated," he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pdp-members-gather-at-mehboobas-residence-as-she-vows-to-fight-back-901827.html
14-10-2020||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi hugged Hathras victim’s mother, BJP members falsely identify her as ‘Naxal bhabhi’||A new development in the Hathras case came on October 10, when it was reported that a woman had stayed at the victim’s house, allegedly posing as her sister-in-law. She was later identified as Rajkumari Bansal, a doctor from Jabalpur. Since then, she was also accused of being a Naxalite and tutoring the family. Responding to these allegations, Bansal said that she went to the house for humanitarian reasons and her sole motive was to help them. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rahul Gandhi met the victim’s family on October 3. A number of media houses uploaded pictures and video footage of this meeting. An India Today report from the same day stated that Priyanka Gandhi was hugging the Hathras victim’s mother.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-hugged-hathras-victim-s-mother-bjp-members-falsely-identify-her-as-naxal-bhabhi-901984.html
14-10-2020||National Politics||Congress misleading farmers, spreading lies: Rajkumar Chahar||BJP MP and national president of the party's Kisan Morcha Rajkumar Chahar on Wednesday accused the Congress party of misleading farmers and spreading misconceptions about the new farm laws. Chahar said the Congress was spreading lies that the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system will be ended due to the new laws. MSP will continue to exist, he asserted. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has assured the country that MSP will continue but still, the Congress is trying to mislead the farmers of the nation, Chahar told reporters at the party office here. Congress ruled the country for 55 years but it kept the farmers in the dark and in poverty, he claimed. The protest against the farm laws is being done by those under whose rule the condition of farmers deteriorated, Chahar said. The country has a large number of small and marginal farmers and the new laws will let them sell their produce at any place to get more value for the produce, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-misleading-farmers-spreading-lies-rajkumar-chahar-901986.html
14-10-2020||North and Central||15-year-old Dalit 'gangrape victim' commits suicide in UP's Chitrakoot: Police||A Dalit teenager, who was allegedly gang-raped, committed suicide on Tuesday in Chitrakoot district of Uttar Pradesh, officials said. Chitrakoot Superintendent of Police (SP) Ankit Mittal said the 15-year-old girl committed suicide by hanging herself in her house in a village in the Manikpur area. After the girl's death, her family members alleged that she was raped by three men in a forest area on October 8, the officer said. On the basis of a complaint from the victim's family members, former village head's son Kishan Upadhyay and two others -- Ashish and Satish -- were arrested under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the SP said. The family members alleged that the girl committed suicide as her complaint was not registered, a charge denied by the police, who said that the victim's kin had not given any application to lodge an FIR. The SP said the post-mortem examination did not confirm rape and the samples would now be sent to a Forensic Sciences Laboratory (FSL). The girl will be cremated on Wednesday in the village, where elaborate security arrangements have been made. The victim's father alleged that after raping his daughter, the accused left her with her hands and legs tied and the police brought her back, but did not register an FIR. The incident comes close on the heels of a 19-year-old Dalit woman succumbing in a Delhi hospital after allegedly being raped by four upper-caste men in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras, triggering a nationwide outrage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/15-year-old-dalit-gangrape-victim-commits-suicide-in-ups-chitrakoot-police-901535.html
14-10-2020||North and Central||Three dead, seven injured in explosion in Aligarh's Delhi Gate area||Three people died and seven more sustained injuries in an explosion apparently caused by a gas cylinder at a building in the city's Delhi Gate area on Tuesday, police said here. While two people died on the spot, one person succumbed to injuries while undergoing treatment, they added. The injured are admitted to Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital and Malkhan Singh District Hospital, the police said. As per preliminary investigations, it appears that a gas cylinder exploded in the building, they said. Superintendent of Police, City, Abhishek Kumar said police were probing if any manufacturing activity was being carried out on the premises. Senior police officials said the affected building has been cordoned off as a precautionary measure. District Magistrate Chandra Bhushan Singh said a time-bound inquiry would be conducted into the entire incident. Rescue operations are underway to look for any other victim who may still be buried under the debris of the building, which was badly damaged in the explosion, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-dead-seven-injured-in-explosion-in-aligarhs-delhi-gate-area-901572.html
14-10-2020||North and Central||Sexual abuse case: Law student disowns statement against ex-Union minister Chinmayanand||The woman law student who had accused former Union minister Chinmayanand of sexually exploiting her disowned statement before a special MP-MLA court in Lucknow on Tuesday. The LLM student categorically denied that she had levelled any allegation against the former Union minister as the prosecution had charged. Angered at this, the prosecution immediately moved an application under Section 340 of the CrPC, seeking action against her for perjury. Judge P K Rai directed his office to register the application and asked the prosecution to furnish a copy of the application to the victim and the accused. The court fixed October 15 for hearing on the application. The Allahabad High Court in February this year granted bail to Chinmayanand, whose trust runs the Shahjahanpur law college where the woman studied. He was lodged in the jail following a case filed against him by the law student and was arrested in September last year. The case was registered under Section 376-C of the IPC, an offence pertaining to the abuse of one's position by a person in authority to "induce or seduce" a woman under his charge to have "sexual intercourse not amounting to the offence of rape". Chinmayanand (72) also faced charges under Sections 342 (wrongful confinement), 354-D (stalking) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sexual-abuse-case-law-student-disowns-statement-against-ex-union-minister-chinmayanand-901576.html
14-10-2020||North and Central||Fresh PIL in SC seeks lodging of criminal case against UP officials, doctors in Hathras case||A fresh PIL was filed on Tuesday in the Supreme Court seeking lodging of a criminal case against officials of Uttar Pradesh government and doctors for their "synchronised attempt" to conceal the heinous crime at Hathras related to the alleged gang rape of a Dalit girl who died of her injuries on September 29. In a PIL, a social worker from Aurangabad, Chetan Janardhan Kamble contended the conduct of state police officials showed glaring violations of the rights of the victim and her family members, under Articles 14 and 21 Constitution. "Unless there is some investigation into the role and involvement of the State officials including the police officials and the medical officers, not only the same is going to result into a biased and partial trial but it shall instil confidence in the criminals who keep on conducting such heinous crimes," the petition filed by advocate Vipin Nair said. The plea claimed the biased attitude of the state administration in the entire episode has come up with an intention to protect the corrupt officers who perhaps acted as conspirators in the crime.  The plea raised questioned if the synchronised attempts of the UP government through its officials in Home Department and Government Hospital at Aligarh to manipulate and destroy the evidence and rule out the possibility of rape and murder, amounted to an abuse of judicial process and interference with the administration of justice. The petitioner, naming senior officers including district magistrate as parties, said the reply filed by the Chief Secretary to the pending plea for CBI probe into the matter showed that they appeared to be fully motivated in covering up the entire incident. He asked the court to lodge FIR against the state officers under the Indian Penal Code and the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and investigation of the matter by a special task force, comprising officers of impeccable integrity from the CBI and UP police. He also sought a direction for the protection of witnesses and family members from the Central Reserve Police Force.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fresh-pil-in-sc-seeks-lodging-of-criminal-case-against-up-officials-doctors-in-hathras-case-901596.html
14-10-2020||North and Central||Indian farmer who worshipped Donald Trump, built a shrine for him, passes away||In India, where many admire President Donald Trump, one rural farmer worshipped him like a god, praying to a life-size statue of Trump in his backyard every morning. “At first everyone in the family thought he was mentally disturbed, but he kept at it and everyone eventually came around,” said Vivek Bukka, a cousin of the farmer, Bussa Krishna. When Trump announced he had the coronavirus, it devastated Krishna. The farmer posted a tearful video on Facebook in which he said: “I feel very sad that my god, Trump, has contracted the coronavirus. I ask everyone to pray for his speedy recovery.” He stopped eating to show solidarity with his idol’s suffering from Covid-19, his family said. He fell into a deep depression. On Sunday, he died of cardiac arrest. Krishna’s devotion had made him into a minor celebrity, and he was the subject of some national headlines. His death made news across India. Vivek said his cousin had been physically fit and had no health problems or a history of heart disease. There is no evidence linking Krishna’s death to his fasting. There is no indication that the White House or Trump — who said he had recovered from the virus and felt “powerful” after being treated with a cocktail of drugs — was aware of his biggest fan in India. Many of the country’s urban intellectuals dislike the US president, and he is regularly mocked on Indian social media platforms. But the president has support in other corners of Indian society. A February study by the Pew Research Center found that 56 per cent of people surveyed in India said that Trump would “do the right thing when it comes to world affairs,” up from 16 per cent when he was elected. Trump’s popularity in some parts of India is striking because the cult of personality he has tried to cultivate — of an unapologetically brash figure leading the United States to a bright new future while espousing “America First” — mirrors how India’s prime minister, Narendra Modi, projects himself to his own supporters. Krishna, a widowed farmer in his thirties who lived in the village of Konne in the southern state of Telangana, had been a Trump devotee for about four years. He became a fan when the president appeared to him in a dream, his relatives said, and predicted that India’s national cricket squad would beat its archrival, Pakistan, in a match the next day. India won, Vivek said, “and from that day he started worshipping Donald Trump.” But the farmer also admired the president as a leader, said Vivek, a 25-year-old accountant who lives near the southern city of Hyderabad. His cousin did not speak English, and the local news outlets where he lived paid scant attention to US politics. So he relied on Vivek to translate articles and videos for him. Vemula Venkat Goud, Konne’s village headman, said that the young farmer had also been drawn to Trump’s “straightforward ways and blunt speech.” Neighbours did not know much about US politics and had no opinion of Trump, he added. But since Krishna was such a huge fan, they embraced his cause as a courtesy, even if it struck them as a little odd. As Krishna’s devotion to Trump intensified, he began fasting every Friday in support, and he commissioned the construction of a shrine in his backyard with the life-size statue, Vivek said. He worshipped it with Hindu rituals for an hour or two each morning, as one might when praying to Krishna, Shiva, Ganesha or other gods in the Hindu pantheon. One video of Krishna that has circulated widely online shows him performing a prayer ritual, or pooja, before an altar that holds a picture of Trump. In another, he wears a T-shirt that reads “Trump” in white block letters as he pours water over the head of the statue, which is wearing a red tie and giving a thumbs-up. The Trump statue has a garland of fresh flowers around its neck and a red tilak — a traditional symbol that is made of vermilion or sandal paste, and used in religious ceremonies — on its forehead. Krishna’s creation of a statue in Trump’s likeness is not unique. An architect built a giant wooden statue of Trump with vampire’s teeth in Slovenia, the native country of the first lady, Melania Trump. Some critics denounced it as a “waste of wood.” That statue’s creator, Tomaz Schlegl, an architect, had a clear vision, and message, in mind. “I want to alert people to the rise of populism, and it would be difficult to find a bigger populist in this world than Donald Trump,” he told Reuters. A life-size wooden sculpture of Trump near the town of Sevnica in eastern Slovenia, where she grew up, was set on fire. The commissioning artist replaced it with a bronze statue. As for Krishna, he made a valiant attempt to meet his idol. He travelled to the US Embassy in New Delhi before Trump’s trip to India in February to try to arrange a meeting, Venkat, the village headman, said. “It’s really sad that his dream never came true,” he added. Trump later addressed a stadium packed with 100,000 cheering attendees in Ahmedabad, the heart of Modi’s political home base. Krishna kept the faith until the end. When he learned of Trump’s coronavirus diagnosis, he locked himself in his room, Vivek said. “We tried to force him to eat, but he barely ate anything,” he said. On Sunday, Krishna collapsed, and his relatives took him to the hospital. He was pronounced dead on arrival. Krishna is survived by his parents and his 7-year-old son. Venkat said villagers were discussing how best to maintain their neighbour’s Trump shrine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indian-farmer-who-worshipped-donald-trump-built-a-shrine-for-him-passes-away-901734.html
14-10-2020||North and Central||Two policemen suspended for laxity after gangrape, suicide of Dalit teenager in Chitrakoot||Two policemen were suspended for laxity on Wednesday following the alleged gangrape and suicide of a 15-year-old Dalit girl, a senior police official said. Chitrakoot Superintendent of Police (SP) Ankit Mittal said prima facie, it seemed that there was laxity in discharge of duty by Karvi police station SHO Jaishankar Singh and Sub-Inspector Anil Sahu, the in-charge of Sariaya police outpost. "Both of them have been suspended," he said. The SP said the son of a former village pradhan and his two aides were arrested on Tuesday. He also said that on Tuesday night, IG Chitrakoot range K Satyanarayan and District Magistrate Sheshmani Pandey met the family of the victim, and assured them of justice. Mittal also said that heavy police force has been deployed in the village. "The aggrieved family with its consent conducted the last rites of the victim on Wednesday," the SP said. The Dalit teenager committed suicide on Tuesday by hanging herself in her house in a village in Chitrakoot. After the girl's death, her family members alleged that she was raped by three men in a forest area on October 8, the officer said. On the basis of a complaint from the victim's family members, former village head's son Kishan Upadhyay and two others -- Ashish and Satish -- were arrested under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the SP said. The family members alleged that the girl committed suicide as her complaint was not registered, a charge denied by the police who said that the victim's kin had not given any application to lodge an FIR. The SP on Tuesday said the post-mortem examination did not confirm rape and the samples would now be sent to a Forensic Sciences Laboratory (FSL). The victim's father alleged that after raping his daughter, the accused left her with her hands and legs tied and the police brought her back, but did not register an FIR. The incident comes close on the heels of a 19-year-old Dalit woman succumbing in a Delhi hospital after allegedly being raped by four upper-caste men in Uttar Pradesh''s Hathras, triggering a nationwide outrage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-policemen-suspended-for-laxity-after-gangrape-suicide-of-dalit-teenager-in-chitrakoot-901737.html
14-10-2020||North and Central||Two security personnel go missing in J&K||Two security force personnel, including a jawan of the SSB, have gone missing along with some weapons and ammunition from Chadoora area of central Kashmir's Budgam district, officials said here on Wednesday. A special police officer, identified as Altaf Hussain, was reported missing from the camp of a special operations group at Chadoora, the officials said. Two AK rifles and three magazines have also gone missing from the camp, the officials said, adding the matter is being investigated. In another incident, a constable of the SSB -- also named Altaf Hussain -- has gone missing from the camp at Nagam area, near Chadoora. One magazine of INSAS rifle and 20 rounds have been reported missing from the SSB camp, the officials said. While the SPO is a local from Chadoora area, the SSB constable hails from Koteranka area of Rajouri district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-security-personnel-go-missing-in-jk-901738.html
14-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal lays emphasis on adoption of solar energy||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said Wednesday solar power generation in Delhi has increased from 7 MW to 177 MW in four years and emphasised on its adoption in a mission mode. "In the last four years, solar power generation in Delhi has increased from about 7 MW to 177 MW, but this is not enough because Delhi has a vast scope for it. The need is to adopt solar power as a mission," he said at the inauguration of a 218 KW solar plant at Lady Irwin College in Mandi House area. Kejriwal said the solar energy growth in Delhi has been slow because people do not know much about it, but the Delhi government has come out with two policies for its promotion in residential areas and for farming. "Solar power can help farmers increase their per acre income 3-4 times," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-lays-emphasis-on-adoption-of-solar-energy-901764.html
14-10-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan DGP Bhupendra Singh retires, appointed as RPSC chairman||Director General of Rajasthan Police Bhupendra Singh was on Wednesday appointed as chairman of the Rajasthan Public Service Commission after he took voluntary retirement. DG (Crime) M L Lather was given the additional charge of DGP Rajasthan, an order by the Department of Personnel said. Singh has been relieved from the service after he took voluntary retirement. He has been appointed as chairman of the Rajasthan Public Service Commission (RPSC), it said. Governor Kalraj Mishra issued the appointment order of Singh as RPSC chairman for a period of six years or until the age of 62 years, whichever is earlier. An IPS officer of 1986-batch, Singh was appointed the Director General of Police (DGP) on June 30 last year. He was to retire on December 31, 2019, but the government had extended his tenure till June 2021. Singh has now replaced RPSC chairman Deepak Upreti, whose tenure has ended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-dgp-bhupendra-singh-retires-appointed-as-rpsc-chairman-901776.html
14-10-2020||North and Central||2 militants killed in encounter with security forces in J&K's Shopian||Two unidentified militants were killed in an encounter with security forces in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, police said. Security forces launched a cordon-and-search operation in the Chakura area of Shopian district following information about the presence of militants there, a police officer said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after militants opened fire at security forces' positions. He said two militants have been killed in the operation. The identity and group affiliation of the slain militants were being ascertained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-militants-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-jks-shopian-901797.html
14-10-2020||North and Central||Few theatres in Madhya Pradesh to reopen from October 15||With the Centre allowing cinema halls to re-open, a few theatres in Madhya Pradesh are gearing up to start screening films from Thursday, but their owners say the business will take time to pick up. Bhopal Cine Owners Associations secretary Aizazuddin told PTI on Wednesday that "except a multiplex, no other cinema hall will reopen in the state capital on October 15 because of unavailability of the audience". The Centre has permitted cinema halls and multiplexes to reopen with up to 50 per cent of their seating capacity, which theatres owners say is not in their business interest. "During this period, no producer will take the risk of releasing his film. Therefore, we have to start with old films for which viewers won't be available," Aizazuddin said. "We also demanded from the government that our electricity bills for the last six months be waive off and the property tax be reduced by 50 per cent, but so far no relief has been given to theatre owners," he said. In Indore, Central Circuit Cine Associations (a distributors body) director O P Goyal said on Thursday, two multiplexes and two single-screen cinema halls will reopen with 50 per cent capacity. To ensure social distancing, one seat between two viewers will be kept vacant, he said. "Though cinema halls are reopening after a long gap, it is difficult to ascertain how many viewers will come to the theatres," Goyal said. He also said that as of now, old hit films will be screened in these halls as new films of big stars are not being released currently. Adarsh Ramlal Yadav, a single-screen theatre owner in Indore, said the government's decision to allow cinema halls to reopen will give them an opportunity to re-start their business at a slow pace after six months. "As producers are not releasing any new films, we have to screen old films which won't draw crowds. We have also demanded that our electricity dues for the closure period be waived off, and 50 per cent rebate in property tax," he said. According to industry sources, there are six single- screen cinema halls in Indore and more than 40 screens in various multiplexes in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/few-theatres-in-madhya-pradesh-to-reopen-from-october-15-901798.html
14-10-2020||North and Central||'Maneater' leopard shot dead in Uttarakhand||A maneater leopard, which mauled to death two children in the district within three days, was shot dead by a government-appointed hunter on Wednesday. The leopard was shot dead on Wednesday morning by Joy Hukil, a well-known shooter of maneater big cats, DFO Narendra Nagar Dharm Singh Meena said. The big cat had killed a seven-year-old boy at Kasmoli village of Narendra Nagar block on Tuesday evening after lifting him from the courtyard of his home, creating a scare in the area. It had also killed a girl in the same area on Sunday. The DFO had issued an order to catch or kill the leopard on Tuesday night itself.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/maneater-leopard-shot-dead-in-uttarakhand-901799.html
14-10-2020||North and Central||Two gang-rape, molestation victims kill themselves in UP||Amid the outrage over alleged gang-rape and brutal murder of a woman in Hathras, two teens - one a gang-rape victim and the other a victim of molestation-allegedly killed themselves in different parts of Uttar Pradesh. A 15-year-old girl, resident of Chitrakoot district, about 350 kilometres from Lucknow, who had allegedly been gangraped by three youths of her village last week, died by suicide in her house, on Tuesday. The minor, who hailed from a Scheduled Caste (SC) community, hanged herself using her 'dupatta', police sources in the state's capital said. The mother of the first victim said that three youths of the village had kidnapped the victim and had gang-raped her after taking her to the nearby forested area. The family did not lodge a police complaint fearing social humiliation. ''My daughter had stopped speaking after the incident,'' the distraught mother told the cops. Two cops, including the in-charge of the local police station, were suspended for laxity, sources said. In another incident, a 17-year-old alleged victim of molestation killed herself by jumping into a well in UP's Pratapgarh district, about 200 kilometres from Lucknow, on Tuesday. The father of the teen said that some youths from the village used to stalk her on the way to her college and passed lewd comments at her. ''We had complained to their parents....we did not approach the cops fearing loss of family reputation....it had been going on for the past six months,'' he said. Police said that a case was lodged and a hunt was launched to nab the culprits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-gang-rape-molestation-victims-kill-themselves-in-up-901800.html
14-10-2020||North and Central||Bajrang Dal stages anti-Farooq Abdullah protest in Jammu||The Rashtriya Bajrang Dal (RBD) on Wednesday held a protest against National Conference president Farooq Abdullah here against his alleged statement that Article 370 would be restored with the help of China. The National Conference on Monday had denied that Abdullah had made such a remark and accused the BJP of "completely twisting" his remarks made during a TV interview last week. Amid chants of “desh ke gaddaro ko, goli maro saalo ko” (shoot the traitors), dozens of RBD activists led by their leader Rakesh Bajrangi appeared at the Residency Road here and tried to move towards the headquarters of the National Conference. However, policemen who were posted in strength foiled their attempt and pushed them back. The protesters set ablaze an effigy of Abdullah. "Our protest is against the National Conference president Farooq Abdullah for his recent statement that Article 370 would be restored with the help of China. Jammu belongs to nationalist people and we will not tolerate such kind of statements,” Bajrangi told reporters. On Monday, the National Conference said Abdullah never justified China's expansionist mindset or its aggression during his interview on Sunday as claimed by BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra at a presser in New Delhi. “Our president articulated the people's anger over the abrogation of Article 370 and 35-A by Parliament on August 5 last year as he has consistently done in recent months. He emphasised that no one in Jammu and Kashmir was willing to accept these changes," an NC spokesman had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bajrang-dal-stages-anti-farooq-abdullah-protest-in-jammu-901810.html
14-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi pollution body bans use of diesel generators till further orders||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) on Wednesday issued directions banning the use of diesel generators in the national capital from Thursday under the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP). GRAP is a set of anti-pollution measures that come into force in Delhi and its vicinity towns according to the severity of the situation. It was notified by the Ministry of Environment and Forests in 2017 for implementation through the Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority. "DPCC hereby bans the operation of generator sets of all capacities, run on diesel, petrol or kerosene in Delhi with effect from October 15 till further orders, excluding those used for essential or emergency services," an official order read. Essential services include healthcare facilities, elevators, railway services, Delhi Metro, airports and interstate bus terminals and the data centre run by the National Informatics Centre.   The measures under GRAP, which was first implemented in Delhi-NCR in 2017, include increasing bus and metro services, hiking parking fees and stopping use of diesel generator sets when the air quality turns poor. When the situation turns "severe", GRAP recommends closure of brick kilns, stone crushers and hot mix plants, sprinkling of water, frequent mechanised cleaning of roads and maximising power generation from natural gas. The measures to be followed in the "emergency" situation include stopping the entry of trucks in Delhi, ban on construction activities and introduction of the odd-even car rationing scheme.  EPCA, however, had earlier told Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh that they "should try and avert the need to take other emergency measures for pollution control as the economy is already under stress post-lockdown. Therefore, our combined effort is to ensure that there is no further disruption".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-pollution-body-bans-use-of-diesel-generators-till-further-orders-901815.html
14-10-2020||North and Central||NGT directs recovery of Rs 3.24 crore penalty from STP for causing pollution in Haryana||The National Green Tribunal directed the Haryana state pollution control board (HSPCB) on Wednesday to recover Rs 3.24 crore penalty from a sewage treatment plant (STP) at Dhani Garan village at Barwala in Haryana. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel imposed the environmental compensation on account of the damage caused by the unit by discharging pollutants in excess of the standard prescribed. “In view of the above, let the compensation be deposited with the state pollution control board for restoration of the environment. The responsibility to deposit the amount will be of the Additional Chief Secretary, Haryana Public Health Engineering Department within one month,” the bench said. The tribunal said it would be open to the SPCB to proceed with the prosecution for which sanction has already been obtained.  “It will be open to the Department to recover the amount of damages from the concerned erring officers and also to take Departmental action for serious violations of environmental norms,” the bench said. “The STP must meet standards, including those of fecal coliform. There should be plan for utilisation of treated sewage for non-potable purposes. If such use is to be by Rajiv Gandhi Thermal Power Plant, the timeline should not exceed six months,” the bench said. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Haryana resident Sukhwanti alleging that waste water was being discharged from the STP at Barwala, into the land of the applicant and other adjoining lands. The plea filed through advocate Salik Shafique contended that this has resulted in damage to the crops, contaminating groundwater, death of the livestock and loss of soil fertility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ngt-directs-recovery-of-rs-324-crore-penalty-from-stp-for-causing-pollution-in-haryana-901816.html
14-10-2020||North and Central||MP bypolls: Chouhan, Scindia among BJP's 30 star campaigners||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Congress-turned-BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia, Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Thawar Chand Gehlot are some of the 30-star campaigners of the BJP for the next month's bypolls to 28 Assembly seats in MP. The BJP on Wednesday released a list of its star campaigners for the November 3 by-elections in the party-ruled state. Besides Chouhan, Scindia, Tomar and Gehlot, former state chief minister Uma Bharti, Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan, Prahlad Patel and Faggan Singh Kulaste, state BJP chief Vihsnu Dutt Sharma also figure in the list. Senior party leaders, including BJP national general secretary in-charge of West Bengal Vinay Sahastrabuddhe, Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra and PWD Minister Gopal Bhargava are some other star campaigners of the party. Madhya Pradesh Congress leader K K Mishra sought to know why BJP MP from Bhopal Pragya Singh Thakur was not made a star campaigner, while Scindia, who was Congress's poll campaign in-charge in the 2018 state elections, was made one. State BJP spokesman Rajneesh Agrawal, however, said, "It hardly matters in the BJP as all the 30-star campaigners are capable enough to take on the Congress on their own in the bypolls."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-bypolls-chouhan-scindia-among-bjps-30-star-campaigners-901823.html
14-10-2020||North and Central||Schools for classes X, XII to reopen in Uttarakhand from Nov 1||Schools will reopen in Uttarakhand for classes X and XII on November 1 after their prolonged closure due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The decision was taken by the state Cabinet at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat here on Wednesday, government's spokesperson and Cabinet Minister Madan Kaushik said. The decision was taken on district magistrates' feedback after they consulted with district education officers and students’ parents, he said. The schools, however, are being opened only for these two classes with strict instructions to schools to ensure compliance of the anti-COVID standard operating procedures of the Centre, including the mandatory wearing of face masks, social distancing and hand sanitising, besides other precautionary measures, Kaushik told reporters here. The decision on when to resume the rest of classes will depend on how things pan out during the first month of the reopening of schools, he said. Meanwhile, online classes will continue, he said. While issuing the SOP for Unlock-5 the Centre had left it to the states to take a call on the schedule of reopening schools after proper assessment of the COVID situation within their territories. Modifying its earlier decision to cut one day salary of all government functionaries and employees for a year because of the pandemic, the Cabinet exempted state government employees below the IAS and IPS-rank officers from the ambit of the decision. However, ministers, MLAs, IAS and IPS officers will continue to contribute their one day salary towards the corona relief fund for a year as decided earlier. The relief was being provided to the junior state government employees as a gift for the festival season, he said. The Cabinet also decided to rename the Himalayan Garhwal University as AB Vajpayee Himalayan Garhwal University.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/schools-for-classes-x-xii-to-reopen-in-uttarakhand-from-nov-1-901824.html
14-10-2020||North and Central||Quick Reaction Teams deployed for security of Vaishno Devi pilgrims during Navratri||Joint Quick Reaction Teams (QRTs) comprising police and CRPF personnel are being deployed at all entry and exit points of the Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in Reasi district of Jammu and Kashmir for the festival of Navratri, officials said on Wednesday. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Deputy Inspector General of Police, Udhampur-Reasi range, Sujit Kumar, at Katra, the base camp for the pilgrims visiting the cave shrine, on Tuesday, the officials said. Security arrangements at the shrine were reviewed at the meeting in view of the festival commencing from October 17. The officials said Senior Superintendent of Police, Reasi, Rashmi Wazir was briefed about the arrangements made right from the shrine to Katra town and its outskirts. “Detailed discussions were held to ensure elaborate security arrangements during the festival,” they said, adding the officers present during the meeting were asked to work in close coordination with other agencies and Central Paramilitary forces. In his address, the DIG directed strict implementation of the Covid-19 protocol, especially physical distancing. He also asked officials concerned to hold discussions with the organisers and the management of the shrine for better coordination during the festival season. Officials were asked to ensure that checking squads deployed around Katra town are fully strengthened to ensure effective checking and frisking round-the-clock. "Joint QRTs of CRPF and police should be deployed on all entry and exit points to react immediately in case of any exigency,” the officials said. Later, the DIG along with other officers visited all the vital locations in Katra town and Vaishno Devi Bhawan and checked deployment, the officials said.  As many as 7,000 pilgrims are being allowed per day to pay obeisance at the shrine from October 15. The shrine was reopened for pilgrims on August 16 with a cap of 2000 pilgrims after five months closure due to outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/quick-reaction-teams-deployed-for-security-of-vaishno-devi-pilgrims-during-navratri-901828.html
14-10-2020||North and Central||Death toll in explosion at Aligarh’s Delhi Gate rises to four, 12 injured||The death toll in the explosion at a toy factory in Delhi Gate area here has risen to four, while a dozen people have sustained injuries in the incident, police said on Wednesday. The explosion apparently caused by a gas cylinder on Tuesday had ripped apart at least half a dozen neighbouring houses in Khatikaan locality under the Delhi Gate Police Station area. Among the four dead are two brothers--Manoj (38) and Vishal alias Vicky (32)--who owned the factory where toy pistols were produced for over 50 years, police said. The factory is located in a huge compound owned by the deceased's uncle Surinder Bhilwarey. Two others who died in the incident have been identified as Pankaj (30) and Abhishek (26), they said. Talking to reporters, District Magistrate Chandra Bhushan Singh said investigation into the incident would be carried out by a team of experts from different departments, including the fire service department. He said keeping in mind the upcoming festival season, the authorities would intensify checking operations for illicit storage of firecrackers and related explosives. District fire department officer Vivek Sharma noted that two possibilities of whether any explosive material used for making firecrackers was stored in the premises or the presence of a hydraulic pressure machine in the factory, will be probed in the incident. He said only a detailed forensic analysis can reveal the presence of hydraulic machine at the incident site. Elaborating further, Sharma said such machines have a highly combustible oil and whenever the supply of this oil falls below a certain prescribed limit, the heat generated can lead to a major explosion. The official added that the investigation would begin after the debris is cleared from the site.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/death-toll-in-explosion-at-aligarh-s-delhi-gate-rises-to-four-12-injured-901833.html
14-10-2020||North and Central||Construction of Zojila tunnel to begin on October 15||The construction of the Zojila tunnel for all-year connectivity between Leh and Srinagar will start from Thursday (October 15). Union Minister for Road Transport, Highways Nitin Gadkari will initiate the first blasting for the Zojila tunnel in Jammu and Kashmir, the government said on Wednesday.  The tunnel will provide all-weather connectivity between Srinagar valley and Leh on NH-1. The project involved the construction of a 14.15 Km long tunnel at an altitude of about 3000 meeter under Zojila pass on NH-1 connecting Srinagar and Leh through Dras & Kargil, said a statement from the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways. The tunnel project holds strategic significance as Zojila Pass is situated at an altitude of 11,578 feet on the 434-km Srinagar-Kargil-Leh national highway and remains closed during winters due to heavy snowfall, cutting off the Ladakh region from Kashmir. Prime Minister Narendra Modi in May 2018 laid the foundation stone for the project, billed as Asia's longest bi-directional tunnel. The project, which would cut down the 3.5-hour long drive through the mountainous Zojila Pass to just 15 minutes, is expected to be completed in seven years. The project was first conceived in 2005 and its Detailed Project Report (DPR) was prepared by Border Road Organusation (BRO) in the year 2013 on BOT (Annuity) mode. Attempts to award the project four times weren’t successful. In 2016 work was awarded to IL&FS, but the company went into financial problems and the project was stuck. This led to terminating contracts in 2019, the statement said.   Again NHIDCL ( National Highways Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited), a company owned by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, invited fresh bids in 2020 and awarded the project to Hyderabad based  M/s. Megha Engineering & Infrastructure Limited which quoted a rate of Rs 4509.50 crore.  The capital cost of approach road from Zozila Tunnel to Z-Morh tunnel (18.63 Km) to make the road all-weather was worked out to be Rs.2,335 crores as per the detailed project report, said the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/construction-of-zojila-tunnel-to-begin-on-october-15-901851.html
14-10-2020||North and Central||Two policemen suspended for laxity after gangrape, suicide of Dalit teenager in Chitrakoot||Two policemen were on Wednesday suspended for laxity following the alleged gangrape and suicide of a 15-year-old Dalit girl, a senior police official said. Chitrakoot Superintendent of Police (SP) Ankit Mittal said prima facie, it seemed that there was laxity in discharge of duty by Karvi police station SHO Jaishankar Singh and Sub-Inspector Anil Sahu, the in-charge of Sariaya police outpost. "Both of them have been suspended," he said. The SP said the last rites of the girl were conducted on Wednesday. Divisional Commissioner of Chitrakootdham division Gaurav Dayal, IG Chitrakoot range K Satyanarayan, district-level police officers were also present there. "The aggrieved family, with consent, conducted the last rites of the victim," the SP said. He said that initially the family refused to perform them after "being misled by some people" but on the assurance of the divisional commissioner and inspector general, the family agreed to conduct the last rites. "A heavy police force was also present at the times of the last rites," Mittal said. He said that on Tuesday night, the IG and District Magistrate Sheshmani Pandey met the family of the victim, and assured them of justice. Mittal said doctors who conducted the post-mortem examination of the victim stated that she died due to hanging. "Since, there has been no confirmation of rape, the slide has been sent to forensic science laboratory, Lucknow," he said. The Dalit teenager committed suicide on Tuesday by hanging herself in her house in a village in Chitrakoot. After the girl's death, her family members alleged that she was raped by three men in a forest area on October 8, the officer said. On the basis of a complaint from the victim's family members, former village head's son Kishan Upadhyay and his aides -- Ashish and Satish -- were arrested under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the SP said. The family members alleged that the girl committed suicide as her complaint was not registered, a charge denied by the police who said that the victim''s kin had not given any application to lodge an FIR. The victim's father alleged that after raping his daughter, the accused left her with her hands and legs tied and the police brought her back, but did not register an FIR. The incident comes close on the heels of a 19-year-old Dalit woman succumbing in a Delhi hospital after allegedly being raped by four upper-caste men in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras, triggering a nationwide outrage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-policemen-suspended-for-laxity-after-gangrape-suicide-of-dalit-teenager-in-chitrakoot-901869.html
14-10-2020||North and Central||Fines, jail term for no mask while travelling: Railways||With India Railways announcing special trains to meet the festival season rush, Railway Protection Force (RPF) on Wednesday issued guidelines for travellers for their safe journey due to Covid-19 pandemic. The RPF asked all the passengers to wear masks properly during the journey and at station premises without fail. It also asked passengers to maintain social distancing, and not to come at the station or board a train if tested Covid-19 positive. Even passengers, who have given samples for testing of Covid-19 and waiting result, should not come to railway area or station or boarding a train, railways said in a statement. Passengers should not board the trains after having been denied to undertake travel by the health check-up team at the railway station. Spitting or wilful ejection of body fluid/waste in the public area, activities which may create unclean or unhygienic conditions or affect public health and safety in railway stations and trains, are banned. If passengers failed to follow these guidelines, such persons will be punished with imprisonment and/or fine under section 145, 153, and 154 of Railway Act 1989, the railways said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fines-jail-term-for-no-mask-while-travelling-railways-901948.html
14-10-2020||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh speaker Vipin Singh Parmar tests positive for coronavirus||Himachal Pradesh Assembly Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday. In a Facebook post, Parmar said he had developed coronavirus symptoms two days ago. "I have isolated myself at my official residence on doctors' advice," he added. So far, 13 legislators, including the speaker and CM Jai Ram Thakur, have contracted the virus. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. On Tuesday, Technical Education Minister Ram Lal Markanda was found infected with the infection. Similarly, Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj tested positive for coronavirus on October 7. Power Minister Sukhram Chaudhary and Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur had also contracted the infection. Both have recovered from the disease. Chaudhary and Doon MLA Paramjeet Singh had attended the monsoon session of the Assembly last month after recovering from the infection. Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur rejoined his office at the state secretariat on September 21. He tested positive on September 3. He could not attend the assembly session which was held from September 7-18. The MLAs who tested positive for the virus are Surender Shourie; Vinod Kumar Chauhan (Nachan); Rakesh Jamwal (Sundernagar); Reeta Devi (Indora); Lakhwinder Rana (Nalagarh); and Mohanlal Brakta (Rohru).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradesh-speaker-vipin-singh-parmar-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-901954.html
14-10-2020||North and Central||Centre announces economic package of Rs 520 crore for employment in J&K||The Centre on Wednesday announced an economic package of Rs 520 crore for implementation of a scheme to provide self-employment and skilled wage employment opportunities for poor households in the villages of the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) and Ladakh. The BJP government at the Centre announced the package as preparations started to hold bye-elections to fill 13000 vacancies in the panchayats in J&K. It was approved even as the leaders of the political parties opposed to the BJP in the Union Territory convened a meeting on Thursday. Apart from the leaders of the National Conference and the Congress, it will be attended by the People’s Democratic Party’s president Mehbooba Mufti, who was released after 14-month-long detention on Tuesday. Mufti agreed to attend the meeting, when NC leaders, Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah, met her at her residence in Srinagar on Wednesday. The meeting is likely to be attended by all the political parties, which had signed the “Gupkar Declaration” – a resolution adopted at the end of an all-party meeting on August 4, 2019, a day before the Union Government had initiated the move to strip the then state of J&K of its special status and reorganize the state into two UTs. The signatories of the “Gupkar Declaration” had unanimously resolved that they would be united in their effort to protect and defend the identity, autonomy and special status of J&K against all attacks and onslaughts. They had met again on August 22 this year and vowed to fight for the restoration of the special status of J&K. The leaders of the NC, PDP, Congress and other parties, which had signed the Gupkar Declaration, are likely to attend the third meeting on Thursday to discuss the future course of action as well as the issue of participation in the forthcoming panchayat polls. The BJP and the newly created Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party are opposed to the “Gupkar Declaration”.   The special allocation of Rs 520 crore for implementation of the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana - National Rural Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NRLM) in J&K and Ladakh was approved by the Union Cabinet during a meeting, which was chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government. The allocation also came just ahead of the elections to the Ladakh Autonomous Hill District Council (LAHDC) scheduled to be held on Friday.   The Union Government said that the special allocation would ensure sufficient funds under the mission to meet the requirement of J&K and Ladakh in line with its efforts to universalize all centrally-sponsored beneficiary-oriented schemes in the two UTs. This is based on the outcomes of the evaluation pointing to the potential of the mission to improve the quality of life of rural households and women's empowerment and given the changed circumstances in the UTs of J&K and Ladakh. The special allocation for the DAY-NRLM followed an announcement of an economic package of Rs 1350 crore announced by J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on September 19 to give a boost to tourism and other sectors hit by the restrictions enforced after the August 5, 2019 move by the Centre as well as earlier this year to contain the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-announces-economic-package-of-rs-520-crore-for-employment-in-jk-901982.html
14-10-2020||North and Central||14-year-old booked for objectionable post against UP CM Yogi Adityanath||Police here have registered a case against a 14-year-old boy for allegedly posting indecent remarks and an objectionable photograph of UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on social media, an official said on Wednesday. Nagra police station SHO Yadavendra Pandey said on the complaint of Rajiv Singh Chandel, an office-bearer of the Hindu Yuva Vahini, a case was registered against Lalu Yadav, also called Vipin, on Tuesday. The post had gone viral on social media on October 12, Chandel said. The SHO said Lalu is 14-year-old.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/14-year-old-booked-for-objectionable-post-against-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-902002.html
14-10-2020||Panorama||The race for a super-antibody against coronavirus||Even as vaccines are hailed as our best hope against the coronavirus, dozens of scientific groups are working on an alternate defense: monoclonal antibodies. These therapies shot to prominence just this month after President Donald Trump got an infusion of an antibody cocktail made by Regeneron and credited it for his apparent recovery, even calling it a “cure.” Monoclonal antibodies are distilled from the blood of patients who have recovered from the virus. Ideally, antibodies infused early in the course of infection — or even before exposure, as a preventive — may provide swift immunity. An enthusiastic Trump has promised to distribute these experimental drugs free to anyone who needs them. But they are difficult and expensive to produce. At the moment, Regeneron has enough to treat only 50,000 patients; the supply is unlikely to exceed a few million doses in the foreseeable future. Dozens of companies and academic groups are racing to develop antibody therapies. Regeneron and Eli Lilly have requested emergency-use authorizations for their products from the Food and Drug Administration. These drug companies have the long experience and deep pockets needed to win the race for a powerful antibody treatment. But some scientists are betting on a dark horse: Prometheus, a ragtag group of scientists who are months behind in the competition — and yet may ultimately deliver the most powerful antibody. Prometheus is a collaboration between academic labs, the U.S. Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases, and a New Hampshire-based antibody company called Adimab. The group’s antibody is not expected to be in human trials until late December, but it may be worth the wait. Unlike the antibodies made by Regeneron and Eli Lilly, which fade in the body within weeks, Prometheus’ antibody aims to be effective for up to six months. “A single dose goes a long way, meaning we can treat more people,” said Kartik Chandran, a virologist at Albert Einstein College of Medicine and the group’s leader. In mice and laboratory tests, Prometheus’ antibody protects against not just the coronavirus but also the SARS virus and similar bat viruses — suggesting that the treatment may protect against any coronaviruses emerging in the future. Antibodies are as variable as the people who produce them. Some antibodies are weaker than others, some target a different part of the coronavirus than others, and some are powerful protectors, while a small number may even turn against the body, as they do in autoimmune diseases. Monoclonal antibodies are artificially synthesized copies of the most effective antibodies produced naturally by patients. In late February, AbCellera fished out an apparent winner from among 550 antibodies drawn from the blood of an infected patient. Barely three months later, partner Eli Lilly began the first trial of a synthesized version in patients. Regeneron, which has a $450 million contract from the federal government to develop its treatment, was not far behind. Its drug is a cocktail of two antibodies. One was discovered in a patient in Singapore, while the other was made using a synthetic viral snippet in mice. On Sept. 29, days before Trump received his infusion, Regeneron announced that this cocktail seemed particularly helpful for people who did not produce enough antibodies of their own against the coronavirus. Both Regeneron and Eli Lilly have stockpiled tens of thousands of doses of their drugs, rather than wait for FDA approval. Without the resources or reach of these bigger companies, Prometheus has lagged behind. With a $22 million federal grant, the group had been developing therapies for deadly viruses like the one causing Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever and various hantaviruses. But in the earliest days of the pandemic, the group was not able to take on the coronavirus. “We had all of the technology, all the tools ready to go,” Chandran said. “The only thing we didn’t have was a patient sample.” Most of those samples had been handed to large pharmaceutical companies by the federal government. So the Prometheus researchers took an unusual tack, instead relying on blood from a survivor of the 2003 SARS outbreak. (The coronavirus is a close cousin.) These scientists had experience on their side. One teammate, Jason McLellan of the University of Texas at Austin, was an expert in coronaviruses; another, John Dye of the Army’s infectious diseases institute, had done pioneering work on Ebola antibodies. In March, McLellan was the first to publish the structure of the new coronavirus in the journal Science. He supplied Adimab, Prometheus’ commercial arm, with the pathogen’s “spike protein,” a protrusion on its surface that latches on to human cells and breaks in. Using the protein as a lure, Adimab snared 200 antibodies from the patient sample. Chandran screened those antibodies against a proxy for the coronavirus, and Dye against the live virus in a high-safety laboratory. Together, they refined the list to seven antibodies that recognized both SARS and the new coronavirus. Scientists at Adimab then enhanced the neutralizing power of one antibody by about 100-fold, yet retaining its effectiveness against all SARS family coronaviruses. Monoclonal antibodies can rapidly prevent the virus from taking hold in the body — say, in residents of a nursing home with one confirmed case of infection. Vaccines, which require weeks to unspool an immune response, are useless in such a scenario. But limited production capacity is likely to keep monoclonal antibodies out of reach for most people. “It’s a finite capacity, and there are only so many things you can do to try to increase that capacity,” said John Kokai-Kun, the director of external scientific collaboration at U.S. Pharmacopeia, an organization that monitors manufacturing quality. The antibodies are also expensive to produce. Some cost up to $200,000 — even the cheapest cost about $15,000 — per year of treatment, making them unattainable for all but the richest of countries, according to a report released in August. “I don’t see monoclonal antibodies being at large-scale use in the public,” Kokai-Kun said. “They’re just too complicated to make and too expensive to really be effective in that regard.” Like vaccines, the antibodies have to be injected, and the amounts, which are calibrated to a person’s weight, can be significant. (Trump received 8 grams — vaccine doses tend to be in micrograms or even nanograms.) The protection wanes after just a few weeks. “That puts a strain on your manufacturing infrastructure already to make the kinds of doses that we think are going to be required worldwide,” said Andrew Adams, a vice president at Eli Lilly. “We have to start thinking about the populations that we should prioritize.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-race-for-a-super-antibody-against-coronavirus-901600.html
14-10-2020||Right in the Middle||For better or verse||Nursery rhymes have long been the key ingredient to aiding a child’s development in the formative years. Around the world, sung in multiple languages and accents, these rhymes provide a perfect melodic platform for children to learn words easily. We’ve all grown hearing these innocuous nursery rhymes  and many of us have even danced to some tunes as well. The rhyme, ring-a ring-o rose does not bear the same innocence with which every teacher or a parent croons it to the child. Ring-a ring-o roses sings scenes right out of the 1665 plague of London. The roses refer to the rashes while the ‘posies’ were kept in pockets to keep out the bad stench of the rashes. ‘At-tishoo’, the sneeze and finally ‘all fall down’ signifying death. Though it has many versions and is sung in several languages today, the rhymes are not as melancholic as the original one. Oranges and lemons, another rhyme, dates back to 1600’s. It is a commentary on the several churches of London and is often played like a game by the children. The aim is to escape the arms of the two children holding up their arms in an arch. The game ends if the child’s head is caught between the arms of the children. This old rhyme refers to the public executions back in time. The victim would be informed of his execution with candlelight. It goes ‘here comes a candle to light you to bed, here comes the chopper to chop off your head, chip chop chip chop, the last man’s dead.” The genesis of these nursery rhymes can be date back to several centuries. Under those words, lie stories of torture, deceit, plague, greed, theft and death.  Fearing execution, people chose rhymes with soft sinless tunes as a medium to deliver messages to the common public.  ‘Baa Baa Black sheep’ is a chant about the ever-increasing tax a farmer had to endure who was left with little to fend for himself after paying the King and the Church. ‘Three Blind Mice’ is a rhyme about bishops conspiring to overthrow the queen. ‘Jack and Jill’ speaks about the executions of Louis the XVI and Mary Annitonette on charges of treason, while ‘London Bridge is falling down’, throws light on child sacrifices during that era.  Though many original rhymes sing a very gloomy picture about the society, children hear only the innocent sound and the rhythm of words, which attracts them. Even today, we can hear these small unaffected children humming the rhymes obliviously.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/for-better-or-verse-901555.html
14-10-2020||South||Rajinikanth moves Madras HC against property tax demand of Rs 6.5 lakh||Actor Rajinikanth has moved Madras High Court against property tax demand of Rs 6.5 lakh by Greater Chennai Corporation for his Sri Raghavendra Kalyana Mandapam in Chennai. In his petition, he has stated that he hasn't let out the marriage hall since March 24, so no revenue was generated after it. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rajinikanth-moves-madras-hc-against-property-tax-demand-of-rs-65-lakh-901662.html
14-10-2020||South||Kerala Congress (M) faction decides to walk out of UDF||With the state Assembly polls round the corner, the ruling LDF in Kerala on Wednesday got a shot in the arm as Kerala Congress(M) faction led by Jose K Mani decided to severe its decades old ties with the Congress-led UDF and work with the CPI(M)-led front in the state. Party leader Jose K Mani also said he would quit his Rajya Sabha membership, won with the support of the UDF. Announcing his faction's political position at a press conference here, Jose expressed hope that the LDF leadership will take a decision on his party's entry into the ruling front. Jose, son of veteran Kerala Congress (M) leader late K M Mani, hailed the CPI(M)-led front's efforts to safeguard the secularism in the country. He also said the LDF government in the state was keen to work towards the welfare of the farming community, which is the core base of his party. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and leadership of the LDF were quick to welcome Jose faction's decision to cooperate with the front. In a statement, Vijayan said the KC(M) has taken a stand that LDF is the politically correct formation, ending its 38- year-old association with the UDF. The matters related to the party's LDF entry will be decided at the front's meeting, he said. Meanwhile, the UDF leadership flayed the move, saying Jose faction "backstabbed" the Congress-led front, which made him Rajya Sabha member. UDF convenor M M Hassan also said the Jose faction should quit all the parliamentary positions including Kottayam Lok Sabha seat won with the support of the Congress-led front. Justifying his decision to work with the LDF, he said the front has been relentlessly fighting against the growing communal forces in the country. Attacking the UDF leadership and a rival Kerala Congress (M) faction led by P J Joseph, Jose said a section in the Congress-led front "expelled" his faction from the UDF after a dispute arose over a post in a local body. The UDF humiliated the MLAs and leaders who stood by his late father K Mani, who built the UDF 38 years ago, he said. He also alleged that P J Joseph faction engaged in character assassination of the leaders of his faction. "The UDF leadership supported Joseph's bid to hijack the Kerala Congress (M). They (UDF leadership) did injustice to us," Jose alleged. Jose faction's issues with the UDF leadership aggravated in June this year after it was "ousted" from the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) in connection with the tussle over the Kottayam district panchayat chief post. The UDF leadership had later rectified it saying the Jose group was not ousted from the front and it was only temporarily barred from the UDF meeting for refusing to honour an agreement made in public with the coalition front over sharing the Kottayam district panchayat president's post. "Technically Jose K Mani group is part of the UDF," UDF chairman and Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly Ramesh Chennithala had said in Thiruvananthapuram recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-congress-m-faction-decides-to-walk-out-of-udf-901694.html
14-10-2020||South||It was all yellow! Fan paints house in CSK colours to lift team spirits||Being a die-hard fan of Chennai Super Kings (CSK) and its celebrated skipper M S Dhoni, 30-year-old R Gopikrishnan, working as a Forex trader in Dubai, could not stomach adverse comments and criticism that his favourite team and cricketer were subjected to this IPL season. Wondering how to drown the negative noise and brighten the mood for CSK, Dhoni and the fans, he decided to extend the Indian cricket team's message of 'bleed blue' to his own favourite team in the league -- and it was all yellow.  Gopikrishnan painted his house completely yellow, commemorating it with the CSK's logo and portraits of Dhoni all over. Gopikrishnan’s house in Arangur in Cuddalore district is now the cynosure of all eyes as people flock in huge numbers to take a look at the “yellove” house. The words “#Home_of_Dhoni_Fan” welcome one to this house and pictures of Gopikrishnan with his father Rangasamy, two brothers and his two kids, all dressed in the CSK jersey, have gone viral on social media. The die-hard fan had also hoped to catch a glimpse of Dhoni in Dubai, where the IPL matches are being held, but came home instead after it was announced that no spectators would be allowed inside the stadiums. CSK, owned by Chennai-based India Cements, has not been performing well this season and lost a couple of matches consecutively, much to the dismay of its fans. The 30-year-old has spent Rs 1.5 lakh on painting the house yellow in just about a week and took pains to zero in on the “right artist” to get images of Dhoni drawn on the walls. “There were adverse comments on CSK and Dhoni everywhere. Dhoni himself was targeted. That is when I thought of painting the house yellow and put an end to the negative sentiments. I also thought how happy Dhoni would be if he happened to see the pictures. I wanted to bring positivity and thus got my house painted,” Gopikrishnan told DH. When Gopikrishnan conveyed his idea of painting his house yellow to his family members, being cricket fans themselves, all of them agreed. “I did not know the pictures would have the reach that they have had now, but this is exactly the kind of positive vibe we wanted to create. We will be happy if Dhoni sees these pictures,” he said. The Forex trader said the pictures have brought in some hope for CSK fans as he has seen “remarkable change” in the minds of people who support the IPL team and Dhoni. “If one looks at the comments on social media after my pictures went viral, they are positive. Fans are encouraging Dhoni to perform more. Earlier, they were abusing him though even though they claim they would always be his fans,” Gopikrishnan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/it-was-all-yellow-fan-paints-house-in-csk-colours-to-lift-team-spirits-901715.html
14-10-2020||South||Twelve die due to heavy rains in Telangana||Twelve people have died in Telangana in rain-related incidents, following incessant rainfall that lashed different parts of the state, leading to waterlogging on roads and inundation of some low-lying areas. Ten people, including a toddler, died in two wall collapse incidents in Chandrayangutta police station limits. In another incident, a 40-year-old woman and her daughter died after the roof of their house fell on them at Ibrahimpatnam area hereafter downpour, police said on Wednesday. A senior police official said huge boulders rolled down a hill and crashed into two houses at Chandrayangutta late Tuesday night, killing eight people and injuring three. The injured are being treated at a hospital. Two more deaths were reported on Wednesday morning from the area, the official said. Hyderabad Lok Sabha MP Asaduddin Owaisi has been monitoring the rescue efforts in the city. According to official data, from 8.30 am to 2100 hours on Tuesday, Singapur Township in Medchal Malkajgiri district received 292.5 mm rainfall, followed by 250.8 mm at Verkat Palle in Yadadri-Bhongir district. Several localities in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits received very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall, official sources said. The provisional average rainfall in GHMC was 98.9 mm, it said. Heavy rainfall led to waterlogging on several roads and low lying areas in the city. Police teams and personnel of Disaster Response Force (DRF) of GHMC and NDRF evacuated several families from different localities that were flooded, even as rescue efforts were on in many other areas. As many as 33 passengers of a state-run bus were rescued after the vehicle got stuck owing to water-logging on a road at Uppal here, police said. Rivulets and other water bodies were in spate in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district in the state, following heavy rains and the administration has advised people not to travel on or cross such rivulets and inundated roads. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has instructed the officials of all district administrations to remain on high alert. "Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao enquired about the heavy rains situation in the state. He directed the administration in districts to be on high alert, he was quoted as saying in a release on Tuesday night. Meanwhile, civic authorities and police officials have asked people not to venture out of their homes in view of the rains. GHMC Commissioner D S Lokesh Kumar urged those living in dilapidated buildings and sheds to vacate the premises. He said temporary accommodation has been provided at community halls. In its weather forecast, the Met department here said thunderstorm accompanied by lightning is very likely to occur at isolated places over Telangana on Wednesday. Heavy to very heavy rain is very likely to occur at isolated places including Hyderabad on Wednesday and Thursday, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/twelve-die-due-to-heavy-rains-in-telangana-901718.html
14-10-2020||South||Ex-Tehsildar dies by suicide in Telangana prison||A former tehsildar, who was arrested in connection with a bribery case allegedly died by suicide at the central prison here early on Wednesday. In August this year, Balraju Nagaraju (47) was caught by the Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials while allegedly accepting Rs 1.10 crore as bribe for an official favour. On Wednesday, he was found hanging from a window grill in his barrack in Chanchalguda central prison using a towel. The jail officials immediately shifted him to a hospital where he died, a senior Prison official told PTI. The ACB got his custody for three-days on Tuesday as part of further investigation in the case and he was subsequently lodged inthe central prison. In June this year, the husband of a woman Tehsildar, who was arrested by the ACB in connection with a corruption case, allegedly jumped from a residential building here as he was "upset" over her arrest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ex-tehsildar-dies-by-suicide-in-telangana-prison-901757.html
14-10-2020||South||Do not waste court time: Judge to Rajinikanth on plea against tax demand||Tamil superstar Rajinikanth on Wednesday suffered an embarrassment when the Madras High Court warned of imposing costs on him for wasting court time by filing a case challenging the civic body’s demand for Rs 6.5 lakh in property taxes for a marriage hall owned by him during the Covid-19 lockdown period. Justice Anita Sumanth warned Rajinikanth’s counsel, Vijayan Subramanian, that she would impose costs for wasting the court’s time and suggested that the plea be withdrawn immediately. The judge also asked the petitioner to approach the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) by sending them reminders to respond to his representation seeking remission of property tax Raghavendra Kalyana Mandapam in upscale Kodambakkam before approaching the court. The superstar said in his petition that he had written to the GCC on September 23 seeking remission of tax under Section 105 of the Chennai City Municipal Corporation Act of 1919 arguing that the marriage hall has been lying vacant since March 24, the day Tamil Nadu went in for Covid-19 lockdown. The Act says the Commissioner can allow remission of property tax if the building has been vacant for over 30 days. There was no reply from the GCC on his representation, Rajinikanth said in the petition, and asked the court to issue a direction to the civic body to not levy any penalty till it disposes off his representation. The actor approached the court as the last date for paying the property tax amount ends on October 15. According to the GCC, property tax is collected twice every year – in April and October – and the same should be paid by 15th of the month. “If someone pays on time, he will get a five per cent rebate. If he does not pay on time, the person will have to pay a penalty. This has been the rule for long,” a GCC official said. The GCC had also issued a detailed press release on September 28 asking people to pay their property tax on time to avoid penalty. The press release also explained in detail on the issue of property tax.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/do-not-waste-court-time-judge-to-rajinikanth-on-plea-against-tax-demand-901758.html
14-10-2020||South||Jose K Mani's faction of Kerala Congress joins left-front||The Jose K Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M), a prominent regional party in Kerala, has severed ties with Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) and decided to align with the CPM-led Left Democratic Front (LDF). The power tussle in the KC(M) following the death of party founder leader K M Mani last year resulted in the fresh developments. KC(M) has considerable influence among the Christian vote banks of south and central Kerala and hence the left-front hopes to gain from the fresh tie-up in the upcoming local body and Assembly elections. Jose K Mani, who is a Rajya Sabha MP, said that he would quit the post. Lok Sabha MP Thomas Chazhikkadan, MLAs Roshy Augustine and N Jayaraj are with Jose's faction, while the rival faction led by former minister P J Joseph has two MLAs - Joseph and Monce Joseph. Announcing the much-awaited decision on Wednesday, Jose alleged that he faced injustice from a section of Congress leaders and the Congress was not even willing for any talks. Meanwhile, Jose faction's entry to the left-front was learned to have not gone down well with the NCP, especially the current MLA of Pala Assembly seat in Kottayam district Mani C Kappan. KM Mani had been MLA of Pala for 54 years in a row till his death last year. In the subsequent by-polls Mani C Kappan won the seat for the left front. A major hurdle in Jose faction's entry to left-front was over Pala seat. While Jose faction insisted on getting Pala seat, Kappan reiterated that he would not make any compromise on the seat. Kappan was also learned to be exploring options of joining Congress. In 1979 also Kerala Congress (M) led by K M Mani joined the left-front. But it lasted only till 1982. After the 2016 Assembly polls in which the KC(M) won six of the 15 seats contested, KM Mani kept off from UDF for quite some time following certain differences. In 2018, KC(M) re-aligned with the UDF, and as part of that Jose K Mani was given a Rajya Seat of the Congress, amidst objections from within the Congress. Left front leaders including Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan welcomed the decision of Jose K Mani faction to join the left-front, while Congress leader and UDF convenor M M Hassan said that the left-front in Kerala was a sinking ship. The present in-fight in KC (M) broke out with Jose K Mani claiming the chairman post after K M Mani's death, while P J Joseph claimed that being the party working chairman he would be party chief. UDF later accused Jose K Mani faction of not abiding by an earlier understanding with the Joseph faction over sharing a panchayat president post. A legal fight between the Joseph and Jose faction over rights over the party is also going on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jose-k-manis-faction-of-kerala-congress-joins-left-front-901841.html
14-10-2020||South||Smart classroom ‘surprise’ awaits students at govt school||Impressive oil paintings on the walls that would strike a chord with children, a large screen, LED projector, and speakers. These would surprise 102 students of a government-run school in Vellore, 140 km from here, when they return to their institution after the Covid-19 break as they will get to experience a smart classroom. The Government Adi Dravidar (Scheduled Caste) Welfare Primary School in Alamelumangapuram, functioning since 1947, has students from underprivileged sections of different communities. The new facilities have been made possible due to the efforts of a techie-activist Dinesh Saravanan, who made better use of social media to source funds for the initiative. After Saravanan approached the school headmaster T Anbazhagan and evinced interest in giving students a new experience through a smart classroom, the office room was chosen for the purpose. The room has undergone a complete transformation into a smart classroom by boasting of a LED projector, screen, soundproof ceiling, woofers, and speakers. The smart classroom was inaugurated by Vellore District Collector A Shanmuga Sundram on Tuesday. The school currently has 102 students – 53 girls and 49 boys – and five teachers, including the headmaster. “The smart classroom will be very beneficial to students as we can teach them using visuals. This has also been made easy now since all textbooks now have a QR code through which the materials can be downloaded and stored in a pen drive. Smart classroom, I am sure, will interest students more and enhance their participation,” Anbazhagan told DH. The headmaster said he has plans to ensure that all students from class one to five get to receive lessons in all subjects inside the smart classroom at least once in a week. “We have drafted a plan. Once the school reopens, we will finalise the plan and ensure students get maximum out of the smart classroom,” Anbazhagan said. Saravanan, who has been helping hundreds of people affected by Covid-19 lockdown in Vellore told DH that he began sourcing funds for the project in January and the project could have been completed by April if not for the Coronavirus outbreak. “80 percent of the work was over in February, but Covid-19 lockdown spoiled all our plans. It gave me immense satisfaction when the district collector praised my efforts and said this smart classroom can be a model for many schools in the future,” Saravanan said. Saravanan, an analyst with a US-based communication technology company in Chennai, Saravanan began his social service in 2014 after his brother passed away following a road accident. He has so far distributed 18,000 saplings to households in and around Vellore. The software analyst also received recognition of sorts for his work in April when Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami took to Twitter to congratulate Saravanan for using his “free time” qualitatively to help the people during their tough times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/smart-classroom-surprise-awaits-students-at-govt-school-901859.html
14-10-2020||South||NPRD lodges police complaints against Kushboo over remarks against disabled||The National Platform for the Rights of the Disabled (NPRD) on Wednesday said it has lodged police complaints in different districts of Tamil Nadu against BJP member Kushboo Sundar for allegedly making derogatory remarks against people with disabilities. According to media reports, Kushboo, who joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday after quitting the Congress, said she has exited a "mentally retarded" party. NPRD general secretary Muralidharan said complaints have been lodged in nearly 30 police stations, some of them online, against the politician. "A complaint has also been lodged with the Chennai Police Commissioner's Office. Complaints have been lodged in Chennai, Kanjipuram, Chengalpet, Madurai, Coimbatore, Tirupur among other places," he said. The official said while Kushboo has every right to politically take on her opponents, usage of terms that invoke a negative portrayal of disability was "unacceptable". "Time and again people holding public offices tend to invoke such negative terms to tarnish the image of political opponents, lending them legitimacy. This cannot be tolerated. The National Platform for the Rights of the Disabled (NPRD) strongly condemns the insensitive remarks made by Kushboo," he said. The country and people like Kushboo need to be reminded that such insults and humiliation are also prohibited by law, Muralidharan said. "Proceeding against high-profile people should act as a deterrent and would help in sending across the message that insult and humiliation of the disabled and their negative portrayal would not be tolerated," he added. NPRD is an NGO working to create awareness about the rights of people with disabilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nprd-lodges-police-complaints-against-kushboo-over-remarks-against-disabled-901876.html
14-10-2020||South||Ten killed in Andhra Pradesh as rain wreaks havoc||At least 10 people died in the northern coastal Andhra Pradesh due to heavy rains and related incidents in the last two days. Heavy rains continued to pound the state, causing damage to roads and disrupting power supply in several places. A day after the deep depression formed in the Bay of Bengal crossed its shore and moved towards Telangana, Andhra Pradesh is reeling under the vast trail of waterlogging caused by the rains. The state government had to deal with nearly eight lakh cusecs of water flow in the Krishna river at the Prakasam Barrage that flooded many low-lying areas of Vijayawada and a large number of villages downstream to the Bay of Bengal. Chief Minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy, in a high-level meeting, asked the officials especially of the Krishna and Guntur districts to be vigilant as four lakh cusecs from Srisailam and incessant rains caused flood waters from the Telangana region rushed towards Vijayawada. Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Reddy over the telephone, enquiring about the flood situation in the state. Several areas in the East and West Godavari, Visakhapatnam districts which received very heavy rainfall on Tuesday are still submerged in waters. A breach occurred to the Sarada river bund near Yalamanchili in Visakhapatnam district, inundating over 2,000 acres of agricultural fields in the vicinity. Tandava, Raivada, Meghadrigadda projects in the district received heavy inflows and the flood was being discharged into the Bay of Bengal. In a video conference with the Collectors and SPs on Wednesday, CM Reddy had instructed the officials to provide all support and arrangements like food, safe drinking water, medicines for the people taking shelter in the relief camps. He announced an immediate relief of Rs 500 to each person in the camps. The CMO said in a release that the chief minister ordered that an ex-gratia must be paid to the families of those who lost their lives. The amount, however, was not specified. Reddy directed the officials to focus on restoration of power supply and repairs to the damaged roads on a war-footing. He told the officials to prepare an action plan to make the best use of floodwaters for irrigation etc., purposes without letting them go waste into the sea. Pointing out that despite Chittoor receiving 40 per cent excess rainfall this season, only 30 per cent of the reservoirs are filled in the district, Reddy advised the authorities to ensure that every reservoir, canals, tanks, and ponds are filled with the floodwater in the state The famous nurseries at Kadiyam near Rajamahendravaram were flooded due to downpour in East Godavari district. Vamsadhara river in Srikakulam district received heavy flood under the impact of heavy rain in the catchment area in neighbouring Odisha. The first flood warning has been issued as more than 50,000 cusecs of floodwater was discharged at Gotta Barrage, the State Disaster Management Authority said. Disaster Management Commissioner K Kanna Babu, in a release here, asked people residing in low-lying areas and those in lanka villages to remain on high alert and move to safer places in view of the flood.   (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ten-killed-in-andhra-pradesh-as-rain-wreaks-havoc-901912.html
14-10-2020||South||Madras High Court dismisses Rajinikanth's plea against tax demand||Tamil superstar Rajinikanth on Wednesday suffered an embarrassment when the Madras High Court dismissed as withdrawn a writ petition filed by him challenging civic body’s demand for Rs 6.5 lakh in property taxes with respect to a marriage hall owned by him. Justice Anita Sumanth warned Rajinikanth’s counsel, Vijayan Subramanian, that she would impose costs for rushing to the court without waiting for a reply from the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) on the issue. She also pulled up the counsel for wasting the court’s time and suggested that the plea be withdrawn. A few hours later, Rajinikanth’s counsel submitted a memo seeking to withdraw the case after which Justice Anita Sumanth dismissed the petition. The judge also suggested that the petitioners can send reminders to authorities to respond to their representations before approaching the court. The actor’s contention is that since the marriage hall has been vacant since March 24, the day Covid-19 lockdown came into force in Tamil Nadu, he is eligible for remission of property tax. He referred to Section 105 of the Chennai City Municipal Corporation Act of 1919 which says the Commissioner can allow remission of property tax if the building had been vacant for over 30 days. Rajinikanth, according to the petition, sent a representation to the GCC on September 23 seeking remission and since there was no response from the civic body, he moved the court. In the petition, Rajinikanth had asked the court to issue a direction to the civic body to not levy any penalty till it disposes off his representation. The actor approached the court as the last date for paying the property tax amount ends on October 15. According to the GCC, property tax is collected twice every year – in April and October – and the same should be paid by 15th of the month. “If someone pays on time, he will get a five per cent rebate. If he does not pay on time, the person will have to pay a penalty. This has been the rule for long,” a GCC official said. The GCC also issued a press release on Wednesday asking people to pay their property tax on time to avoid penalty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-high-court-dismisses-rajinikanths-plea-against-tax-demand-901917.html
14-10-2020||South||Walk-through of Chennai’s Egmore Museum from mobile phones||More than a lakh of precious artefacts and objects, including original paintings of the celebrated Indian artist Raja Ravi Varma, that are part of the rich collections at the 169-year-old Government Egmore Museum will very soon be accessible to people across the globe. Welcoming visitors since 1851, the Government Museum, the second oldest in the country next only to Kolkata’s Indian Museum, has embarked on a major digitisation drive to preserve precious pieces of the rich and varied cultural heritage and take them to people by making them available online. The museum’s administration is also in the process of developing a mobile application that will allow people to walk-through the museum at the touch of a finger with voice-over in Tamil and English about the history of the artefacts, objects, and paintings.  “The museum attracts a huge number of foreigners and domestic tourists for the rich collection of artefacts it possesses. Digitisation drive will allow millions of people who cannot visit the museum personally to take a look at the artefacts and learn about the country’s heritage with help from technology that is available in abundance,” M S Shanmugam, Commissioner of Museums, Tamil Nadu Government, told DH. Works of art dating back to 11th to 17 century, those from the times of Tamil kingdoms of Cheran, Cholan, and Pallavan, bronze collections, Amaravati sculptures, Hindu sculptures, and original paintings of Raja Ravi Varma are some of the artefacts and objects that will be made available online in high-resolution images. The digitisation exercise will also completely upgrade the existing website to enable it to showcase the entire collection of artefacts that are on display now. The museum has rich collections of artefacts and objects and is divided into numerous sections like anthropology, archaeology, botany, art gallery, chemical conservation, zoology, numismatics, and zoology. “We are using technology to the hilt to enhance visitor or user experience. We are bringing out the mobile application using augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR) technologies. Once you wear headphones and watch the walk-through, you will get the museum feel,” Shanmugam added. Though the mobile application and digitisation move were conceived before Covid-19 struck, the restrictions induced by the pandemic has prompted the administration to enhance the virtual experience by including several sections that were not planned originally. Digitising the accession registers, which contains details of each and every artefact and object that belongs to the museum since 1851, photographing all the one lakh objects – the precious ones in 360 degrees – and making them available online is the plan, he said, adding that the process will be completed by November. The digitisation drive will also help researchers to access the artefacts and objects without having to come to the museum’s library. While 30 per cent of the total 1 lakh artefacts and objects are currently at display at the museums, the remaining 70 per cent are stored in “strong rooms.” “All the objects and artefacts that are on display at the museum currently will be available for viewing online. If someone wants to access the full collections, he or she would get special access on request,” the bureaucrat added. The bronze collections include statues of Ardhanareeswara, a unique half-male and half-female avatar of Lord Shiva, and a magnificent Nataraja.  Artefacts and objects recovered from archaeological excavations in Adichanallur in Thoothukudi district over the past 150 years that are on display at the museum will also be part of the digitisation exercise. The digitisation drive, which is expected to be completed by the end of November after which the objects will be available online for public viewing, will also provide a digital tag for rare objects that would help secure them from thefts. “This is kind of geo-fencing. We will use an invisible spray in some part of the artefact which will help us track even if it is stolen or taken away from its designated place in the museum. It is a simple technology, but will help us protect rare objects,” Shanmugam said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/walk-through-of-chennai-s-egmore-museum-from-mobile-phones-901922.html
14-10-2020||South||Tanishq ad: Questions raised on Tamil Nadu government's stand||With Tanishq pulling out its ‘Ekatvam’ (Oneness) advertisement campaign following a Twitter backlash, questions are now being raised on the stand of the Tamil Nadu government, whose TIDCO is a major shareholder in the company that owns the jewellery brand.    The Titan Company Limited, which owns Tanishq, is a joint venture between the TATA Group and Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation (TIDCO). While TIDCO holds 28 per cent stake in Titan Company, TATA group has 25 per cent stake. DMK MP Kanimozhi sought to know the Tamil Nadu government’s stand on the issue after Tanishq pulled out the advertisement campaign following backlash on Twitter. The company was trolled for promoting ‘love jihad’ as Twitter users took objection to the advertisement that showed a Muslim household holding a baby shower ceremony for their Hindu daughter-in-law. “TN government is a major shareholder in @TanishqJewelry. TN is a state which has always stood for secularism. What is the stand of @CMOTamilNadu on the controversy surrounding the advertisement of Tanishq?” she posted on her verified Twitter page. When contacted, a senior bureaucrat told Deccan Herald that decisions on advertisement campaigns are taken by the management and not by the Board of Directors.   “The Board of which officials from Tamil Nadu are part of does not get into day to day functioning of the company. Such things (ad campaigns) are never brought to the notice of the Board. Management takes decisions on ad campaigns, not the Board,” the official said, requesting anonymity. Three IAS officers from Tamil Nadu government are on the board. While N Muruganandam is the Chairman in his capacity as Principal Secretary to Industries Department, Arun Roy, and Kakarla Usha are Directors in their capacities as Additional Secretary, Industries Department, and Managing Director of TIDCO. While N N Tata is the vice-chairman, Bhaskar Bhat and C K Venkataraman are the other directors of the Board. Ashwani Puri, B Santhanam, Pradyumna Vyas, Dr. Mohanasankar Sivaprakasam and Sindhu Gangadharan serve as independent directors on the Board of The Titan Company Limited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tanishq-ad-questions-raised-on-tamil-nadu-governments-stand-901950.html
14-10-2020||South||Kerala: Trans-person's viral video helps her get livelihood support||Seling food on the streets of Kochi in Kerala was the means Sajana, a transgender person, had to eke out a decent living. However, resistance from a section of the society and neglect shown by the police forced her to stop her business. This is not an isolated incident. Sheetal, a member of Kerala Transgender Justice Board, told DH that the society is not kind towards transgender community members who try to become entrepreneurs. With Sajana's video where she shared her plight going viral on social media, state health and social justice minister K K Shailaja assured support to her. This was followed by many others who pledged support, including actor Jayasurya who offered to help her set up a hotel. Over the years, Sajana did all sorts of odd jobs. With the lockdown hitting the livelihood options, Sajana, with the support of a few other members of the community, decided to sell biriyani on the streets of Kochi. However, the outcome was mental and physical harassment. Sajana said that during the initial days, the business seemed good. That's when a section of people started harassing them mentally and physically. The police did not offer any recourse. Instead, they advised Sajana to set up a shop and sell biriyani here instead of on the streets. With no options left, Sajana shared her plight through a social media post, which triggered social media campaigns to support her. "People ask transgenders to eke out a living through any decent jobs. But when we try to eke out a living by doing such jobs, this is the response that we receive... Out of the 150-odd biriyani packets we made recently, only around 20-odd could be sold," she had said in the post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-trans-persons-viral-video-helps-her-get-livelihood-support-901965.html
14-10-2020||South||NIA suspects Dawood Ibrahim link to Kerala gold smuggling case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) probing the terror link in the Kerala gold smuggling case on Wednesday indicated in a special court here that it suspected the link of underworld don Dawood Ibrahim's gang in the sensational racket. There were intelligence inputs regarding probable use of proceeds from the gold smuggling for the anti-national and terrorism activities, it said, adding the detention of all accused in judicial custody up to 180 days was absolutely necessary to carry forward the investigation in the case. In an additional counter submitted at the Special NIA Court, the central agency strongly opposed the bail applications of all the accused arrested in connection with the case related to smuggling of gold through diplomatic channel. The NIA said Ramees, fifth accused in the case, during custodial interrogation, has revealed that he had attempted to start a diamond business in Tanzania and that later he had attempted to obtain a gold mining licence in Tanzania. He had also stated about having brought gold from Tanzania and the sold the same in UAE, it said and quoting UN Security Council Sanctions Committee's narrative summary on Dawood and fact sheet published by the US Department of Treasury specifically mentioned about his gang's activtities in Africa. "Recent news reports have also specifically mentioned about the diamond business of Dawood Ibrahim in Tanzania, managed by his associate "Feroz", considered a south Indian by intelligence agencies", the agency said in the report, indicating the suspected link needed to be probed. NIA also said the Central Economic Intelligence Bureau (CEIB), the apex intelligence body for economic agencies in India, had sent a report to the Director General of NIA during October 2019 regarding the probable use of proceeds from gold smuggling in Kerala, for terrorism and other anti-national activities. The agency submitted the intelligence report to the Court in a sealed envelope. "It is submitted that the facts now emerging during investigation, regarding the charges under Sections 17 and /or 18 of the UAPA Act against accused with otherwise apparently minor roles, indicate that the intelligence input received from CEIB, leading to NIA investigation in this crime, is gaining credence. "This makes the investigation, by detaining all accused in judicial custody till 180 days, absolutely necessary, in this crime having transnational ramifications...," the NIA said in its counter. In the report, NIA also said 12th accused Mohammed Ali was a member of "fundamentalist organisation Popular Front of India" and was charge-sheeted by police in the Kerala professor hand chopping case in 2010 but acquitted as more 90 prosecution witnesses had turned hostile during trial. It said the scrutiny of data retrieved by C-DAC from the seized mobile phone of Ali has revealed that he had formatted his phone on July 19 after his role in the smuggling case surfaced. However, from the limited data retrieved by C-DAC, pictures of paper slips depicting details of huge cash transactions amounting to several lakhs of rupees, including one transaction of Rs 15 lakhs specifically attributed to one "Jalal", have been retrieved, NIA said. His suspicious cash transactions need to be ascertained further through custodial interrogation after advanced forensic analysis and extraction of more data from his formatted mobile phone, the agency added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nia-suspects-dawood-ibrahim-link-to-kerala-gold-smuggling-case-901985.html
14-10-2020||State||Mobile snatchers in Mysuru arrested||Mysuru city police arrested two persons for allegedly snatching mobile phones from pedestrians in the city. The police arrested Venkatesh, 25, of Yaraganahalli and Sanjay, 21, Lalithadripura Village in Mysuru taluk. According to Alanahalli Police, the duo along with four others had snatched a mobile phone from one Nanjundaswamy, near Vajregowda petrol station, on T Narasipura main road recently. The police recovered an i-phone and mobiles worth Rs 1.5 lakh from the accused and are also on th elook out for Abhay, Roopesh and Jayakumar, who were involved in the crime.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mobile-snatchers-in-mysuru-arrested-901647.html
14-10-2020||State||Ahead of Dasara, entry atop Mysuru's Chamudi Hill restricted||Ahead of Mysuru's Dasara celebrations, Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri has ordered restrictions on the entry of people to Chamudi Hill and Chamundeshwari temple owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. No Chamundeshwari Devi darshan will be allowed from October 23 to November 1 midnight. Climbing the 1,008 steps leading to Chamundi Hill will also be restricted on all these days. However, those living in Chamundi Hills and the officials entrusted with Dasara work will be allowed, the DC ordered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ahead-of-dasara-entry-atop-mysurus-chamudi-hill-restricted-901817.html
14-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Rains wreak havoc in parts of north Karnataka||Heavy rains for the past three days wreaked havoc in some parts of north Karnataka causing inundation, crop loss, and damage to houses, sources in the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) said. According to the KSNDMC officials, all major dams in the Cauvery and Krishna basins are brimming and their floodgates were opened once again. The officials said Kalaburagi, Yadgir and Bidar were the severely affected districts as small streams were in spate with many lakes overflowing and inundating villages. In Chincholi Taluk of Kalaburagi district, the stop- gates of Nagarala and Chandrampalli lakes were opened, flooding the nearby villages. Small islands were formed due to the sudden release of water from the lake, the sources said. Normal life was paralysed due to heavy rains resulting in the overflowing of a major lake in Aland Taluk of Kalaburagi district. Due to torrential rain in Yargol village in Yadgir district, water gushed out of the weir of the lake resulting in damage to the crops and water-logging. The KSNDMC had on Tuesday predicted medium to heavy rains in the northern part of the state, interior, and coastal Karnataka in the next 24 hours. The recent rain-related damage is the third such instance in the past four months. Certain regions had twice suffered floods in August and September.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rains-wreak-havoc-in-parts-of-north-karnataka-901787.html
14-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Millionaire Munirathna’s assets see 103% jump in two years||Disqualified legislator Munirathna, the BJP’s candidate for the November 3 Rajarajeshwarinagar bypoll, has more than doubled his assets in two years, according to his election affidavit.Munirathna filed his nomination papers Wednesday accompanied by Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan, Revenue Minister R Ashoka and others. Munirathna, a film producer, and his wife Manjula have assets worth Rs 89.13 crore, up from Rs 43.71 crore that he declared in his 2018 election affidavit. He owns many agricultural lands, some of which were purchased as recently as September, August, July and February this year. In his latest tax filings, Munirathna has shown his income as Rs 52,85,710 and spouse's Rs 12,81,300. He has also declared that he has three FIRs and five court cases against him. These include cases under the Representation of the People Act, IPC sections on criminal conspiracy, breach of trust, forgery and so on. He owns 30 vehicles, including those used in the construction sector, worth Rs 1.31 crore. The total liabilities of Munirathna and his spouse have significantly increased. In 2018, their liabilities stood at Rs 25.65 crore, which has gone up to Rs 46.41 crore.Munirathna, 56, won the 2013 and 2018 elections from Rajarajeshwarinagar as the Congress candidate. Last year, he was one of the 17 MLAs who were disqualified under the anti-defection law and joined the BJP. The Congress has fielded Kusuma Hanumantharayappa, 31, who is making her political debut. She has assets worth Rs 2.50 crore and liabilities of about Rs 20 lakh. She filed her nomination papers accompanied by KPCC president DK Shivakumar and Congress Legislature Party leader Siddaramaiah. Former minister TB Jayachandra, who is the Congress’ candidate for the November 3 Sira bypoll, and his wife GH Nirmala, own assets worth Rs 22.43 crore. This is a marginal increase from Rs 20.40 crore that he declared in the 2018 polls, which he lost. Jayachandra also has two FIRs and two court cases against him for defamation. He and his wife have liabilities to the tune of Rs 1.62 crore, and he has GST dues of Rs 1.30 lakh.The JD(S) candidate Ammajamma, the wife of Sira MLA B Sathyanarayana, whose death necessitated the bypoll, has declared assets worth Rs 5.49 crore and liabilities of 1.01 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/millionaire-munirathna-s-assets-see-103-jump-in-two-years-901850.html
14-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Heavy rains lash coastal districts in Karnataka||The coastal districts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi in Karnataka received very heavy rains since Tuesday morning, leading to waterlogging in cities and damage to property in the rural areas. The rains were heavier on the foothills of the Western Ghats in interior parts of the district, while some low-lying areas here, including Kottara Chowki, witnessed water logging. Trees were uprooted at many places and damage to electric poles resulted in power disruption in some areas, official sources said. The damage to crops in villages was limited while some houses suffered partial damage, they said. In Bantwal taluk, the compound wall of the historical Karinjeshwara temple was damaged in the heavy rains. Areas within Puttur, Belthangady and Sullia taluks in DK received copious rains, along with Karkala and Kundapur taluks in Udupi district. The meteorological department has predicted widespread rain coupled with thunder and lightning in the next two days also. Fishermen have been cautioned against venturing into the sea as wind velocity at sea is predicted to exceed limits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/heavy-rains-lash-coastal-districts-in-karnataka-901978.html
14-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 9,265 new Covid-19 cases, 75 deaths||Karnataka on Wednesday reported 9,265 fresh Covid-19 cases and 75 related deaths, taking the total infection count to 7,35,371 and the toll to 10,198. The day also saw 8,662 patients getting discharged after recovery, the health department said in a bulletin. Bengaluru Urban district continued to account for the most number of infections with 4,574 on Wednesday. So far cumulatively 7,35,371 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state and this includes 10,198 deaths and 6,11,167 discharges, the department said. It said that out of the 1,13,987 active cases, 925 are undergoing treatment in Intensive Care Units. The capital city registered 27 of the 75 deaths, followed by five in Dakshina Kannada, four in Tumakuru and the rest scattered over 20 other districts. Most of the dead had a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). After Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural accounted for 344 fresh cases, followed by 341 in Tumakuru, 297 in Belagavi, 292 in Dakshina Kannada, 275 in Ballari, 227 in Hassan, 212 in Mandya and others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of districts in positive cases with 2,93,405 infections, followed by Myusuru 43,430 and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-9265-new-covid-19-cases-75-deaths-902001.html
14-10-2020||West||Mumbai Police issue notice to Arnab Goswami over 'communal' comments||Mumbai Police on Tuesday issued a show-cause notice to Republic TV's Editor In Chief Arnab Goswami over his alleged communal comments during his news shows on Palghar lynching case and the Bandra migrants gathering incident in April this year. The notice has been sent under section 108 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, asking Goswami to show reasons as to why a bond of good behaviour should not be taken from him, a police official said. He has been asked to appear before the Special Executive Magistrate and Assistant Commissioner of Police, Worli Division on Friday at 4 pm, the official added. On April 21, Goswami conducted debate show `Puchhta Hain Bharat' on Republic Bharat TV on the issue of mob-lynching of two monks and their driver at Palghar in Maharashtra. The show-cause notice said during the debate (in Hindi), Goswami asked whether it was a crime to be Hindu and wear saffron clothes and whether people would have remained silent had the victims been non-Hindu. A case under IPC sections 153 (giving provocation to cause riot) and 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on the basis of religion) and other sections was registered against Goswami following the program, it added. His comments could create communal disharmony and hatred between Hindus and Muslims, and the show evoked strong reactions on YouTube, the notice said. Only because of the coronavirus pandemic there was no communal violence but the comments posed a threat to communal integrity and law and order, so as a preventive action the police had now started the process of taking an undertaking for good behaviour from Goswami under section 108 (1) (A), the official said. A bond of Rs 10 lakh for the duration of one year with one guarantor "who is well-known in society and who can control his behaviour" will be taken from Goswami, he added. The notice also mentioned that before the Palghar incident, Goswami had allegedly made provocative comments about a crowd of migrant labourers which gathered outside Bandra Railway Station here during the lockdown. A police case was registered against him in this case too. The Mumbai police recently also launched a probe against Republic TV and two other channels for alleged manipulation of Television Rating Points.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-issue-notice-to-arnab-goswami-over-communal-comments-901537.html
14-10-2020||West||1.5 lakh farmers from Maharashtra, Gujarat using Cotton Doctor app||More than 1.5 farmers in Maharashtra and Gujarat are using Cotton Doctor, an Android and web-based Decision Support System (DSS) – and have started reaping benefits. The WWF India partnered with a public sector enterprise called Gujarat Green Revolution Company Ltd (GGRC) in Gujarat and Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Keshavraj Agro Producer Company Ltd in Jalna to operationalize the DSS with cotton farmers. The app has been developed by an agri-tech company called Weather Risk Management Services Ltd. To date, around 19.5 million cotton advisories and forecast information have been generated and provided to cotton farmers. The app, developed in 2017-18, was made fully operational in 2018-19 and has now gained popularity. Cotton growers can save their farm details by drawing their farm on top of the GIS interface of the DSS (Geo fencing). Once done, requisite information is generated through satellite imageries which are processed for broadcasting of agro advisories. The real time alerts are based on state of the art weather forecasts, remote sensing, artificial intelligence and machine learning techniques ,which are peer reviewed, WWF India officials told DH. The Cotton Doctor DSS also hosts an interactive diagnosis platform called Live Cotton. This collects user supplied information - text, photographs, video - about any problems in cotton which will be directly received and addressed by back end cotton experts. “Currently in the Covid-19 situation when field training is restricted, the system hosts live streaming sessions of training programs conducted by subject matter specialists to reach out to the farmers,” the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/15-lakh-farmers-from-maharashtra-gujarat-using-cotton-doctor-app-901666.html
14-10-2020||West||Mumbai power outage: Government not ruling out sabotage||The Maharashtra government is also probing the sabotage angle in Monday’s power outage in the Mumbai metropolitan region. “A possibility of sabotage cannot be ruled out in the power tripping incident in Mumbai,” state Energy Minister Dr Nitin Raut said. Taking a serious view of the incident, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray set up an inquiry committee to get into the details and has assured that no one would be spared. “The interim report of a probe committee set up by the state government will submit its report in a week and its recommendations would be implemented,” Dr Raut told reporters ahead of the weekly Cabinet meeting. Besides, a team of Central Electricity Authority from New Delhi is also probing the incident. “There are certain protocols that must be adhered to whenever any maintenance work is taken up. We shall investigate whether these protocols were followed or not by the officials of MahaVitaran (MSEDCL)… However, we don’t rule out the possibility of sabotage or foul play and stringent action will be taken against those found guilty,” Dr Raut asserted. Initial reports have said that maintenance work was taken up on the 400KV line 1 in Kalwa and the entire load was shifted to line 2, which tripped owing to some technical glitches, having a cascading effect in five MMR districts of Mumbai City, Mumbai Suburban, Thane, Palghar and Raigad. While private distributors like Adani, Tata and BEST had restored supply in their respective regions on Monday, some areas served by MahaVitaran were restored on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-power-outage-government-not-ruling-out-sabotage-901710.html
14-10-2020||West||Maharashtra: Over 10 lakh Covid-19 suspects tested in Thane so far||Over 10.15 lakh persons have been tested for coronavirus so far in Maharashtra's Thane district, of which more than 8 lakh tested negative for the infection, an official said on Wednesday. With the addition of 959 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, the count of infections in the district reached 1.94 lakh, the official said. Apart from this, 39 patients died of the infection, raising the toll to 4,913, he said. The district has recorded a recovery rate of 89.96 per cent, while mortality rate stood at 2.53 per cent, he said, adding that the district currently has 14,548 active cases. Of the cases recorded so far, Kalyan alone accounted for 46,612 cases, followed by Thane with 41,406 and Navi Mumbai with 40,827 cases, the official said. Meanwhile, Palghar district has recorded 38,170 cases and 765 casualties so far, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-over-10-lakh-covid-19-suspects-tested-in-thane-so-far-901760.html
14-10-2020||West||Mumbai civic HQ to be open for tourists||The V-shaped building opposite the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus, a UNESCO World Heritage Site, is an equally important landmark. It is the headquarters of the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM). Popularly known as the BMC Building or BMC Headquarters because of the earlier nomenclature -- the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) – it is unique in many respects and its heritage value is not less than any other building. In fact, the CSMT, earlier known as Victoria Terminus, which houses the headquarters of Central Railway and the BMC Building, is designed by British architectural engineer Frederick William Stevens. The good news is, now, tourists would be able to visit the BMC Building and enjoy the marvel. The MGCM and the Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC) has inked an MoU for BMC headquarters to open its doors to tourists in a few months' time. “It’s a building that’s always captured my imagination and awestruck millions like me. I’m sure that not just tourists, but many Mumbaikars would also love to see the building of the BMC headquarters, the way Mumbai is run from in here and seek inspiration from the historic figures that built the city from here,” said state Tourism Minister Aditya Thackeray, the son of Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena President Uddhav Thackeray. Incidentally, the BMC has been controlled by Shiv Sena for quarter of a century. The formal agreement signed in the presence of Aditya Thackeray, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar, Minister of State for Tourism Aditi Tatkare, Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, Principal Secretary Valsa Nair-Singh, MTDC Managing Director Ashutosh Salil and Additional Municipal Commissioner Ashwini Bhide. The BMC HQ is a Grade IIA heritage building at the junction of Dadabhai Naoroji Road and Mahapalika Marg. The MCGM was created in 1865 and Arthur Crawford was its first Municipal Commissioner. The Municipality was initially housed in a modest building at the terminus of Girgaum Road. In 1870, it was shifted to a building on the Esplanade, located between Watson Hotel and the Sassoon Mechanics Institute where the present Army and Navy building is situated. On December 9, 1884, the foundation stone for the new building of the Bombay Municipal Corporation was laid opposite the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus by the Viceroy of the time, Lord Ripon. Two designs were considered for the building: one of the Gothic designs done by Frederick William Stevens and the other, in the Indo-Saracenic design presented by Robert Fellowes Chisholm. In the end, a blend of Venetian Gothic and Indo-Saracenic was settled upon. The building was completed in 1893. “The history of transformation of Bombay to Mumbai is incomplete without the story of BMC Building,” said Prakash Akolkar, a veteran journalist and writer, who had penned a book ‘Mumbai on Sale’ and is considered an authority of Mumbai’s civic affairs and Shiv Sena’s history.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-civic-hq-to-be-open-for-tourists-901772.html
14-10-2020||West||Gujarat BJP MLA convicted in rioting case, gets 6-month sentence||A Gujarat court has sentenced BJP MLA Raghavji Patel and four others to six months' imprisonment in a case of vandalism and rioting at a government hospital in Jamnagar district in 2007. Judicial Magistrate First Class H J Zala at Dhrol in Jamnagar pronounced the sentence on Tuesday, and later all the five were also granted bail by the court, assistant public prosecutor Ramsinh Bhuria said. The court on Tuesday convicted Jamnagar (rural) MLA Raghavji Patel and four others in the case involving damage to public property and assault and criminal force on government servants. Apart from the sentence, the court also imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 on each of them. Patel was a Congress MLA when the incident took place in August 2007. He and his supporters went to a hospital in Dhrol town of Jamnagar to submit a memorandum and forced their way into the office of a doctor. They indulged in vandalism and caused damage to the hospital property. The court had earlier rejected the government's plea to withdraw the case against Patel after he joined the ruling BJP, Bhuria said. On August 10, 2007, a case was lodged at Dhrol police station here against eight persons under IPC sections for unlawful assembly, rioting, assault or criminal force to deter a public servant from performing his duty, damage to public property, among others, and the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act. On Tuesday, the court convicted Raghavji Patel, Narendrasinh Jadeja, Jitu Shrimali, Jayesh Bhatt and Karansinh Jadeja were convicted, while three others - Sabbir Chawda, Pacha Varu and Lagdhirsinh Jadeja - were acquitted for want of evidence against them, Bhuria said. Patel won from the Jamnagar (rural) seat on Congress's ticket in the state Assembly election in December 2017, and later resigned as legislator to join the BJP. He contested the 2019 Assembly by-election as a BJP candidate from the same seat and won.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-bjp-mla-convicted-in-rioting-case-gets-6-month-sentence-901780.html
14-10-2020||West||Goa cinema halls not to reopen until new films release||Even as the Goa government has allowed re-opening of cinema halls from Thursday as per the Centre's guidelines, theatre owners in the state have said the facilities will not open until new films release. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant told reporters on Tuesday that theatres would be re-opened in Goa from October 15, while casinos will remain shut till further orders. He said the decision to reopen theatres has been taken as a part of the Unlock 5.0 guidelines of the Centre. However, a representative of the theatre owners in Goa said since no new films are releasing at present, it is not viable to open the cinema halls. "Theatres in Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Delhi are yet to reopen. Till new movies release, we are not going to open theatres," BJP MLA and All Goa Theatre Owners' Association president Pravin Zantye told PTI. He said films are released nationwide at the same time and closure of theatres in other states makes it inviable for distributors to release movies at this juncture. Goa has 40 film screens, including a Panaji-based multiplex run by INOX Leisure Limited and owned by the Entertainment Society of Goa (ESG). ESG Vice-Chairman Subhash Faldesai said their facility is under renovation and would be ready only next month. He said the ESG is currently getting ready to host the International Film Festival of India (IFFI) which has been postponed to January next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-cinema-halls-not-to-reopen-until-new-films-release-901782.html
14-10-2020||West||Sabotage suspected in Mumbai power outage: Maharashtra Energy Minister Nitin Raut||Maharashtra Energy Minister Nitin Raut on Wednesday said a possibility of sabotage cannot be ruled out in the massive power outage in Mumbai and neighbouring areas two days back. Talking to reporters, Raut said the power breakdown in the metropolis and neighbouring Thane and Navi Mumbai on Monday was "not a small issue". "Our team was working on the 400 KV Kalva-Padga line and the load was shifted from circuit 1 to 2. But, there was a technical problem and the Kharghar unit stopped. There was islanding in Mumbai which shouldn't have happened," he said. "This is the reason that possibility of sabotage is suspected," Raut said. A technical team from the Centre is here to discuss the power failure issue, he said, adding that "our inquiry committee will also be set up." The central technical team will submit its report in a week, he said. The minister said they will also discuss the study report submitted by a probe committee which went into such incidents in 2011, and whether an ATR (action taken report) was prepared. He also said that a system audit is being prepared. A grid failure resulted in massive power outage in Mumbai and neighbouring areas on Monday, stopping trains on tracks, hampering those working from home and hitting the stuttering economic activity hard. It took two hours for the power supply to resume for essential services on Monday, following which other pockets started getting power in a phase-wise manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sabotage-suspected-in-mumbai-power-outage-maharashtra-energy-minister-nitin-raut-901805.html
14-10-2020||West||Tribal man booked for raping minor in Palghar district||A case has been registered against a 23-year-old tribal man for allegedly repeatedly raping a minor with a promise of marriage in Dahanu taluka of Maharashtra's Palghar district, police said on Wednesday. According to the complaint lodged by the 16-year-old victim on Tuesday, the accused resided in the same village as her and raped her repeatedly with the promise of marriage, the station house officer of Dahanu police station said. The accused then refused to marry the victim, who is now seven months pregnant, he said. An offence under section 376 (rape) of the IPC and provision Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act has been registered against the alleged accused, he said, adding that no arrest has been made so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tribal-man-booked-for-raping-minor-in-palghar-district-901813.html
14-10-2020||West||CPI(M) seeks sacking of Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari for 'mocking' secularism||The CPI(M) on Wednesday demanded sacking of Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari for "mocking" secularism in his letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray for reopening of places of worship. Thackeray responded to Koshyari's letter saying he will consider the request but asserted he does not need the governor's certificate for "my Hindutva". "The Maharashtra governor has crossed all the limits of constitutional propriety by mocking secularism, one of the fundamental principles of our hallowed Constitution. "In his letter to the Chief Minister of Maharashtra, an outrage in itself given the serious nature of the pandemic in the state, he has not only used intemperate language but put the population of the state in jeopardy by demanding the opening of the places of worship," Maharashtra CPI(M) secretary Narsayya Adam said in a release. Adam stated that reopening one shrine will open a Pandora's box and the vested interests in various faiths will start clamouring for throwing open temples, mosques, churches, gurdwaras etc. "The Maharashtra government has in some earnest tried to contain the pandemic. The governor's uncalled for advice is sure to exacerbate the delicately poised health situation in the state," it said. The Left party also accused the governor of "undermining" his constitutional office, using "uncultured language", and "dabbling" in the political scenario in the state. "The governor has become a menace to the public health of Maharashtra. He needs to be relieved of the constitutional responsibility placed on him, which he is unable to carry with grace. The CPI(M) appeals to the President of India to forthwith relieve the governor of his responsibility, which he is sure to go on demeaning," the release said. It further said that by resorting to "unseemly political shenanigans", the governor has put the President in a difficult dilemma, which is a "strong ground on which he should be sacked forthwith and sent out of the state, lock, stock and barrel". Meanwhile, leaders of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), which is part of the Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government, held a protest in Thane against the governor. NCP city unit president Anand Paranjpe and other leaders posted a copy of the Constitution of India to the governor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cpim-seeks-sacking-of-maharashtra-governor-bhagat-singh-koshyari-for-mocking-secularism-901825.html
14-10-2020||West||Sushant Singh Rajput's sister's social media profiles deactivated||Sushant Singh Rajput's sister Shweta Singh Kirti's social media accounts, including Twitter and Instagram pages, have been deactivated, four months after the actor's death. Kirti was at the forefront of #JusticeForSSR campaign since the demise of Rajput on June 14. It is, however, uncertain whether Kirti herself deactivated her accounts as she did not announce quitting social media before her profiles disappeared. The deactivation has left many Rajput fans puzzled, who took to Twitter sharing screenshots of the same. Rajput's death ignited discussions on the nepotistic nature of the industry and its gate-keeping attitude but took an entirely different angle after the actor's family filed an FIR against his girlfriend, actor Rhea Chakraborty. The family of the late actor, known for films like Kai Po Che!, MS Dhoni: The Untold Story, and Chhichhore, accused Chakraborty of abetting Rajput's death, laundering his money and isolating him from his family. The case, which was initially investigated by the Mumbai Police, was later handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) while the Enforcement Directorate and the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) also got involved. Chakraborty, who was arrested by the NCB in connection with the drug trail in Rajput's death, was released on October 7 after 28 days in jail. Her brother Showik Chakraborty is still in the prison.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-singh-rajputs-sisters-social-media-profiles-deactivated-901845.html
14-10-2020||West||TRP scam: Two senior editors of Republic TV appear before cops||Republic TV's executive editor Niranjan Narayanswamy and senior executive editor Abhishek Kapoor on Wednesday appeared before the Mumbai crime branch for recording statements in the fake TRP racket case. Narayanswamy reached the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) office at 12 noon, while Kapoor, who is based in Delhi, reached around 4 pm, a crime branch official said. Republic TV on October 10 had aired a document which purportedly belonged to Hansa Research Group. The summons issued to Narayanswamy and Kapoor on Tuesday said there were "reasonable grounds to believe" they were "acquainted with certain facts and circumstances of the document", so it was necessary to record their statements. In a tweet, Republic TV said, "Senior Executive Editor Abhishek Kapoor reaches Crime Branch after being summoned. Republic Media Network will not yield by revealing sources." In another tweet, the news channel said, "Republic Media Network stands with our Executive Editor Niranjan Narayanaswamy & Senior Executive Editor Abhishek Kapoor. Republic stands wholly for the right of the media to report and protect its sources." The crime branch has so far arrested five persons in the case. The alleged fake TRP scam came to light when ratings agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint through Hansa Research Group, alleging that certain television channels were rigging TRP numbers. It was alleged that some families at whose houses metres for collecting data of viewership were installed were bribed to tune into a particular channel. Last week, Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh had claimed that Republic TV and two Marathi channels - Box Cinema and Fakt Marathi -- manipulated TRP for better advertisement revenue. Republic TV rubbished Singh's claims.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/trp-scam-two-senior-editors-of-republic-tv-appear-before-cops-901855.html
14-10-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: Maharashtra allows metro trains to run from Oct 15, reopens libraries||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday decided to allow metro trains in Mumbai to operate from October 15 in a phased manner under its mission 'begin again'. The government also allowed reopening of all state-run and private libraries from Thursday following Covid-19 protocols, as per the guidelines issued here. It also allowed business-to-business exhibitionsfrom tomorrow outside containment zones. Local weekly bazars, including that of animals, will also be allowed to reopen outside containment zones. With an aim to reduce crowd, markets and shops will be allowed to remain open for two additional hours till 9 pm from tomorrow. Significantly, the government has decided to do away stamping with indelible ink for domestic passengersarriving at different airports after COVID-19 testing. Similarly, the health check up and stamping of passengers at railway stations will also be stopped.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-maharashtra-allows-metro-trains-to-run-from-oct-15-reopens-libraries-901856.html
14-10-2020||West||Set up water grid to address flood issue: Centre tells Maharashtra govt||The Centre has asked the Maharashtra government to set up a water grid and address the recurring problem of flooding in the financial capital of Mumbai. “We have experienced that every year Mumbai suffers huge losses due to the floods. Hence, there is an urgent need to prepare an integrated plan to handle flood situations effectively to avoid losses,” Minister for Road Transport & Highways and Shipping Nitin Gadkari wrote in a letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. The Minister further said that, if systematically planned, flood water, drainage and sewerage can be diverted towards Thane and an entire diverted influx can be stored in a dam, after treating the water midway.    “This water can be used for irrigation, industries around the city and for supplying water to nearby horticulture belts. Through pipelines, excess water can be carried to other drought prone areas of the state as well,” he said. Gadkari also called for setting up of water recycling plants in large residential colonies of Mumbai and its satellite cities as part of sustainable initiative.  The Minister said that the problems of floods, drainage management, sewerage, potable water in Mumbai should be given an integral thought as the issues are interlinked.  Gadkari asked the State Government to get a Detailed Project Report prepared by an international consultant under the work coordinated by Mumbai Metropolitan Development Authority, since the problems are not limited to city limits of Mumbai.  Stating that the tar roads do not sustain the heavy rains that Mumbai witnesses, the Minister gave the example of Mumbai-Pune Express Highway, built nearly two decades ago, that has stood the test of time. “On the same lines, concrete roads can be constructed in Mumbai along with an advanced drainage system to carry sewerage and flood water” he added. Gadkari also sought support of NCP chief Sharad Pawar, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar,  State PWD Minister Ashok Chavan,  Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil and other senior leaders  for his proposals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/set-up-water-grid-to-address-flood-issue-centre-tells-maharashtra-govt-901861.html
14-10-2020||West||Fourth Kisan Rail flags off from Nagpur to Delhi||With stupendous response from farmers and traders, Indian Railways on Wednesday started fourth Kisan Rail transporting fruits from Nagpur to Delhi. Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari flagged off Kisan Rail carrying oranges from Nagpur.  A mini rake of 10 parcel vans (VPs) would reach Adarsh Nagar Station in New Delhi carrying first bulk consignment of the table fruit from the orange belt of Central India. At present three other Kisan Rail - Nasik to  Danapur in Patna, Ananthpur to New Delhi and Bengaluru to Hazrat Nizamuddin operating carrying fruits and vegetables. The government also announced a 50% subsidy on the transportation cost of notified fruits and vegetables that will be carried by Kisan Rail. This subsidy can be availed by individual farmers, food processors, cooperative societies, retailers, state and cooperative marketing agencies till December 11, the government said. The notified fruits include banana, guava, mango, citrus, pineapple, pomegranate, papaya, and jack fruit and the list of vegetables include onion, potato, tomato, French beans, brinjal, capsicum, carrot, cauliflower and okra. The subsidy will be borne by the food processing industries ministry (MoFPI), which is implementing Operation Greens from Tomato, Onion and Potato (TOP) to all fruits & vegetables (TOTAL) under the AtmaNirbhar initiative. The ministry had extended the subsidy scheme till December 11. The government announced this subsidy to help farmers to ensure better market and price.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fourth-kisan-rail-flags-off-from-nagpur-to-delhi-901911.html
14-10-2020||West||Maha Vikas Aghadi government launches probe against Devendra Fadnavis' flagship project||Amid repeated attacks by BJP, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra on Wednesday turned the table and launched a probe vis-à-vis the Jalyukt Shivar Abhiyan, the flagship scheme of former Chief Minister and now Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis. In fact, the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) in its report has raised questions over the way the project was executed in the state. “….despite spending Rs 9633.75 crore, the Abhiyan (mission) had little impact in achieving water neutrality and increasing groundwater level,” according to the report that was tabled during the two-day Monsoon Session of Maharashtra legislature in September. On Wednesday, at the weekly Cabinet meeting, there was a unanimous view that the JSA needs to be probed, and the three MVA allies – Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress agreed on it. The probe could be an open inquiry through a Special Investigation Team (SIT).“There is no politics in it…there is a CAG report and this needs to be probed,” state Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil said. Soil and Water Conservation Minister Shankarrao Gadakh said that there were irregularities in the implementation of the scheme and hence the probe is necessary. “The details of how it has to be probed would be worked out in next couple of days…There were complaints and litigations with respect to JSA …we are still receiving complaints,” he said. The project involved deepening and widening of streams, construction of cement and earthen stop dams, undertaking work on nullahs and digging of farm ponds to make 25,000 villages drought-free between 2014-19 when the erstwhile Shiv Sena-BJP government was in power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maha-vikas-aghadi-government-launches-probe-against-devendra-fadnavis-flagship-project-901932.html
14-10-2020||West||Goa new tourism policy deters budget tourists, narcotics consumption||Goa's Tourism Policy 2020, which was formally approved by the cabinet, wants to veer the resort state away from its reputation as a narco-tourism destination and also wants to deter budget tourists from camping and cooking in public, which causes a nuisance, according to Tourism Minister Manohar Ajgaonkar. Ajgaonkar told reporters after a meeting of the state cabinet, where the much-awaited Tourism policy was passed, that major decisions related to the growth of the industry would now be taken by the Goa Tourism Board, a multi-stakeholder entity with representatives from the tourism and travel sectors as well as umbrella trade bodies and industry experts. "We want good tourists. We do not want drugs and tourists who consume drugs. We do not want people who cook food on the streets," the Tourism Minister said. Through 2019, as many as five persons were arrested every week in narcotics-related cases and drugs worth Rs. five crore were seized in the state.  Goa annually witnesses the arrival of nearly eight million tourists every year, including half a million foreigners. But the recent influx of budget tourists, who travel to the state in large groups and camp and cook in the open, has been objected to by local residents as well as by the hotel industry, which has demanded a ban on such activity, claiming it creates a nuisance. Last year, the Goa government also instituted a penalty mechanism for cooking in open spaces, which included fines in the range of Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 10,000 and imprisonment for repeated offences and failure to pay the penalty.   Ajgaonkar also said that the tourism policy also aimed to broad-base Goa's tourism experience bouquet, by extending it from the state's famous beaches, to other interesting facets like heritage, adventure and water sports and promotion of places of culture and architectural interest. "Goa's beauty is famous all over the world. We have to take tourism ahead by promoting its culture and natural beauty," he also said. Commenting on the formation of the Goa Tourism Board, a reform which has been demanded for years by industry stakeholders will also oversee decisions taken with the short term as well as long term interests of the tourism industry in Goa, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-new-tourism-policy-deters-budget-tourists-narcotics-consumption-901955.html
14-10-2020||West||Maharashtra cabinet scraps decision to have separate state poll department||The Maharashtra cabinet on Wednesday gave its nod to scrap the decision taken by the previous Devendra Fadnavis-led dispensation to create an independent state election department, and restored its earlier status as a branch of the General Administration Department (GAD). The decision was taken during the cabinet meeting. A statement from the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said the decision taken on August 14, 2019 to create a new state election department has been scrapped. The earlier status as office of the chief electoral officer, a branch of GAD department has been restored, it said. A government resolution was issued on August 14, 2019 for creation of a new department with 128 posts. The Election Commission of India's directives are to create new posts and not a new department. The amount of Rs 1.02 crore sanctioned for the purpose has also been scrapped, the statement said. In other decisions, the draft of the Maharashtra Pulses (Regulation of Price and Control) Act 2016 has been withdrawn. The draft was sent to the Centre for approval, but with the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill was passed by the Parliament, the state legislation was not required, it said. The decision to start air-conditioned broad-gauge metro train in Nagpur was approved. The broad-guage will be linked to the Nagpur metro route as feeder service. MahaMetro has submitted a proposal worth Rs 333.60 crore. The broad-gauge metro railway project will be from Nagpur to Wardha, Nagpur to Narkhed, Nagpur-Ramtek, Nagpur- Bhandara Road and there will be 42 stations. The cabinet also gave its approval to increase by Rs 10,000 the stipend of the resident doctors in post-graduate ayurveda colleges from May 1, 2020. There are 550 post-graduate students in four ayurveda colleges and the government will incur Rs 6.6 crore financial burden, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cabinet-scraps-decision-to-have-separate-state-poll-department-902003.html
