20-10-2020||First Edit||A clear bid to arm-twist PTI||Prasar Bharati’s decision to terminate its subscription with Press Trust of India (PTI) does not come as a surprise because it has in the past given indications of likely action against the news agency. The national broadcaster has cancelled the subscription with all news agencies and decided to call for fresh bids for contracts in which it has said PTI can also participate. But it is known that the action is directed against PTI, with which it has been unhappy for a long time. In June this year, Prasar Bharati had strongly criticised the news agency, describing its coverage of some events as “anti-national’’. It said the agency’s conduct was “detrimental to national interest and undermined the country’s territorial integrity.” The reference obviously was to some reports related to the tension on the border with China in Ladakh.  The government was not happy with two interviews PTI had done with the Chinese ambassador to India Sun Weidong and the Indian ambassador to China Vikram Misri. While it thought the interview with the Chinese ambassador was ill-timed and inappropriate, it was especially annoyed with the agency for the interview with the Indian ambassador whose comments contradicted Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s claim that there was no Chinese intrusion in Ladakh. Prasar Bharati, toeing the government’s line, had threatened to end its subscription then, and it has done that now. But the larger questions involved are about the autonomy of Prasar Bharati and the independence of the media. PTI is the country’s premier news agency and has professionally maintained fairness and independence in its coverage of events. A news agency which caters to many clients of diverse views and interests has to be rightly non-partisan and independent in its coverage. Prasar Bharati’s complaint could only have arisen from the fact that the agency was indeed non-partisan and independent.  Prasar Bharati is not the government’s arm and organ. It should not parrot the government's views and conduct itself as its hatchet agency. It was created by an Act of Parliament, is funded by the people, and is meant to be an autonomous broadcaster. It has no right to punish a news agency and discontinue its services if the agency reports news or views which are not to the liking of the government. It is shameful that it described the news agency as “anti-national,’’ which is the government’s and the BJP’s preferred term of abuse for any critic. In this case, however, the news agency was not even a critic, it was only the messenger, who has now been shot. The action is yet another instance of the government’s intolerance and propensity to punish independent media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/a-clear-bid-to-arm-twist-pti-904404.html
20-10-2020||In Perspective||Is it time to look beyond the UN?||This irony was highlighted by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar when he suggested that “just when multilateralism was most in demand, it did not rise to the occasion” despite the fact that “the limitations of purely national responses or sometimes living in denial have become evident.” A global health pandemic should have been the high point of the multilateral search for a collective solution, instead it has turned out to be its nadir. In some ways the crisis of multilateralism should not be surprising. The global order that emerged after the end of the World War II was a product of its time. As underlying structural realities shift, the stress is palpable as the institutions, norms and processes come under challenge from multiple directions. Not only is China challenging an order it believes was created in its absence but even the US, which was its most important founding father, is seemingly dissatisfied with the status quo. For a liberal order that has arguably been central to maintaining peace and prosperity worldwide for more than seven decades, this growing inability to provide equitable and effective solutions to today’s common challenges signals a remarkable retreat. And it is this seeming retreat that makes it imperative for nations like India to develop an alternative strategy to secure their interests in a world where great power competition is becoming sharper by the day. Modi challenged the UN to introspect as a “crisis of confidence” haunts the institution and called for a new template of multilateralism that “reflects today's reality, gives voice to all stakeholders, addresses contemporary challenges, and focuses on human welfare.” Given India’s stint at the UN Security Council as an elected non-permanent member for a two-year term beginning January 1, 2021, New Delhi was making its priorities clear. Modi directly targeted the UN for its non-performance during the ongoing crisis when he underlined the absence of the UN over the last few months while the world has been battling the pandemic. He asked: “Where is the United Nations in this joint fight against the pandemic? Where is its effective response? Reform in the responses, in the processes, and in the very character of the UN is the need of the hour.” And he questioned the viability of the present state of affairs as the leader of a country “which, in the course of maintaining peace, has lost the maximum number of its brave soldiers” and where “the faith and respect that the UN enjoys among the 1.3 billion people in India is unparalleled.” This led him to his central question: “For how long will India be kept out of the decision-making structures of the United Nations? A country, which is the largest democracy of the world; a country with more than 18% of the world population; a country which has hundreds of languages, hundreds of dialects, many sects, many ideologies; a country which was a leading global economy for centuries and also one which has seen hundreds of years of foreign rule.” When he asked “how long would a country have to wait particularly when the transformational changes happening in that country affect a large part of the world,” he was underscoring growing impatience in India about the pace of reforms in the UN. To many in India, it is not readily evident if the global multilateral order will be able to reform itself and cope with rising geopolitical tensions and new security challenges. Modi’s remarks were a veiled warning to the UN that despite New Delhi’s inherent faith in the global multilateral order, India’s absence from the decision-making structures and lack of genuine reforms might force India to look for alternatives. And this is already beginning to happen. A fractured multilateral framework is the order the day. The security dynamics in the immediate aftermath of the Second World War were focused on managing Europe and safeguarding its peripheries. Today, it is the Indo-Pacific that is driving the global economic and political agenda. The context and logic of global institutional frameworks should reflect this shift, especially at a time when a weakening UN is leading to the proliferation of plurilateral and minilateral forums. These coalitions of the willing are viewed as more effective and efficient means of dealing with not only traditional security issues but even non-traditional ones like the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. For a country like India which aims to be a rule shaper, not merely a rule-taker, this is an inflection point. If the extant multilateral order will not work to secure Indian interests, then New Delhi will have to look for alternatives. That process is already underway. (The writer is Director, Studies, at Observer Research Foundation, New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/is-it-time-to-look-beyond-the-un-904405.html
20-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Woman, mother end lives by jumping into Kapila River||A woman and her mother ended their lives by jumping into River Kapila near Mallanmule Mutt in Nanjangud taluk, Mysuru district on Monday. The deceased have been identified as Akkamma (60) and her daughter Rashmi (35). Minchu, the granddaughter of Akkamma, has been rescued. Rashmi was an employee of the DCC Bank in Naguvinahalli, Srirangapatna taluk. On Monday, Rashmi, along with her mother Akkamma and daughter Minchu, visited the Srikanteshwara temple in Nanjangud and offered prayers. Later, they tied cloth to their arms to bind them together and jumped into the river. According to sources, Rashmi was in huge debt. A man, who was grazing cattle nearby, saw them jumping into the river and immediately rushed to their rescue and dragged them to the shore. However, Rashmi had died. Akkamma died en route to the hospital and the Minchu was saved. The deceased’s relative Jeevan has lodged a complaint with the rural police. The bodies have been sent to K R Hospital mortuary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/woman-mother-end-lives-by-jumping-into-kapila-river-904367.html
20-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Group of youth rescue man who tried to end life||A team of youth led by Goodinabali Mohammed rescued a youth who had attempted to take his life by jumping into River Nethravathi at Old bridge in Panemangaluru. Kumar, hailing from Hassan was working as private bus driver. He jumped into the river to end his life. On noticing him jumping into the river, swimmer Mohammed along with his team immediately left in a boat and rescued him from meeting a watery grave. Kumar after being rescued was shifted to hospital in Bantwal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/group-of-youth-rescue-man-who-tried-to-end-life-904496.html
20-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Farmer leader Maruthi Manpade dies of Covid-19||Pranta Raitha Sangha state vice president Maruthi Manpade died due to Covid- 19 on Tuesday morning. He was 65. Manpade was admitted to GIMS for a day after he tested positive for the virus. He admitted to Ashwini Hospital in Solapur on October 5. He was on ventilator for three days. He is survived by his wife and two sons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/farmer-leader-maruthi-manpade-dies-of-covid-19-904509.html
20-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Society will decide on mosque-temple issue 'in appropriate time': C T Ravi||BJP national general secretary C T Ravi stated on Tuesday that the society itself would take a stand about temple-mosque issue in Mathura and Kashi, in appropriate time. "BJP alone cannot give answer to all such issues. Ram Mandir issue in Ayodhya has the background of a struggle for 500 years, and the temple is being constructed now. Now, the society itself is gaining the strength to take suitable stand on Mathura-Kashi issue," he said. On Yatnal's statement Refusing to comment much on BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal's statement about leadership change in State Government and making an MLA from North Karnataka as the chief minister, Ravi clarified that there is no question of leadership change. "B S Yediyurappa is our unanimous choice and the party's parliamentary board also endorsed that. Nobody should give statement without responsibility, and Yatnal's statement would be discussed in a suitable platform," he noted. "No discussion is going on in the party regarding Congress leaders Vinay Kulkarni and M B Patil coming to the BJP. We do not believe in political untouchability, but no decision would be taken without consulting the local unit of the party," Ravi added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/society-will-decide-on-mosque-temple-issue-in-appropriate-time-c-t-ravi-904510.html
20-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Govt to provide sites to every deserving family: Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa stated that the state government is committed to allot sites to each family without a family and construct houses for them in phases.  Distributing various equipment to beneficiaries of various schemes in Shikaripur town on Tuesday, he said the government would issue title deeds to all deserving families. He also asked people not to give money to middlemen to get title deeds. If touts demand money to provide a title deed, people must submit a complaint to the deputy commissioner without fail, he suggested. Referring to a good spell of rains in Malnad region this year, he said the government wants to strengthen agriculture sector and stabilise the price of farm produce in the market for the welfare of the farming community. Shikaripur taluk has witnessed a good yield of maize crop this year. The government would provide maize de-husking machine to them at subsidised rate. The government has reserved Rs 1.40 crore for farmers of Shikaripur taluk for the purpose, he announced. Shivamogga MP B Y Raghavendra said title deeds have been distributed to 403 beneficiaries of 14 gram panchayats in Shikaripur taluk. He also promised that title deeds would be issued to around 1,000 persons coming under the purview of the remaining 13 gram panchayats in the coming days. Malnad Area Development Board Chairman K S Gurmurthy, Deputy Commissioner K B Shivakumar, Deputy Commissioner K B Shivakumar, Superintendent of Police K M Shantaraju, Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer M L Vyshali and others were present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/govt-to-provide-sites-to-every-deserving-family-karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-904528.html
20-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||KIOCL plans to set up beneficiation, pelletisation plant||Union Minister of State for Steel Faggan Singh Kulaste visited KIOCL’s corporate office and reviewed KIOCL's performance in the presence of senior officials of the Ministry. The Union Minister also looked into the efforts made towards the implementation of new projects and the bottlenecks faced during the execution of projects. KIOCL Chairman and Managing Director (CMD) Subba Rao said that after obtaining statutory clearance for operation of Devadari mines, KIOCL had been planning to set up 2.0 MTPA beneficiation and 2.0 MTPA pelletisation plant, which will generate employment for local youth. The Minister in turn emphasised that KIOCL has done pioneering work in the field of iron ore mining and beneficiation of magnetite ore in Karnataka and is a leader in the country for pelletisation. He further stressed that the centre is placing thrust on increased utilisation of pellets as a raw material in blast furnaces and sponge iron industry in the country. KIOCL can contribute immensely in utilising these resources in the national interest. The Minister lauded the efforts put in by KIOCL in entering the field of solar energy and to set up a 5 MW solar power plant in Tumkuru district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kiocl-plans-to-set-up-beneficiation-pelletisation-plant-904556.html
20-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Library at Chamarajanagar Covid-19 Health Centre||In a novel initiative, Chamarajanagar District Administration has set up a library at the Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DDHC), in Santhemarahalli of Chamarajanagar taluk, to help Covid-19 patients to de-stress and also to divert them from Covid-related anxiety. There are more than 700 books at the hospital and the patients under treatment can avail them. Books written by Jnanpith awardees, popular novelists, poets and litterateurs are available here. It is the idea of Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi, who visited the centre last week. He directed the officials to set up a library for those who are interested in reading books, during their brief stay here. Thus, the Health department took measures in this regard and collected around 700 books in different genres. Books on water conservation, theatre, health, yoga, medicinal herbs, and also for children are available in the library. Books written by the DC, Ravi himself, on personality development is also available. The DC said, "The officials were directed to begin a small library, with interesting books to enable the Covid patients to pass their time, during the treatment at the centre. The patients are requested to make use of the facility".||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/library-at-chamarajanagar-covid-19-health-centre-904688.html
20-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Sulvadi temple to reopen today||Sulvadi Kichchugatti Maramma temple, that was closed after the poison tragedy on December 14, 2018, will be reopened and pujas will be conducted from October 21 (Wednesday), after a gap of 22 months. Several devotees took ill after consuming prasada, laced with poison, at the temple in Hanur taluk, Chamarajanagar district, during a ceremony in December, 2018. Enmity between a few members of the temple management committee, led to the incident. More than 110 people took ill and 17 people died. The Muzrai Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary has recently said that the temple would be reopened on October 20. Various rituals and pujas will be held for the first three days. The devotees will be allowed to the temple from Saturday (October 24).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sulvadi-temple-to-reopen-today-904754.html
20-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mandya varsity: Results not announced since 11 months||The students of Mandya Unitary University are anxious, as the university has not announced the results, 11 months after conducting the exams for the degree and postgraduate courses. The university is in the news for some or the other reason, from the beginning. It also faced the danger of losing accreditation, due to confusions in the recruitment process. The students staged an indefinite protest, demanding exams. The first semester exam was conducted in November-December 2019. But, the results have not been announced, causing fear among the students. Similarly, postgraduate exams were conducted in March 2020 and the results are yet to be announced. Due to Covid, the state government had issued directions to pass all students for the second semester, based on their marks in first semester. But, here, the results of first semester has not been announced, leaving the students in a fix. The employees of the Examination Board, who had prepared question papers for the semester, for degree and postgraduate courses, are yet to receive the allowances, it is said. Even as the government is planning to open degree and postgraduate colleges from November 1, there are no permanent lecturers at Mandya University. The guest lecturers have not been paid salaries since 10 months. Most of them have moved on to other colleges. With Mandya University mired in problems, the department of Higher Education should intervene for the benefit of students, demand students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mandya-varsity-results-not-announced-since-11-months-904755.html
20-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Is BJP trying to ‘use’ Dasara for political gains?||The BJP has either ‘used’ or ‘misused’ Mysuru Dasara, to make political statements and to pacify some leaders and some communities. How far it will succeed in achieving its motives, to get a foothold in Mysuru region, is yet to be seen, say a few political leaders. A JD(S) leader said that the choice of Dr C N Manjunath, Director of Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, to inaugurate Dasara on October 17, atop the Chamundi Hill, was to send two messages. “One is that the BJP is not against the Vokkaliga community, as it is projected to be, and that it has no grudge against the JD(S) clan, the family of former prime minister H D Deve Gowda and former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy,” he said. It has to be noted that, Dr Manjunath, a Vokkaliga, is the son-in-law of Deve Gowda. It is a fact that the BJP has not been doing well in the elections, in the old Mysuru region, mainly the Vokkaliga dominated constituencies. Since the election of Narayana Gowda in the bypoll in KR Pet, Mandya district, the native of Chief Minister Yediyurappa, in December 2019, the BJP is trying to consolidate the support of the Vokkaliga community. Meanwhile, Snehamayi Krishna, an activist, who has lodged a couple of complaints with the police against Dr Manjunath, said that despite the fact of being a good doctor, a cardiologist, he has his own negatives. “Dr Manjunath, who is 64-year-old now, is continuing as director of Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research. Has he not crossed the age of retirement, as per the government rules? Is not Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, a government institution? Is there no other doctor and administrator, in the entire Karnataka, to succeed him?” he asked. A senior Congress leader said that the BJP is trying to defend itself, that it is not against certain communities. “Among the six persons -- nurse P M Rukmini, ASHA volunteer Noor Jaan, civic worker Maragamma, social worker Ayub Ahamed, Police personnel P Kumar and Dr T R Naveen -- who were felicitated during the inauguration of Dasara, two persons belong to a minority community. I do not wish to name the other persons by their caste, but they also belong to certain communities that do not have confidence in the BJP,” he said. V Sriprasad, a BJP leader, said, BJP is never against any faith or caste. “Secularism comes naturally to all Indians and BJP members are no exception. For some political reasons, the opposition parties try to create animosity between the BJP and certain sections of the people. Nothing is done deliberately. It is the natural way of the BJP,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/is-bjp-trying-to-use-dasara-for-political-gains-904756.html
20-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Panchalinga Darshana may be a simple affair||Panchalinga Darshana of Talkad is celebrated once in five, seven, nine and 12 years, on the full moon day in the month of Karthika. Panchalinga Darshana will commence on December 10 and will conclude on December 19, this year. The actual Panchalinga Darshana will be on December 14. The devotees and residents of the village are disappointed, as the authorities have not conducted any meeting in connection with the festival, which is just over a month away. After a preliminary meeting in June, attended over by District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar, MLA Ashwin Kumar and the then deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar, no further steps have been taken, either to hold a meeting or to begin preparations in connection with Panchalinga Darshan. No development works, like laying of roads and providing basic amenities have not been initiated. MLA Ashwin Kumar has hinted that the Covid impact may result in a simple Panchalinga Darshan this year. He said that most of the religious programmes have been toned down, with the Covid fear haunting the government. However, he had assured of holding a meeting with the district in-charge minister after Dasara, on the preparations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/panchalinga-darshana-may-be-a-simple-affair-904757.html
20-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Festive season: Low price leaves fruit growers unhappy||With Dasara, a series of festivals begins like Ayudha Puja, Vijayadashami, followed by Dhanteras and Deepavali, in the month of November, and there is great demand for fruits, which are an integral part of any festival. However, fruit growers are not happy, as their produce is not fetching a good price, this year.  Banana growers of the district are the worst affected. ‘Yelakki’ variety of banana was around Rs 20 to Rs 30 per kg during the lockdown period. The farmers expected that the price may go up during Varamahalakshmi and Gowri-Ganesha festival. But, they were disappointed, as there was only a little hike. Farmer T L Kumaraswamy of Talluru said, “Dasara has begun and there is a demand for bananas. There is a slight increase in the price. The Horticultural Produce Cooperative Marketing and Processing Society (HOPCOMS) is procuring yelakki variety of banana at Rs 45 per kg. But, it was Rs 70 last year and Rs 90, a couple of years ago.” Guruswamy, a mango cultivator from Gangadahosahalli, said, “Mango growers faced the worst this year. I have 600 mango trees. The sudden rain affected the yield. Besides, there was no market for mango this year, due to the Covid pandemic.” K Rudresh, Deputy Director, Horticultural department, said that bananas are grown on 10,000 hectare of lands in Mysuru district. “Similarly, mango is grown on 4,000 hectares, sapota on 2,000 hectares, guava on 600 hectares. The government has distributed Rs 1.60 crore as compensation to 2,650 banana growers, during the Covid induced lockdown period,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/festive-season-low-price-leaves-fruit-growers-unhappy-904760.html
20-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||DC claims decrease in Covid +ve cases since a month||The district administration has claimed that there has been a remarkable turn-around in the Covid-19 situation in Mysuru district, with a reduction in the rate of positive cases to 7.8% from September to October. The positivity rate, i.e., case per 100 tests, was 20.7% earlier. The overall improvement in all parameters have improved within October, compared to September. According to the data provided by Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, daily testing has been ramped up from about 2,500 earlier to 4,300 since a month. The case fatality rate, i.e., death per 100 patients, has reduced to 1.1% from 2.5%. The total number of Covid positive cases detected up to October 19 in Mysuru district, is 45,193. The total number of active cases are 6,947, while the total cases tested positive in the last seven days is 2,820. The deaths in the last seven days is 34, while the case fatality rate over the last seven days is 1.2%. While the positivity over the past seven days is 7.8%, the percentage of patients with nil contact in the last seven days is 19.0%. The contacts per patient in the last seven days is 11.4. As measures taken to ensure the implementation of the Covid guidelines, 4,950 persons have been fined for violations, like not wearing mask and not following social distancing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dc-claims-decrease-in-covid-ve-cases-since-a-month-904761.html
20-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid care: MLAs make hefty bill claims for selves, kin||Covid-19 treatment is indeed an expensive affair, if the money that several legislators have been claiming is anything to go by. Information furnished by the Assembly secretariat under RTI reveals that elected legislators - most of them crorepatis - were entitled to all amenities at public cost, even in the face of an unprecedented economic crisis due tothe pandemic.  While many MLAs were yet to apply for medical reimbursements, information under RTI showed 10 MLAs cutting across party lines have sought Rs 35 lakh as reimbursement for Covid-19 treatment for them and their family members. The highest reimbursement for Covid treatment, as of October 6, was claimed by Belgaum Uttar BJP MLA Anil Benake, totalling Rs 8.5 lakh - the expenses of treating him and five other family members. RTI data showed that while bills for his treatment came to around Rs 1.92 lakh, treating his wife and two daughters cost Rs 1.35 lakh each, while the treatment cost of his father and mother was Rs 1.27 lakh and Rs 1.29 lakh, respectively. According to his affidavit in 2018, Benake had movable and immovable properties worth around Rs 4.2 crore. Gurmitkal JD(S) MLA Nagangouda Kandakura and his wife Kanthamma’s treatment cost, according to the bills submitted to the Assembly Secretariat, was Rs 5.49 lakh. Of the amount, Rs 3.29 lakh was the treatment cost of the MLA.  Bhadravathi Congress MLA B K Sangameshwar and his wife Nikita Kavya spent Rs 5.1 lakh for Covid treatment.  “We will receive more reimbursement claims in the days to come as even ministers were hospitalised for Covid,” sources said.  ‘Provide health insurance’ Activist H M Venkatesh, who filed the RTI plea on Covid-19 treatment expenses of legislators, said, “Rather than medical reimbursement, all MLAs and MLCs should be provided healthinsurance.” He said the MLAs have declared assets in crores of rupees. “They may have a provision for such benefits, but should consider the financial condition of the state before claiming,” he said. When contacted, Anil Benake said that he had applied for the benefits after the Assembly session, when they were made aware of the benefits. “All my family members were infected by the virus,” he said, adding that they recuperated at private hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-care-mlas-make-hefty-bill-claims-for-selves-kin-904793.html
20-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Bengaluru riots: HC for infrastructure to the claims commissioner||The high court on Tuesday directed the state government to ensure that the proceedings of the claims commissioner, appointed to fix liability on the damages caused at riots in KG Halli and DJ Halli, starts immediately. The bench said the public memory is short and further delay would be counterproductive. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, was hearing a batch of petitions filed on the issue of investigation into the riots and constitution of claims commissioner. The bench said any delay in providing infrastructure to the claims commissioner will set at naught the very object of passing orders of appointing Justice H S Kempanna. It directed the government to place on record the details of the infrastructure provided to Justice Kempanna. The court perused the status report on the investigation filed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bengaluru-riots-hc-for-infrastructure-to-the-claims-commissioner-904796.html
20-10-2020||Karnataka Politics||B S Yediyurappa’s time is up, next CM from north Karnataka: Basanagouda Patil Yatnal||Senior BJP legislator Basanagouda Patil Yatnal has stirred the political cauldron by claiming that B S Yediyurappa will be removed as the Chief Minister and his successor will be someone from north Karnataka. Yatnal said this at a local function in Gang Body on October 19 and a portion of his speech has gone viral. “He won't stay for long. His time has come,” Yatnal said of Yediyurappa, the Chief Minister. “Even those upstairs (high command) are fed up with him. Yatnal’s claim adds to persistent murmurs within the BJP that a leadership change was on the cards to replace the ageing Yediyurappa. Also, his outburst highlights the disgruntlement among BJP MLAs from north Karnataka over development. “Our own CM took back Rs 125 crore that was given to us,” Yatnal, who represents the Bijapur City constituency said. “This has led to a fight between him and me. He’s focussing only on Shivamogga,” he said. Yediyurappa represents the Shikaripura constituency in the Shivamogga districts. Yatnal, a former union minister, also quoted another senior, disgruntled BJP MLA Umesh Katti’s recent statement that Yediyurappa was functioning as the Chief Minister of Shivamogga. “If the Rs 125 crore wasn’t taken back, all roads in Gang Body would have been cemented,” Yatnal said. “I’m fighting for (the funds) and I won’t let go. I’ll get it somehow. Bengaluru people should queue up in front of us in Vijayapura just like how we go stand in front of their homes,” he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself is “convinced” that the next Chief Minister should be from north Karnataka, Yatnal claimed. In the 2018 elections, the BJP won big in the Lingayat-dominated north Karnataka. Both Yatnal and Yediyurappa are Lingayats. “It’s because of north Karnataka people that someone from the BJP can become the CM. Do people in Mandya, Chamarajanagar or Kolar vote for us? We send some 100 MLAs from north Karnataka whereas they send just 15,” he said. “Even the high command has recognised this. PM himself is convinced that this time, after Yediyurappa, the CM will be from north Karnataka. This is almost finalised.” Chief Minister’s political secretary MP Renukacharya, who is identified with the Yediyurappa camp, hit out at Yatnal. “(Yatnal) is daydreaming,” he told reporters. “The CM’s post isn’t vacant. The BJP is in power in the entire state comprising all regions. When it comes to development, we support north Karnataka,” he said. Renukacharya said leadership decisions are made by the high command. “Yediyurappa will do a good job. Personally, BJP MLAs from north Karnataka aren’t speaking against him. The MLAs are with the BJP and Yediyurappa, not with (Yatnal),” he said. The Yediyurappa camp has been rather dismissive of Yatnal, who has made his disgruntlement public in the past as well. In October 2019, he was issued a show-cause notice by the party for criticising his own party’s efforts in providing flood relief.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/b-s-yediyurappa-s-time-is-up-next-cm-from-north-karnataka-basanagouda-patil-yatnal-904543.html
20-10-2020||Karnataka Politics||'HDK is admitting to corruption during his tenure'||JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy has come under attack on social media for openly claiming to have helped his party's former member Puttanna, now with the BJP, get Class-1 jobs for his contacts. Rival party leaders have now demanded the government take action against him for corruption.  As part of his speech to woo voters for the upcoming MLC polls, Kumaraswamy had on Monday, lashed out at Puttanna, calling him an ingrate who was defaming him in spite of taking several favours from the JD(S) leader. "During my tenure, recruitment was held for teachers and lecturers. Puttanna had come to me with a few applications. I helped him secure class-I jobs for 10-12 of his family members," he had said. Kumaraswamy's statement saw backlash on social media with people alleging corruption on his part. KRS leader Ravikrishna Reddy said Kumaraswamy's statement was an open acceptance of corruption during his regime. "There are thousands of candidates who have lost jobs that they deserved. When KPSC chairperson H N Krishna was released from jail, Kumaraswamy went to receive him. There has to be suo motu case registered against Kumaraswamy for openly admitting to corruption," he said. Congress leader Dinesh Gundu Rao said, "Isn't what he admitting to, a scam? He has misused his power."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/hdk-is-admitting-to-corruption-during-his-tenure-904773.html
20-10-2020||Karnataka Politics||Section of BJP trying to dislodge BSY as CM: Siddaramaiah||A section of BJP leaders is trying to dislodge B S Yediyurappa as chief minister and that the Congress will not make efforts to topple the BJP government, Leader of Opposition in Assembly Siddaramaiah said on Tuesday. Replying to a query on BJP legislator Basanagouda Patil Yatnal’s statement that Yeddyurappa’s days as chief minister were numbered, Siddaramaiah told reporters, “Yes it is true. A section of leaders are trying to dethrone Yediyurappa as CM. But I don’t when and who will be made CM. If the Yediyurappa-led BJP government falls due to the internal bickering in the saffron party, we are ready to face the elections.” Yatnal is miffed with Yediyurappa over cut in grants to his constituency. This has brought the rift in state BJP out in open, the CLP leader said. ‘10 kg rice if I become CM again’ During a public grievance meeting at Kataraki village in Badami taluk, Siddaramaiah said that he would start giving 10 kg rice to poor if he became CM again. “No one should suffer or die of starvation, flood or drought,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/section-of-bjp-trying-to-dislodge-bsy-as-cm-siddaramaiah-904782.html
20-10-2020||Main Article||Dare our leader debate?||Public debates amongst political contenders is the norm in mature democracies like the presidential debates in the United States and BBC prime ministerial face-offs in the United Kingdom. Indian democracy, modelled on the Westminster template, conspicuously lacks this feature of a head-to-head contest between political rivals. Authoritarian leaders like Russia’s Vladimir Putin or Brazil’s Jair Bolsonaro shied away from such public debates though such platforms existed in those countries. Putin unconvincingly feigned overwork and pleaded that such debates “impede his ability to carry out his duties” – this when Putin had held marathon ‘live calls’ for three-four hours each with planted questions, meet-and-greet sessions with assorted groups and even a four-day adventure car drive across Siberia! Clearly, the risk of getting publicly exposed, especially when a reassuring image existed in the public imagination, was high. In the last Indian general elections, too, some politicians had asked for a live debate “anytime, anywhere,” but the bait wasn’t taken. Indian politics in not about nuance or rationality -- it is predicated on absolutism, where faith in political leaders assumes deific proportions. Such blind reverence towards political leaders, or partisanship, necessitates the assumption of mythmaking and make-believing that cannot risk the unmasking of the deliberately created aura of infallibility. Societal ignorance and fault lines feed such protectionist political instincts as it thrives on subliminal fears, civilisational wounds and deliberately stoked passions that are based on caste, ethnicity, region and religion, but rarely on an issue. The belief in ‘superhuman’ leadership is as pronounced in the national parties as in the regional parties. Their divisive, limited and insincere agendas automatically diminish their ability to articulate or defend their purported promises and policies in open public forums, hence the natural tendency to avoid, shadowbox or sabre-rattle from the sidelines, but never partake in a free and fair debate. Sadly, a majority of citizens and party cadres are also content with the polarising and limited divides offered by their candidates, as opposed to forming a more holistic, informed and enlightened opinion that could override the considerations of caste, ethnicity, region or religion. Indian democracy has seen the sophistication in driving political preference through the creative use of traditional and modern media, though the actual content is never put through the rigour of adequate fact-checking or viability of implementation, as literally ‘anything goes’ in electioneering mode. This explains the wide gap between promises and actual delivery, by every government, without exception. This perennial lacuna exists because the candidate is never really whom we think ‘they are’, as the same is never put through unfiltered questioning to verify their supposed credentials. Even Donald Trump, who has openly expressed his disdain for one kind of media – the liberal media -- has routinely taken political questioning on his chin. In the first presidential debate, Trump incredulously stated, “I don’t want to pay taxes” and that businessmen like him, “unless they’re stupid, they go through the laws and that’s what it is.” Now, it is up to the American people to decode and decide the mind and spirit of the President who is seeking re-election. Nothing could be more honest, transparent or fair than a live debate between contestants who square-off on their policies, accusations and clarifications, vying for public approval. Traditionally, political scientists discounted the fear amongst nervous and insecure politicians about the impact of such public debates in swinging voting patterns as partisan attachments tended to be very sticky. But, of late, we live in an increasingly unsure, wary and questioning world that has rattled the lifelong beliefs of most. From the questionable management of societal divides, pandemic management to tense international relations, the ground reality of today has disconcerted and shaken the most ardent supporters of the Republican Party, and it is in that context that a one-on-one debate with Democrat Joe Biden could perhaps convince border-line Republicans to vote tactically for the latter. Why should Indian citizens be denied the opportunity to similarly probe, evaluate and test the mettle of the politicians in fray, as opposed to the ‘manufactured’ perceptions? For too long in our experiment with democracy, we have allowed populist, implausible and often-revisionist promises to prosper. Why shouldn’t the leader of 1.3 billion people be asked about their  plans on socio-economic issues, economic stimulus, China, law and order, etc? Why must the voter rely on hyperbole, vacuous generalisations, glaring silences or unviable promises? Our beholden or intimidated citizenry spare the politician the necessary grilling. Opposition parties are equally complicit in running away from such debates, fearing the risk of getting publicly exposed. The looming state election in Bihar exemplifies the lack of transparency and rigour in the democratic processes and choice-making. Sadly, it is not the crippling socio-economic reality of Bihar, agrarian crisis or such concerns, but the manufactured drama surrounding the death of a movie actor, dodgy alliances and caste calculations that are defining the conversation. None of the political aspirants are forced into showing any plans or asked about policies or even quizzed on their past. At best, wily spokespersons defend the rare question with competitive whataboutery, ambiguities and deflections. The people of Bihar are amongst the most politically conscious and participative citizens, yet the benefits of deciding the politicians’ individual competence, capabilities or clarity of thought are seemingly secondary to the impossible promises and the rote theatrical statements playing to the galleries. In this charade of incompetence, all political parties and the gullible citizenry are inadvertently hand-in-glove to allow a free run to those who will ultimately ‘lead’ us. The electoral wins of a Trump (despite losing the earlier presidential debate to Hillary) shows the limits of even public debating, but society is always served better with more political transparency, not less of it. (The writer is a former Lt Gov of Andaman & Nicobar Islands and Puducherry)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/dare-our-leader-debate-904406.html
20-10-2020||National||Kamal Nath doesn't know how to respect 'Harijan woman': Imarti Devi||Madhya Pradesh minister Imarti Devi on Monday hit back at state Congress chief Kamal Nath for his "item" jibe, saying he did not know how to respect a Dalit woman and had lost his mind after losing the chief minister's post. Campaigning on Sunday for byelection at Dabra town, from where Imarti Devi, a former Congress minister, is contesting on BJP ticket, Nath said his party's candidate was a simple person unlike his opponent who is an "item". Speaking to reporters at Dabra, Devi said, "He (Nath) does not know how to speak decently. He belongs to Bengal and is not from Madhya Pradesh. What does he know about respecting a Harijan (Dalit) woman? Nath went mad after resigning as chief minister and he can say anything." The exit of Imarti Devi and 21 other Congress MLAs in March brought down Nath's government. "In Madhya Pradesh, mothers and daughters are considered as Goddess Lakshmi and Nath is abusing them. I want Congress chief Sonia Gandhi to remove him from the party," she further said. Nath would not be able to win a single seat for the Congress from among 28 seats where bypolls are scheduled for November 3, she claimed. Meanwhile, a video purportedly showing Devi breaking down while talking about Nath's remarks to a news channel went viral of social media. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan wrote to Sonia Gandhi, demanding she sack Nath from all party posts for insulting a Dalit woman. "Your silence would compel me to think that you agree with Nath's statement," Chouhan said in the letter. Chouhan, BJP MP Jyotiraditya Scindia, Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar and other party leaders also sat on a two-hour silent fast to protest Nath's statement. State Congress spokesperson Durgesh Sharma said the BJP was trying to divert attention from real issues, and claimed that rape cases are on rise in MP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kamal-nath-doesnt-know-how-to-respect-harijan-woman-imarti-devi-904368.html
20-10-2020||National||CAA to be implemented soon, TMC believes in divide and rule politics: J P Nadda||Nadda, who was speaking at a meeting of social groups of north Bengal, accused the Mamata Banerjee government in West Bengal of indulging in "divide and rule politics" in the state to serve the political interests of her party - the TMC, unlike the BJP which "works for the development of all". "As far as the CAA is concerned, it has already been passed in parliament. All of you will get the benefits of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. We are committed to it," Nadda said. "Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, its implementation got delayed. But as the situation is slowly improving, the work has started. The rules are now being framed and CAA will be implemented very soon. Under this act all the eligible people will definitely get Indian citizenship," Nadda told the social groups, who included Dalits, Gorkhas, Rajbanshis and other tribes. Various social groups of the region had requested Nadda to ensure early implementation of the CAA as there is a vast population of refugees from erstwhile East Pakistan in north Bengal. As the local sentiment was in favour of the National Register of Citizens (NRC) and the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill which later became an act, the saffron party had made deep inroads in the region, once considered a TMC bastion, by bagging seven of the eight Lok Sabha seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Assembly polls are due in the state in April-May next year, and the fight for power promises to be a tough one as Banerjee will seek to return as chief minister for the third straight time. North Bengal, which comprises eight districts, accounts for 54 of the 294 assembly seats. Indicating that the CAA would be a major poll plank of the BJP in the assembly polls, Nadda said the party is committed to its implementation. The citizenship law had become a flashpoint in West Bengal since before its enactment in parliament in 2019 with the ruling TMC opposing the contentious legislation tooth and nail and the BJP pressing for its implementation. According to state BJP sources, the CAA will benefit more than 1.5 crore people across the country, including over 72 lakh in the West Bengal. Lashing out at the TMC government for its alleged "divide and rule policy" in Bengal, Nadda said only the BJP under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi can take everybody along as he believes in the policy of "development for all". "On one hand you have Prime Minister Narendra Modi Ji who works for the development for all and on the other hand, you have West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee who has employed the policy of divide and rule to serve TMC's political interests," he said. "Our philosophy is to take everyone along, but the philosophy of TMC divides the society and that party indulges in the politics of vote bank during the elections," he said. Continuing his attack on the TMC, which has often been a harsh critic of the saffron party, the BJP president accused it of pursuing "appeasement" policies and indulging in vote bank politics. "Mamta Banerjee government has deeply hurt and humiliated the Hindu community in the state. As elections are approaching, the TMC sensing a backlash has changed its tune and is now trying to lure people with all sorts of things," he said. The only thing that the TMC does is to indulge in the politics of vote bank, whereas the BJP only indulges in the politics of serving every citizen, he said. Nadda assailed the TMC government for not joining several central schemes, including Ayushman Bharat and PM Kisan Samman Nidhhi which he said were meant for the poor and farmers. Stating that 76 lakh farmers of West Bengal are being deprived of government help under Kisan Samman Nidhhi because Banerjee did not allow its implementation, he said, "Mamata Ji stop doing politics with the rights of poor people. The day BJP forms government in Bengal within moments, we will implement the Ayushman Bharat scheme and PM Kisan Samman Nidhhi in the state". Nadda thanked the Gorkha groups for their continued support to the BJP and said the party is committed to the "permanent political solution" to the problems of the Darjeeling hills and the demand for the recognition of 11 scheduled tribes of the Gorkha community. "Their empowerment is our responsibility. Both the issues are there in our manifesto (2019 Lok Sabha polls). We are committed to it," he said. Reaching out to the tea garden labourers in north Bengal, Nadda said the BJP government at the Centre had abolished the Plantation Labour Act and have been brought under the Minimum Wages Act. Nadda also urged the BJP MPs from the state to make a list of all the local products in the state and formulate a scheme and a roadmap for their expansion. The Centre will brand and market these local products all across the world, he said. He exuded confidence that the BJP will form the next government in West Bengal as the people there were fed up with the "violence and corruption" culture of the TMC. Condoling the death of BJP MLA Devendra Nath Roy, who was found hanging near his house in North Dinajpur district, Nadda asserted that the party will take the matter to its logical conclusion as per the law and under the guidance of democracy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/caa-to-be-implemented-soon-tmc-believes-in-divide-and-rule-politics-j-p-nadda-904400.html
20-10-2020||National||Karni Sena defends BJP leader accused of killing man in UP's Ballia||The Karni Sena on Monday came out in support of a BJP leader accused of killing a man in Uttar Pradesh's Ballia district, saying he acted in self-defence. Dhirendra Pratap Singh had shot and killed Jai Prakash Pal alias Gama (46) last week following a quarrel over the allotment of ration shops at Durjanpur village in Ballia's Reoti area. Earlier, BJP MLA from Bairia Assembly seat Surendra Singh had defended Dhirendra Pratap Singh and demanded a CB-CID probe in the matter. "During the allotment of ration shops, the other side indulged in a fight with Dhirendra's 84-year-old father due to which he fired in self-defence," senior vice-president of Karni Sena, Dhruv Kumar Singh said. "It's true that he committed the crime but action should also be taken against those who compelled him to do so. BJP MLA Surendra Singh is saying the same thing and our Karni Sena supports him," he added. "A delegation of our organisation will go to Ballia on Wednesday and take stock of the situation," he said. Karni Sena president Veer Pratap Singh Viru alleged that the administration was targeting the accused and vowed to launch an agitation to seek justice for him. After evading arrest for days, the accused was arrested by the Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force from Lucknow on Sunday and sent to 14 days judicial custody on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karni-sena-defends-bjp-leader-accused-of-killing-man-in-ups-ballia-904417.html
20-10-2020||National||DH Toon | Bihar polls: Tejashwi Yadav passes the ball to Chirag Paswan||The Mahagatbandhan Chief Ministerial candidate Tejashwi Yadav on Monday stunned everyone when he said that he was not averse to seeking support from the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) if the RJD-led Grand Alliance was short of a majority.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-bihar-polls-tejashwi-yadav-passes-the-ball-to-chirag-paswan-904431.html
20-10-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on October 20||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 75 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 7,628,721 as of October 20 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  116,153 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->  No. of people discharged: 67,33,328      Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-october-20-904433.html
20-10-2020||National||DH Radio | The Lead: A solution to stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana||In today's episode of The Lead from DH Radio, we speak to Suvrat Khanna from Verve Renewables about a solution to stubble-burning in Punjab and Haryana that cause severe pollution in Delhi and other parts of North India.  Hi and welcome to the Lead. In today's episode, DH's Sagar Kulkarni speaks to Suvrat Khanna, Co-founder Verve Renewables. The company provides a solution to the problem of stubble burning in Punjab. Listen in. Sagar Kulkarni: Hello, Mr Khanna. How are you? Suvrat Khanna: I'm good. You tell me. Sagar: Tell us about your new venture Verve Renewable. Tell us how did you venture into this sector? Suvrat: I have been born and brought up in Amritsar. This problem (Stubble burning) has persisted for a very very long time and we decided that there has to be some solution to this problem. Then we started looking around what can be done. We looked at multiple options. Fortunately, we managed to get in touch with a power generator. They were willing to step forward and give us material to generate power from the power plant that they have. That's how this journey started and then I partnered with one of my associated in Mumbai and then I moved from Mumbai to Chandigarh to start this business... To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-radio-the-lead-a-solution-to-stubble-burning-in-punjab-and-haryana-904436.html
20-10-2020||National||Death of an infant shows cruelty of starving in a country of food abundance||Nafisa watched her baby’s life drain away. She and her husband struggled to make even 1 rupee a day from their tailoring business after India went into a Covid-19 lockdown in March. They often have nothing to eat. Nafisa was breast-feeding little Aaris, and with hardly any food for herself, she simply couldn’t produce enough milk. He grew weak, and his skin yellowed with jaundice. Hungry and in pain, he sobbed and howled. He died in his mother’s arms just a few weeks into the lockdown, at four months old. It was an especially cruel tragedy because it happened in a country that boasts about having the world’s largest food-aid program. Government warehouses brim with more than 70 million metric tons of grains, or almost 15% of global stockpiles, and the nation’s wheat and rice harvests have surged to records. Still, like millions of other Indians, Nafisa has never gotten any of the subsidised food promised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s administration. Her 5-year-old son, Salman, doesn’t even bother asking for food anymore, because he knows there’s no point. “Nobody is listening to us,” 24-year-old Nafisa, who goes by a single name, said from the Banda district in Uttar Pradesh state. Recounting how she applied in vain time and again for the ration card that would help feed her family, she broke down in tears. “If we had the card, at least we could feed our child.” Governments across the world have failed to prevent a hunger crisis that is reaching monumental proportions. Globally, as many as 132 million more people than previously projected by the United Nations could go hungry in 2020. The total increase for this year could be more than triple any this century, even at a time of ample food supplies, as the pandemic sharpens the world’s deep inequalities. To meet the need, the government is required by law to provide as many as 5 kilograms (11 pounds) of rice, wheat and coarse grains at subsidised rates as low as 1 rupee per kilogram to anyone who needs it. The cheap staple foods are sold at so-called fair price shops, where buyers need a government issued ration card to make a purchase at the give-away rates. India spends more than 1 trillion rupees ($13.6 billion) on the program. But there are still tens of millions getting locked out of the assistance. Bureaucratic difficulties were cited by the government’s think tank Niti Aayog as the single most-important reason blocking access to the food program. Raja Bhaiya, the secretary of aid group Vidya Dham Samiti which works in the Banda district, said some shopkeepers also direct grain that’s meant for the program for their own sales, at higher prices. The biggest problem with the program, though, is that it’s woefully underfunded. More than 100 million people are being left out of the current budget, according to Jean Dreze, a visiting professor with Ranchi University in eastern India, who helped draft the national food law. The government is allotting its funds using 2011-2012 census data. Back then, the population was a little more than 1.2 billion. Now it’s grown to roughly 1.38 billion. Siraj Hussain is a former chairman of state-run Food Corp. of India, the agency that oversees the food procurement program. He agrees about the problems with the old figures. The dated census data means that the actual number of those in need “is not known,” said Hussain, who’s now a visiting senior fellow at the Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations in New Delhi. That means local agencies like the one Nafisa visited receive more applications than they have quotas for, according to two officials with the program in Uttar Pradesh who asked not to be named because the information isn’t public. There are thousands of pending applications in the rural Banda district, according to one of the officials. The majority of those applicants should technically be granted approval based on the food law, but because local quotas are already filled, they are usually rejected or left in limbo. Only when someone who’s already enrolled in the program dies or is otherwise deleted from the list does a spot open to issue a new card, the officials said. Sudhanshu Pandey, India’s food secretary, acknowledged that government benefits are being calculated based on the old census data in emailed comments to Bloomberg. The federal government is responsible for procurement, storage and bulk allocation of food grains to states, which are responsible for identifying beneficiaries and issuing ration cards, he said. The food department is regularly advising states to cover any left-out eligible persons, within the coverage limits, he said. During the pandemic, the program has been scaled up, with Uttar Pradesh alone adding about 4 million people. Uttar Pradesh is India’s most populous state. The Banda district, Nafisa’s home, is among the poorest, with its children suffering some of the worst rates of stunting from malnutrition in the country. Anand Kumar Singh, district magistrate of Banda, didn’t respond to emailed questions. Bloomberg tried more than five times to speak to him on the phone.Nafisa has made several trips to the local office where she’s supposed to sign up for the ration card. Each time she gets turned away without one, and she’s never given a clear reason why. “We are in a dire situation,” she said. “There is nothing in the kitchen.” The government has taken some steps to mitigate the situation as Covid-19 continues to spread -- India now has the second-highest number of cases in the world, trailing only the U.S. Stimulus measures include offering an additional 5-kilogram grain package per person for free until November to the more than 800 million who are covered by the food program. On top of that, about 80 million migrant workers, some of whom don’t have access to the food program, were also offered grains for free in May and June. The virus outbreak is also accelerating India’s push to digitise the food-rationing system, allowing citizens to receive entitlements anywhere in the country rather than just in their home towns. But the problem remains that millions haven’t been granted access to the program. Ram Kumar, who also lives in the Banda district, first applied for a ration card in 2019. Since then, he’s made trip after trip to the agency to inquire about his status. Each time he’s offered what feels like a different excuse for why he hasn’t been approved yet. “The officials scold us when we go to check the status,” the 39-year-old said. He’s been out of work for months, relying on savings to feed his family of four. Now, the money has run out. His wife and two children have left to live at his in-laws’ houses. To feed himself, he’s sunken into a debt trap -- first borrowing from his employer, then taking a loan from village lenders to pay back that advance on his salary. “I will try again for a ration card when the next government comes to power, and if that doesn’t happen we will continue living like this,” he said. “I never expected it would be that difficult to get a ration card.” The government is hesitating to expand the program to cover more people as higher expenses on subsidised food will widen the nation’s fiscal deficit, said Dreze of Ranchi University. Some economists in the country are calling for a universal public distribution system, removing the need for a ration card to access the subsidised-grain stores and opening them up since the state is sitting on huge crop stockpiles. “I would favor providing food to all who arrive at the ration shops,” said Rohini Pande, Henry J. Heinz II professor of economics and director of Yale University’s Economic Growth Center. “The government should also sell other essential items such as edible oil, sugar, vegetables and milk at subsidised rates.” Mubina Khatoon, a 34-year-old homemaker in the Banda district, first applied for a ration card back in 2019. That application was canceled by the local office, though she wasn’t told why. Back then, Khatoon’s family would end their days with meals of rice, lentils and vegetables, even meat or fish on occasion. But now her husband, Sheeraj Ahamad, is lucky when his work as a hawker selling clothes brings in 200 rupees once in a while. A stark turnaround after making as much as 600 rupees a day in the months before Covid. Dinner these days is often little more than chapatis, a homemade flatbread made from wheat flour. In just a few months, Khatoon dropped 9 kilograms (20 pounds). Her 11-year-old son is down almost the same. Her husband, who carries a heavy load of clothes from to village to village, is down a whopping 20 kilograms, she said. Khatoon applied again for a ration card in June, and each time she checks with her local agency, she’s told that it’s still pending. “What do we eat to survive? What do we feed our child?” she said. “All our food containers are empty.” --With assistance from Subramaniam Sharma and Prashanth Vishwanathan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/death-of-an-infant-shows-cruelty-of-starving-in-a-country-of-food-abundance-904455.html
20-10-2020||National||As pandemic hits life, Indians decide to look past coronavirus, go back to work||India is on course to top the world in coronavirus cases, but from Maharashtra's whirring factories to Kolkata's thronging markets, people are back at work -- and eager to forget the pandemic for festival season. After a strict lockdown in March that left millions on the brink of starvation, the government and people of the world's second-most populous country decided life must go on. Sonali Dange, for instance, has two young daughters and an elderly mother-in-law to look after. She was hospitalised this year in excruciating pain after catching the coronavirus. But after the lockdown exhausted the family's savings, the 29-year-old had to return to work at a factory where she earns 25,000 rupees ($340) a month. "Now that I have recovered, I am no longer so scared of the disease," she told AFP amid the din of machinery at the Nobel Hygiene plant east of Mumbai. The pandemic's confirmed fatality rate has been heaviest in richer nations with older populations -- the US death toll is double that of India despite having only a quarter of the population. Poor countries have suffered far worse economic pain, with the World Bank predicting 150 million people could fall into extreme poverty worldwide. Many children in the developing world are now working to help their parents make ends meet, activists say, while thousands of young girls have been forced into marriage. In Varanasi in northern India, 12-year-old Sanchit no longer attends school and instead collects cloth discarded from bodies before cremation on the city's ghats. "On a good day, I earn around 50 rupees (70 US cents)," the boy told AFP. The IMF projects India's GDP will contract by 10.3 per cent this year, the biggest slump of any major emerging nation and its worst since independence in 1947. When India went into lockdown, it was a human catastrophe, leaving millions in the informal economy jobless, penniless and destitute almost overnight. No one wants to go back to that, said Gargi Mukherjee, 42, as she shopped in the New Market area of Kolkata, thronging with festival-season customers, many without face masks. "For survival, people have to come out and do their jobs. If you don't earn, you cannot feed your family," she told AFP. Experts caution that the October-November season -- when Hindus celebrate major festivals such as Durga Puja, Dussehra and Diwali -- may trigger a sharp increase in infections, as consumers crowd markets to snap up big-ticket items on discount. "Of course corona is to be feared. But what can I do? I can't miss the moments of Durga Puja," said housewife Tiyas Bhattacharya Das, 25. "Durga Puja comes once in the year, so I cannot miss the enjoyment of the shopping." Sunil Kumar Sinha, a principal economist at the Mumbai-based India Ratings and Research agency, said Indians faced a stark choice. "People have to choose whether to die of hunger or risk getting a virus that may or may not kill you," he told AFP. Indeed India's relatively low mortality rate -- about 1.5 per cent of its more than seven million cases -- has surprised many who warned coronavirus would lay waste to its crowded cities, beset by poor sanitation and crumbling public hospitals. Even accounting for some likely undercounting, it is evident that the nightmare scenario of dead bodies piled in the streets as seen during the 1918 flu pandemic has mercifully not materialised. The unexpected reprieve has given Prime Minister Narendra Modi leeway to resist a fresh lockdown, with the human toll -- and political cost -- of another shutdown higher than seeing case numbers soar. But Bhramar Mukherjee, an epidemiologist at the University of Michigan, warned the government should not simply let the virus run its course. "In order to open up, you need to intensify public health measures... If you completely take your foot off the brakes, the virus will take off too," Mukherjee told AFP. Last month, the Indian Medical Association slammed the Modi government for its "indifference" to the sacrifices of front-line staff in one of the world's worst-funded health care systems. "It appears that they are dispensable," it said. Back in Kolkata, bookseller Prem Prakash, 67, was philosophical. "You have to leave some things to fate," he told AFP. "Fearing death too much is not a solution. When that comes, you should accept it gracefully."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-pandemic-hits-life-indians-decide-to-look-past-coronavirus-go-back-to-work-904467.html
20-10-2020||National||Not ruling out possibility of another round of stimulus: FM Nirmala Sitharaman||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday said the government has begun an exercise to assess the impact of the pandemic on the economy and likely contraction in GDP, even as she did not rule out the possibility of another stimulus to boost growth. "I have not closed the option for another stimulus ... Every time we have announced one, it has been after a lot of consideration... I have not closed the option to come up with one more stimulus," she said at the launch of a book -- Portraits of Power: Half a Century of Being at Ringside - by the 15th Finance Commission Chairman N K Singh. Last week, Sitharaman had announced a payment of cash in lieu of LTC and Rs 10,000 festival advance to the government employees to stimulate consumer demand during the festive season and boost the economy. She also announced additional capital spending and Rs 12,000 crore, 50-year interest-free loan to states to boost the economy that has been battered by the pandemic and the resulting lockdown. These two measures are expected to create a consumer demand of about Rs 28,000 crore. The government, which had in May announced a Rs 20 lakh crore 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' stimulus, is pushing ahead with a full opening to try to boost the economy ahead of the usually high-spending festival season. To a question on whether the Finance Ministry would come out with an assessment of economic contraction, Sitharaman said the ministry has started doing some assessment since the beginning of October and would soon come with a projection. "We have only now started doing some kind of an assessment. We waited for the commencement of the second half, which has just started. And we have got a lot of inputs which are very different from what we had in July. And ideally, it should be so. "Perhaps yes sometime we will have to come out with a statement. Whether I do it in public or do it in Parliament is one thing, but the Finance Ministry will have to make an assessment of what it is going to be," she said. The Reserve Bank of India has projected the Indian economy to contract 9.5 per cent in the current fiscal, while the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Bank estimates the contraction at 10.3 per cent and 9.6 per cent, respectively. A tough lockdown imposed to stem the spread of coronavirus had resulted in the economy contracting by a record 23.9 per cent during April-June. Sitharaman further said the ministry would soon approach the Cabinet on demarcating the strategic and non-strategic sectors. In May, the minister had announced that a new coherent Public Sector Enterprises Policy would be formulated to push reforms in central public sector enterprises (CPSEs). There will be a maximum of four public sector companies in strategic sectors, and state-owned firms in other segments will eventually be privatised. "Work is going on and I would like to see a realisation on that.. (it) is likely to come to the Cabinet," Sitharaman said. Speaking at the event, Reliance Industries Chairman Mukesh Ambani said India needs to rethink and reinvent manufacturing. "... We need as much thinking about bricks as we have about clicks. We need to think in terms of an entire ecosystem that delivers the future industries and future services," Ambani said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-ruling-out-possibility-of-another-round-of-stimulus-fm-nirmala-sitharaman-904481.html
20-10-2020||National||India reports lowest daily rise in Covid-19 cases in nearly three months||The number of new coronavirus infections reported daily in India dropped below 50,000 nearly after three months, taking India's Covid-19 caseload to 75,97,063, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. A total of 46,790 fresh infections were reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 1,15,197 with 587 fatalities being registered in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of new fatalities reported daily across the country was recorded below 600 for the second consecutive day. There are 7,48,538, active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 9.85 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. A total 67,33,328 people have recuperated from the disease so far pushing the national recovery rate to 88.63 per cent while the case fatality rate due Covid-19 stands at 1.52 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past  50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28 and crossed 70 lakh on October 11. According to the ICMR,  a cumulative total of 9,61,16,771 samples have been tested up to October 19 with 10,32,795 samples being tested on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-lowest-daily-rise-in-covid-19-cases-in-nearly-three-months-904482.html
20-10-2020||National||Patients play 'garba' at Covid-19 facilities, videos go viral||Two videos of patients performing 'garba' at Covid-19 facilities in Mumbai have surfaced on social media, even as the Maharashtra government has appealed to people to hold health and blood donation camps instead of dandiya during the ongoing Navratri festival. In one of the videos, a number of Covid-19 patients with masks on their faces are seen performing garba along with health workers wearing PPE kits on a Bollywood song in a female ward. In the clip, some female patients are also seen watching the performance. In another video, some male patients are seen doing garba with healthcare professionals who are in PPE kits at 'Nursing Station 15'. According to some social media posts, the videos of garba performance are from the Goregaon-based jumbo Covid-19 facility of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). When contacted, BMC Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal told PTI on Tuesday that one of the videos of the garba performance was from the BMC's Covid-19 centre, but the facility's dean told him they had not organised it. Chahal said the facility's dean also informed him that the patients were celebrating on their own in the ward along with health workers, and they were feeling happy and good. "As it was a sign of happiness, the doctors inside (the facility) allowed them to celebrate," he said quoting the dean. The facility's dean also said there was no harm if the patients do something to be happy in a Covid-19 centre, the civic chief added. Mumbai is one of the worst affected by Covid-19 in the county with nearly 2.43 lakh cases and over 9,700 deaths reported from the metropolis so far. The Maharashtra government last month urged people to celebrate the Navratri and forthcoming Dussehra festival in a low-key manner due to the coronavirus outbreak. In the guidelines issued on September 29, it suggested organisation of health and blood donation camps instead of dandiya, garba and cultural events involving mass participation. Even the BMC earlier this month appealed to people to strictly follow guidelines issued by the state government while celebrating the Navratri and Dussehra festivals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/patients-play-garba-at-covid-19-facilities-videos-go-viral-904507.html
20-10-2020||National||India considers trade talks with Taiwan amid China row||By Archana Chaudhary and Chris Horton Support is growing within India’s government to formally start talks on a trade deal with Taiwan as both democracies see relations with China deteriorate. Taiwan has sought trade talks with India for several years, but Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government has been reluctant to move ahead because it would involve a messy fight with China once any pact is registered at the World Trade Organization, according to a senior Indian government official who asked not be named, citing rules for speaking with the media. Yet over the past few months, the hawks in India who want to start trade talks are getting the upper hand, the official said. A trade deal with Taiwan would help India’s goal of seeking greater investments in technology and electronics, the official said, adding that it’s unclear when a final decision would be made on whether to start talks. Earlier this month, Modi’s government gave approval to firms including Taiwan’s Foxconn Technology Group, Wistron Corp. and Pegatron Corp. as he looks to attract investment worth more than 10.5 trillion rupees ($143 billion) for smartphone production over five years. Indian Commerce Ministry spokesman Yogesh Baweja didn’t immediately respond to a request seeking comment. Taiwan’s top trade negotiator, John Deng, didn’t immediately respond to emails seeking comment. Any formal talks with India would amount to a big win for Taiwan, which has struggled to begin trade negotiations with most major economies due to pressure from China. Like most countries, India doesn’t formally recognize Taiwan, with the two governments maintaining unofficial diplomatic missions in the form of “representative offices.” India and Taiwan in 2018 signed an updated bilateral investment agreement in a bid to further expand economic ties. Trade between them grew 18% to $7.2 billion in 2019, according to India’s Department of Commerce. ‘Country’ Spat President Tsai Ing-wen’s administration has raised its profile in India in recent weeks after China issued a statement telling Indian media outlets not to refer to Taiwan as a country when reporting on its Oct. 10 National Day celebrations. Twitter users in India lambasted China and its ambassador to New Delhi, Sun Weidong, while heaping praise on Taiwan and making the hashtag #TaiwanNationalDay go viral. Indian public sentiment toward China has fallen in the wake of deadly border clashes between the two neighbors starting in May. Modi’s government has since banned dozens of Chinese apps including TikTok, while also speaking with Japan, Australia and the US about creating alternative supply chains to diversify away from China in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. India has seen more than 7.5 million infections and 115,000 deaths from Covid-19. That displeasure with China, as well as Taiwan’s successful handling of the pandemic, is translating into a soft power opportunity for Tsai. Taiwan’s 24 million have seen fewer than 600 infections and only seven deaths. “We have to think about the way for democracies, for like-minded countries, to work further together,” Taiwan foreign minister Joseph Wu said during an interview last week on the television network India Today. “We have traditional good relations with the United States, with Japan, and we want to develop closer ties with India as well.” Tsai, who was voted into a second term in a January landslide, has sought to capitalize on the wave of interest in Taiwan among Indians online. On October 11, she thanked Indian Twitter users who had sent national day greetings. Two days later she went viral again, posting photos of her visiting the Taj Mahal. On October 15, Tsai tweeted a photo of Indian food accompanied by a cup of masala chai, which some Twitter users saw as a possible reference to the so-called Milk Tea Alliance that has united activists from Taiwan, Hong Kong, Thailand and elsewhere against Chinese nationalism. All three tweets received more than 40,000 likes each and thousands of friendly messages from Indian accounts. China’s Communist Party, which claims Taiwan as its territory despite having never ruled it, has pushed back against the Tsai administration’s overtures to India. “We urge relevant Indian media to adhere to the correct position with regard to the significant core interests of China’s sovereignty and territorial integrity,” Ji Rong, a spokesperson for China’s embassy in New Delhi, said in a statement on Friday. Indian media, Ji continued, “should not provide ‘Taiwan independence’ forces a platform, so as to avoid sending the wrong message.” Sana Hashmi, a fellow at Taipei-based National Chengchi University and author of “China’s Approach Towards Territorial Disputes: Lessons and Prospects,” said it makes sense for India to align with Taiwan economically. “Increasingly there seems to be an awareness not just among Indians but even in other nations about how China has dictated relationships in the region,” said Hashmi, who has penned op-eds in Taiwanese and Indian media encouraging closer ties between the two democracies. “And it’s not like China is going to give any concessions to India or Taiwan for toeing its line.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-considers-trade-talks-with-taiwan-amid-china-row-904514.html
20-10-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi to address nation at 6 pm today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be sharing a message for citizens at 6 PM today. आज शाम 6 बजे राष्ट्र के नाम संदेश दूंगा। आप जरूर जुड़ें। Will be sharing a message with my fellow citizens at 6 PM this evening. "Will be sharing a message with my fellow citizens at 6 PM this evening." It will be his seventh address to the nation since the pandemic's outbreak. The prime minister has often taken to televised address to announce major decisions or developments. In his last such address, he had on June 30 announced the extension of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY), a programme to provide free ration for over 80 crore people, mostly poor, by five more months till November end. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-to-address-nation-at-6-pm-today-904525.html
20-10-2020||National||Don't like the type of language he used: Rahul Gandhi on Kamal Nath's 'item' remark||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday condemned the 'item' remark, saying that he does not like the type of language used by Madhya Pradesh Congress chief Kamal Nath.  "Kamal Nath ji is from my party but personally, I don't like the type of language that he used...I don't appreciate it, regardless of who he is. It is unfortunate," Gandhi said.  Nath, under fire over a comment about a woman minister in the state, on Monday evening alleged in a letter to Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan that the BJP was misleading people. Nath is facing flak from the ruling party for referring to minister Imarti Devi as "item" during a campaign speech for Assembly by-election. Earlier in the day, Chouhan and other BJP leaders observed a two-hour silent fast in protest against Nath. Chouhan also wrote a letter to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, asking her to take action against Nath for his comment about a Dalit woman leader. Nath, in his own missive to Chouhan, said, "I didn't make any disgraceful remarks but you served lies....The word I said has a lot of meanings. Your party is serving lies and misleading by interpreting the word arbitrarily." In the last seven months under the BJP rule, Madhya Pradesh was once again reaching the top position in terms of crime against women but Chouhan did not act, he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-like-the-type-of-language-he-used-rahul-gandhi-on-kamal-naths-item-remark-904546.html
20-10-2020||National||Delhi govt to donate Rs 15 crore for Telangana flood relief||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced a donation of Rs 15 crore for relief efforts in flood-hit Telangana, saying people of Delhi stand with residents of the state. "Floods have caused havoc in Hyderabad. People of Delhi stand by our brother and sisters in Hyderabad in this hour of crisis. Delhi govt will donate Rs 15 cr to the Govt of Telangana for its relief efforts," he tweeted. As many as 70 people have died in rain-related incidents during the past one week in the state, Telangana Minister KT Rama Rao said on Monday.   The minister said Hyderabad received the second highest recorded rainfall after 1908, which forced the state government to relocate about 37,000 people from low-lying areas to relief camps. According to him, 33 people in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) and adjoining areas, and 37 people in districts have lost their lives. A fresh spell of heavy rains on Saturday night caused flooding on Sunday in parts of the city after it last week witnessed one of the worst deluges in recent times following unprecedented downpour in over a century. The Telangana government, in a preliminary estimate, had pegged the losses at over Rs 5,000 crore caused due to rains and floods.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-govt-to-donate-rs-15-crore-for-telangana-flood-relief-904564.html
20-10-2020||National||Now, students can provisionally apply for CA courses after class X||Students will now be able to seek provisional admission to foundation course of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) after class 10 exams, according to new norms. However, provisional admission to the foundation course will only be regularised once a candidate clears class 12 exams. The new norms will enable students to become a Chartered Accountant (CA) six months before the present timeline. "The institute has recently got the approval of the government for amending the regulations 25E, 25F & 28F of Chartered Accountants Regulations, 1988, which now enables candidate to provisionally register in the Foundation Course of ICAI after passing Class 10 examinations. However, provisional admission to the foundation course will only be regularised once the candidate clears class 12 exams," said Atul Kumar Gupta, President, ICAI. The basic objective behind the proposal was to allow students to provisionally register in the foundation course after passing class 10 examination, he said. "This will help students to prepare for the foundation course while pursuing class 11 and 12 and thus students would have ample time to update their knowledge and acquire requisite techniques to appear and pass CA foundation with flying colours. The ICAI also offers free online classes to students of the foundation which can be accessed anytime, anywhere," Gupta added. After appearing for class 12 examination in February or March, students would then be eligible to take the foundation examination to be held in May or June. Detailing the advantages of new entry requirements, Gupta said, "Students can provisionally register themselves for the CA Foundation course after passing class 10 examination hence providing them with more time for developing, understanding and preparing for the professional course." "Students will be able to complete four months study period while pursuing class 11 and 12 and appear in foundation examination in the month of May or June immediately after appearing in class 12 examination. With the new norms, students will be able complete CA course and become Chartered Accountant, six months in advance, due to early admission," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/now-students-can-provisionally-apply-for-ca-courses-after-class-x-904587.html
20-10-2020||National||Tanishq ad created a movement; many buying products to make point: Ad maker||More number of people have seen the now-withdrawn Tanishq advertisement as the controversy also created a "movement" where many are buying Tanishq products to take a stand, the advertisement campaign's creator said on Tuesday. The ad showed realities and, after the controversy, a silent majority of people has started speaking out against a vocal minority, according to Amit Akali, Managing Partner and Creative Head of 'What's Your Problem', the agency behind the advertisement campaign. In an interview to PTI, he also asserted that no one would have expected the backlash because "communal harmony is the centre of our fabric". Nevertheless, on withdrawing the advertisement, he termed Tanishq as a "brave" company that considered the safety of employees in the face of the controversy. The $120-billion Tata Group chose to withdraw the 55-second Tanishq advertisement, which shows a Muslim mother-in-law caring for her pregnant Hindu daughter-in-law, in the wake of a furore online and displeasure among certain groups for alleged communal tones. "People are going out there and telling us that we will not let this film get deleted, they are sharing the film on their own even though it has been removed. Or there is a movement where people are buying Tanishq and showing us the bills," Akali told PTI. Despite the advertisement being withdrawn, many people came in support of the campaign and made their displeasure against the online trolls known. "We are at that stage where the majority is speaking up and that is where the love for Tanishq started coming in. I think this is a normal phenomenon in any country," he said, pointing out that this is contrary to the behavioural phenomenon called "spiral of silence". Spiral of silence refers to a large part of the majority staying silent because this is a way of life for them but there is a vocal minority which keeps speaking, he said. Making it clear that the intent behind the campaign was just to show cultural realities which gel well with a brand's promise, and not political at all, Akali said the broader 'Ekatvam' or unity campaign of Tanishq will continue. Stating that the society sided with Tanishq because the message resonated with it, he said “more people have seen the message than if it wasn't removed”. It was a simple film showing how a pregnant daughter-in-law is cared for in our society where multiple communities thrive, he added. He said the advertisement which ran into the controversy was part of a broader campaign called 'Ekatvam', wherein the jewellery brand has tied up with 1,000 craftsmen across 15 cultures of India to launch a collection. On the Tata Group company withdrawing the advertisement, Akali backed Tanishq terming the client as a "brave" company which took the stance of employee safety in the face of the controversy. "I would have taken exactly the same decision if I would have been in the client's shoes. Nothing is more important than the safety of an employee. It is a brave client and the client took a stance for the safety of its employees," he said. However, he declined to elaborate on the difficulties encountered since the controversy erupted. The past week since the controversy seems longer than seven days, but the love received from across the world is "beautiful, fantastic and overwhelming", Akali said. He said an online group has been created where over 200 people have come up with their own stories of inter-faith marriage and attempts are being made to document these experiences as a book as well. "We were very clear that we wanted to take a stance, versus just communicate about a product or just talk about the festive season. The stance we took was Ekatvam or unity," he said and stressed that there was nothing audacious in taking the stance despite the events like the anti-CAA protests and general communal attitude in the country. "We didn't set out to do audacious things, we set out to do correct things, things happening around us and this is normal reality. A mother-in-law taking care of the daughter-in-law is the reality," Akali said and asserted that he is himself a Hindu-Sikh married to a Parsi. When asked whether the advertisement can be termed as an inflection point where the silent majority has started speaking out, Akali said he does not want any such credit and added that the society was always outspoken. He, however, exuded confidence that history will look at the campaign as a "watershed moment" from a marketing perspective where a brand spoke what it wanted to.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tanishq-ad-created-a-movement-many-buying-products-to-make-point-ad-maker-904595.html
20-10-2020||National||More than half the farmers supporting or opposing farm laws have no information about them: Survey||More than half the farmers supporting or opposing the three recent farm laws have no information about them, a survey conducted by Gaon Connection has found. The survey, "The Indian Farmer's Perception of the New Agri Laws", found that out of the 52 per cent who opposed them 36 per cent did not know the details of the legislations. Similarly, of the 35 per cent supporting the agri laws, almost 18 per cent were not informed about them, the survey found. The new farm laws promise, among other things, freedom to farmers to sell their produce in the open market. This face-to-face survey was conducted between October 3 and October 9 across 53 districts in 16 states of the country, according to a statement issued by Gaon Connection. The survey included 5,022 farmers as respondents. As per the findings of the survey, released as 'The Rural Report 2: The Indian Farmer's Perception of the New Agri Laws', the biggest fear of these new agri laws among the respondent farmers (57 per cent) is that they will now be forced to sell their crop produce at a lower price in the open market, while 33 per cent farmers fear the government will end the system of minimum support price (MSP). Further, 59 per cent respondent farmers want the MSP system to be made a mandatory law in India. A bigger proportion of marginal and small farmers, who own less than five acres land, support these agri laws in comparison to medium and large farmers. "Interestingly in spite of slightly more than half (52%) the respondent farmers opposing the three new agri laws (of which 36% were not informed about these laws), almost 44% respondent farmers said the Modi government was 'pro-farmer', whereas about 28% said it was 'anti-farmer'. Further, to another survey question, a majority of farmers (35 per cent) said the Modi government supported the farmers, whereas about 20 per cent said it supported the private corporates/companies," the statement said. During the last monsoon session of Parliament, three new agri bills were passed, followed by President Ram Nath Kovind giving his asset to them on September 27, which are now the law of the land. The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, seeks to give freedom to farmers to sell their produce outside of the notified Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) market yards. The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, gives farmers the right to enter into a contract with agribusiness firms, processors, wholesalers, exporters, or large retailers for the sale of future farming produce at a pre-agreed price. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, is meant to remove commodities like cereals, pulses, oilseeds, onion, and potato from the list of essential commodities and do away with the imposition of stock holding limits. A section of farmers and farmers' organisations have been protesting against the new farm laws. To document the opinion and perception of the farmers on these new Acts, Gaon Connection carried out this rapid survey with 5,022 respondent farmers spread across all regions of the country. The survey found that overall 67 per cent farmer respondents were aware of the recent three agricultural laws. Meanwhile, two-third of farmers were aware about the recent farmers' protest in the country. Awareness about such protests was more among the farmers in north-west region (91 per cent), which includes the states of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. Least awareness was reported in the east region (West Bengal, Odisha, Chhattisgarh) where less than half (46 per cent) were aware about recent farmers' protest. Overall, 52 per cent farmers reportedly oppose the three new agri laws, whereas 35 per cent support these Acts. Of those who support these laws, almost half (47 per cent) favour them because they believe it will give them freedom to sell their crop anywhere in the country. Among those who oppose these laws, the highest percentage of respondent farmers (57 per cent) said they did not support the three laws because "farmers will be forced to sell their produce at lower price in open market".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-than-half-the-farmers-supporting-or-opposing-farm-laws-have-no-information-about-them-survey-904597.html
20-10-2020||National||What is the Malabar exercise, and why is it significant?||Australia will join three-way naval exercises involving the United States, Japan and India, in a move that could provoke concern from China, which has criticised similar joint drills in the past. Here are some of the most common questions on the Malabar exercise: What is the Malabar exercise? The Malabar naval exercise began in 1992 as a training event between the United States and India. Japan joined it in 2015, but Australia has not participated since 2007. The exercise was conducted off the coast of Guam in the Philippine Sea in 2018 and off the coast of Japan in 2019. This year's drills are likely to be held in the Bay of Bengal and the Gulf, India's defence ministry says. Dates have not yet been confirmed. Why is it significant? It will be the first time that the United States, India, Japan and Australia - the informal grouping is known as the Quad - have participated in a joint military exercise of this size. The four democracies in the Indo-Pacific hope the exercise can act as a counterweight to the Chinese military and political influence in the region. India, which is locked in a military stand-off on the disputed land border with China, hopes the expansion of the exercise will contain what it sees as Beijing's intrusion into its territory, analysts say. "The road to peace in the mountains may lie through the sea," a leading newspaper, the Hindustan Times, said in an editorial on Tuesday. What ships will participate? "It will be the best of the best," said Captain D K Sharma, a defence analyst at BharatShakti.in and a former Indian navy official. India, which last year sent two smaller warships, was likely to send a larger carrier this time as smaller distances are involved, Sharma said. The United States already has the supercarriers Nimitz in the Gulf and Ronald Reagan in the Bay of Bengal, both possible participants in the drill. Japan's navy is likely to send one of its two 'Izumo-class' helicopter carriers, Sharma said, the largest in its fleet and which have been part of the exercise for several years. Australia could send one of its newest ships, such as the destroyer Hobart, he added. How will Covid-19 impact on exercise? Participants usually meet in the host country before the drills begin, as well as exchanging crew members for observation purposes. But India's defence ministry has said this year's exercise will be "non-contact", meaning participants will not meet in person, nor will crews be transferred between ships, as a precaution against the coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/what-is-the-malabar-exercise-and-why-is-it-significant-904598.html
20-10-2020||National||CA foundation course provisional admission now open to class 11 students||Students will now be able to seek provisional admission to foundation course of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) after class 10 exams, according to new norms. However, provisional admission to the foundation course will only be regularised once a candidate clears class 12 exams. The new norms will enable students to become a Chartered Accountant (CA) six months before the present timeline. "The institute has recently got the approval of the government for amending the regulations 25E, 25F & 28F of Chartered Accountants Regulations, 1988, which now enables candidate to provisionally register in the Foundation Course of ICAI after passing Class 10 examinations. However, provisional admission to the foundation course will only be regularised once the candidate clears class 12 exams," said Atul Kumar Gupta, President, ICAI. The basic objective behind the proposal was to allow students to provisionally register in the foundation course after passing class 10 examination, he said. "This will help students to prepare for the foundation course while pursuing class 11 and 12 and thus students would have ample time to update their knowledge and acquire requisite techniques to appear and pass CA foundation with flying colours. The ICAI also offers free online classes to students of the foundation which can be accessed anytime, anywhere," Gupta added. After appearing for class 12 examination in February or March, students would then be eligible to take the foundation examination to be held in May or June. Detailing the advantages of new entry requirements, Gupta said, "Students can provisionally register themselves for the CA Foundation course after passing class 10 examination hence providing them with more time for developing, understanding and preparing for the professional course." "Students will be able to complete four months study period while pursuing class 11 and 12 and appear in foundation examination in the month of May or June immediately after appearing in class 12 examination. With the new norms, students will be able complete CA course and become Chartered Accountant, six months in advance, due to early admission," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ca-foundation-course-provisional-admission-now-open-to-class-11-students-904600.html
20-10-2020||National||Kamal Nath expresses regret over 'item' jibe at MP minister||Facing flak for his "item" jibe about Madhya Pradesh minister Imarti Devi, state Congress chief Kamal Nath has expressed regret and claimed that he did not say anything disrespectful. While Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said earlier in the day that he did not appreciate the kind of language Nath used, Nath maintained that he would not apologise. Nath claimed the word "item' is used in the Lok Sabha and state assemblies, but the BJP tried to "mislead" by making it an issue to divert people's attention as it is sensing defeat in the November 3 bypolls in Madhya Pradesh. "I did not say anything disrespectful. I respect women. If anyone thinks this is disrespectful, then I regret it," he told reporters on Monday night. Addressing a poll meeting on Sunday in Gwalior's Dabra town, where the BJP has fielded Imarti Devi, Kamal Nath said the Congress candidate was a "simple person" unlike his opponent who was an "item". State BJP leaders, led by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, on Monday held a protest against Kamal Nath, while the National Commission for Women sought an explanation from the Congress leader for his remark. Chouhan also wrote to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, asking her to condemn Nath's remarks and remove the former chief minister from all party posts. Nath said, "The BJP is trying to divert the attention from real issues after it realised that it is badly losing. I will not let them succeed." In a letter to Chouhan on Monday night, he said, "I didn't make any disgraceful remarks but you served lies...the word I said has a lot of meanings. Your party is serving lies and misleading by interpreting the word arbitrarily." He also alleged that a Union minister and a cabinet colleague of Chouhan recently used derogatory terms for women. Bypolls to 28 Madhya Pradesh Assembly seats will be held on November 3. On Tuesday, Nath was asked by reporters about Rahul Gandhi expressing disapproval about his controversial comment. "It is Rahulji's opinion. Whatever was told to him and in what context I had said that...I have already cleared in what context I said so and there is no need to say anything further," Nath said. "Why should I apologise? I have already said it was not my aim (to disrespect her). If still someone feels that he or she is disrespected, then I have already regretted it yesterday," he said when asked if he would apologise to Imarti Devi. On chief minister Chouhan demanding that he apologise to Devi, Nath said, "Rather, he should go in the midst of people to seek apology." Asked if Rahul Gandhi was angry over the issue, Nath retorted, "Why are you worried about it?" Speaking in Wayanad, Rahul Gandhi said Nath's comment about Imarti Devi was "unfortunate". "One cannot treat women with disrespect....I don't like personally the type of language that Kamal Nath-ji has used. I do not appreciate it. It is unfortunate," Gandhi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kamal-nath-expresses-regret-over-item-jibe-at-mp-minister-904603.html
20-10-2020||National||Enforcement Directorate attaches assets worth Rs 22.42 crore of Iqbal Mirchi family||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday said it has attached assets worth Rs 22.42 crore, including a cinema hall and a hotel in Mumbai, belonging to late gangster Iqbal Mirchi's family in connection with a money laundering case. Besides the cinema hall and hotel, the assets provisionally attached under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act include an under-construction hotel, a farmhouse, two bungalows and 3.5-acre land. The attached assets also include deposits kept in seven bank accounts, a statement by the ED said. Mirchi, who died in 2003, was said to be a close aide of underworld don Dawood Ibrahim, who was designated a global terrorist. With this, the ED has attached assets worth Rs 798 crore of Mirchi family, including overseas properties worth Rs 203 crore. The ED had earlier said that Mirchi was an international drugs dealer and smuggler who had amassed huge wealth and acquired various immovable properties and businesses across the globe. It was alleged that Mirchi "indirectly owned various properties in and around Mumbai". The agency had filed a criminal case against Mirchi and his family last year in connection with their alleged illegal dealings in the purchase and sale of costly real estate in Mumbai. Earlier, the ED had filed a charge-sheet in this case in a Mumbai court last December and the court had issued non-bailable warrants against Mirchi's sons Asif Memon and Junaid Memon and wife Hajra Memon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/enforcement-directorate-attaches-assets-worth-rs-2242-crore-of-iqbal-mirchi-family-904618.html
20-10-2020||National||SAT says no physical hearing till October 29 amid Covid-19||The Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) has extended the suspension of physical hearing till October 29 amid the coronavirus pandemic. Interim orders, if any, which are operational would remain in force till the next date of hearing, according to a notification. "... the judicial work of the tribunal (physical hearing) shall remain suspended till 29th October 2020," it said in a notification dated October 16. The directions already issued and permitted from time to time shall be continued and all earlier orders shall be aligned with the present order and shall remain in force up to and inclusive of October 29, the tribunal said. As per the notification, it would keep functioning via video conference from 11.30 am to 4.30 pm until further orders. Also, the office of the registry would function from October 19 - from 11 am to 4.30 pm on all working days. Matters fixed for hearing between October 19 to October 29 would be rescheduled from January 11 to January 21, 2021. Earlier, the tribunal had suspended judicial work till October 16 while continuing to function through video conference. In case of extreme urgent matters, parties may file cases by adopting standard operating procedures introduced by the tribunal earlier, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sat-says-no-physical-hearing-till-october-29-amid-covid-19-904629.html
20-10-2020||National||Twitter user issues rape threats against Sethupathi's daughter after actor pulls out of biopic||Chennai Police on Tuesday registered a case against a user of micro-blogging site Twitter for issuing rape threat to the minor daughter of popular Tamil actor Vijay Sethupathi. The Twitter user had on Monday night posted vulgar comments against the actor's minor daughter while issuing a rape threat. Soon, Twitter users tagged the handles of Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, Chennai Police Commissioner Mahesh Aggarwal and others seeking action against the man for his conduct. “There has been lot of concern in social media regarding comments made in social media against a celebrity. On receipt of complaint to this effect a case in Cyber Cell has been registered,” Aggarwal said on Tuesday evening. Police sources said a case under Sections 153 (Wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot—if rioting be committed—if not committed), 294 B (sings, recites or utters any obscene song, ballad or words), of the IPC and Section 67 B (Punishment for publishing or transmitting of material depicting children in sexually explicit act, etc. in electronic form) of the IT Act. Social media had responded negatively after Tamil actor Vijay Sethupathi chose to pull out of Muttiah Muralitharan’s biopic 800, but this Twitter tweeted pictures of the actor’s underage daughter and added that she should be sexually assaulted, ‘in order for her father to understand’ the difficult lives led by Tamils in Sri Lanka. Social media users were quick to condemn the tweet and call it out. Many were 'disgusted' with the man's thought and some even asked the police to put ‘him behind bars’.     DMK MP S Senthil Kumar tweeted, “Are they human beings? Kindly track this person and put him behind bars,” and tagged the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu and the Chennai police’s official Twitter handles.  DMK's Kanimozhi also added that the incident is 'not only barbaric but extremely dangerous to the very fabric of our society'. She tweeted: Tamil singer Chinmayee tweeted, “Why does this crappy society do this? Watch silently when this happens? How are men raised to speak out a rape threat? Why is it when adults fight like hyenas, the women and children have to suffer? Shame on all of you who do it and those who watch and remain silent.”     Tamil Nadu Police have taken cognisance of the matter and action has been initiated against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-user-issues-rape-threats-against-sethupathis-daughter-after-actor-pulls-out-of-biopic-904634.html
20-10-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Dip in India's daily Covid-19 cases; Rahul Gandhi slams Kamal Nath over 'item' remark||In your evening news brief, From the Newsroom, The number of new coronavirus infections reported daily in India dropped below 50,000 after nearly three months; Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath urged the people of Bihar to vote his development-oriented counterpart Nitish Kumar back to power; Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday condemned the 'item' remark, saying that he does not like the type of language used by Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Kamal Nath.  Here are the top stories of the day, October 20, 2020. The number of new coronavirus infections reported daily in India dropped below 50,000 after nearly three months, taking India's Covid-19 caseload to nearly 76 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data. A total of 46,790 fresh infections were reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to over 1.15 lakh with 587 fatalities being registered in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of new fatalities reported daily across the country was recorded below 600 for the second consecutive day.   Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath urged the people of Bihar to vote his development-oriented counterpart Nitish Kumar back to power, while underscoring that the BJP, an alliance partner, has fulfilled its promises on emotive issues like Ayodhya, Kashmir and Pakistan. The firebrand BJP leader was addressing his maiden election rally in the poll-bound state in the remote assembly segment of Kaimur district, which shares its border with Uttar Pradesh.   Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday condemned the 'item' remark, saying that he does not like the type of language used by Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Kamal Nath. "Kamal Nath ji is from my party but personally, I don't like the type of language that he used...I don't appreciate it, regardless of who he is. It is unfortunate," Gandhi said. Nath, under fire over a comment about a woman minister in the state, on Monday evening alleged in a letter to Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan that the BJP was misleading people. Kamal Nath has expressed regret over it and asserted that he did not say anything disrespectful. He claimed the word item is used in the Lok Sabha and state assemblies, but the BJP tried to "mislead" by making it an issue to divert people's attention while sensing defeat in the November 3 state bypolls.   Hindu groups in the US have sought an apology from the niece of Senator Kamala Harris for tweeting an "offensive" image, which depicted the Democratic vice presidential nominee as goddess Durga. The tweet has now been deleted. In the image, Kamala Harris, depicted as goddess Durga, was seen killing US President Donald Trump, who was depicted as buffalo demon 'Mahishasura'. The image also showed Democratic Presidential nominee Joe Biden as a lion, the 'vahana' (vehicle) of the goddess.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-dip-in-indias-daily-covid-19-cases-rahul-gandhi-slams-kamal-nath-over-item-remark-904636.html
20-10-2020||National||PM Modi says every Indian to get Covid-19 vaccine||On the eve of the Durga Puja, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday appealed to the people to wear masks, maintain social distancing and avoid crowded places as the coronavirus is still very much around and negligence can bring about disaster for families.  Referring to the pictures and videos that showed either people had become too negligent or stopped following protocols, the Prime Minister cautioned the people against any laxity until an effective cure is found. "This (moving around without protection) is absolutely not right. Those who have become negligent and are moving around without masks are putting themselves and their families, including children and elderly, at risk," Modi said on Tuesday in his seventh national address since the pandemic struck India. The Centre has launched a massive campaign for the month long Durga Puja-Dussehra-Diwali-Eid-Chhath Puja season, repeatedly telling the people not to lower their guards as the virus is very much on the prowl and there was no cure yet.  Modi cited the examples of the US and several European countries which witnessed a sudden and worrisome rise in the recent past after witnessing a fall.  Earlier Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan in a presentation also flagged the second wave being seen in the USA, Spain, UK and France. If the number of cases per million in the last seven days are analysed, the jump was the highest in France that reported 2457 cases in the last week followed by the UK (1746), USA (1153) and Spain (936).  The Prime Minister asked the people to be careful and not callous until a vaccine is found. Countries across the world are working at a war-footing to develop a vaccine, and scientists in India have also been working hard in this regard. “We must keep in mind that lock down may have ended, but the virus is still there. This is not the time to be negligent, this is not the time to believe that corona is gone or there is no danger from it,” Modi said. "India is in a stable situation today due to the efforts of every Indian in the last seven-eight months, and we have to ensure that the situation does not deteriorate."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-says-every-indian-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-904651.html
20-10-2020||National||United Nations 'dismayed' at India arrests, NGO restrictions||The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Michelle Bachelet, on Tuesday expressed concern over use of Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) to constrain the activities of the non-government organisations in India. The statement from the top UN human rights official came days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government froze the bank accounts of the Amnesty International and the organisation had to shut down its operations in India. New Delhi, however, dismissed the statement, with the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) stating that violation of law by the NGOs could not be condoned under the pretext of human rights. Bachelet called upon the Modi government “to safeguard the rights of human rights defenders and NGOs, and their ability to carry out their crucial work on behalf of the many groups they represent”. She issued a statement, expressing regret at the tightening of space for human rights NGOs in particular, including by the application of vaguely worded laws that constrain NGOs’ activities and restrict foreign funding. “India has long had a strong civil society, which has been at the forefront of groundbreaking human rights advocacy within the country and globally,” the High Commissioner said. “But I am concerned that vaguely defined laws are increasingly being used to stifle these voices.” She stated that the human rights organisations had expressed concerns in the past over the FCRA, which they found to be “vaguely worded and overbroad in its objective”. The law prohibited the receipt of foreign funds “for any activities prejudicial to the public interest”, she noted in her statement. The Amnesty International India recently alleged that freezing of its bank accounts by the government had brought all works done by it to a grinding halt. It said that the action against it was “the latest in the incessant witch-hunt of human rights organisations by the Government of India over unfounded and motivated allegations”. “India is a democratic polity based on the rule of law and an independent judiciary. The framing of laws is obviously a sovereign prerogative,” Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), said in New Delhi, reacting to the statement issued by the Office of the UN High Commissioner of Human Rights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/united-nations-dismayed-at-india-arrests-ngo-restrictions-904661.html
20-10-2020||National||'No time frame' set for release of Chinese soldier, says India||A Chinese soldier detained after straying into Indian territory near their high-altitude frontier will be handed back "after formalities are completed", New Delhi said Tuesday. Both sides have engaged in a tense standoff along their 3,500-kilometre (2,200-mile) border since a battle in June left at least 20 Indian soldiers dead, as well as an unspecified number of Chinese casualties India announced Monday that a corporal named Wang Ya Long had been "apprehended" in the harsh mountainous area of Ladakh. Colonel Zhang Shuili, a Chinese military spokesman, said Wang got lost while looking for Tibetan herdsman's yak. "We hope that the Indian side will live up to its promise to hand over the missing Chinese soldier as soon as possible" to "maintain peace and tranquillity" on the border, he said in a statement. An Indian government official said Tuesday that Wang "was well", but his release would come only "after completion of formalities". "No time frame is fixed as of now," he told AFP, on condition of anonymity. India and China have poured tens of thousands of troops into the region since the June battle despite several rounds of talks. Analysts say both sides are digging for a long, hard winter showdown. Tensions have also spilled into civilian life, with some Indian nationalists demanding a boycott of Chinese goods, and the government banning a slew of social media apps from its major rival. India is also seeking closer security ties with other countries wary of China's growing military power. Australia announced Tuesday that it would for the first time take part in naval exercises with India, Japan and the United States in the Indian Ocean. Meanwhile the Indian army's vice chief of staff, Lieutenant General S.K. Saini, is in the United States for talks and to seek other equipment for use in the China border showdown, government sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-time-frame-set-for-release-of-chinese-soldier-says-india-904673.html
20-10-2020||National||Smriti Irani hits out at Gandhis for 'not paying attention' to development of Amethi-Raebareli||Union minister and Amethi MP Smriti Irani attacked the Gandhi family on Tuesday, saying a political family ruled in Rae Bareli and Amethi for a long time, but did not pay attention to the development of the region. "Actual development in Amethi came when the Narendra Modi government came to power at the Centre and the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh," she told reporters in Amethi. Without naming the Gandhis, Irani said a political family of the country ruled in Amethi and Rae Bareli for a long time, but only did politics and paid no attention to the development of the region. Referring to former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath's jibe at a woman minister from the state, she said it shows the character of Congress leaders. Training her guns on the Gandhis, Irani accused Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra of taking the land of farmers in the name of Samrat bicycle company under a conspiracy. "I am fighting for this for the last six years and these people have not returned the land of the farmers. If they have any sympathy for farmers, they should return the land," she said. The Union minister for women and child development, however, evaded questions on atrocities on women, especially on cases like the one reported from Hathras, where a 19-year-old Dalit woman died after allegedly being raped by four upper-caste men. Irani held a review meeting of the development works in her Lok Sabha constituency with senior officials of Amethi district and inaugurated some of the projects virtually. She chaired a meeting of Salon tehsil of her constituency that falls in Raebareli district and said she is happy that the BJP is living up to the expectations of people through its work. "It is true that the family of the head of a political party had been doing its politics in Amethi-Raebareli for years, but it is a matter of satisfaction for me that we are living up to the expectations of people through our work," Irani said. Chairing the meeting of the Salon tehsil, she said 12 anganwadi centres have come up in the tehsil and it is an indication that this government is playing its role in completing pending projects. This is the change for which people have voted the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to power, she added. Earlier, on arrival, Irani paid obeisance at the Abhay Daata temple in the tehsil campus, where the meeting took place. She said Raebareli District Magistrate (DM) Vaibhav Srivastava has assured her that all major development works and those related to social welfare would be completed up to the village level on time. Irani also praised the DM for digital payments to farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/smriti-irani-hits-out-at-gandhis-for-not-paying-attention-to-development-of-amethi-raebareli-904678.html
20-10-2020||National||Above normal rainfall increases acreage, but may impact total output of kharif: NBHC||With above-normal rainfall during the monsoon, farmers have sown record 1,095.37 lakh hectares so far, though the output of cereals like rice and maize is likely to be impacted, according to the National Bulk Handling Corporation's first Kharif crop estimates for 2020-21. Total 19 states and union territories have received normal rainfall this year, while nine states and union territories saw excess rainfall, NBHC said in a statement. In the post-monsoon phase, most parts of Maharashtra have received moderate to heavy rainfall due to cyclonic disturbance, it added. NBHC said that in the preliminary reports by the commissioner of agriculture it was mentioned that crops over 4.5 lakh hectares were damaged in the rains and standing crops of soybean, maize, sugarcane and tur reported damage. “Total rice is expected to show marginal improvements in the area by 6.74 per cent but production is likely to decline by 2.20 per cent than last year. Maize acreage is expected to increase by 2.31 per cent but still, we are expecting a 5.71 per cent lower crop size because heavy rain is seen affecting yield of the standing crop in Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka,” NBHC Head - Research and Development - Hanish Kumar Sinha said. Area of jowar is expected to decline 1.17 per cent despite the increase in production by 1.22 per cent and Bajra acreage is expected to increase marginally by 3.71 per cent but production is expected to fall by 14.40 per cent, he added. In the pulses sector, acreage and production of tur is expected to increase by 9.78 per cent and 5.48 per cent, respectively, due to good crop conditions so far in the major growing states of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Telangana and Jharkhand, NBHC said. Urad area is expected to increase by 1.47 per cent, whereas production is expected to increase by 45.38 per cent because even if in some places the crops have been damaged, alternatively there has been an increase in the sowing area as well, Sinha added. “We expect the area under moong to increase by 19.70 per cent whereas the production is expected lower by 3.91 per cent mainly due to crop damage in major producing states,” Sinha opined. In the oilseeds sector, he said, excess rains in central India are expected to dampen the prospects of a record harvest for Kharif oilseeds, mainly soybean and groundnut. Soybean acreage is expected to improve by 8.17 per cent but the production is expected to reduce by 15.29 per cent due to heavy rains in September and October in major growing areas which has diminished hope of normal crop, he added. Groundnut acreage is expected to rise by 38.61 per cent but the product may fall 14.69 per cent. Further, he said castor area and production is expected to decline 11.51 per cent and 23.74 per cent. Meanwhile, in this current monsoon season, the cash crop section is likely to show an overall positive scenario, he opined. The area for cotton is expected to go up by 4.17 per cent but production will decline by 4.06 due to damages caused by excess rains in Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, he pointed out. Sugarcane area and production are expected to grow 2.19 per cent and 2.72 per cent, respectively because of higher production in Maharashtra and Karnataka, the second and third largest cane producing states, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/above-normal-rainfall-increases-acreage-but-may-impact-total-output-of-kharif-nbhc-904682.html
20-10-2020||National||Man booked for selling illicit liquor calls Varun Gandhi for help, gets rebuke||An audio clip of Pilibhit MP Varun Gandhi, in which he is heard admonishing a man booked for selling illicit liquor, has gone viral on social media. The BJP MP is heard scolding the man from his constituency for calling him late in the night. Sarvesh Gangwar, a resident of Sungadhi area of the district, had called the MP for help three days ago after he was arrested Following the "recovery of illicit liquor". The MP’s media incharge, M R Malik, said in a press statement on Monday that the audio was released by the man "dealing in illicit liquor and drugs". He was caught by police red-handed and had called for help but the MP did not patronise him, Malik said. When contacted, Varun Gandhi said he can never plead the case of a "liquor smuggler". "It is for people to decide if they want a strict and honest MP. The man called me saying he had been caught by police for selling illicit liquor and that I save him since he has voted for me. He called again and I tried to politely tell him that I never plead wrong cases," Varun Gandhi said. "I have been an MP since the past 12 years. What do people expect of me? Should I talk to wrong people in the same manner as I talk to saints," he asked. Sarvesh Gangwar later apologised to the MP for his action through a video released on Monday, saying he was drunk. Sungadhi police station incharge Atar Singh said a case has been registered against Sarvesh for selling liquor and investigations are on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-booked-for-selling-illicit-liquor-calls-varun-gandhi-for-help-gets-rebuke-904694.html
20-10-2020||National||CBI to probe TRP scam, registers case on UP government's reference||The CBI has waded into the Television Rating Points (TRP) manipulation scam by registering a case on the basis of a complaint filed in Uttar Pradesh and referred to it by the Uttar Pradesh government. This comes close on the heels of the investigation by the Mumbai Police against Republic TV and two other channels following accusations that they manipulated ratings by paying households money to watch TV and improve its ratings. While the CBI did not provide much details, officials said that it has taken over the case registered at Hazratganj police station in Lucknow based on a complaint filed by an advertising company promoter. The UP government had sent a recommendation seeking CBI take over of the case. After the CBI got the nod, it immediately registered an FIR against unidentified persons. The main allegation is about the manipulation of TRPs on payment, the CBI officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-to-probe-trp-scam-registers-case-on-up-governments-reference-904698.html
20-10-2020||National||Centre should clear rain-hit Maharashtra's GST dues: Thorat||Maharashtra revenue minister and state Congress president Balasaheb Thorat on Tuesday demanded that the Union government clear the state's dues of GST refund of Rs 30,000 crore on a priority basis. "Maharashtra is already in a financial crisis due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The returning monsoon has damaged crops on hundreds of thousands of hectares," he said. "The Centre should refund Rs 30,000 crore GST dues of the state. This refund is due for the period till September- end of the current financial year," Thorat added. The minister also said that the state government has raised Rs 55,000 crore for salaries and daily expenses through loans. The Covid-19 crisis has hit the state's revenues, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-should-clear-rain-hit-maharashtras-gst-dues-thorat-904708.html
20-10-2020||National||With Covid-19 on mind, low-key Durga Puja celebrations sans idols, pandals, bhog||It’s that time of the year. The fragrance of ‘shiuli’, the delicate orange and white flowers that blossom right about now, mingles with the autumn breeze to herald Durga Puja but the frankincense is missing and a wary quiet has overtaken the sound of festivities. In the air there is the virus and the fear of it. The Bengali community in the Delhi-NCR region is staying away from Durga Puja festivities, a community affair in parks and other open spaces. And nowhere is this more evident than in Chittaranjan Park, often known as 'mini Bengal'.. It’s two days before Durga Puja begins and Delhi’s predominantly Bengali neighbourhood has never been quieter. The parks that have for decades served as venues for larger than life themed pandals housing ornately decked Durga idols for five days every year are deserted. Keeping in mind the Covid-19 scare, puja committees in C R Park, as the south Delhi locality is known, and elsewhere in Delhi-NCR have decided to keep celebrations low key, hosting rituals online, sans idols, cultural programmes, ‘bhog’ and in several places even the customary floral offerings. On Monday,12 Durga Puja Committees of Chittaranjan Park, Greater Kailash 1 and 2, Alaknanda, and Kalkaji met at a temple and unanimously decided that the puja celebrations this year would be suspended due to the coronavirus pandemic. The meeting was convened by Greater Kailash MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj and attended by the sub-divisional magistrate, police officials and other agencies. "Most of the population of C R Park and members of puja committees are senior citizens and it is important they remain indoors and avoid contact with unknown people in pandals,” Bharadwaj, a legislator of Delhi’s ruling Aam Aadmi Party, said. But almost all the committees will host a small “kalash puja/ghat puja” to “ensure continuity of puja by these samitis”, according to a statement issued after the meeting. C R Park’s Mela Ground Committee, which is known for organising grand celebrations, featuring not just unique puja themes but also cultural performances by leading artists from Bengal, is one of them. “Unfortunately this year we are not organising Durga Puja on a large scale considering the unprecedented situation. No 'pandal' will be installed to prevent large gatherings to keep the public safe from this contagious disease. “No activity will be organised except a ceremony called ‘ghot pujo’ which will be performed on ashtami with not more than 15 members and a priest at our Mela Ground park,” Avik Mitra, a member of the organising committee, told PTI. Durga Puja is celebrated over four days -- sashti, saptami, ashtami and navami which this year fall from October 22 to 24. On the fifth day, dashami, devotees bid adieu to the goddess and the idol is immersed. In line with the Delhi government's guidelines, 15 committee members, including two priests, will be allowed to attend the rituals physically within the park precincts, the final list for which has to be submitted to the police. For others, the ‘ghot pujo’ will be streamed live on the committee’s Facebook page. “All those who enter the premises will have to submit a self-attested declaration stating that they have not come in direct contact with any Covid positive patient in the last 48 hours. “The Arogya Setu app will be mandatory for 15 members. Hand sanitisation, wearing of masks and maintaining social distance will be of utmost priority for all the members attending the ‘ghot pujo’,” Mitra said. C R Park’s B-Block puja committee too has reduced the annual five-day affair to a single day celebration with a ‘ghot pujo’ on October 24 from 7 am onwards. Only the priest and two helpers will be allowed to participate in the rituals. Unprecedented times call for unprecedented action, said Suprakash Majumdar, general secretary of the committee. "This year, the committee has decided that flowers, sweets, and fruits from individual homes cannot be offered. Nothing will be accepted by the priest due to Covid-19 restrictions. There won't be any ‘pandal’, idol , entertainment/cultural events, sports events, ‘bhog’ distribution at our ground either,” Majumdar said. The B Block committee is, however, accepting donations in cash as well as online and via cheque, all exempt from income tax. Puja spirits are running low even beyond Delhi’s ‘mini-Bengal’. Covid on their mind, Green Park’s Matri Mandir society also has chosen to go the ‘ghot pujo’ way despite the state government’s nod for small scale celebrations. “It would have been very difficult to restart after the government allowed puja celebrations. We will stick to our plan of performing ‘ghot pujo’. We will follow all rituals and no short cuts as far as the puja is concerned,” said Debashis Saha, chief coordinator of the Matri Mandir Sarbojanin Durga Puja Samiti. While members of the committee will be paying their respects to the deity from their respective homes, the committee has decided to send money to all the workers associated with the celebrations every year. “We have decided to pay needy workers who were associated with our puja like the ‘dhaki’ (drummers), cooks, and security personnel. Also, we will donate to the PM’s relief fund,” Saha said. Caution is key in the suburban town of Gurgaon that falls in Haryana. Gurgaon’s DLF5 Durga Puja committee has capped the number of people present within the pandal at any point of time at 45. “We will keep it as simple as possible… minimalistic, functional set up for pandal decorations. Our theme this year is about embracing minimalism, acknowledging the power of nature and appreciating the value of life, people and our society. “Apart from keeping all rituals and activities of the puja at a minimum, we also intend to cut down all costs wherever possible, and use part of the savings from the funds raised to help people impacted during this time,” a committee spokesperson said. While individuals will be allowed to attend rituals physically, for those not keen to come to the pandal, especially the elderly and other vulnerable communities, celebrations will be telecast online on the committee website and its social media handles. “We have built a website for puja visit slot booking — 30-minute slots each, allowing 25 visitors in each slot and volunteers, security and sanitisation staff up to 20. No overlaps, or cross directional movement will be allowed. Attendees would be socially distanced once they are inside the venue. There will be flowerless ‘pushpanjali’ to avoid any common touch points,” the committee member said. The website will also be used to coordinate food distribution to minimise crowding. “There will be pre-packaged takeaway ‘bhog’ on one of the days. People will not be allowed to sit down and consume food. Just a clean handover of takeaway packages booked through the website,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-covid-19-on-mind-low-key-durga-puja-celebrations-sans-idols-pandals-bhog-904709.html
20-10-2020||National||China asks India to adhere to the 'One China policy', not to enter into any agreement with Taiwan||Beijing on Tuesday not only called the Tibetan Government in Exile based in India “a separatist political organization”, but also asked New Delhi to adhere to the 'One China policy' and refrain from entering into any agreement with Taiwan. China fumed as the United States recently for the first time hosted Lobsang Sangay, the Sikyong (President) of the Tibetan Government-in-Exile (TGiE), at the State Department in Washington D.C. and made yet another subtle move to lent a degree of legitimacy the entity based in India. What also irked Beijing is the growing clamour in India for a review of the 'One China policy' and expanding the relations with Taiwan, including holding trade talks with President Tsai Ing-wen’s government in Taipei. “The so-called Tibetan Government-in-Exile is a separatist political organization with the agenda of pursuing independence of Tibet,” Zhao Lijian, the spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government, said. “It is completely in violation of China’s Constitution and laws and is not recognized by any country.” Sangay was hosted by senior US diplomat Robert A Destro, whom President Donald Trump’s administration earlier last week appointed as the new US Special Coordinator for issues related to Tibet, triggering strong protest from China. Zhao said that Sangay was “utterly an anti-China separatist”. “China firmly opposes Lobsang Sangay conducting anti-China separatist activities in whatever capacity, name or country, and we firmly oppose engagement of whatever form between him and officials of any country.” The Dalai Lama set up the TGiE – formally called the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) – on April 29, 1959, just a few weeks after he arrived in India following his escape from Tibet, which had been occupied by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in 1950-51. The CTA, which has its headquarters in Dharamshala in Himachal Pradesh, calls itself the “continuation of the government of independent Tibet”. Beijing has since long been nudging New Delhi to dismantle the TGiE, which is elected by the Tibetans living in exile in India, the US and other countries around the world and is likely to lead the struggle to free Tibet from China’s occupation beyond the lifetime of octogenarian Dalai Lama. Zhao on Tuesday alleged that Destro’s meeting with Sangay had “seriously breached” the US Government’s commitment and policy stance of not supporting the demand for independence of Tibet and of not recognizing the TGiE. The US move came amid China’s growing belligerence, not only along the disputed boundary with India in eastern Ladakh but also in the Taiwan Strait as well as in the disputed waters of the South China Sea and the East China Sea. Beijing was also irked by media-reports indicating the possibility of India starting trade talks with Taiwan. “There is only one China and Taiwan is an inalienable part of China's territory. The one-China principle is the common consensus of the international community, including India, and also serves as the political foundation for China to develop relations with any other country,” said the spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the communist country’s government. “China is firmly opposed to any official exchanges of any form and the signing of any agreement of official nature between Taiwan and any country having diplomatic relations with China. The Indian side should earnestly abide by the one-China principle and handle the Taiwan question prudently and properly.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-asks-india-to-adhere-to-the-one-china-policy-not-to-enter-into-any-agreement-with-taiwan-904714.html
20-10-2020||National||Plasma therapy may no longer be an option for Covid-19 treatment, ICMR feels||Armed with scientific evidence proving its futility, the Centre is set to drop the convalescent plasma therapy as a Covid-19 treatment option from the national treatment guidelines. This comes in the wake of the world's largest study on such therapy by Indian researchers who demonstrated that treating a Covid-19 patient with the plasma of another infected-and-cured patient's plasma neither reduces the mortality nor prevents the disease's progression from a mild to a severe one. "We have had discussions in the national task force and we are discussing further with the joint monitoring group that this (convalescent plasma therapy) may be deleted from the national guidelines,” Indian Council of Medical Research's director general Balram Bhargava said here on Tuesday. Bhargava said the ICMR study carried out by 350 researchers on 464 patients in 29 hospitals, would appear in the British Medical Journal shortly. Its conclusions were released through a non-peer-reviewed pre-print of paper last month. With few specific therapeutic options available to manage Covid-19 infections, the plasma therapy was initially considered a passive immunisation strategy that was used on several occasions in the past century, inspiring clinical expectations that it could emerge as a potential therapy for a disease with no proven, effective interventions. However, though the ICMR research clearly demonstrated its inefficacy, a section of hospitals in the private sector continues to use it on hapless Covid-19 patients who have to scramble in search of a donor and shell out a hefty sum on an unproven therapy. Bhargava said the government would also take a call soon on the use of medicines like Remdesivir and Hydroxychloroquine following the publication of the World Health Organisation's Solidarity trial findings, which showed both drugs are ineffective in preventing Covid-19 mortality. Asked about the government's preparations to deliver a Covid-19 vaccine to the masses, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said there were more than 28,000 vaccine cold storages available in the country and the augmentation needs were being discussed. In addition, the government is detailing the numbers of priority recipients and the dose requirements.    Meanwhile, India's new positive case count fell below 50,000 for the first time after 84 days as 46,790 cases were registered in the last 24 hours according to Health Ministry records. It was July 29 when the number of new Covid-19 cases fell below the 50,000-mark last time. The death toll stands at 1,15,197 out of which 587 were added in the last 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plasma-therapy-may-no-longer-be-an-option-for-covid-19-treatment-icmr-feels-904718.html
20-10-2020||National||Cybercrimes in India caused Rs 1.25 lakh crore loss last year: Official||Cybercrimes in India caused Rs 1.25 lakh crore loss in 2019 and cyber threats will continue to increase as the country starts developing smart cities and rolling out 5G network, among other initiatives, National Cyber Security Coordinator Lt Gen (Dr) Rajesh Pant said on Tuesday. He said that there are only a few Indian companies who are making some of the cybersecurity products and there is a big vacuum in the sector. Further, Pant called for setting up a dedicated industry forum for cybersecurity to develop trusted indigenous solutions to check cyber attacks. "Last year, our official figures were Rs 1.25 lakh crore lost due to cybercrimes in India. Ransomware attacks are increasing everyday and these criminals have been working from home. They have no qualms. They are heartless people. They are attacking hospitals because they know in an emergency hospitals will pay," Pant said at an event organised by industry body Ficci. He said that there are a lot of vulnerabilities in devices like mobile phones that people use to access services. "We did an analysis on the attack vector in a mobile phone. We found that it is not only apps but there are 15 different attack vectors from where I can hack into a mobile phone. That includes the operating system, its processors, memory chips, communication interfaces, bluetooth as well as wi-fi," Pant said. Besides the app that people download from the authorised store and third party source, he said that most of the bundled apps or the pre-installed apps have been found sending out data. On August 15, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that a new cybersecurity strategy will be presented to the nation as dependence on cyberspace will increase multi-fold in the coming years. According to Pant, National Cyber Security Strategy (NCSS) is to ensure a safe, secure, trusted, resilient and vibrant cyberspace for India. "It (NCSS) is presently at the highest level waiting for the last level of signatures," he said. Pant also said that the government under NCSS will push for building a lot of indigenous capabilities, central apex body, legislative framework and cybersecurity incidence and response teams at the sectoral and state levels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cybercrimes-in-india-caused-rs-125-lakh-crore-loss-last-year-official-904721.html
20-10-2020||National||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh unveils new version of DRDO's procurement manual to engage private sector in defence R&D||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday unveiled a new version of the procurement manual of the premier military research institute DRDO featuring simplified procedures for the involvement of the private sector in various research and development projects. Defence ministry officials said the new version of the manual has been brought out to encourage the participation of private industry, including start-ups and micro, small and medium enterprises in defence research in sync with the government's ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ (self-reliant India) initiative. All deals, projects and research initiatives in DRDO are guided by the procurement manual. The government has already announced its vision to make India a global hub of defence manufacturing and initiated a series of reform measures to encourage the domestic defence industry. "The procurement manual-2020 will facilitate faster execution of R&D projects/programmes. The modified features in the manual will go a long way to facilitate the participation of industry in various R&D projects," the defence ministry said. Some of the salient features of the new manual include the increase of threshold limit for advance payment, placement of an order on second lowest bidder (L2) in case lowest bidder L1 backs out and 'bid security declaration option' for depositing earnest money. Several other enabling measures are exemption of bid security and performance security of up to Rs 10 lakh and not having negotiations for commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) items/services where price discovery takes place by market forces, the officials said. They said the process for the extension of the delivery period (DP) has been simplified for faster decision making and many of the internal procedures have been further simplified for deeper engagement with industry. The previous revision of the procurement manual of the DRDO was last carried out in 2016. In May, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman rolled out a number of reform measures for the defence sector including making separate budgetary outlay to procure Indian-made military hardware, increasing FDI limit from 49 per cent to 74 per cent under the automatic route and generating a year-wise negative list of weapons which will not be allowed to import. India is one of the most lucrative markets for global defence giants as it figured among the top three importers of military hardware in the world for the last eight years. According to estimates, the Indian armed forces are projected to spend around $130 billion in capital procurement in the next five years. The government is eyeing a turnover of Rs 1.75 lakh crore ($25 billion) in defence manufacturing by 2025.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-unveils-new-version-of-drdos-procurement-manual-to-engage-private-sector-in-defence-rd-904737.html
20-10-2020||National||Country wants concrete solutions to tackle Covid-19, not plain speeches on TV: Congress tells PM Modi||The Congress on Tuesday demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi come out with concrete solutions to control the Covid-19 pandemic and revive the economy, instead of giving "plain speeches". After the prime minister's televised address this evening, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala claimed that the Modi government has "failed" on both the fronts and India has become the "Corona capital" of the world with the "highest" number of daily cases and deaths. "It is easy to give sermons. The country does not need plain speeches but concrete solutions," he said in a tweet, quoting a phrase from saint Tulsidas. With the onset of festival season, Prime Minister Modi on Tuesday made an impassioned appeal to people to follow Covid-19 guidelines, saying this is not the time to be careless as the virus is still around and even a little negligence can dampen the festive spirit. Surjewala and Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera, in a joint statement, said, "The prime minister must answer for the failure of the leadership." "Kindly tell the country on how to control the volatile situation of the pandemic... . How will he revive the falling economy? Does he have a solution or will he blame it on God," the two leaders asked in their statement. "While the battle against Corona is on, the leader has turned invisible and is only seen giving sermons on TV," they said The Congress leader recalled how the prime minister said on March 24 that the battle of Mahabharat continued for 18 days and they will win the battle against coronavirus in 21 days. "But, even after 210 days, the battle against coronavirus is on and people are dying. Instead of coming out with a solution, Modi ji is still giving plain speeches on television," they said. "India has become the corona capital of the world. As on October 19, India tops in the daily rise in cases of Covid-19 when, as per official data, the country reported 55,722 cases of the virus," Surjewala said. In his seventh televised address to the nation following the Covid-19 outbreak, Modi on Tuesday cited examples of the US and several European countries to note that the coronavirus cases there have seen a sudden and worrisome rise after witnessing a fall, as he cautioned citizens against any laxity until an effective cure is found. He said pictures and videos have of late emerged showing that many people have either stopped following precautions like wearing masks or have become negligent. "This is absolutely not right. Those who have become negligent and are moving around without masks are putting themselves and their families, including children and elderly, at risk," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/country-wants-concrete-solutions-to-tackle-covid-19-not-plain-speeches-on-tv-congress-tells-pm-modi-904746.html
20-10-2020||National||PM's message serves as critical reminder as coronavirus control can enable economic recovery: India Inc||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's message to keep up the safety precautions against Covid-19 is a critical reminder to every Indian as controlling the virus can enable a strong bounce back in the economy, India Inc said on Tuesday. With the onset of the festival season, the prime minister on Tuesday said this is not the time to be careless as the novel coronavirus is still around and even a small negligence can dampen the festive spirit. In his seventh address to the nation following the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, Modi said many videos have surfaced in recent times that show people have stopped taking precautions. "This is not the right thing to do so," he said. "If you are careless and moving around without mask, you are putting yourself, children and the elderly at risk," the prime minister said. He added that it must be kept in mind that lockdown may have ended but the virus is still there. The prime minister said the government is making all efforts to ensure that a vaccine, whenever it is launched, reaches every Indian. "The prime minister's message comes at an appropriate time as he appeals to all to celebrate with caution. While India shows sn improvement in the COVID-19 numbers, controlling the virus can really enable a strong bounce back in the economy," CII Director General Chandrajit Banerjee said. Assocham Secretary General Deepak Sood said Modi's passionate call to keep up the safety guards against coronavirus is a critical reminder to each and every Indian not to squander away the painstaking gains in the battle against the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pms-message-serves-as-critical-reminder-as-coronavirus-control-can-enable-economic-recovery-india-inc-904752.html
20-10-2020||National||Sales of manufacturing companies contracted 41.1% year-on-year in Q1||Aggregate sales of private sector manufacturing companies recorded a sharp contraction of 41.1 per cent year-on-year in the first quarter of 2020-21, reflecting the impact of the pandemic induced lockdown, said an RBI analysis on Tuesday. The data on the performance of the private corporate sector during the first quarter of 2020-21 has been drawn from abridged quarterly financial results of 2,5361 listed non-government non-financial (NGNF) companies, the RBI said. "Aggregate sales of 1,619 manufacturing companies recorded a sharp contraction of 41.1 per cent (Y-o-Y) in Q1:2020-21 following 15.6 per cent decline in Q4:2019-20 reflecting the impact of the pandemic induced lockdown," it said. The contraction was broad-based and varied across industries - only pharmaceutical companies recorded higher sales on both annual and sequential (Q-o-Q) basis. Non-IT services companies also registered a sharp contraction of 41 per cent in their nominal sales. The contraction was across services except for telecommunication companies, the RBI said. On the other hand, the sales growth of IT sector companies remained in positive terrain but moderated to 3.2 per cent in the April-June quarter of the fiscal on annual basis. It further said lower business operations led to decline in the operating profits of manufacturing and non-IT services companies, while operating profits of IT companies, on the other hand, increased 9.4 per cent during the first quarter. Due to Covid-19 pandemic, the Securities and Exchange Board of India had extended the deadline for submission of financial results for Q1:2020-21 by listed companies to September 15, 2020. Meanwhile, the Reserve Bank has also released the results of the 2019-20 round of the Survey of Foreign Liabilities and Assets of the Mutual Fund (MF) Companies. Foreign liabilities of MF companies declined by 15.7 per cent during 2019-20 and stood at $9.6 billion in March 2020, mainly consisting of units issued to non-residents. Their overseas assets were much lower at $0.8 billion. "The UAE, the UK and the USA accounted for 38 per cent of the total MF units held by non-residents," it said and added overseas equity investments of MF companies were largely concentrated in Luxembourg and the USA. In the case of Asset Management Companies (AMCs), the foreign liabilities stood at $4.4 billion in March 2020 as compared to their foreign assets of $0.1 billion. Non-residents in the UK and Japan together held nearly 89 per cent FDI in the AMCs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sales-of-manufacturing-companies-contracted-411-year-on-year-in-q1-904809.html
20-10-2020||National||Shipping Ministry launches new software to track vessel||Union Minister of State for Shipping (Independent Charge) Mansukh Mandaviya e-launched the development of indigenous software solution for Vessel traffic services (VTS) and Vessels Traffic Monitoring Systems (VTMS) in New Delhi on Tuesday. VTS and VTMS are softwares that determine vessel positions, the position of other traffic or meteorological hazard warnings and extensive management of traffic within a port or waterway. “Vessel Traffic Services (VTS) contribute to the safety of life at sea, safety and efficiency of navigation and protection of the marine environment, adjacent shore areas, worksites and offshore installations from possible adverse effects of maritime traffic,” said a statement from the Shipping Ministry. “Vessels Traffic Management Systems are installed in some of the busiest waters in the world, and are making a valuable contribution to safer navigation, more efficient traffic flow, and protection of the environment,” the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shipping-ministry-launches-new-software-to-track-vessel-904819.html
20-10-2020||National||UIDAI suspends ADG Pankaj Goyal on graft charges||Aadhaar-issuing body UIDAI on Tuesday suspended Pankaj Goyal, an assistant director general posted at its regional office in Delhi, with immediate effect, pending inquiry into charges of corruption. "... a case against...Pankaj Goyal...Assistant Director General posted at Regional Office, Delhi of the Unique Identification Authority of India in respect of a criminal offence is under investigation/inquiry," as per an order signed by UIDAI CEO Pankaj Kumar. The order further said Goyal has been placed under suspension "with immediate effect".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uidai-suspends-adg-pankaj-goyal-on-graft-charges-904824.html
20-10-2020||National||Mumbai police arrest two more in TRP rigging case||The crime branch of Mumbai Police on Tuesday arrested two former employees of Hansa research agency in connection with the fake Television Rating Points (TRP) racket, an official said. This takes the number of arrested persons in the case to eight. Ramji Verma (41) and Dinesh Vishwakarma (37) were working with Hansa agency for a few years. Verma was arrested from Worli area here, whereas Vishwakarma was apprehended this evening at the Mumbai airport, the official said. The alleged fake TRP scam came to light when ratings agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint with the police through Hansa Research Group, alleging that certain channels were rigging TRP numbers to lure advertisers. It was alleged that some families at whose houses meters for collecting data of viewership were installed were being bribed to tune into a particular channel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-police-arrest-two-more-in-trp-rigging-case-904828.html
20-10-2020||National Politics||Farm laws: AAP MLAs spend the night in Punjab Assembly||Aam Aadmi Party MLAs spent the night inside the Punjab assembly on Monday in protest against the newly-enacted farm laws. The legislators were seen sleeping on sofas and mattresses as they staged a sit-in protest inside the Assembly yesterday against not getting copies of the proposed legislation to be tabled in the special session of Punjab Vidhan Sabha against the central farm laws. Punjab: AAP MLAs seen sleeping inside the State Assembly last night. The opposition on Monday slammed the Punjab government for not tabling a Bill to counter the Centre’s new farm laws on the first day of a special assembly session, which also saw a dharna in the House by AAP MLAs. The Aam Aadmi Party MLAs sat in the Well of the House till late evening demanding copies of the Bill which the state’s Congress government is now expected to introduce on Tuesday. Earlier, Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal said the state government is consulting constitutional experts on the issue and copies of various bills to be tabled during the two-day session will be given to the opposition parties by the evening. Even after the adjournment of the session for the day on Monday afternoon, AAP legislators continued their dharna, demanding copies of the Bill to counter the legislation enacted at the Centre. Leader of Opposition and AAP leader Harpal Cheema said they will continue the protest till they get copies of this and other Bills to be tabled during the session. “AAP will support the legislation against the farm laws but the government should supply us with its copies. We haven't got copies of other bills as well. How can our legislators discuss and debate important issues,” Cheema said. The Shiromani Akali Dal said the Bill should have been introduced on Monday. A delegation of the party met Speaker Rana K P Singh in the evening and objected to not getting copies of the Bills to be tabled in the assembly. The SAD leaders termed it a "murder of democracy". Earlier reacting to it, Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal said they are consulting constitutional experts over the issue and copies of various bills to be tabled during the session will be given to the opposition parties by the evening. The two-day special assembly session began with obituary references with Chief Minister Amarinder Singh leading the House in paying homage to the farmers who lost their lives during the ongoing agitation against the farm laws. Punjab MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu attended the assembly session for the first time since his resignation from the state Cabinet last year. SAD MLAs rode tractors to reach the Vidhan Sabha in protest against the farm laws. They tore copies of the Centre's farm laws. AAP MLAs staged a protest outside the assembly complex wearing black capes. They tore and burnt copies of the farm laws. The House was adjourned for an hour by Speaker Rana K P Singh after the assembly took up obituary references. The House reassembled for nearly 15 minutes before being adjourned till Tuesday. As it reassembled, Harpal Cheema said the special session was called to counter new farm laws but the members "have not been given copies of the bills". "Will we get copies of the bills after the session is over," he asked. SAD member Gurpratap Singh Wadala said it seems the state government "does not have clarity" over the issue. The main bill against the Centre's farm laws should have been first tabled and discussed in the House, he said. "The entire Punjab is watching what the government is doing. The legislation to counter the Centre's farm laws should have been the first business of the House," said the SAD leader. Senior SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia told reporters that a "fixed match is going on between the Congress government in Punjab and the Centre". "It seems the state government is under the Centre's pressure," he said, adding that the government is not clear what it intends to do. Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal told the members in the House that they will get copies of bills to be tabled in the House in the evening. He, however, said, "As far as countering farm laws is concerned, the government is already in consultation with constitutional experts." Earlier, the Speaker told the House that only urgent and important government business will be transacted during the session. He said questions or calling attention notices will not be taken up. As soon as the session began, Amarinder Singh led the House in paying homage to all farmers who have lost their lives during the ongoing agitation. However, SAD leader Majithia demanded that names of the farmers who commit suicide should also be included in the obituaries. The House also paid respects to freedom fighters, soldiers, political and other eminent personalities. On the request of Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal, the Speaker also consented to include the name of Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu, who was shot dead by two unknown assailants in Punjab's Tarn Taran district last week, amongst the obituary references. All members observed a two-minute silence as a mark of respect.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farm-laws-aap-mlas-spend-the-night-in-punjab-assembly-904487.html
20-10-2020||National Politics||BJP living up to expectations of people in Amethi-Raeberali: Irani||Union minister and Amethi MP Smriti Irani on Tuesday said she is happy that the BJP is living up to the expectations of the people of her constituency through its work. "It is true that the family of the head of a political party had been doing its politics in Amethi-Raebareli for years, but it is a matter of satisfaction for me that we are living up to the expectations of people through our work," she said. Irani, who chaired a meeting of the Salon tehsil of her parliamentary constituency that falls in Raebareli district, said 12 anganwadi centres have come up here and it is an indication that this government is playing its role in completing pending projects. The Union minister for women and child development said this is the change for which people have voted the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to power. Earlier, on arrival, Irani paid obeisance at the Abhay data temple in the tehsil campus, where the meeting took place. She said District Magistrate (DM) Vaibhav Srivastava has assured her that all major development works and those related to social welfare would be completed up to the village level on time. Irani also praised the DM for digital payments to farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-living-up-to-expectations-of-people-in-amethi-raeberali-irani-904635.html
20-10-2020||National Politics||What action will Congress take against Kamal Nath on his remark? Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday asked the Congress leadership what action they will take against senior party leader Kamal Nath for his "item" jibe against state minister Imarti Devi. After facing flak over his remark, Kamal Nath on Monday night expressed regret over it and asserted that he did not say anything disrespectful. On Tuesday, when some reporters in Bhopal asked Nath if he would apologise to Imarti Devi, the state Congress chief said, "Why should I apologise? I have already said that it was not my aim. If still someone feels that he/she is disrespected, then I have already regretted it yesterday." Reacting to Nath's comments, Chouhan told reporters at Joura in Morena district that (Congress leader) Rahul Gandhi has "admitted that Nath has committed a mistake". "If he (Nath) has done wrong, then what action the party will take against him?" he asked. Chouhan was in Joura to address a rally ahead of the November 3 bypolls to 28 Assembly seats in the state. Asked about Nath refusing to apologise to Imarti Devi over his remark, Chouhan said, "Despite committing a wrong, Nath is putting up a brave face. His party leaders are saying he has committed a mistake, but as he is a man of ego and full of arrogance, he is breaking all limits of shamelessness." "He (Nath) is saying he will not apologise. What kind of a leader is he? I am surprised why the Congress has not removed him from the post of the state party president so far," the chief minister said. Addressing a poll meeting on Sunday Gwalior's Dabra town, where the BJP has fielded Imarti Devi, Nath said the Congress candidate was a "simple person" unlike his opponent who was an "item". Several BJP leaders, led by Chouhan, staged protests against Nath's remarks in the state on Monday. Chouhan also wrote to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, asking her to condemn Nath's remarks and remove the former chief minister from all party posts. The National Commission for Women also sought an explanation from the Congress leader for his remark.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/what-action-will-congress-take-against-kamal-nath-on-his-remark-shivraj-singh-chouhan-904639.html
20-10-2020||National Politics||Nishikant Dubey resumes his fight with Shashi Tharoor||BJP MP Nishikant Dubey has demanded that he be shifted out of Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology as he resumed his fight against the panel head Shashi Tharoor, accusing him of violating rules after the senior Congress MP questioned "reputable" companies in giving advertisements to "toxic" news channels. In a letter to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, the BJP MP said that Tharoor is misusing the Standing Committee platform and violating the Speaker's advisory with his "Catch the Media Attention" campaign. Dubey claimed that Tharoor's tweets on Sunday questioning corporates about the funding to the channels have “compromised the Confidentiality Clause” given in the Speaker’s Direction for the parliamentary panels. Tharoor said in a tweet, "Should such reputable companies be financing hate through ads on RepulsiveTV?: Raymonds, MuthootGroup, Jio, MaxBupa, Kent, AirIndia, Star Health Insurance, Nissan, Dabur, Mahindra, Amazon, Samsung, Sony, Maruti, Nerolac, Toyota. Can they find the moral courage to be like Parle?" “These are no better since they pay for news on TimesNow: Cadbury, Toyota, Hyundai, Nerolac, Birla Group, Amul, Skoda, Mercedes, Ceat, Samsung, Bluestar, HDFC, Sony, TCS. They “fund the toxicity, the hatred and bigotry, which our news channels spew 24×7,” Tharoor added. Dubey's letter came as the IT committee is looking into the Television Rating Points (TRP) scam after the Mumbai police claimed that three news channels manipulated the numbers in their favour. Dubey wrote, "since the conduct of Tharoor has now become incorrigible I – being a public representative for the third consecutive term – feel pained and therefore, to request your good self to kindly consider nominating me to some other committee so that I would once again be able to participate in the deliberations of the Parliamentary Committee in an effective manner." Taking exception to Tharoor referring Republic TV as 'Repulsive TV', he said in the letter, "it is also an abject display of truant behaviour on the part of Dr Tharoor to abusively call the Republic TV as Repulsive TV ‘ and also making unsubstantiated insinuations and rant against various reputable Companies / Entities like Raymonds, Air India, Maruti, Dabur, etc." Sources said that the issue of TRP was not taken up in the panel and Tharoor's remarks on channels did not violate confidentiality clause. They also said that Dubey did not attend the meetings after the panel was reconstituted in September this year by retaining Tharoor as its Chairperson. However, Dubey countered it in a tweet. He wrote that Tharoor is "incorrigible, the committee is discussing TRP, his tweets will be part. Please tell him to read Direction 55 of the speaker which says don’t communicate its report or any conclusion arrived at, finally or tentatively before the report has been presented."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nishikant-dubey-resumes-his-fight-with-shashi-tharoor-904659.html
20-10-2020||National Politics||Tired of BJP misrule, people self-immolating outside UP assembly: Akhilesh Yadav||Alleging that people are "fed up" with the ruling BJP in Uttar Pradesh, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday said they are "forced" to immolate themselves in front of the state assembly to get justice as their voices are otherwise not heard. "The people of the state are fed up with the BJP misrule due to which they are forced to immolate themselves in front of state assembly to get justice for themselves. The assembly building and Lok Bhawan have offices of the chief minister, ministers and senior officers but they are not hearing the voice of the common man," Akhilesh said in a statement issued here. Lucknow's high-security zone of Hazratganj having the state assembly and various ministries located there appear to be fast emerging as a "self-immolation bid point" with three to four protesters trying to resort to this drastic measure on a daily basis, an official here said. Claiming that Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has accepted that he has few days left at the helm, Akhilesh said, "The CM has realised that he could not stand in the next assembly polls in UP. That's why he is now busy in Bihar elections to avoid the voice of people emanating from UP." "The people are not heard in districts and due to which harassed people are coming to the state capital and attempting immolation. The BJP leadership is under utter depression as it did not have any scheme for people", he said. Slamming Adityanath, the SP chief said, "The CM is only taking credit and inaugurating projects initiated during the SP regime. His only work is listing work of SP regime in his name." Regarding the inauguration of OPD services at Super Specialty Cancer Institute here, Akhilesh said it was built during the SP regime and that the government was "sleeping" in the past four years only to put a plaque of its name there. "People's memory is not that weak that they forget so easily that it was SP regime's work. It was inaugurated in SP regime, now what was the need to do it again. Since 2017, they are only now starting OPD services there..." he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tired-of-bjp-misrule-people-self-immolating-outside-up-assembly-akhilesh-yadav-904677.html
20-10-2020||National Politics||Safety, well-being of all Indians priority of Modi government: Amit Shah||Asserting that security and well-being of Indians was a top priority for the Modi government, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday asked everyone to support Prime Minister Narendra Modi's appeal on Covid-19, saying only a united and determined India can overcome this pandemic crisis. Shah's appeal came soon after the Prime Minister, in an address to the nation, asked people to follow the Covid-19 guidelines, saying this is not the time to be careless as the virus is still around and even a small negligence can dampen the festive spirit. "Safety and well-being of Indians has been a top priority for the Modi government. And saving lives of the citizens in this battle against coronavirus has been a prime responsibility of the Modi government. In his address to the nation today, Prime Minister Modi has reiterated this resolve," Shah tweeted in Hindi. The home minister requested everyone to follow the Prime Minister's appeal to not let their guard down, till a vaccine is developed and make it as a guiding motto and keep their family safe. "Only a united and determined India can overcome this crisis," he asserted. In his address, Modi cited examples of the US and several European countries to note that the coronavirus cases there have seen a sudden and worrisome rise after witnessing a fall, as he cautioned citizens against any laxity until an effective cure is found.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/safety-well-being-of-all-indians-priority-of-modi-government-amit-shah-904769.html
20-10-2020||North and Central||Didn't say anything disgraceful, BJP is misinterpreting: Kamal Nath on his 'item' remark||Madhya Pradesh Congress chief Kamal Nath, under fire over a comment about a woman minister in the state, on Monday evening alleged in a letter to Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan that the BJP was misleading people. Nath is facing flak from the ruling party for referring to minister Imarti Devi as "item" during a campaign speech for Assembly by-election. Earlier in the day, Chouhan and other BJP leaders observed a two-hour silent fast in protest against Nath. Chouhan also wrote a letter to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, asking her to take action against Nath for his comment about a Dalit woman leader. Nath, in his own missive to Chouhan, said, "I didn't make any disgraceful remarks but you served lies....The word I said has a lot of meanings. Your party is serving lies and misleading by interpreting the word arbitrarily." In the last seven months under the BJP rule, Madhya Pradesh was once again reaching the top position in terms of crime against women but Chouhan did not act, he alleged. "Under your 16-year-long government, the state remained on top in rape cases, crime against women but you remained silent," the Congress leader alleged. "If you had been moved over the honor of women and Dalits, you would have observed silence and fast for Hathras incident, the incident involving Swami Chinmayanand, one involving BJP MLA Kuldeep Sengar and the incident with women detainees in Rewa Jail, but by mentioning the woman's caste in the letter (to Sonia Gandhi) you clearly demonstrated the mindset of your immoral politics," Nath said. Nath also alleged that a Union minister and a cabinet colleague of Chouhan have recently used derogatory terms for women. "You should have written a letter to your party president informing about the remarks of the union minister and cabinet colleague by apologizing to the women of the state and observing silent fast," the Congress leader said. Addressing a poll rally on Sunday in Gwalior's Dabra town where the BJP has fielded minister Imarti Devi, Nath said the Congress candidate was a "simple person" unlike the opponent who was an "item".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/didnt-say-anything-disgraceful-bjp-is-misinterpreting-kamal-nath-on-his-item-remark-904389.html
20-10-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh BJP minister Bisahulal Singh accused of calling Congress candidate's wife 'mistress'||Even before the row over Congress leader Kamal Nath's comment about a woman minister dies down, a BJP minister in Madhya Pradesh is facing flak for allegedly using a derogatory term for the wife of a Congress candidate. In a video that went viral on Monday, minister and BJP leader Bisahulal Singh is purportedly heard describing the second wife of Congress candidate Vishwanath Singh Kunjam as "mistress". Bisahulal is contesting Assembly by-poll from Anuppur. "Why Vishwanath Singh is hiding information about his first wife and mentioned his `Rakhail' (mistress) in the nomination papers? He has not given information about his first wife but about his mistress," he was heard as saying. Kunjam said that Bisahulal Singh's statement was baseless. "I got married 15 years back and have a 14-year-old daughter. I will file a defamation suit against him. This exposes the BJP candidate's character. On the one hand they are staging drama of silent fast and on the other hand they disrespect women," he said. Minister Singh could not be contacted for reaction. State BJP spokesman Rajnish Agrawal said he was unable to contact Singh as he is campaigning in interior areas. Earlier in the day, the BJP targeted Nath for referring to minister Imarti Devi as "item" during an election rally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-bjp-minister-bisahulal-singh-accused-of-calling-congress-candidates-wife-mistress-904410.html
20-10-2020||North and Central||Woman gang-raped in lock-up, NHRC notices to Madhya Pradesh govt, police||The National Human Rights Commission has issued notices to the Madhya Pradesh government and the state's police and prison chiefs over reports that a woman was allegedly gang-raped in a lock-up by five police personnel. The alleged incident occurred in May and it came to the knowledge of the district judge after a period of five months. Even the prison warden "did not have the courage to report" the matter to the higher authorities, the NHRC said in a statement, quoting reports. The NHRC has issued notices to the "chief secretary, director general of police and the director general of prisons of Madhya Pradesh after taking suo motu cognizance about the allegations made by women on the five cops of gang-rape in a lock-up". The Commission directed that the matter be investigated by a senior police officer not below the rank of Deputy Inspector General of Police, the statement said. "It is mentioned in the report that a 20-year-old woman has levelled allegations that she was kept in a lock-up for 10 days in the month of May this year and was subjected to rape by five police personnel, including the Police Station Incharge and SDPO of Mangawan area of Rewa district of Madhya Pradesh," the statement said. The woman, as mentioned in the report, was an accused in a case of murder and presently she is lodged in judicial custody, it said. "As alleged by the victim woman, she was subjected to rape between May 9-21 while the police contradicts... Female constable had protested at that time but she was rebuked by her seniors," the statement said, quoting reports. The Commission said it has considered the victim's vulnerable position. She was in police custody when she was allegedly subjected to utmost cruelty and sexual assault by the police personnel, the rights panel said, adding that even a protest made by a female police official went in vain. Very serious allegations have been levelled by the victim woman, the NHRC said. "Public servants from the law enforcement agencies, who are supposed to safeguard the citizens specially women and the people from the vulnerable classes of society have allegedly committed the heinous crime against a woman in their custody," it said. The NHRC, in another statement, said it has issued notices to the chief secretary and the inspector general of prisons of Madhya Pradesh after taking suo motu cognisance of alleged "violation" of some inmates, and sought a detailed report. The report should be submitted within four weeks and include the present health status of all the SIMI prisoners and their medical treatment records, the rights panel said. Six members of the banned Students’ Islamic Movement of India (SIMI) had begun a hunger strike inside the Central Jail, Bhopal a week ago and now they have been shifted to the jail hospital, it said. The prisoners who were found guilty of sedition, collecting arms and waging war against the government were sentenced to life imprisonment in 2017 and 2018 by different courts including the NIA and CBI Special Courts, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-gang-raped-in-lock-up-nhrc-notices-to-madhya-pradesh-govt-police-904420.html
20-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi: Resident doctors of NDMC hospitals meet mayor, give 7-point demand||Representatives of the resident doctors associations of three civic-run hospitals, who are currently agitating over their pending salaries, on Monday met North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash and presented their seven-point demand to him. The mayor said, he has assured the doctors that the North Delhi Municipal Corporation is doing everything possible to pay their due salaries. On Friday, resident doctors from the three hospitals had held a joint protest at the Jantar Mantar here and a candlelight march to press for their demands. "During the meeting with representatives of the the RDAs of the three hospitals, they presented a seven-point demand to us, which we will look into. Their demands include release of due salaries and addressing of other issues, like pay scale and contractual doctors matters," the mayor said. Meanwhile, Prakash called on Union Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur, and apprised him of the financial crunch faced by the NDMC, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-resident-doctors-of-ndmc-hospitals-meet-mayor-give-7-point-demand-904421.html
20-10-2020||North and Central||Punjab CM moves resolution in Assembly against Centre's farm laws||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday moved a resolution in the State Assembly against the contentious farm laws enacted by the Centre recently. The resolution was moved by the Leader of the House on the second day of a special assembly session here over the new farm laws. The Chief Minister also introduced three bills to counter the Centre's farm laws. The three bills introduced by Singh are — the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment Bill 2020, the Essential Commodities (Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment) Bill 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services (Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment) Bill 2020. Addressing the members of the House, Singh said agriculture is a state subject but the Centre ignored it. "I find it very strange what the government of India wants to do," he said. The three farm bills — the Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 — were passed by Parliament recently. Subsequently, President Ram Nath Kovind gave his assent to the bills. Farmers in the agrarian states of Punjab and Haryana are up in arms against the Centre's farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-moves-resolution-in-assembly-against-centres-farm-laws-904511.html
20-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi's air quality improves marginally as wind speed picks up, likely to turn 'very poor' by October 21||Pollution levels dipped slightly in the national capital on Tuesday morning due to favourable wind speed, though the air quality was still in the "poor" category. The Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, said the air quality index (AQI) was likely to slip to the "very poor" category by Wednesday due to a change in the wind direction and a reduction in the wind speed. The city recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 227 at 9 am on Tuesday. The 24-hour average AQI was 244 on Monday. It was 254 on Sunday and 287 on Saturday. An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. Calm winds and low temperatures allow the accumulation of pollutants, while high wind speed helps in their dispersion. Expecting further deterioration in the air quality in the coming days, the Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) on Monday asked Uttar Pradesh and Haryana governments to be ready to close thermal power plants that do not meet the standards laid down in 2015. In separate letters, EPCA chief Bhure Lal asked the two state governments to review the preparedness for closing thermal power plants and to inform the pollution watchdog about it, as well as the steps that will be taken to ensure compliance with the necessary shutdown during the peak winter period. SAFAR said a change in surface wind direction is expected by early Wednesday which is "likely to bring calm surface wind conditions, leading to low ventilation and deterioration of AQI". "Very poor AQI is predicted for Wednesday and Thursday," it said. The stubble fire count around Haryana, Punjab, and neighbouring regions stood at 1,090 on Monday. The share of farm fires in Delhi's PM2.5 pollution stood at 10 per cent. "Though transport-level wind direction is favourable, an increase in the wind speed and local surface winds led to a decrease in stubble (burning) contribution in Delhi's PM2.5," SAFAR said. The share of stubble burning in Delhi's PM2.5 pollution stood at 17 per cent on Sunday. It was 19 per cent on Saturday, 18 per cent on Friday, around one per cent on Wednesday and around three per cent on Tuesday, Monday and Sunday. On Monday, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal requested Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar to hold monthly meetings with the CMs of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and UP to curb air pollution, saying there is a lack of political will to address the problem of stubble burning. In a virtual press briefing, he said the affected states have been unable to find a solution to stop stubble burning and prevent air pollution. "I believe pollution due to stubble burning can be controlled in a short span of time. But a lack of political will is visible in doing that." Environment Minister Gopal Rai said the Delhi government will deploy 2,500 environment marshals across the city to generate awareness about its recently launched anti-pollution campaign, "Red Light On, Gaadi Off". He also said a meeting of environment ministers of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh with the Centre must be held every 15 days to discuss matters pertaining to pollution and stubble burning. Such meetings will help in improving coordination between the states, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-air-quality-improves-marginally-as-wind-speed-picks-up-likely-to-turn-very-poor-by-october-21-904527.html
20-10-2020||North and Central||Five militants killed in two separate encounters in Kashmir||Five militants were killed in two separate encounters with security forces in south Kashmir districts of Pulwama and Shopian on Tuesday. Three militants were killed in Hakripora, Pulwama, 30 km from here after a joint team of Army’s 50-Rashtriya Rifles and J&K police launched a cordon-and-search-operation (CASO) in the area following inputs about the presence of ultras there. A police official said as the forces closed in over the hiding place of the militants, they opened fire on them which was retaliated triggering an encounter. Inspector General Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar while confirming the killing of three militants in the encounter said that they were involved in an attack on a CRPF party on Monday in which two paramilitary personnel were injured. Sources said the slain militants were affiliated with the LeT outfit and were all locals. In a separate incident, two more militants were killed in an overnight encounter with security forces in the neighboring Shopian district. The gunbattle had started in the Melhura area  of Shopian on Monday which continued till Tuesday morning. The identity and group affiliation of the militants were not known immediately. In relentless anti-insurgency operations, security forces have killed nearly 200 militants, including 26 foreigners, in 85 operations across Jammu and Kashmir this year. As many as 157 militants were killed in Kashmir in 2019 while the number was 257 in 2018 which was the highest in a decade. In 2019, out of 157 slain militants, 32 were Pakistanis and the majority of them (19) belonged to the Jaish-e-Mohammad outfit.  In 2019, local militants accounted for 79% of deaths in encounters while the number has grown to 88% this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/five-militants-killed-in-two-separate-encounters-in-kashmir-904541.html
20-10-2020||North and Central||No more extension of bails, paroles for Covid-19 reasons: Delhi High Court observes||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday observed that its blanket order extending interim bails and paroles granted to prisoners in view of the Covid-19 pandemic should come to an end as the number of infected persons in jails here was only three. According to the Director General (Prisons), over 6,700 prisoners are out on bail or parole and continue to remain outside in view of the blanket order passed and extended from time-to-time by a full bench of the high court. The DG Prisons also told the high court that the three jails -- Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli -- in the national capital together have a capacity of around 10,000, but presently there were 15,900 prisoners lodged in them. The full bench headed by Chief Justice D N Patel on Tuesday said, "Let us bring to an end the Covid chapter. Let these people surrender or go back to jail. We passed the order in view of the pandemic. Our order has nothing to do with overcrowding of the jails. We are not concerned by the nature of the crimes." "The Covid chapter is over. The other reasons for grant or extension of bail and parole can continue. We will go back to the situation that prevailed in January-February this year," he added. The bench also observed that the prison was taking care of the issue and those who had tested positive for Covid-19 in jails have been hospitalised. The Chief Justice said the judges of the full bench, also including Justices Siddharth Mridul and Talwant Singh, will sit together and take a decision on whether to extend the blanket or not. The observations by the bench came while hearing an application, moved by one of the prosecutors dealing with the northeast Delhi riots cases in the trial courts, seeking modification of the high court's July 13 and July 24 orders by which it had clarified that its orders extending interim bails/paroles would be applicable to everyone granted the relief before or after March 16.  The application has alleged that the two orders were being misused by the accused in the riots cases by seeking bail on grounds of family illness or some such other reasons, instead of seeking regular bail, and then getting the same extended on the basis of the high court's direction. The lawyer told the bench during the hearing around 20 accused in the riots cases were out on interim bail on some pretext and are now enjoying the benefits of the high court's blanket order. He also said that the prosecution opposes grant of bail in such cases as the accused do not surrender after the bail expires in view of the high court order. Delhi government standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra, appearing for the DG Prisons, told the bench that removing the blanket order would go against the spirit of the Supreme Court's order to decongest jails during the pandemic as Covid-19 cases have not gone down in the national capital. He further said that the decongestion of the prisons has not led to any increase in crimes or anarchy in the city. The high court on September 28 had said it will not permit misuse of its orders and it will recall its extension order if it was being misused. The bench said, "If they (prisoners) are misusing it, we will stop it and then let them suffer."   The high court on August 24 had extended till October 31 all the interim orders which were to expire on or after August 31 in cases that are before it as also the district courts in view of the persisting Covid-19 pandemic. It had also extended the relief in cases related to those who were enlarged on interim bail or parole and may carry Covid-19 infection. If interim bail of anyone is ending, they are required to surrender to the already congested and over-crowded jails, which may not be in a position to strictly maintain physical distancing amongst inmates, it may pose a risk of unchecked spread of the virus, the court had said. On March 25, the high court had extended till May 15 the interim orders in all matters pending before it and subordinate courts in view of the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. Thereafter, the relief was extended from time-to-time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-more-extension-of-bails-paroles-for-covid-19-reasons-delhi-high-court-observes-904544.html
20-10-2020||North and Central||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh 'not afraid of resigning' on farm laws issue||Asserting that he was prepared to resign rather than bow to "injustice" meted out to Punjab farmers, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday warned of possible disruption of the state's peace and threat to national security due to the new farm laws enacted by the Centre.  “I am not afraid of resigning. I am not afraid of my government being dismissed. But I will not let farmers suffer or be ruined,” he said, while pointing out that he had chosen to quit at the time of Operation Blue Star instead of accepting or endorsing the assault on Sikh ethos. The Chief Minister was speaking in the Vidhan Sabha while presenting his government's four bills to negate the Union Government's farm laws, on the second day of the special session of the House. Cautioning the Centre against allowing the situation to get out of hand, he said if farm laws are not revoked, angry youth can come out on the streets to join the farmers, leading to chaos.    The way things are going on at present, the situation has the potential to disturb the peaceful atmosphere, he warned, observing this is what had happened in the 80s and 90s.        Both China and Pakistan will collude and try to take advantage of any disruption of the state's peace, which would pose a serious threat to national security, he added. Reiterating his full support to the agitating farmers, who, he said, were left with no option but to fight to save themselves and their families, Singh appealed to them to help out the state government by ending the Rail Roko and blockades and allow movement of essential commodities.  “We have stood with you, now it is your turn to stand with us,” he appealed to the farmers, adding that the entire House was with them but the state was going through tough times, with power generation at a precarious low, no urea for fertilisers and no space in godown for fresh paddy arrivals. The three bills introduced by Singh to counter the Centre's laws are -- the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment Bill 2020, the Essential Commodities (Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment) Bill 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services (Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment) Bill 2020. “In the name of farming laws, we have actually enacted trade laws. It is not farmers who will have access to a national market, but traders. Hence, the use of the term 'trade area' in the so-called farmers legislations is also very telling,” said Singh presenting his government's four Bills for consideration of the House. The Chief Minister accused the Centre of trying to finish Punjab with the farm laws, and questioned the Prime Minister if this action was justified.        The Centre has ignored the farmers of Punjab since other states have now also started providing food grains to the country, he said, blaming the BJP squarely for sidelining the state's agriculture.        They forgot how Punjab saved the country and came to its rescue to feed the nation for 70 years, he added.         Pointing out that the state government had not been paid its promised GST, Singh questioned the Centre over its "failure to adhere to the constitutional guarantees". Referring to the backdrop of these legislations, he said the seeds of the crop the state was harvesting today were actually sown back in 2015 by the Shanta Kumar Committee, which recommended "to explore possibility of compensating farmers when prices fall below MSP instead of physically handling large quantities of grains... This will help in bringing rationality in procurement operations and bringing back private sector in competition with State agencies in grain procurement." Singh made it clear that his government would not allow the state's farming community and agriculture, which were the back of its growth and development, to be ruined by the BJP through such devious methods.          His government's four Bills, said the Chief Minister, were aimed at preventing the damage that the central laws would cause to the state and its agriculture, while allying fears of farmers and consumers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-not-afraid-of-resigning-on-farm-laws-issue-904548.html
20-10-2020||North and Central||Srinagar office of Kashmir Times sealed by Jammu and Kashmir admin; editor alleges 'lack of due process'||Jammu and Kashmir administration has sealed the Srinagar office of Kashmir Times, one of the oldest English dailies of the erstwhile state, prompting its publisher to say that the action was “vendetta for speaking out.” Several politicians of regional parties came in support of the newspaper while terming the government action as an effort to muzzle press freedom in the region. “Today (Monday), Estates Deptt locked our office without any due process of cancellation & eviction, same way as I was evicted from a flat in Jammu, where my belongings including valuables were handed over to ‘new allottee’,” tweeted Anuradha Bhasin, executive editor of the Kashmir Times. Earlier last week, Bhasin’s government accommodation in Jammu was sealed without sending any notice. She had accused the brother of a former legislator from Jammu of forcibly barging into her government-allotted accommodation last week and vandalising her valuables. The DAVP advertisements of the newspaper were stopped in 2010, Bhasin said, adding that the J&K’s information department had also stopped sending advertisements too. “The day I went to court last year, that very day, the state government advertisements to Kashmir Times were stopped,” she said. Bhasin has been a vocal critic of the government over communication curbs since the special status of J&K under Article 370 was revoked and the region was put under a lockdown last year on August 5. She had filed a petition in the Supreme Court demanding the restoration of modes of communication and the taking of necessary steps for ensuring free and safe movement of journalists and media personnel. Bhasin said the Srinagar edition of Kashmir Times was not being published since March this year due to Covid lockdown. The office of Kashmir Times has been sealed days after the government-allotted office of Kashmir News Service (KNS), a local news gathering agency, was sealed in Srinagar without serving them an eviction notice. However, Deputy Director Estates Department Mohammad Aslam said that Kashmir Times was occupying two quarters in Srinagar’s Press Enclave, of which one was taken over “amicably”. “This quarter had actually been allotted to late Ved Bhasin, the founder of Kashmir Times and father of Anuradha Bhasin, in his individual capacity, and after his death its allotment expired and was cancelled,” he said. While reacting to the sealing of Kashmir Times office, former Chief Minister and National Conference leader Omar Abdullah tweeted: “This explains why some of our “esteemed” publications have decided to become Government mouthpieces, printing only government press handouts. The price of independent reportage is to be evicted without due process.” Another former Chief Minister and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti while condemning the government’s action tweeted: “Shutting down her (Bhasin’s) office in Srinagar is straight out of BJP’s vendetta playbook to settle scores with those who dare to disagree.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/srinagar-office-of-kashmir-times-sealed-by-jammu-and-kashmir-admin-editor-alleges-lack-of-due-process-904552.html
20-10-2020||North and Central||11-year-old girl raped by two, including her own uncle||An 11-year-old girl was allegedly raped by two people, including her uncle, in a village under Musafirkhana Kotwali police station area, police said on Tuesday. The girl was returning from tuition on Friday afternoon when she was allegedly raped near her village, said Amethi Superintendent of Police Dinesh Singh. Both the accused, including the victim’s uncle, have been arrested and further action is being taken, he added. The family also alleged that they were being threatened by the accused leading to delay of three days in lodging the FIR which was filed on Monday evening, the SP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/11-year-old-girl-raped-by-two-including-her-own-uncle-904575.html
20-10-2020||North and Central||Woman gang-raped in Uttar Pradesh's Chitrakoot, 4 arrested||Four people, including a woman, have been arrested on Tuesday in connection with the alleged gang rape of a 35-year-old woman, police said. Based on a complaint filed by the woman, a case was registered against two men on charges of gang rape and three others on charges of criminal conspiracy, the police said. According to the complaint filed on October 18, the woman was brought by the two men to the house of another accused in the Karwi police station area of Chitrakoot district in Uttar Pradesh on September 28 and raped. Later, the two men took the woman to Prayagraj and raped her before fleeing. Karwi police station SHO Anil Pathak said four people have been arrested so far, including a woman who has been booked under criminal conspiracy charges. "Efforts are on to arrest the remaining accused," he said. The SHO said the complainant had undergone a medical test on Monday and the report is awaited. The arrested accused have been sent to jai||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-gang-raped-in-uttar-pradeshs-chitrakoot-4-arrested-904579.html
20-10-2020||North and Central||Watch out for Covid-19 co-infections, Health Department warns hospitals||The Delhi Health Department has written to all hospitals and district authorities to be alert about co-infections of Covid-19 with other seasonal ailments and implement management guidelines on it issued by the Union Health Ministry. Cases of dengue, malaria, chikungunya, seasonal influenza and other diseases are expected to rise with the onset of winter. Some of the Covid-19 patients have been diagnosed with dengue too. The Directorate General Health Services (EMR Division) of the Health Ministry had recently released guidelines for the management of co-infection of Covid-19 with other seasonal epidemic-prone diseases, officials said. "The document provides clear guidelines on prevention and treatment of co-infections of Covid-19 with diseases like dengue, malaria, seasonal influenza (H1N1), leptospirosis, chikungunya, scrub typhus, bacterial co-infections etc," reads the letter sent by the department to all Delhi government hospitals and district magistrates on Monday. The Union Health Ministry had issued guidelines on October 13. "Seasonal epidemic-prone diseases may all present as febrile illness, with symptoms that mimic Covid-19. If there is a co-infection, then apart from febrile illness, there may be a constellation of signs and symptoms that may lead to difficulty in diagnosis,” the ministry had said. Seasonal diseases can not only present a diagnostic dilemma but may co-exist with Covid-19. “This poses challenges in the diagnosis of Covid-19 and has a bearing on clinical management and patient outcomes,” it said. Doctors at various hospitals said, co-infection or double infection may confuse the patient too, as those having simple flu might start rushing for Covid-19 tests. "For us, the broad symptoms of Covid-19 and say of dengue and chikungunya, might help in distinguishing, as dengue and chikungunya is accompanied with pain in joints, etc, but a patient may be having both infections, so we have to be careful," said a senior doctor at a Delhi government hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/watch-out-for-covid-19-co-infections-health-department-warns-hospitals-904580.html
20-10-2020||North and Central||UP BJP issues notice to MLA backing Ballia firing main accused||The Uttar Pradesh unit of the BJP has issued a show-cause notice to its MLA Surendra Singh for making statements in support of Dhirendra Pratap Singh, a local party leader who has been arrested for allegedly murdering a man. Surendra Singh, the MLA from Bairia, has been given a week's time to respond to the notice and asked not to make unnecessary statements, state BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh told PTI on Tuesday. Surendra Singh has come out in support of Dhirendra Pratap Singh, who allegedly shot dead a 46-year-old man in Ballia district's Durjanpur village following a quarrel over the allotment of ration shops on October 15. The Bairia MLA has said Dhirendra Pratap Singh "opened fire in self-defence" as "it was a do-or-die situation for him". He has also accused the administration of bias and demanded that action be taken against the other side. Swatantra Dev Singh said Surendra Singh has been asked to let the law take its course. "Yes, a notice has been issued to Surendra Singh, and he has been asked to refrain from making unnecessary statements. He has been given a week's time to explain his stand," the state BJP chief said. Asked when the notice was issued to Surendra Singh, Swatantra Dev initially said it was issued on Monday. However, later he said the notice was issued on Sunday. He also said BJP national president J P Nadda had sought information on the matter on phone. Speaking to reporters on Monday, Surendra Singh had said he was standing with justice. He said while the person who fired bullets has been arrested, action should also be taken against those who wielded sticks and pelted stones. "A case should also be registered from the other side (Dhirendra Pratap Singh). Action should be taken against both sides as per their role," he said. Surendra Singh has also sought a CB-CID probe in the case. Earlier, he had told reporters, "Dhirendra Pratap Singh opened fire in self-defence or else dozens of his family and associates would have been killed... He had no other option. It was a do-or-die situation fro him." He claimed six people from Dhirendra Pratap Singh's group were injured in the incident and one of them was hospitalised in Varanasi but nobody was listening to them. So far, police have arrested 10 people in the Ballia firing case, including Dhirendra Pratap Singh. An FIR has been lodged against around 30 people, most of whom are yet to be identified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-bjp-issues-notice-to-mla-backing-ballia-firing-main-accused-904582.html
20-10-2020||North and Central||7 IEDs planted by Maoists defused in Odisha: BSF||Seven IEDs, suspected to have been planted by cadres of the banned CPI (Maoist) outfit, were defused by security forces in Odisha's Malkangiri district, a BSF statement said on Tuesday. Acting on a tip-off, Border Security Force (BSF) personnel launched a combing operation in Swabhimaan Anchal along the Odisha-Andhra Pradesh border on Monday evening, it said. The troops detected the improvised explosive devices planted on a road, the statement said. "It is suspected to be a handiwork of the red rebels to target troops in interior areas of Swabhimaan Anchal," it said. A bomb disposal squad reached the spot and defused the IEDs early on Tuesday, the statement said. Though the state administration is rapidly developing the remote Swabhimaan Anchal, the red rebels are always in action to destabilise it and cause damage to security forces and government projects, it said. The area, which had remained cut-off for many years, was connected with the rest of the state following the inauguration of the Gurupriya Bridge in 2018, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/7-ieds-planted-by-maoists-defused-in-odisha-bsf-904583.html
20-10-2020||North and Central||UP minister asks girls to carry knife, use it to kill if required to protect themselves||Amid widespread outrage over incidents of crimes against women in the state, an Uttar Pradesh minister on Tuesday asked girls to carry knives and not to hesitate to even 'kill' to protect themselves. Minister of State for Labour Manohar Lal Panth alias Mannu Kori made the remarks while speaking at a function to launch 'Mission Shakti', a campaign for women's safety by the state government, in Lalitpur town, about 400 kilometres from here. ''Apne ek haath mein chaku rakhiye....jaroorat pade to maar dena...darna nahin....bhagwan sab theek karega'' (carry a knife in your hand...kill, if required....don't be afraid....God will set everything right), the minister said to the audience, which also comprised police personnel. The minister went on to quote Rani of Jhansi Lakshmi Bai, who had fought a fierce battle with the British soldiers during the first war of independence in 1857, and other women warriors during his speech. The minister's remarks were slammed by the Opposition parties, which termed them as an admission of the government's failure to ensure the safety of the womenfolk in the state. ''It is clear that the minister has accepted the failure of his government to ensure the safety of the women....so he now wants the girls to protect themselves,'' said a senior Samajwadi Party (SP) leader here.  Earlier also a BJP lawmaker had remarked that there was a need to inculcate moral values in the boys to prevent the rising incidents of rapes in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-minister-asks-girls-to-carry-knife-use-it-to-kill-if-required-to-protect-themselves-904641.html
20-10-2020||North and Central||Four Bills, resolution moved against farm laws in Punjab assembly||Congress-led Punjab on Tuesday became the first state in the country to pass Bills and a resolution to counter the contentious farm laws enacted by the Centre with the support of state Opposition parties Akali Dal, AAP and Insaaf Party. The two BJP MLAs did not take part in the five-hour debate on the four Bills, which were unanimously passed by the Punjab Assembly, on the second day of a special Assembly session. The Punjab Assembly's action came against the backdrop of continuing protests in Punjab and Haryana against the The Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 passed by Parliament last month. Congress has upped the ante against the "anti-farmer black laws" and had asked the state governments led by the party to pass Bills to negate the provisions of the central laws, which it said goes against the interests of the farm sector. The passing of the Bills is likely to create further friction with the Centre as it would need the assent of the President. While agriculture comes under State List, the Centre has enacted the controversial laws contending that it dealt with “trade and commerce in and the production, supply and distribution of food stuff” and falls under Concurrent List. According to Article 254 (2) of the Constitution that deals with legislations related to subjects that fall under Concurrent List, a law passed by the state, which is in variance with an existing law passed by Parliament, would need the assent of the President to be in force.  Soon after the passage of the Bills and resolution, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh accompanied by state Congress president Sunil Jakhar, Leader of Opposition and AAP leader Harpal Singh Cheema, SAD’s Sharanjit Singh Dhillon and other MLAs met Governor V P Singh Badnore seeking his assent. Singh said the Punjab government would take legal recourse if the Bills do not get assent. He has also sought appointment with President Ram Nath Kovind in the first week of November. “I have made clear that the bills will go to the Governor, who may or may not approve them. Similarly, if the bills go to the President, he may or may not approve too. But we have our legal experts to take it forward in courts,” he said. While the central laws seek to deregulate the sale of crops and open up new markets for farmers, its critics, including farmers' unions, alleged that it would lead to the dismantling of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) regime. It has also asked its supporters to observe October 31 -- birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhai Patel and death anniversary of Indira Gandhi -- as 'Kisan Adhikar Divas' (Farmers' Rights Day). The counter bills in the Punjab Assembly provide for imprisonment of not less than three years for the sale or purchase of wheat or paddy below the minimum support price (MSP), exemption of farmers from attachment of land up to 2.5 acres and prevention of hoarding and black-marketing of agricultural produce. The Chief Minister said in the Assembly as he moved the resolution and three of the four Bills, that if the central laws are not repealed, it would lead to anger among the youth. “I am not afraid of resigning. I am not afraid of my government being dismissed. But I will not let farmers suffer or be ruined,” he said. Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Badal moved the fourth Bill -- the Code of Civil Procedure (Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2020 -- aimed at protecting farmers from attachment of land, as a consequence of an agreement or otherwise. "These three legislations along with the proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020 are clearly against the interests of farmers and landless workers, and the time-tested agriculture marketing system established not only in Punjab but also in the original green revolution areas of Punjab, Haryana, and western UP," the resolution said. "These legislations are a direct attack, and use of subterfuge to encroach upon the functions and the powers of the states, as enshrined in the country's Constitution," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-bills-resolution-moved-against-farm-laws-in-punjab-assembly-904645.html
20-10-2020||North and Central||Talent not tied to money: Kejriwal on Delhi govt school students' performance in NEET, JEE||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said many students of Delhi government schools from a humble economic background have qualified in the NEET and JEE, and asserted that talent is not tied to money. He said money will not be a problem for the successful students in getting higher education as the Delhi government has arranged for scholarships and loans of up to Rs 10 lakh for them. A total of 569 students of Delhi government schools have qualified in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for admission to medical colleges, while 443 have cleared the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE), with 53 of them being eligible for a direct admission to IITs, the chief minister said. Of the 569 students who have qualified in the NEET, 379 (67 per cent) are girls, he added. Forty-eight students of Delhi government schools have scored over 520 marks out of 720 in the NEET, with Tamanna Goel bagging the 11th rank. Goel's father is jobless while her mother works as a domestic help in neighbourhood houses, Kejriwal said. The father of Khush Garg, who has scored 680 marks, is a small shopkeeper, he added. In the JEE, five students of RPVV, Paschim Vihar have qualified for the IITs. Ayush Bansal, whose father works at a bookshop, has bagged the 189th rank in the JEE, the chief minister said. Nikhil, who got the 678th rank in the JEE, has been offered aerospace engineering in IIT-Bombay and his father repairs cycles. Garvit Batra bagged the 1,228th rank and his father is an airconditioner mechanic, Kejriwal said. The chief minister said it is his firm belief that good education can eradicate poverty from the country in one generation itself.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/talent-not-tied-to-money-kejriwal-on-delhi-govt-school-students-performance-in-neet-jee-904647.html
20-10-2020||North and Central||UP police behaved in suspicious and vicious manner in Hathras case, says fact-finding report||A fact-finding team of activists on Tuesday accused the Uttar Pradesh police of behaving in a "highly suspicious as well as vicious manner" in the Hathras gangrape-cum-murder case by harassing the family. It also questioned why the doctors had not examined anything related to sexual assault until the victim made a statement herself. The report titled 'Fact-Finding Report on Brutal Gang-rape, Assault and Murder of a Dalit Girl by Upper Caste Thakur Men in Bulgarhi Village, Hathras' also claimed that the delay, "rather wastage of time", in medical probe on the sexual assault angle could be "deliberate" since late examination could not ever prove rape and the "intention obviously could be to miss or lose evidence forever". It also claimed that the father of the 19-year-old Dalit girl, who was gang-raped allegedly by four upper caste men on September 14 and succumbed to her injuries two weeks later, was pressurised by the district administration the day after the incident that he and the family should convey to all about them being satisfied with the inquiry and the treatment. "This itself conveys the state was preparing to suppress the truth and close the case forever," the report said. The incident triggered a controversy with the Opposition and activists accusing the UP government of helping the accused go scot-free. The fact-finding team, which visited the victim's family on October 9, was led by activist Medha Patkar of the National Alliance of People's Movements (NAPM) and included Socialist Party (India)'s Sanjay Pandey, activists Mani Mala and Faisal Khan, lawyer Ehtesham Hashmi, Joe Athialy and Amit Kumar of Delhi Solidarity Group, Narmada Bachao Andolan's Hansraj and a student Anand Athialy. "There is no doubt that the police of Uttar Pradesh behaved in a highly suspicious as well as vicious manner, beyond anyone’s expectation and they have, thereby created all doubts about their intentions," it said. The report claimed that there was undue haste in transferring the girl from the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital, Aligarh to Delhi though some doctors were of the opinion that she should not be moved until she gained consciousness. "The family too refused, realising that it was risky to shift her far in that condition. She was in severe pain and couldn't move her neck and back due to a severe nerve injury affecting the spine. The false allegation that her family didn't permit the administration to take her to AIIMS (Delhi) does therefore stands exposed and countered," it said. She was actually shifted to Safdarjung Hospital, a central government-run hospital adjacent to the AIIMS, and when queried by the family, the report said, they were told that both the hospitals were the same. In its affidavit submitted to the Supreme Court, the UP government had claimed that the family had objected to shifting the victim to Delhi. On the controversial cremation of the victim in the wee hours without seeking the family's consent, the report said that the police sent the family in a van from Delhi to Hathras but having stopped the vehicle away from the cremation ground, the women, vehemently crying, tried to stop and knock at the police van but in vain. "They wanted possession of the victim's body for their relatives, many of whom were yet to arrive, as also for others concerned since the brutal incident was already in public debate and discussion on social as well as mainstream media. This was turned down by the police, who instead had cordoned the area of cremation and absolutely denied them any right or humane response to their demand for the body to perform final rites," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-police-behaved-in-suspicious-and-vicious-manner-in-hathras-case-says-fact-finding-report-904657.html
20-10-2020||North and Central||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh, MLAs meet Governor; press for nod to Bills against farm laws||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday met Governor V P Singh Badnore after the state assembly unanimously passed four Bills against the Centre’s farm laws and hoped that he will give his nod to the legislations. Accompanied by state MLAs, including those from the Shiromani Akali Dal and Aam Aadmi Party, the chief minister told reporters that he hopes the governor “will listen to the voice of Punjab”. BJP legislators were not part of the delegation that met the governor. The party has two MLAs who also skipped the special assembly session called against the farm laws. All MLAs who met the governor urged him to accord his assent to the Bills at the earliest. During the meeting, the CM handed over copies of the legislations and the resolution adopted against the farm laws. In case the governor does not give his approval to the Bills passed by the assembly, the CM said his government will take legal recourse. The chief minister said he has sought time from President Ram Nath Kovind between November 2 and 5 and all Punjab legislators will together go to him to seek his intervention in the interest of the state. The chief minister said he does not think the Centre could afford to ignore the voice of Punjab and hoped they would realise that “killing MSP would spell the death knell for farming”. The Punjab Assembly on Tuesday unanimously passed four Bills and adopted a resolution against the Centre's farm laws. The Bills were passed after an over five-hour discussion, in which BJP MLAs did not take part. The Opposition SAD, AAP and Lok Insaaf MLAs backed the legislations. “Punjab’s future and national security are both at stake,” Amarinder Singh said, adding that the coming together of all parties is a good thing for the state. Expressing his gratitude for the support of all parties to the resolution and the Bills, the chief minister said the message that Punjab is united against the “black farm laws” will go out to farmers across the country. During his 20-minute meeting with the governor, Amarinder Singh was accompanied by state Congress president Sunil Jakhar, Leader of Opposition and AAP leader Harpal Singh Cheema, SAD’s Sharanjit Singh Dhillon and other MLAs. Asked about the possibility of the Centre imposing the President’s rule in the state to scuttle attempts to negate the farm laws, Amarinder Singh said, "Let’s wait and see. We will move step by step." However, if the situation comes to such a pass, the Centre will not need to dismiss him, as he was carrying his resignation in his pocket and would give it willingly, rather than compromising on the interests of Punjab and its farmers, he said. The CM said his government will bring more pro-farm and pro-poor Bills in the House on Wednesday. In response to a question, Amarinder Singh said paddy worth crores of rupees was lying in godowns and needed to be shifted out to make way for wheat. “Coal stocks have run out and urea is in short supply,” he said, adding that this is badly impacting both agriculture and the industry in the state. He again appealed to farmers to call off their "rail roko" agitation and carry out their protests through dharnas, which he said was their democratic right. Referring to the absence of the BJP MLAs from the House, the chief minister said this showed their lack of concern and love for the farmers. The Congress, in contrast, had already announced its unequivocal opposition to the central legislations, he added. AAP leader Harpal Cheema said they are all working together, rising above party lines, in the interest of farmers. SAD leader Sharanjit Dhillon warned Prime Minister Narendra Modi against dismissing Punjab as a small state, which he could easily ignore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-mlas-meet-governor-press-for-nod-to-bills-against-farm-laws-904670.html
20-10-2020||North and Central||NIA files charge sheet against 10 accused in Hizbul narco-terror case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) Tuesday filed a charge sheet against ten accused in connection with its probe into the Hizbul Mujahideen narco-terror case. The premier probe agency filed a 14000-page charge sheet against the accused in NIA Special Court at Mohali, Punjab. While seven among the accused have already been arrested two are absconding while the other accused Hizbul chief Riyaz Naikoo was killed in an encounter with security forces in May this year. One of the accused Hilal Ahmad from south Kashmir's Pulwama district, a truck driver was arrested on 26 April in Amritsar. Ahmad was claimed to have been arrested with Rs 29 lakh cash, by Punjab Police and the case was later taken over by the NIA which established links between him and Ranjit Singh, a notorious narco-militant, who was arrested from Sirsa area of Haryana in May this year. The NIA says Ranjit Singh was a close aide of Hizbul chief Naikoo. Singh was involved in the Hizbul terror-financing module run by Ahmad. “Investigation also unearthed the conspiracy hatched by Pakistan-based Hizbul commanders and their associates and terrorist gangs in Punjab to support and augment the terror infrastructure of Hizbul in India by raising money through drug smuggling/drug pedalling,” a spokesperson of the NIA said in a statement.   He said during the investigation, it emerged that the accused had received at least six consignments of heroin through Attari Indo-Pakistan border in the garb of importing rock salt granules from Pakistan. “Of these, money proceeds of five consignments were partly sent back to Pakistan through hawala operators while a substantial portion was channelized to Hizbul terrorists in Kashmir through a network of OGWs and other associates,” the NIA investigation reveals. In July 2019, the sixth consignment of around 532 kgs of heroin was seized at Attari border and a separate case was registered, which was investigated and charge-sheeted by the NIA. During investigations, the NIA carried out searches at 15 locations belonging to suspects and accused in Punjab, Haryana and J&K. “So far, Rs 98.5 lakh, eight vehicles and three kgs of heroin have been seized from the accused and investments worth many crores have been identified,” the NIA spokesperson said. He said during searches, incriminating documents related to benami properties and digital gadgets including mobile phones, pen drives and laptops were seized and forensically examined. “Many incriminating chats between accused persons have been recovered from the seized digital devices,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nia-files-charge-sheet-against-10-accused-in-hizbul-narco-terror-case-904681.html
20-10-2020||North and Central||Rise in home isolation cases again; pollution, festive season could be factors, say experts||The number of Covid-19 patients under home isolation in Delhi has steadily increased by a margin of 1,804 in the last six days, with experts saying that opening of cinema halls, pollution and greater public activity in the festive season could be the possible factors behind it. On October 18, the number of people under home quarantine stood at 13,742 with 2,770 containment zones in the city. On Monday, the count rose to 14,164 and 2782 respectively, according to official data. The national capital recorded 31 Covid-19 fatalities on Monday, taking the death toll to 6,040, while 2,154 fresh cases took the infection tally to over 3.33 lakh. After showing a gradual decline since September 22, except on two days, the number of patients under home quarantine had again risen on October 1, the count being 15,899. However, from October 2-13 the cases of home isolation gradually dipped, except on two days when it registered a minimal rise. On October 2 the count was 15,852, which came down to 12,176 on October 13, as per official data. But the count of home isolation cases rose again the next day to 12,360 and it has steadily increased per day since then. On October 19, it stood at 14,164, a rise of 1,804 compared to the number of cases on October 14. Medical experts feel greater increase in public activities due to the festive season and opening of cinema halls along with deteriorating air quality could be the possible factors behind rise in home isolation cases. "Theatres have opened and people are going to markets for festival shopping, this means more public activity and thus greater chance of contracting the infection. Besides, pollution is an added factor," Medical Director, LNJP Hospital, Suresh Kumar, told PTI. People with asthma, COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) and other respiratory ailments are more susceptible to suffer fall in their oxygen concentration level and thus more prone to contract the infection from someone else, symptomatic or asymptomatic, he said. According to doctors, respiratory illnesses like viral influenza increase with a spike in pollution levels as poor air quality leads to inflammation in the lungs making it more vulnerable for the virus to penetrate. "We would advise patients with respiratory illnesses to stay indoors as much as possible. Also, appeal to youth to not assume everything is normal again just because the economy is getting eased. Mask should be worn all the time while being outdoor and social distancing norms should be followed," said a senior doctor of a government hospital. On September 21, the number of home isolation cases had increased to 19,213 after steady ascent in its count since the last week of August. However, it fell by a margin of 749 on September 22 to 18,464, registering a significant fall after a long time. It fell further down to 17,834 the next day when the number of containment zones stood at 1,987. The containment zone count had crossed the 2,000-mark on September 24 (2,059) and the home isolation cases too had showed a marginal rise (17,995). On September 25 also it slightly rose to 18,096. However, the cases of home isolation fell gradually for five consecutive days from September 26-30. The Delhi government had been laying a lot of emphasis on home isolation, especially for asymptomatic patients, as part of its Covid-19 management strategy in the past several months. Recently, it was decided to not stick cautionary posters on the walls of houses of patients who are under home isolation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rise-in-home-isolation-cases-again-pollution-festive-season-could-be-factors-say-experts-904712.html
20-10-2020||North and Central||Covid-19: HC asks Delhi govt to ensure sero survey report not leaked to media||The Delhi High Court Tuesday directed the AAP government to ensure that the report of the fourth sero surveillance, which is likely to conclude soon, shall not be leaked to the media till the matter is heard by it. The high court also expressed displeasure over delay in informing persons about their result of Covid-19 test, which should be conveyed in 24 hours. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad noted that one of the court staff got his test report after four days and said such things should not happen. The high court was informed by Delhi government counsel Satyakam that the fourth sero surveillance will conclude on October 22 and the report would come out after a fortnight. The counsel said one of their senior professors who will analyse the sero survey reports is suffering from Covid-19. The bench directed that the sero survey report be not leaked to the media before the next date of hearing on November 11. It also sought the stand of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on a new test called Feluda, which is being marketed by TATA sons and is pending approval from ICMR. The high court was hearing a PIL by advocate Rakesh Malhotra seeking increasing the Covid-19 testing numbers in the national capital and getting speedy results. The high court had earlier observed that the AAP government was "frittering away" a part of its RT-PCR testing whose numbers were "abysmally low" when compared to the rapid testing figures and had said it made no sense when the daily number of coronavirus positive cases were averaging around 3,500-4,000. RT/PCR, short for Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction, is a laboratory technique widely used in the diagnosis of genetic diseases and to measure gene expression in research. The government had told the bench that the third of sero surveillance carried out by it in Delhi between September 1 to September 7 has found that seroprevalence of antibodies to Covid-19 in citizens of the national capital has reduced from nearly 29 per cent in August to 25 per cent in September. The bench on September 16, had asked the Delhi government to increase the RT-PCR test capacity to the maximum possible to detect Covid-19 infection, as RATs were only 60 per cent accurate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-hc-asks-delhi-govt-to-ensure-sero-survey-report-not-leaked-to-media-904719.html
20-10-2020||North and Central||Railways employees protest delay in payment of bonus||Thousands of railway employees staged protests across the country on Tuesday against the "inordinate delay" in payment of productivity-linked bonus, defying warning of stringent action by the Railway Board, according to the All India Railwaymen's Federation (AIRF). The AIRF has said if the bonus is not released immediately, they will be compelled to intensify their protest and take "direct action". "Today all affiliated unions of AIRF have launched various agitational programmes all over the country to strongly protest the inordinate delay in payment of PLB (productivity-linked bonus) to railwaymen and condemned the government for this delay," AIRF general secretary Shiv Gopal Mishra said in a statement. "Despite a warning letter issued by the Railway Board yesterday, more than 8 lakh railway employees took part in these agitational programmes across the length and breadth of the country," he said. The bonus to be paid now pertains to 2019-20 when there was no coronavirus pandemic and the Indian Railways earned profit. This is the reason the Ministry of Railways has already recommended payment of the bonus to all railway employees to the Finance Ministry in the first week of October, he said. The bonus is usually paid a week before Durga Puja/Dussehra for the past four decades. "Why the inordinate delay this year? On the one hand the Prime Minister and the Railway Minister have applauded the performance of the railwaymen and on the other there is an indifferent attitude on payment of PLB to them," he said. Mishra said that during the Covid-19 Pandemic, more than 180 railway employees sacrificed their lives to keep the wheels of the Indian Railways moving round-the-clock for ensuring uninterrupted supply of essential commodities in different parts of the country. "I hope that, keeping in view deep sense of frustration and resentment brewing among the railwaymen and other central government employees, the government shall make its (PLB) announcement immediately, else employees shall be compelled for direct action," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/railways-employees-protest-delay-in-payment-of-bonus-904758.html
20-10-2020||North and Central||Uttarakhand High Court notice to Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on contempt plea||The Uttarakhand High Court on Tuesday sought Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari’s stand on a plea for starting a contempt proceeding against him for his failure to follow a court order to pay market rent for a government bungalow allocated to him as a former chief minister. Justice Sharad Kumar issued notice to Koshyari through his counsel after hearing arguments of the petitioner's counsel on maintainability of the contempt plea. The plea filed by a Dehradun-based NGO, Rural Litigation and Entitlement Kendra, accuses the former chief minister of committing "willful non-compliance" of the court's May 3, 2019 order which had asked him to pay market rent of the bungalow occupied by him as ex-CM within six months of the direction. Koshyari has till date not paid the market rent to the government as calculated against him, the petition said. The respondent has also not paid the amount due upon him towards amenities such as electricity, water, petrol, oil etc, it said. "We have fulfilled the requirement provided under Article 361(4) of the Constitution of India and already given 60 days' notice to Koshyari before filing the contempt petition, petitioner's counsel Kartikeya Hari Gupta said. The petition also accuses the state government of favouring the respondent unlawfully and arbitrarily by passing the Uttarakhand Former Chief Minister Facilities (Residential and other Facilities) Ordinance 2019" and later enacting a law with the same name to ease him out of his payment obligations. The law was found to violate the separation of powers doctrine and Article 14 of the Constitution, the petition said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-high-court-notice-to-maharashtra-governor-bhagat-singh-koshyari-on-contempt-plea-904759.html
20-10-2020||North and Central||Press Council asks print media not to publish articles predicting poll results||The Press Council of India on Tuesday asked the print media to refrain from publishing any article that in any manner predicts the results of the upcoming elections between October 28-November 7. The advisory comes ahead of the Bihar polls and by-polls in various states, including in 28 Assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh. While considering the communication received from the Election Commission of India, it advises the print media to refrain from publishing any article which in any way predicts the results of the elections during the prohibited period to ensure free, fair and transparent elections, the Press Council of India said in a statement. The Council said it is of the view that the prediction of results of elections in any form or manner by way of predictions etc. by astrologers, tarot readers, political analysts or by any persons during the prohibited period is violation of the spirit of Section 126A which aims to prevent constituencies still going to polls from being influenced in their voting by such prediction. "The print media is hereby advised not to publish/publicise any such article of results, during the prohibited period i.e. between 7.00 am on October 28 and 6.30 pm on November 7 in the current general election to the state legislative Assembly of Bihar, 2020 to ensure free and fair elections," the PCI said. Voting for the Bihar assembly elections will be held in three phases on October 28, November 3 and November 7 -- one of the biggest elections globally during the Covid-19 pandemic. The votes will be counted on November 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/press-council-asks-print-media-not-to-publish-articles-predicting-poll-results-904779.html
20-10-2020||North and Central||Toddler raped, killed in Ghaziabad; accused known to family arrested||A two-and-half-year-old girl was allegedly raped and later killed by her father's acquaintance with her body found in Kavi Nagar here on Tuesday, police said. She was lured on the pretext of getting her some food by her father's old acquaintance, they said. Her body was found in a deserted area under Kavi Nagar police station limits in the morning. The victim's father lodged a complaint with the police that he has known the accused for the last 10 years who used to visit his house often as his children used to address him as 'uncle', according to Senior Superintendent of Police Kalanidhi Naithani. The rape accused has been arrested after being booked under IPC Sections 376 and 302 along with provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) Act. The girl's body was sent for a post-mortem.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/toddler-raped-killed-in-ghaziabad-accused-known-to-family-arrested-904821.html
20-10-2020||Opinion||Jeff Bezos’ company is carrying scientific cargo to apace. It’s not Amazon.||West Texas is not quite like the moon. But it can serve as a handy stand-in. Last week, Blue Origin, the rocket company started by Jeff Bezos, the chief executive of Amazon, launched — and landed — its small New Shepard rocket and capsule for the 13th time as part of tests to verify safety before any passengers climb aboard. One day, this will be New Shepard’s main business: flying well-to-do people above the 62-mile altitude generally considered the beginning of outer space where they will experience a few minutes of weightlessness as the capsule arcs. Blue Origin is not a new company — Bezos founded it in 2000 — but for most of its existence it operated in secret without generating much revenue. Three years ago, Bezos said he was selling $1 billion a year in Amazon stock to finance Blue Origin’s research and development. And he has declared broad ambitions for its business, such as competing with Elon Musk’s SpaceX and others in the orbital launch business, building a moon lander for NASA astronauts and eventually making it possible for millions of people to live and work in space. But the cargo of last Tuesday’s launch from a test site near Van Horn, Texas, shows that the company is finding a more modest business in the short term: turning the reusable New Shepard rocket and capsule into an effective, and profitable, platform for testing new technologies and performing scientific experiments. “It was fantastic,” said Erika Wagner, Blue Origin’s payload sales director, who was in West Texas. “We were watching across the valley and watching the rocket climb up.” Tucked under the collar at the top of the booster on the launch were prototypes of sensors that could help NASA astronauts safely reach the lunar surface in a few years. It is part of NASA’s Tipping Point program, which seeks to push innovative technologies. “Although not identical to a lunar lander, it is representative in that full-flight profile of approaching at a high rate of speed, and then throttling up an engine and doing a propulsive landing,” said Stefan Bieniawski, who leads the Blue Origin side of the partnership with NASA. “In fact, I think we’re actually at slightly higher speeds than you would be approaching the moon. So it gives a little bit of a stress test for some of these sensors.” Unlike NASA’s Apollo missions from 1969 to 1972, which visited different parts of the moon, the space agency’s current Artemis program aims to make repeated visits near the lunar South Pole, where eternally shadowed craters contain large amounts of water ice. That will require the ability to land close to the same spot again and again. To that end, NASA’s Langley Research Center in Hampton, Virginia, has spent years developing a system that bounces light off the surface to measure altitude and velocity of a descending spacecraft. This technology, lidar — short for light detection and ranging — is similar to radar, but it should be able to provide more precise readings. A second NASA system aboard the flight was a test of what is known as terrain relative navigation. Because there are no Global Positioning System satellites orbiting the moon, a spacecraft has to rely on its own smarts to determine its exact location. With this navigation system, a computer compares images taken by a camera with those stored onboard to determine its location. The navigation system was turned on close to where the New Shepard booster reached its highest point. “The terrain navigation does not sit there and say, ‘Hey, I see a crater,’ ” Bieniawski said. “It’s really looking for contrasts in the scene. And in that way, it really doesn’t care whether it’s on the moon or whether it’s here on Earth.” NASA paid Blue Origin $1.5 million to mount its systems on two flights of New Shepard. The second flight will add another lidar instrument that will create a three-dimensional map of the landscape below in order to identify and avoid obstacles. “Our goal is to ready a plug-and-play precision landing system that NASA and industry can use based on a mission’s specific need,” Jim Bridenstine, the NASA administrator, said in a statement. “This integrated New Shepard test will put us on that path, giving us unmatched intel about how the sensors, algorithms and computer work together.” While there were no people in the New Shepard capsule for the flight, it was not empty. It carried NASA-financed science experiments as well as experimental cargo from private companies. New Shepard flights have already carried more than 100 payloads to the edge of space. “We make money on every flight,” said Bob Smith, the chief executive of Blue Origin. Wagner of Blue Origin said the scientists came to West Texas and were excited to watch the launch and start digging into the results the same day. “They’re just bouncing up and down on their toes,” she said. The experiments on last week’s flight included the second iteration of a project from Daniel Durda, a scientist at the Southwest Research Institute in Boulder, Colorado. He called it BORE II, where BORE is a simple acronym for Box of Rocks Experiment. “It’s literally a box of rocks,” Durda said. He is trying to develop a system that can scoop up samples of dirt from an asteroid. BORE II contains crushed-up material that is similar in composition to certain carbon-rich asteroids. During the weightless portion of the flight, a tetrahedron-shaped collection device, which Durda called a starfish, will unfold. Magnets mounted on the outer triangles — the arms of the starfish — should attract and hold onto some of the crushed rocks. The device will then fold up again, trapping the material. “It’s kind of a biomimicry thing if you think about it,” Durda said. “The way starfish feed is they kind of extrude their stomach out and they pull them back in and collect what they’re doing. That’s kind of what we’re doing here.” By testing the design on a suborbital flight, Durda can find out how much material can be collected and whether the apparatus operates without jamming. “It’s the very first step in understanding how you might incorporate a sampler mechanism like this into a spacecraft rendezvous mission where you dump maybe dozens, many dozens of these little things across the surface of an asteroid,” he said.   In the past, scientists wanting to study something in a weightless environment had other methods, but they all had drawbacks. They could drop an object off a tower, offering a few seconds of zero gravity. Or put an experiment on an airplane flying a path of an object in free fall, which provided about 20 seconds of floating. The luckiest experimenters could endeavor to be selected among the few projects sent to orbit, first on the space shuttle and now to the International Space Station. Vehicles known as sounding rockets also headed to about the same altitude as New Shepard goes, but because they flew only once, they were much more expensive. The New Shepard vehicle has launched and landed seven times.   With the new suborbital vehicles that fly repeatedly, the price of getting to space is much lower for NASA as well as for academic and private scientists. The most popular option, Smith said, is what Blue Origin calls a single storage locker. “That starts around $100,000 for about 25 pounds and something the size of, let’s say, a microwave,” he said. “But we also have many payloads that we use with students that go as low as $8,000.” The suborbital research is also a sign that Blue Origin is making a turn to becoming a profitable business as it prepares to sell tickets to space tourists. It has yet to announce a date or price for those flights. “It’s been a lot of growth in facilities personnel actually trying to understand how do we run this much more like a business as opposed to a research organization,” Smith said. “We’ve also gone from virtually zero revenue to now making hundreds of millions of dollars of revenue annually.” The company has competition for the market of sending experiments to space. Richard Branson’s Virgin Galactic, which also plans to send space tourists on suborbital jaunts, has been flying experiments during its test flights. One from University of Florida scientists, for example, tested imaging technologies that capture the reaction of plants — what genes are turned on and off — to the stresses of spaceflight. (The same scientists had another iteration of the experiment aboard last week’s Blue Origin flight.) Virgin Galactic’s space plane, known as SpaceShipTwo, is flown by two pilots, so it has carried people to space, but it will not fly paying passengers until next year. “The whole view of using these vehicles for research purposes has moved into the mainstream, and NASA has now been funding a lot of that kind of work,” said S. Alan Stern, associate vice president of the space science and engineering division at Southwest Research Institute who has been selected by NASA to accompany his research on a future Virgin Galactic flight.   Stern will operate a lowlight camera, used previously on the space shuttle, to test how well SpaceShipTwo can be used for astronomical observations. When Blue Origin and Virgin Galactic start flying people, that will open an opportunity for scientists to accompany their experiments. That could greatly simplify some research, because scientists are much more flexible than machines. “There are many things you can do with humans in the loop just because automation is expensive,” Stern said. “And automation is failure prone.” Southwest Research Institute has purchased its own seats for its scientists on future Virgin Galactic flights. “We have to resort to automation in spaceflight, because it’s been expensive and difficult to send the experimenter,” Stern said, “but in every other field, from volcanology to oceanography to polar studies, we send the experimenters into the field to do the experiment.” One of those seats is to be filled by Durda, who will accompany a future Box of Rocks experiment.   By operating the experiment himself, Stern said he would gain direct experience with how these materials behave on an asteroid. “I think it’s very important for us to understand the conditions on their surfaces at a ‘gut instinct’ level the same way a field geologist walking a Western desert landscape here on Earth does,” Durda said. “We’ve attained that level of familiarity in just about every other aspect of field and laboratory science,” he said. “It’s long past time for space scientists to be able to work with that same enabling benefit.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/jeff-bezos-company-is-carrying-scientific-cargo-to-apace-it-s-not-amazon-904415.html
20-10-2020||Opinion||A storied female warlord surrenders, Taliban say exposing Afghan weakness||In a long conflict waged by men, she has been a rare female warlord, defending her fief in northern Afghanistan against the Taliban, her own relatives and even against the U.S.-backed central government she allied with. As she grew into her 70s, ailing and bedridden with bad knees, the warlord, Bibi Ayesha, took pride in having an undefeated record in decades of war. She is popularly known by a nom de guerre: Commander Kaftar, which means “pigeon” in Farsi, “because she moved and killed with the elegance of a bird,” as one profile put it. On Thursday, the Taliban declared the end of her high-flying days: Kaftar, along with her men, had surrendered to them, they said in a statement. “The officials of our Invite and Guidance Commission welcomed them,” the statement said. Local officials in restive Baghlan province, where she is based, and her relatives confirmed the commander’s surrender and said it was an act of survival. Her valley was so surrounded, with other neighboring militias switching sides to the Taliban, that she had no choice. Mohammad Hanif Kohgadai, a member of the Baghlan provincial council representing Kaftar’s district, said she had reached a deal through a Taliban commander related to her family. “The Taliban spent the night at Commander Kaftar’s house, they ate there,” Kohgadai said in an interview Friday. “Today, they left the house and took with them 13 weapons and other military gear.” One of Kaftar’s sons played down the episode, saying it was more a truce than a surrender. “It is just a rumor. My mother is sick,” said Raz Mohammad, one of her three remaining sons. (Three others were killed in years of fighting.) “She hasn’t joined the Taliban. We don’t fight the Taliban anymore; we have weapons to protect ourselves from our enemies.” Kaftar’s surrender brings little to the Taliban militarily but is another propaganda victory against the struggling Afghan government, suggesting that in a bloody, stalemated war some were switching sides to the insurgents. The Taliban have increasingly reached out to those disenchanted with the Afghan government as the country’s military struggles amid the continuing U.S. withdrawal. For a group that kept women confined to their homes when they were in power in the 1990s, a Taliban alliance with a female commander could prove tricky. The Taliban have yet to provide any detailed positions in ongoing peace talks on the role of women in a future government. But what makes Kaftar’s shift easier is that she commands hundreds of men in a deeply conservative and misogynistic society. The surrender exposes a larger vulnerability of the Afghan government: Its defenses are partly reliant on thousands of unreliable militias with track records of abuse and local feuding, and a history of switching sides. President Ashraf Ghani has sent mixed signals about the militias over the years. When Ghani came to office in late 2014, he tried aggressively to dismantle the militias. Encountering the president’s wrath, militia commanders simply refused to fight the Taliban, opening the way for the insurgents to march on Kunduz City. In recent years, as the Afghan army and police have been stretched thin against Taliban offensives, Ghani has accepted the militias as a reality. Over the summer, the Afghan president spoke publicly about “investing more” in some militias as a line of defense. Kaftar’s experience speaks to the complicated reality upon which the U.S.-bankrolled democracy has been built — on the legacy of a previous invasion and years of anarchy and warlord rule. Her reputation began to grow with the killing of Soviet commandos who had swarmed her valley during an invasion starting in 1979. She has not put down arms since, raising a militia that protected her valley as her little kingdom. Even when the Taliban swept through most of Afghanistan in the 1990s, she fended them off. She has often recounted how she taunted the Taliban commander for her province with a lose-lose offer: If she arrested him, she would parade him around town on a donkey and people would laugh at him for being defeated by a woman. And if he arrested her? The town would scold the Taliban commander for arresting a woman. After the U.S. invasion in 2001, the new Afghan government moved to disarm militias like hers. She and many other militia commanders resisted. Asked about the government wanting to disarm her, she said, “If they come, you will see what I will do to the government.” Even in Kabul she was celebrated as an anti-Taliban hero and inspiration for women, with the country’s former human rights chief attending a celebration of her hosted by Afghanistan’s vice president. “This war won’t end in peace — only God, or this beautiful Kalashinkov can solve it,” she once said in an interview, the weapon on her lap. “The Taliban are not capable of change or reform.” But even as media reports list 20 of her family members lost in the war with the Taliban, much of her fight in recent years has involved spiraling family feuds. Some of those disputes, including a fight with one of her sisters, have dragged on over two decades with many dead on each side. In another prolonged feud, she chased a relative out of the valley after deaths on both sides, only for the man to return years later as a commander of the Taliban that she has now surrendered to. The news of Kaftar’s fate raised questions of whether it was the result of a truce between two families, or as it was publicly portrayed: the surrender of a militia commander to a Taliban leader. In large parts of Afghanistan, with the lines of war increasingly blurred, the two are the same. “Commander Pigeon was an old decrepit warlord, a broken-down woman,” writer Jennifer Percy wrote in a 2014 profile in The New Republic. “Lonely, she survived on attention, on her ability to inspire fear through the power of her own myth. In Afghanistan, the ability to create a mythology is powerful, maybe even more powerful than military prowess.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-storied-female-warlord-surrenders-taliban-say-exposing-afghan-weakness-904428.html
20-10-2020||Opinion||Strengthening private sector engagement may improve infant and young child feeding outcomes||By Ruchika Chugh Sachdeva and Lakshmi Sethuraman Optimal infant and young child feeding (IYCF) practices are extremely important for child survival, healthy growth and development, and can together prevent almost one-fifth of deaths in under-five children. These feeding practices comprise early and exclusive breastfeeding for the first six months and timely introduction of complementary foods at six months with continued breastfeeding for two years. Status in India In India, stunting among under five years of age children has reduced by only one-third between 1992 and 2016 and as per a recent study, 35 per cent of our under-five children are stunted. Only 57 per cent mothers put their babies to breast within the first hour of birth 1, despite the fact that about 78.7 per cent deliver in health facilities. Further, half of our babies are initiated with complementary feeding at six months while merely 6 per cent received a minimum acceptable diet. Solving India’s malnutrition challenge calls for a comprehensive and concerted response in which the private sector must actively participate along with its government counterpartsIndia has a wide network of private healthcare providers having 66 per cent share in outpatient and 55 per cent share in inpatient care. A substantial number of deliveries take place in private hospitals and the sector accounts for nearly 21 per cent deliveries in rural areas and 48 per cent deliveries in urban areas. While the private sector’s significant role in delivering maternal and new-born health services is evident, quality of care is often an issue given the fragmented nature of the sector. This point to the significance of delivering skilled and high-quality counselling services to pregnant and lactating mothers and their families seeking care in private hospitals that can lead to higher rates of breastfeeding and appropriate complementary feeding practices during the first 1,000 days of a child’s life. The government is now actively exploring partnerships with the private sector to expand the coverage of care. Larger opportunities for entering into public-private partnerships [owing toPradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Surakshit Matritva Abhiyan wherein the government is engaging with private specialists for identification of high-risk pregnancies,incentivising private sector obstetricians for childbirth services and participation in the Ayushman Bharat scheme for inpatient services. The recently launched Poshan Abhiyan has opened avenues for the private sector to innovate and actively participate in the endeavour to end India’s malnutrition. Programs such as the Arogya Rakshak in Chittoor, IMPAct4Nutrition and Access to Nutrition Index are some successful examples. Given this context, there is a strong opportunity for sustainable and high-quality nutrition intervention models to be scaled up across private healthcare institutions to help achieve desired nutrition outcomes in targeted populations. Here are some suggestions on how this can be realised: Ensuring high quality of services Involving professional bodies like Indian Dietetic Association (IDA), National Neonatology Forum (NNF), Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP) and Federation of Obstetric and Gynaecological Societies of India (FOGSI)-strong advocacy efforts coupled with modifying IYCF packages for private hospitals and building capacity to deliver IYCF counselling services will be critical to deliver high-quality nutrition care in the first 1,000 days. It will also be pertinent to create a cadre of IYCF counsellors who can provide dedicated and skilled support to mothers and families. Defining quality standards and providing accreditation to private facilities in partnership with professional associations and government can incline them towards wider service provision and acceptance of standardised protocols. While India has instituted the IMS (Infant Milk Substitute) Act to curb sales of infant milk substitutes, many private hospitals continue to violate the same. Strategies need to be worked out to strengthen enforcement of the IMS Act through bringing in stronger penalties Businesses can be brilliant shapers of demand, often for unhealthy foods, and we must find ways to engage them in bending demand towards healthy and nutritious diets.  The private sector can play a key role in driving campaigns around the importance of nutrition outcomes and its link to healthy food and thereby increase demand for higher quality services. Ensuring wider deployment and scale Stronger engagement with the private sector can happen through a hub and spoke model where the hub is a centre with specialised paediatric services, while spokes are a larger network of private providers. Service provision can be increased by enlisting private service providers and linking them with front line workers who can identify early signs of malnutrition and refer patients to the hub (specialist). Government schemes like PMJAY can be leveraged to provide quality nutrition rehabilitation services and treatment for childhood illnesses through private hospitals. This will also help reduce out of pocket expenditure. Increasing efficiency Maintaining essential health and nutrition-related data including those on IYCF indicators at public and private healthcare facilities will aid in streamlining and amplifying national response to tackling malnutrition through informed policy guidance. The recently launched National Digital Health Mission strategy has set the stage for technology that can enable richer data to drive efficiency and better decision making. Ensuring economic viability at facility level Financial viability is a key determinant for the uptake of demand for these interventions to work at facility level. Therefore, executing focused pilots to showcase the financial viability of the intervention (such as focus on upskilling existing staff rather than investing in new resources and increased consumer demand for services) for the facility is important for this to gain widespread acceptance. Given this context, we believe that there is a strong opportunity for sustainable and high-quality nutrition intervention models to be scaled up across private healthcare institutions to help achieve desired nutrition outcomes in targeted populations. (Ruchika Chugh Sachdeva is the Deputy Director-MNCHN, PATH, and Lakshmi Sethuraman, Principal, Sattva Consulting)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/strengthening-private-sector-engagement-may-improve-infant-and-young-child-feeding-outcomes-904495.html
20-10-2020||Opinion||A Covid-19 disaster in Bengal thanks to Puja & politics?||Bengal could be facing the prospect of an explosion of Covid-19 cases in the coming weeks and months thanks to the recklessness of common folk, the administration, and politicians of all shades. While pan India figures of the daily infected have come down, with the country reporting less than 50,000 daily cases for the first time in three months on October 20, Bengal is now recording among the highest number of daily cases. The question is whether post-Puja Bengal will become post-Onam Kerala that saw 126 per cent surge in Covid-19 cases after celebrating the festival. If it does, it will be a catastrophe because the death rate in Bengal (still around 2 per cent) is much higher than Kerala (less than 0.5 per cent). The good thing is that the Calcutta High Court has made an effort to contain the crowding of the Durga Puja pandals by declaring them as no-entry zones for visitors. While some leaders of the ruling Trinamool Congress had shown some resentment against the verdict, all Opposition parties have welcomed it. Now it is to be seen whether the verdict will really deter Puja enthusiasts from hitting the roads or whether the order will be adhered to in semi-urban and rural areas. Ironically, while the ruling party, the Trinamool Congress (TMC), was mobilising people by allotting a Rs 50 thousand grant (taxpayers’ money) to 37,000 clubs for organising Durga puja, the BJP dared to undermine the danger of disease itself. Just a few weeks ago Dilip Ghosh, the president of the Bengal unit of BJP, claimed Coronavirus was over, and restrictions were being imposed by the Mamata Banerjee government in the name of the epidemic to curb the scope of the poll campaign for the upcoming Assembly polls by BJP. Now, Ghosh is in hospital after being diagnosed as Covid-19 positive. So far, the state administration has displayed scant concern about curbing the thronging of the Puja venues. Tens of thousands have visited markets, particularly the open ones commonly referred to as hawker’s markets, for Puja shopping throughout October. Before the High Court verdict, the crowding of pandals had begun as well, though ritualistically the puja starts on the sixth day of Navaratri (or Devi Paksha, the fortnight of the goddess). Amidst this ‘festive’ mood, Bengal saw the highest single-day spike in positive cases (3,992) on October 19.  Election wrangling to follow Durga Puja While post-Puja Bengal may see a big spurt in coronavirus cases, it would not be the end of the story. Come November, the political activities for the upcoming Assembly election will pick up. The BJP has sensed victory, and it will not leave any stone unturned to capture the state. It may attempt to break the TMC one last time before the elections to create a crisis situation, something it has been trying unsuccessfully over the last year or so. It will want to undermine Mamata Banerjee, who has emerged as a chief opponent of Narendra Modi over the last six years. The ruling TMC, however, will not give in without a tough fight and ‘Didi’ is well known for her exceptional fighting instinct. No one can expect a thaw in this political battle any time soon. So, if post-Puja numbers of daily Covid-19 go up way beyond the cases now, it could linger around that point for weeks or even months thereafter. This second phase of danger, the months of the post-Puja political campaign, will see a different scenario in Bengal as compared to Kerala, which too will have Assembly election in April-May 2021 along with Assam, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. But except in Bengal, nowhere else has an unconventional political pattern emerged. Only in Bengal will there be a no holds barred political fight between the defendant (TMC) and the new challenger (BJP). So, in all other states, parties can be expected to behave in a somewhat restrained way. While the all-India average of the daily infected is expected to drop further, Bengal has the capacity to spoil it all in the coming weeks. A Central team of experts is supposed to visit the state to give suggestions, but it will have little effect if the inhabitants of the state themselves are unmindful about the danger to their vulnerable populations. (Diptendra Raychaudhuri is a Kolkata-based journalist and author of several books, including the recently published detective novel Mirchi Memsaab’s House of Faith) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-covid-19-disaster-in-bengal-thanks-to-puja-politics-904567.html
20-10-2020||Opinion||Trump's campaign strategies seem slightly shaky||Donald Trump can still win the 2020 presidential election; something that has a 10% or 15% chance of happening can certainly transpire. But even more than in 2016, if the president wins this time, we will have to attribute his victory to the workings of divine providence, because what we’re watching is an incumbent doing everything in his power to run up his own margin of defeat. Start with his reelection messaging, to the extent that you can discern such a thing. In 2016, Trump’s campaign was shambolic and punctuated by self-inflicted disasters, but his message against Hillary Clinton, like his message against the Republican establishment in the primaries, had a simplicity and consistency: She supported bad trade deals; she supported stupid wars; she sold the country out to special interests and foreign governments; vote for her and you get more closed factories, more soldiers dead or crippled, more illegal immigration, more power to Wall Street and Washington, D.C. In 2020, on the other hand, the Trump campaign has been stuck toggling back and forth between two very different narratives. One seeks to replay the last campaign, portraying Joe Biden as the embodiment of a failed establishment (hence all the references to his 47 years in Washington) who will sell out American interests to China as soon as he’s back in power (hence the attempts to elevate Hunter Biden’s influence-peddling). But the other narrative goes after Biden as though the Democrats had actually nominated Bernie Sanders, insisting that his advancing age makes him a decrepit vessel for the radical left, a stalking horse not just for Kamala Harris but also for Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and antifa. A truly brilliant campaigner might be able to weave these two narratives together, but on the lips of Donald Trump their contradictions are evident. The resulting incoherence just feeds his tendency to return to old grudges and very online grievances, as though he’s running for the presidency of talk radio or his own Twitter feed. Without Steve Bannon to keep him grounded or Clinton to keep him focused, he’s making a closing “argument” that’s indistinguishable from a sales pitch for a TV show or a newsletter — suggesting that even more than four years ago, the president assumes he’ll be in the media business as soon as the election returns come in. But the messaging failure is just the surface; it’s on policy where Trump has really acted like a Black Sox ballplayer trying to throw the World Series. There are two major issues for voters in this election: the pandemic and the economy. Trump’s numbers on handling the virus are lousy, but his numbers on handling the economy are still pretty good, presumably thanks to both the memory of where the unemployment rate stood before the coronavirus hit and the fact that the flood of COVID-19 relief spending kept people’s disposable income up. This context suggested an obvious fall campaign strategy: Push more relief money into the economy, try to ostentatiously take the pandemic seriously and promise the country that mask-wearing and relief dollars are a bridge to a vaccine and normalcy in 2021. Instead Trump has ended up with the opposite approach. He mostly ignored the negotiations over relief money for months, engaging only at a point where he had become so politically weak that both Republican deficit hawks (or the born-again variety, at least) and Democratic free-spenders assume he’ll soon be gone. And meanwhile he’s let himself be drawn ever deeper — especially since his own encounter with the disease — into the libertarian style of COVID-19 contrarianism, which argues that we’re overtesting, overreacting and probably close to herd immunity anyway. There is a mild contrarianism that makes important points: The lockdown approach wasn’t sustainable and can’t be reimposed, most elementary schools should be open because the risks of spread seem pretty low, the virus is less deadly than the initial worst-case projections suggested, and deaths as a share of cases are going down with better treatment. But the strong version keeps being wrong. First, the past two months have made it clear that herd immunity is a moving target: You can achieve it provisionally under social-distancing conditions, but once people relax and start socializing again, the threshold changes, and suddenly you get a renewed spike. This is what happened across Europe, which crushed its case rates in the late spring, returned to more normal life in the summer — and then reaped an early-fall wave that’s now fully out of control, including in countries like Belgium that were hit intensely in the first go-round. Meanwhile, just because tests reveal more mild cases doesn’t mean the virus has stopped killing people. Over and over again, case numbers spike and deaths lag and contrarians talk about how the virus is just a “casedemic” — and then a few weeks go by, and deaths follow cases up. It happened in the United States over the summer, it’s happened in Europe in the past month, and now it’s probably about to happen here again: Our cases have been rising since early September, our hospitalizations have been rising for several weeks, and while deaths are flat for now (at “only” 711 Americans a day), it’s likely they’ll be rising again by the time we hit November. Which means that Trump has chosen to go to war with the idea of testing, with Dr. Anthony Fauci and with “experts” in general at precisely the moment when the fall wave they’ve been warning about seems to be showing up — which is also the moment when the two-thirds of Americans who describe themselves as “very” or “somewhat” concerned about the virus will be going to the polls. Strictly as a policymaking matter, this is Trump’s worst behavior since his springtime push for the fastest-possible reopening. Europe’s renewed crisis shows that the Western failure to contain the virus is much more than just a Trump problem — but on the margins, in the thousands if not the hundreds of thousands, Trumpian denial can still get Americans unnecessarily killed. As politics, meanwhile, even more than the mixed messaging on Biden and the missed opportunities on relief spending, the retreat to corona-minimizing is a case study in how the Trump of 2020 has ceded his biggest general-election advantage from 2016 — his relative distance from the ideological rigidities of the anti-government right — and locked himself into a small box with flatterers and cranks. From these follies the God of surprises might yet deliver him. But every decision of his own lately has been a choice for political defeat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/trumps-campaign-strategies-seem-slightly-shaky-904646.html
20-10-2020||Opinion||It’s Google’s world and we just live in it||About 20 years ago, I typed Google.com into my web browser for the first time. It loaded a search bar and buttons. I punched in “DMV sample test,” scrolled through the results and clicked on a site. Wow, I thought to myself. Google’s minimalist design was a refreshing alternative to other search engines at the time — remember AltaVista, Yahoo! and Lycos? — which greeted us with a jumble of ads and links to news articles. Even better, Google seemed to show more up-to-date, relevant results. And the entire experience took just a few seconds. Once I found the link I needed, I was done with Google. Two decades later, my experience with Google is considerably different. When I do a Google search in 2020, I spend far more time in the internet company’s universe. If I look for chocolate chips, for example, I see Google ads for chocolate chips pop up at the top of my screen, followed by recipes that Google has scraped from across the web, followed by Google Maps and Google Reviews of nearby bakeries, followed by YouTube videos for how to bake chocolate chip cookies. (YouTube, of course, is owned by Google.) It isn’t just that I am spending more time in a Google search, either. The Silicon Valley company has leveraged the act of looking for something online into such a vast technology empire that it has crept into my home, my work, my devices and much more. It has become the tech brand that dominates my life — and probably yours, too. On my Apple iPhone, I use Google’s apps for photo albums and maps, along with tools for calendar, email and documents. On my computer and tablet, the various web browsers I use feature Google as the default search bar. For work, I use Google Finance (to look up stock quotes), Google Drive (to store files), Google Meet (to teleconference) and Google Hangouts (to communicate). In my home, Google is also everywhere. My Nest home security camera is made by Google. A Google voice service rings my door buzzer. To learn how to repair a gutter, I recently watched home improvement videos on YouTube. In online maps, Google has photos of my house taken from outer space and camera-embedded cars. By my unofficial estimate, I spend at least seven hours a day on Google-related products. Google’s prevalence has brought the company to a critical point. On Tuesday, the Justice Department sued it for anti-competitive practices, in the most significant antitrust action by the U.S. government against a technology company in decades. The government’s case focused on Google’s search and how it appeared to create a monopoly through exclusive business contracts and agreements that locked out rivals. Google said in a tweet that the lawsuit was “deeply flawed.” The company added, “People use Google because they choose to, not because they’re forced to or because they can’t find alternatives.” To Gabriel Weinberg, the chief executive of DuckDuckGo, which offers a privacy-focused search engine, what I have experienced was Google’s plan all along. “I don’t think it was happenstance,” he said. “They’ve been using their different products to maintain their dominance in their core market, which is search.” That has created a privacy cost for many of us, Weinberg said. Google, he said, collects reams of information about us across its products, allowing it to stitch together detailed profiles about our behavior and interests. So in 2012, Weinberg broke up with Google and purged his accounts. “I got to understand the privacy implications of building massive profiles on people — and the massive harm,” he said. But Jeff Jarvis, a professor at the Craig Newmark Graduate School of Journalism and the author of “What Would Google Do?,” a book about the search giant’s rise, said there was still plenty of room outside Google’s world. For one, we don’t use Google for social media — we’re on Facebook and TikTok. Artificial intelligence, even the type that Google is developing, is still pretty unintelligent, he added. “The internet is still very, very young,” Jarvis said. To test that argument, I decided to catalog Google’s presence in our lives. Here are some results. Ads Everywhere When we browse the web, we are probably interacting with Google without even realizing it. That’s because most websites that we visit contain Google’s ad technologies, which track our browsing. When we load a web article containing an ad served by Google, the company keeps a record of the website that loaded the ad — even if we didn’t click on the ad. And guess what. Most ads we see are served by Google. Last year, the company accounted for 63% of digital ad spending, dwarfing the No. 2 player, Facebook, which had 37%, according to the research firm eMarketer. Google’s ad technologies also include invisible analytics code, which runs in the background of many websites. About 74% of the sites we visit run Google analytics, according to an analysis by DuckDuckGo. So that’s even more data we are feeding about ourselves to Google, often without knowing it. Phones and Computers Let’s start with Android, the most popular mobile operating system in the world. People with Android devices inevitably download apps from Google’s Play store. Android includes Google’s staple apps for maps and email, and Google search is prominently featured for looking up articles and digging through device settings. Google’s voice-powered virtual assistant is also part of Android devices. Even if you own an Apple iPhone, as I do, Google looms large. Google has been the default search bar on the iPhone’s Safari browser since 2007. Gmail is the most popular email service in the world, with more than 1.5 billion users, so chances are you use it on your iPhone. And good luck finding a service other than YouTube for watching those cooking and music videos on your phone. In fact, Google owns 10 of the 100 most-downloaded apps in the Google and Apple app stores, according to App Annie, a mobile analytics firm. Outside smartphones, Google is the dominant force on our personal computers. By some estimates, more than 65% of us use Google’s Chrome web browser. And in education, our schools have chosen the Chromebook, low-cost PCs that run Google’s operating system, as the most widely used tech tool for students. Online Video This can be brief: YouTube is by far the largest video-hosting platform. Period. About 215 million Americans watch YouTube, spending 27 minutes a day on the site, on average. That’s up from 22 minutes a few years ago, according to eMarketer. Another way you might watch Google videos is through YouTube TV, a streaming service that offers a modest bundle of TV channels. Released in 2017, YouTube TV had more than 2 million users last year, according to Google. That’s not far behind Sling TV, a similar bundle service introduced by Dish in 2015, which had about 2.6 million subscribers last year. The Home and Beyond If you recently bought an internet-connected gadget for your home, chances are that Google is behind it. After all, the company offers Google Home, one of the most popular smart speakers and powered by Google’s virtual assistant, and it owns Nest, the smart-home brand that makes internet-connected security cameras, smoke alarms and thermostats. We often interact with Google even when we use an app that lacks a clear connection with it. That’s because Google provides the cloud infrastructure or the server technology that lets us stream videos and download files, to other brands. If you’re using TikTok in the United States, guess what: You’re in Google’s cloud. (TikTok may soon switch cloud providers under a deal with Oracle.) Even Weinberg, who quit Google, said he had been unable to shake its services entirely. He said he still watched the occasional Google-hosted video when there was no alternative. “If somebody’s sending a video that I need to watch and it’s only on YouTube, then that’s just the reality,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/it-s-google-s-world-and-we-just-live-in-it-904798.html
20-10-2020||Panorama||I’m not going soft on BJP, but on the B S Yediyurappa govt. There’s a difference: H D Kumaraswamy||The future of the JD(S) hinges on the November 3 bypolls, former Chief Minister HD Kumaraswamy has said. In a chat with DH’s Shruthi HM Sastry, Kumaraswamy gets candid on the way forward for the party, his souring relationship with Congress’ D K Shivakumar and his ties with the BJP. Excerpts: Several of your party workers have jumped ship to Congress. You say this won’t dent the party’s prospects, but hasn’t it forced you to relook at your strategy ahead of the bypolls? In Sira, it has always been a contest between Congress and JD(S). However, immaterial of the Congress’ subversive politics, voters will stand by us there as they trust us. This week, I will spend more time in the constituency. As for Rajarajeshwari Nagar, we have not seen electoral success there until now, but we have a significant support base. Our party cadre is strong there. Some party workers are jumping ship, but I’m not anxious about that. In the coming days, we’ll ready a team to strengthen ourselves from the grassroots up. We’ve taken some wrong decisions in the past, especially forming a coalition with the Congress. They’re trying to brainwash our cadre by telling them that they were ignored. In a way, my father’s insistence on always allying with secular forces became a weakness for us. We had an unpleasant experience with Congress, even in 2004, when we formed a government with them. They tried to weaken our party.  When you say that aligning with secular forces has become a “weakness”, is that an indication of a fundamental shift in the party’s ideology going forward? No. I only mean to say that the country today does not need symbolism, either of Hindutva or of secularism. Both these ideologies have been used by the national parties merely as a tool to secure power. Today, we are competing with countries such as Bangladesh and Vietnam, which are seeing more progress than us. What the country needs right now is development and protection of the life of every citizen. Regional parties will have to prepare themselves to offer an alternative to national parties by talking about issues that affect the lives and livelihood of people. That is what JD(S) will look at. Recently, while Congress vociferously protested against amendments to the APMC Act and land reforms laws, you did not take an aggressive stand. Your meetings with Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa also led to speculation that you are going soft on the BJP.  I would like to point out that I am not soft on the ruling party, but on the government. There’s a difference. The election is more than two years away, and I am under no illusion that the government will fall before that. There is nothing I will achieve by going aggressive. I am just trying to work with the government to the extent of ensuring development in the constituencies represented by our party. People are looking towards us to resolve their ground-level problems. On the amendments, while the Congress protested, they were exposed by Revenue Minister R Ashoka on the floor of the House as to how they themselves explored (the amendments) during Siddaramaiah’s regime. It just showed their double standards. That said, I also have been pointing out loopholes in government decisions as and when the need arises.  You and D K Shivakumar portrayed yourselves as “jodetthu” (oxen yoked together). Of late, though, your relationship seems to have soured. What happened? It is true that we projected ourselves as “jodetthu”. Politics and camaraderie are two different things. All the goodwill that I gained over more than a decade suffered a blow because of the coalition with Congress in 2018. Even though the Congress pinned the blame on JD(S), the government began crumbling because of differences between Shivakumar and Ramesh Jarkiholi, which they never tried to resolve. They were also strategising to scuttle my support base from day one, while offering lip sympathy of support. We were caught in their 'chakravyuha'. But your rivalry is now largely seen as two Vokkaliga leaders fighting to retain control over the community. Such a question doesn’t arise at all. Be it my father Deve Gowda or me, we have embraced everyone. Our interest is only in representing the vulnerable sections of society. I feel that somehow this message has not gone across even to leaders from other communities whom the party nurtured and helped grow. Siddaramaiah has mocked you for being emotional. They rake up issues with JD(S) time and again. I have, several times, requested them not to provoke me, and to allow me to do my work independently. There is no need for Siddaramaiah, who has represented different parties in his career, to comment about JD(S). I only retaliate when the party is targeted by him. Otherwise, I personally have nothing against Siddaramaiah. In all this, is there a core area of strength for the party that you can identify? Our party continues to be a voice of the marginalised. Even though a significant part of our support base are farmers, it is not limited to them. On the surface, it might appear that Kumaraswamy has lost interest, but I am keenly observing all political and social developments. Our party is working towards restructuring to become more youth-oriented. There was a plan to bring political strategist Prashant Kishore on board. What happened to it? We were advised to wait. We have resources amongst us to work out strategies. We are also looking at reorganising our strategies in a cost-effective manner. In general, due to the pandemic, a lot of our plans have slowed down. There’s still time for elections. So, we have time to work things out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/i-m-not-going-soft-on-bjp-but-on-the-b-s-yediyurappa-govt-there-s-a-difference-h-d-kumaraswamy-904407.html
20-10-2020||Panorama||How to reduce Covid-19 deaths||I lost my father to Covid-19. He was in ICU for 22 days, of which the final 12 days, he was on invasive ventilator support. Based on my experience, these seven recommendations can significantly reduce Covid-19 deaths. Elderly people and those with comorbidities must be tested on a priority basis. The wait time for an RT-PCR test result, even for the elderly, in Bengaluru, over the last few months, has been three to five days while in north India (Delhi, Jaipur) it has been 18 to 24hrs. Early detection allows early medical intervention, when the viral load is still low, thereby improving outcome. A centralised and real-time hospital bed and ambulance discovery system is needed. It took us nine hours to find an ICU bed with ventilator support. During this time, my father was in the ER where his NIV oxygen requirement increased from 4L/min to 15L/min. The disease spreads extremely fast in the early days for vulnerable patients and doctors should be able to identify and refer patients quickly based on facilities available and budget constraints. Politicians should stay out of regulating medical care and focus on building infrastructure. Maharashtra recently passed an order limiting oxygen flow in severe cases to not more than 12L/min. At that rate of oxygen flow, my father would have passed away in ER on the first day of hospitalization--denying him 22 days of life support when he was, at times, on 80L/min oxygen flow and showed chances of recovery several times. Both central and state governments focused on purchasing ventilators but not on building the oxygen support infrastructure. Technologies such as on-site PSA oxygen generation that harvests oxygen from the atmosphere can significantly improve oxygen support availability. Reasonable price caps are required to ensure the affordability of medical care. I paid Rs 10,500 to shift my father in an ambulance with oxygen from the emergency room to an ICU bed in a hospital 25 km away, at 1:30 AM. The drive took less than twenty minutes. This price tag might be out of reach for a majority of the population and needs to be regulated. There is an absolute need to block bad practices in medical research. Several firms have been pushing for experimental medicines, plasma therapy and monoclonal antibody treatments without proper or sufficient research. My father’s doctor pointed to ICMR’s PLACID trial to indicate that plasma treatment does not work in my father’s case. Doctors need to be more forthcoming in informing patients and their families if they are treating them with experimental medicines or if the patient is part of a medical trial --particularly if the patient is part of the placebo group. Covid-19 hospitals need to implement strict isolation of Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 patients, caregivers, and facilities. I too had tested Covid-19 positive at this time. Yet, I was required to visit the main entrance and billing facility at both hospitals to pay bills – even after I had clearly informed the hospital staff that I was Covid-19 positive. These billing counters are also visited by several other vulnerable people including the elderly and pregnant women. Public awareness campaigns about wearing masks need to be increased. My father had not stepped out of the house in the 45 days prior to testing Covid-19 positive. We had taken precautions as we knew that my father was vulnerable. When we tested positive, no one in my family, including my father and I, had any symptoms – we had tested proactively. We were tested at home and isolated ourselves as we learned of another case in the apartment block. However, several of our neighbours walk or jog, even now, without wearing masks. My father retired after having worked for more than three decades at BHEL R&D, India’s foremost research centre in Electrical and Electronics Engineering. He had faith in both god and science and integrated them into his life. His passion for science had a tremendous impact on my brother and me and helped shape our minds. We have had months to make the required changes and a lot has been achieved. But clearly more can be done to reduce Covid-19 deaths.  (The writer is the founder of an investment start-up)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/how-to-reduce-covid-19-deaths-904408.html
20-10-2020||Right in the Middle||Thumbs down to handshakes||When I ran into my old friend Monty on my evening stroll, we were pleasantly surprised seeing each other after more than a decade. We shrieked in delight, grasped our hands and engaged in small talk for nearly thirty seconds like the way President Trump and President Macron did three years ago when they met. All of a sudden, Monty yanked his hand away and that’s when we realised all norms of social distancing were thrown to the wind. We guffawed at our gaffe and took comfort in the fact that we didn’t exchange a hug and we had our masks on. After a merry, long chat, we parted ways with a goodbye wave. It is several months now since the coronavirus fear gripped humankind, bringing in its wake social distancing and banishing common forms of greeting. I remember in the early days when anxiety and uncertainty over the coronavirus loomed large. I had gone for a meeting and when summoned into the executive’s cabin, I courteously shot a hand out. The executive didn’t reciprocate, rather placed his palms together, fingers pointing upwards and said “Namaste”. “Oh yes, social distancing, I forgot,” I muttered sheepishly before we got down to business.   What a clean, hygienic way of greeting I thought to myself after the meeting ended and wondered whether this typical Indian form of greeting is here to stay. But even before Covid-19, my offer of a handshake was rejected.  An intern joined our newspaper when I was working in the UAE some years ago. When the bureau chief introduced the intern, I said hello, offering my hand as an overture. The Emirati lady not only rejected my polite offer but retreated coyly, placing her right hand over her heart. The bureau chief saved the day by deftly skipping to some pleasantries. With no signs of the coronavirus coming under control, it seems the age-old gesture of handshakes is on its last legs, if I may say so.  So would it be an elbow touch, fist bump, a tap on the back, a simple wave or a bow of the head as the Japanese do? Or would it be the ‘Wuhan Shake’ which, like the virus, has already gone viral online?  Personally, I would think, instead of any form of touch or opening one’s mouth, a friendly smile could be the best form of greeting.  After all, haven’t we heard the old saying: "A smile is a curve that sets everything straight." If one may add, it could even set any virus straight!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/thumbs-down-to-handshakes-904442.html
20-10-2020||Right in the Middle||Thumbs down to handshakes||When I ran into my old friend Monty on my evening stroll, we were pleasantly surprised seeing each other after more than a decade. We shrieked in delight, grasped our hands and engaged in small talk for nearly thirty seconds like the way President Trump and President Macron did three years ago when they met. All of a sudden, Monty yanked his hand away and that’s when we realised all norms of social distancing were thrown to the wind. We guffawed at our gaffe and took comfort in the fact that we didn’t exchange a hug and we had our masks on. After a merry, long chat, we parted ways with a goodbye wave. It is several months now since the coronavirus fear gripped humankind, bringing in its wake social distancing and banishing common forms of greeting. I remember in the early days when anxiety and uncertainty over the coronavirus loomed large. I had gone for a meeting and when summoned into the executive’s cabin, I courteously shot a hand out. The executive didn’t reciprocate, rather placed his palms together, fingers pointing upwards and said “Namaste”. “Oh yes, social distancing, I forgot,” I muttered sheepishly before we got down to business.   What a clean, hygienic way of greeting I thought to myself after the meeting ended and wondered whether this typical Indian form of greeting is here to stay. But even before Covid-19, my offer of a handshake was rejected.  An intern joined our newspaper when I was working in the UAE some years ago. When the bureau chief introduced the intern, I said hello, offering my hand as an overture. The Emirati lady not only rejected my polite offer but retreated coyly, placing her right hand over her heart. The bureau chief saved the day by deftly skipping to some pleasantries. With no signs of the coronavirus coming under control, it seems the age-old gesture of handshakes is on its last legs, if I may say so.  So would it be an elbow touch, fist bump, a tap on the back, a simple wave or a bow of the head as the Japanese do? Or would it be the ‘Wuhan Shake’ which, like the virus, has already gone viral online?  Personally, I would think, instead of any form of touch or opening one’s mouth, a friendly smile could be the best form of greeting.  After all, haven’t we heard the old saying: "A smile is a curve that sets everything straight." If one may add, it could even set any virus straight!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/thumbs-down-to-handshakes-904825.html
20-10-2020||Second Edit||Why do millions still go hungry?||India has been ranked 94th of 107 countries in the Global Hunger Index (GHI) this year. Its low ranking on the GHI yet again underscores its persistent failure in tackling its hunger problem. Last year, it figured on the 102nd rung among 117 countries. Some will argue that India performance with regard to tackling hunger has been improving. Last year, for instance it scored 30.3. This has fallen to 27.2 this year, a positive sign. Still, this is unsatisfactory as it means that the level of hunger in India remains classified as ‘serious’. At this sluggish rate of improvement, it will be many years before India’s hunger levels would even get to ‘moderate.’ With the exclusion of Afghanistan, South Asian countries have secured rankings that are better than India’s. While Bangladesh is in the 75th position, Myanmar and Pakistan are ranked 78 and 88, respectively. India’s claims of being the regional economic power ring hollow in the context of its low ranking on the GHI. It boasts of being the fifth largest economy in the world, with a GDP of $2.94 trillion in 2019, which is expected to fall by 10% this year. All these figures seem meaningless when the country is unable to feed its people. What makes the country’s persisting hunger problem all the more unconscionable is the fact that we don’t lack for food. India’s warehouses are overflowing with grains. It is even exporting food. Why then are people going hungry? The GHI 2020 report provides insights into the meaning of the hunger problem. Some 14% of our population is undernourished. The stunting rate and wasting rate of children under the age of five is 37.4% and 17.3%, respectively. Problems like malnourishment, wasting and stunting not only undermine the chances of survival of our children but also their general well-being, capacity to learn and earn a living. India’s dreams of emerging a global economic powerhouse will remain unfulfilled so long as its people go hungry and are denied nourishing food. India’s continuing failure to address its hunger problem underscores the abject failure of its public distribution system. Selling food grains and other necessities at subsidised rates is not enough. The poor are unable to purchase food at even these subsidised rates. Also, those eligible for subsidised food are just a fraction of those in need. Importantly, food meant for the poor continues to go waste or is siphoned off. There is an urgent need to reform the Public Distribution System. It has to be a system that is inclusive rather than one that is preoccupied with cutting costs for the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/why-do-millions-still-go-hungry-904403.html
20-10-2020||South||TN gives Rs 10 crore to flood-hit Telangana; Palaniswami lauds Rao||In a gesture of solidarity, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Monday announced Rs 10 crore towards relief efforts for rain and flood-battered Telangana and lauded his counterpart K Chandrashekar Rao for efficient handling of the situation. In a letter to Rao, Palaniswami conveyed condolences on behalf of the government and people to the families of all those who had lost their lives in the rains and floods. Noting that heavy rains and unprecedented floods in Hyderabad and certain districts of Telangana have led to extensive damage to property and loss of lives, he appreciated the efforts taken. "Your efficient and quick handling of the disaster and the response of your government in providing relief and rescue operations to the people have quickly mitigated the adverse effects of the flood," Palaniswami said. As a token of support and solidarity of the government and people of Tamil Nadu with the government and people of Telangana, "I have ordered the immediate contribution of a sum of Rs 10 crore from the Chief Ministers Public Relief Fund to the government of Telangana," he said. "We are also sending blankets and mats as relief material to the affected families," he said and assured any other assistance as may be required by Telangana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-gives-rs-10-crore-to-flood-hit-telangana-palaniswami-lauds-rao-904398.html
20-10-2020||South||Kerala HC restrains customs from arresting Kerala CM’s ex-secy Sivasankar till Oct 23||The Kerala High Court on Monday directed the customs department not to arrest Kerala chief minister's former principal secretary till October 23. Last week the court had restrained the Enforcement Directorate also from arresting Sivasankar till October 23. In his anticipatory bail application, Sivasankar alleged of ploy behind the moves by the customs to arrest him by Friday evening after the High Court restrained the ED from arresting him. Soon after the court restraining the customs from arresting him, Sivasankar was discharged from the Thiruvananthapuram medical college hospital with the advice to take rest. The high court will be considering Sivasankar's anticipatory bail pleas on October 23. Customs and ED would be filing counter-affidavit. The major contention of Sivasankar was that he was fully cooperating with the investigation agencies and already appeared for 90 hours of quizzing. Frequent long-distance travelling for quizzing affected his health. Sivasankar complained of discomfort soon after the customs summoned him on Friday. He was initially shifted to a private hospital and later shifted to a government medical college hospital after the cardiology examinations at the private hospital did not find any serious issues. But he was said to be having disc ailments. He is facing probe for links with gold smuggling case accused, import of dates by the UAE consulate and smuggling of dollars by the UAE consulate employees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-restrains-customs-from-arresting-kerala-cm-s-ex-secy-sivasankar-till-oct-23-904429.html
20-10-2020||South||Health workers' revelation of medical negligence in Covid-19 care puts Kerala health sector on the defensive||Amidst criticisms over Kerala lowering its guard against Covid-19, the state's health sector is now mired in controversies following revelations by a nursing officer and a doctor that some Covid-19 patients died due to lapses in treatment.  A person also alleged that he was kept in the dark for five days about his father's death due to Covid-19. An audio message sent by a nursing officer of the Ernakulam Medical College Hospital to her junior colleagues stated that even as many patients undergoing treatment for Covid-19 died due to lapses in medical care, the doctors were protecting the nurses. This has triggered a fresh row over lapses in treatment. A doctor at the Medical College Hospital also admitted the lapses and both of them had also cited specific instances of patients dying due to improper placement of ventilator tubes. While the government placed nursing officer Jalaja Devi under suspension and ordered a probe by the Director of Health Services, Dr Nejma, working at the hospital, flayed the action against the nursing officer for alerting her junior colleagues.  She also told a section of the media that many nurses used to respond casually to alerts sounded by doctors when the doctors noticed instances of ventilator tubes of patients remaining in an improper position. Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja maintained that minor issues were being exaggerated and even those within the system were doing it. Relatives of the patients, who died allegedly due to medical negligence, were also filing police complaints. Meanwhile, a person in Kollam alleged that he was kept in the dark for five days about his 85-year-old father's death due to Covid-19. Sulaiman Kunju, hailing from Thalavoor in a rural part of the district, died on October 13. Unaware of this, his son Noushad kept on sending food and clothes for him at the Government Medical College in Kollam district. On October 16, the hospital authorities informed him that Sulaiman had tested negative and would be discharged. Only when Noushad turned up at the hospital did he come to know that it was another Sulaiman. After further inquiry, he traced his father's dead body at the mortuary of the Thiruvananthapuram Medical College Hospital the next day. Health authorities told DH that the deceased Sulaiman Kunju was not under treatment at Kollam Medical College but was at Thiruvananthapuram Medical College Hospital. A departmental inquiry is on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/health-workers-revelation-of-medical-negligence-in-covid-19-care-puts-kerala-health-sector-on-the-defensive-904625.html
20-10-2020||South||Vardhan's comments unfortunate, aim should be to fight the Covid-19 pandemic unitedly: Rahul Gandhi||Describing as "unfortunate" the comments by Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on rising Covid-19 cases in Kerala, Congress leader and Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi said it was not appropriate to blame others and point fingers, but fight the pandemic unitedly. With Kerala witnessing a spurt in infections recently, Vardhan had recently said the state was "paying the price for gross negligence" during Onam festivities when unlocking of services along with an increase in travel for trade and tourism led to the spread of Covid-19. "It's an unfortunate comment.The whole nation has to fight this disease together.I don't think it's appropriate to blame someone or the other. The spirit should be to overcome this huge challenge. I had warned in February that India was facing a huge challenge. However, this is not the time to point fingers and we all should work together," Gandhi said. He said Kerala follows a decentralised response to the pandemic and the state was giving out a good, decent result. "The spirit of the people of Kerala, including the health workers, is giving a good decent result here.Of course, there are shortcomings like there are in every situation. But overall I feel the spirit of the people is going to overcome this disease here. The mitigation work in Wayanad is also good," the Congress MP said. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has, however, said Vardhan's comments should not be seen as a criticism of the state government's Covid-19 management. The chief minister had said on Monday that the Covid-19 situation in the state was under control during and after the Onam festival season as a strict vigil was enforced. "Our Covid-19 preventive measures were a success but the massive protests across the state by an irresponsible opposition derailed the efforts of the government," Vijayan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vardhans-comments-unfortunate-aim-should-be-to-fight-the-covid-19-pandemic-unitedly-rahul-gandhi-904662.html
20-10-2020||South||TN Ministers meet Guv, seek nod for 7.5% med quota||A five-member ministerial delegation of the Tamil Nadu cabinet on Tuesday met Governor Banwarilal Purohit, seeking approval for a bill providing 7.5 per cent reservation on a preferential basis in medical admissions for state government school students who clear NEET. The Tamil Nadu Assembly had on September 15 unanimously passed the bill to provide the said horizontal quota in medical admissions for state government school students who clear the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET). Today's meeting comes in the backdrop of various political parties, including the DMK and PMK, urging the Governor to give assent to the bill so that the quota can be implemented this year itself. Senior Ministers K A Sengkottaiyan (School Education), D Jayakumar (Fisheries), K P Anbalagan (Higher Education), C Ve Shanmugam (Law) and C Vijaya Baskar (Health) met Purohit at the Raj Bhavan. "Seeking approval (for the bill), on the Chief Minister's (K Palaniswami) direction, we ministers met the Governor," Jayakumar later told reporters. When the bill is made into the law, it will enable many government school students to become doctors, he said, even as he hinted that the ensuing counselling for medical admissions can be held only if the reservation is implemented. Tamil Nadu was a land of social justice, ensured during the rule of former AIADMK chief ministers, the late M G Ramachandran and J Jayalalithaa, and the present quota move was another attempt in that direction, he added. The Governor has been apprised of the situation in the state and that his assent for the bill will benefit students. "We requested for his approval as counselling is due soon...he said he will announce a good decision...he gave a patient hearing," the Minister added. Asked if there was any "delay" on the part of the Governor to give his nod, Jayakumar said the matter was under his consideration and that "he cannot be compelled." The Minister said "we are hopeful" of a positive decision on the matter. The reservation would be available for undergraduate programmes in medicine, dentistry, Indian medicine and homeopathy but would not apply to seats reserved for all-India quota. Students who studied in government schools shall also be entitled to compete for the government seats, other than those set apart on preferential basis, along with those who studied in private schools, according to the legislation. Those students, who studied from the sixth standard to Higher Secondary in government schools, including those run by local bodies, and have qualified the NEET, would benefit from the legislation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-ministers-meet-guv-seek-nod-for-75-med-quota-904686.html
20-10-2020||South||When will Chinese troops be thrown out of India, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi asks PM Modi||Congress President Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to tell the nation when the Chinese troops would be thrown out of India. Talking to reporters in Kerala's Wayanad, Gandhi said that there would not be any other country where when its territory is taken, the Prime Minister says that it did not happen. "This is shocking. The prime minister should tell by which date the Chinese troops would be thrown out of India. The PM would not say one word about China," said Rahul, hours ahead of the PM's address to the nation Gandhi also flayed the 'item' remark of senior Congress leader Kamal Nath against Madhya Pradesh BJP minister Imarti Devi. "One cannot treat women with disrespect. I do not like the language Kamal Nath used and I do not appreciate it," he told reporters in response to queries on Kamal Nath calling BJP's candidate for Dabra town in Madhya Pradesh an 'item'. Kamal Nath had already clarified that his statement was unfortunate. Gandhi also alleged that the Centre was using investigation agencies as political weapons to pressurise and threaten political opponents. "Not only Farooq Abdullah, but cases were also initiated against many political opponents. It was very tragic that such acts would destroy those institutions," he said. Gandhi, who is on a three-day tour of his constituency Wayanad, which is a farmer-dominated area, slammed the new farm laws. "It would break the back of every single farmer and open the path for one or two big business players. The agricultural strength of India and the food security were being given to two or three key players close to the prime minister," he said. Gandhi said that the government thought that the farmers would not be able to resist at the time of Covid-19 and hence the laws were enacted without waiting. Indian farmers are the backbone of India and they will resist, he added. The MP also said that he would be initiating steps to enhance the marketing of agriculture produce of Wayanad through branding and patenting. Gandhi, who held a review meeting on the Covid-19 scenario of Wayanad, would be leaving the state by Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/when-will-chinese-troops-be-thrown-out-of-india-congress-leader-rahul-gandhi-asks-pm-modi-904693.html
20-10-2020||South||Hyderabad Rains: Film stars and fellow states contribute generously towards Telangana's relief efforts||The Telugu film industry (TFI) has lent a helping hand to the Telangana government in providing relief to the flood affected people in Hyderabad. “Megastar” Chiranjeevi and Mahesh Babu have donated Rs one crore each to the Chief Minister's relief fund, while Jr NTR and Nagarjuna provided Rs 50 lakh each. Other film personalities like actor Ram Pothineni donated Rs 25 lakh, young actor Vijay Devarakonda and popular director Trivikram Srinivas donated Rs 10 lakh each. More “stars” are expected to follow suit, contributing big-heartedly to the fund. Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had pegged the losses suffered by the state due to the unprecedented rains and floods last week at Rs 5,000 crore. He has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi appealing for Rs 1,350 crore as immediate relief. While awaiting the centre’s response, Rao has, on Monday, appealed to business establishments and others to contribute generously for the CMRF to help those worst-affected. Responding with their contributions, the actors appealed to everyone to contribute according to their might in this time of need. Minister for municipal administration and urban development KT Rama Rao, who is overseeing the rescue and rehabilitation efforts in Hyderabad city, thanked all the film stars on Twitter in replies to their announcements on the social media platform. Earlier this year, the TFI had come forward in a big way aiding the government financially to mitigate the Covid-19 pandemic and the impact of the lockdown on the vulnerable such as migrant labor. Fellow states chip in After Tamil Nadu’s Rs 10 crore donation, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal has announced Rs 15 crore towards Telangana government’s flood relief efforts. “Floods have caused havoc in Hyderabad. People of Delhi stand by our brother and sisters in Hyderabad in this hour of crisis,” Kejriwal said in a tweet on Tuesday. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee who communicated with Rao on Tuesday said that people of her state, who few months back had faced the super cyclone Amphan that caused huge losses, can feel the sufferings of Telangana citizens. In a letter to Rao, Banerjee said that her government, as a mark of solidarity with Telangana people, would contribute Rs two crore to the T-CMRF.        Rao spoke with his counterparts on phone, appreciating their generous help in time of need. The ruling TRS’s minsters, MPs, MLAs, MLCs representing Hyderabad region too pledged their two-month salaries towards the CMRF.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hyderabad-rains-film-stars-and-fellow-states-contribute-generously-towards-telanganas-relief-efforts-904700.html
20-10-2020||South||From barren land to dense forest: The story of Aranya Forest||From a barren land with no vegetative cover in 1994 to a dense green forest now, which is home to many endangered species of birds and animals, the Aranya Forest and Sanctuary in Auroville is a classic example of how one person can make a difference. Meet D Saravanan, the man whose efforts over a quarter-century led to the transformation of nearly 100 acres of severely eroded barren wasteland into a thick forest in Poothurai village in Tamil Nadu's Villupuram district, located just 20 km from the famous tourist destination of Puducherry. It all began with the planting of indigenous plants collected and creating water bodies by ensuring that the barren land got an adequate green cover. Once the ecosystem was in place, birds and animals came flocking.  “I had always loved going into forests since my childhood and I learned trekking at the age of 14. I received an offer to join the Auroville Greenwork Research Centre (AGRC) and that is how this fascinating journey began. It was very difficult, of course, to create a forest. I had remained with an empty stomach for hours together as there was nothing available in the forests,” Saravanan told DH. Over 36,000 species of indigenous plants carefully chosen for regeneration from some of the last remaining pockets of coastal vegetation have been planted in the 100-acre forest over the past 26 years. Slowly, the efforts of Saravanan, who made Auroville his home in 1994, began to pay dividends. The forest and sanctuary is now the cynosure of all eyes with scientists, researchers and students flocking the village to study the successful model. Today, the man-made forest has over 700 species of plants, 248 varieties of birds and 54 butterfly species. It is home to slender loris, a genus of loris native to India and Sri Lanka, hedgehog, bubo bubo (eagle owls), varanus bengalensis (monitor lizards), deer, jungle cat, fox, civet cat, and over 20 species of snakes, including at least four venomous varieties. Saravanan is actively involved in creating awareness among the younger generation, with workshops for students on biodiversity conservation and organising trips inside forests.  “The numbers have increased over the years. Students who come here for research purposes help us in studying the growth of the forest and increase in a number of species present inside Aranya Forest,” Saravanan said. “The first question I ask the children is 'Whom does the Earth belong to?' and I tell that the Earth belongs to the future. I tell children that it is imperative on them to save ecology to hand it over to the future generation. Only if ecology is preserved, the world will survive. This thought needs to be inculcated in the minds of children at a very young age,” Saravanan added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/from-barren-land-to-dense-forest-the-story-of-aranya-forest-904729.html
20-10-2020||South||Hyderabad floods: About 4 lakh families affected; to receive Rs 10,000 each from Telangana government||A week since devastating rains and floods claimed at least 33 lives in the city, the Telangana government initiated the distribution of Rs 10,000 each to the affected families on Tuesday. According to the Municipal Administration and Urban Development Minister KT Rama Rao, the financial assistance of Rs 10,000 will be provided to 3-4 lakh families at their doorstep in the GHMC & adjoining affected areas. Rao and other ministers and legislators of the ruling TRS party were seen distributing monetary aid in some of the localities in the city affected by the deluge last Tuesday.    Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao has also announced Rs 1 lakh for those whose houses have been completely destroyed and Rs 50,000 for the partially damaged houses. Following the CM’s instructions, Rs 550 crore was released to the municipal administration department on Monday towards the rescue, relief, and rehabilitation programs in the flood-ravaged areas. More downpour forecasted The meteorological department has predicted heavy rains, thunderstorms, and lightning in several parts of Telangana including Hyderabad until Thursday. Continuous rains on Tuesday hampered relief efforts and draining out of the floodwater in several colonies where power is yet to be restored. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation has procured boats from other Telangana districts and neighboring states like Andhra Pradesh to reach out to the marooned. The Hyderabad civic body officials have stated that till Monday, 59 dilapidated structures were demolished, and 33 more structures were vacated with 140 people being shifted to safer places.   Officials claimed to have spent Rs 45 crore already on relief camps, food supply, ex-gratia payments, and engaging of men and machinery in clearing the debris, among other things. The GHMC has projected a loss of Rs 670 crore to the city’s infrastructure. Meanwhile, the Telangana Higher Education Department has announced the cancellation of all the exams that will be rescheduled after Dasara.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hyderabad-floods-about-4-lakh-families-affected-to-receive-rs-10000-each-from-telangana-government-904743.html
20-10-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh CM wants schools to reopen on Nov 2; Classes for different grades on alternate days||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy on Tuesday announced that schools in the state would reopen on November 2. However, the CM said that online classes will be conducted for the students unwilling to attend the school in person. The state government had earlier postponed reopening schools in September and October over surging Covid-19 cases. The state was recording over daily 10,000 cases till last month. However, Andhra Pradesh is now witnessing a considerable drop in fresh cases and reports between 3,000-4,000 cases each day.      During a video conference with senior, district officials on Tuesday, Reddy directed that classes should be held on alternate days for different standards. While classes 1,3,5,7 will be held on one day, students of classes 2, 4, 6, 8 will attend on the next day. If the school has a strength of more than 750, classes will be held once in three days, the CM instructed. CM Reddy added that the schools would be functional only in the morning, but students should be served mid-day meals. The Chief Minister said this pilot method will be implemented for November month and a decision for December will be taken based on the Covid-19 situation then. Reddy directed the officials to focus on completing the Nadu Nedu, a project to refurbish government schools with good infrastructure, by November 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-cm-wants-schools-to-reopen-on-nov-2-classes-for-different-grades-on-alternate-days-904751.html
20-10-2020||South||Customs Department smells rat over M Sivasankar's illness||The Customs Department is smelling a rat over the illness and hospitalisation of Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's former principal secretary M Sivasankar. In a statement filed at the Kerala High Court opposing Sivasankar's anticipatory bail plea, the Customs is learnt to have said that Sivasankar complained of discomfort and got hospitalised in a bid to evade arrest. From the medical reports available, it seems that he is only having back pain that requires some medications. That he got admitted to a private hospital where his wife was working is a part of some plan. The court would be considering the anticipatory bail plea of the suspended IAS officer on Friday. It earlier restrained the Enforcement Directorate and Customs from arresting Sivasankar. Meanwhile, Sivasankar, who was discharged from Government Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram on Monday, is learnt to have been admitted at a private Ayurveda centre for treatment of back pain. He was shifted to the Medical College from the private hospital on Sunday. A medical bulletin from the private hospital said that he did not have any serious coronary ailments but was found to have disc ailments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/customs-department-smells-rat-over-m-sivasankars-illness-904815.html
20-10-2020||State||Munirathna giving cash, collecting voter IDs: Congress||The Congress on Tuesday lodged a complaint with the Election Commission seeking disqualification of BJP candidate Munirathna for alleged corrupt practices ahead of the November 3 Rajarajeshwarinagar bypoll.  A delegation comprising KPCC working president Saleem Ahmed, former MP V S Ugrappa and former additional advocate general A S Ponnanna submitted a petition to Chief Electoral Officer Sanjiv Kumar.  Speaking to reporters, Ugrappa claimed that Munirathna and his people were distributing money to voters and collecting voter cards of those belonging to minority communities. “Also, as per rules, a candidate cannot spend more than Rs 28 lakh during an election. But, (Munirathna) has already spent Rs 2.5 crore,” he said.  In its petition, the Congress has named some Muslims along with their voter card numbers to whom Rs 5,000 had been paid so that they do not cast theirvote.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/munirathna-giving-cash-collecting-voter-ids-congress-904775.html
20-10-2020||State||Heavy rain, flood hit farming in Kalaburagi; crop loss to exceed Rs 500 crore||Heavy rains in Kalaburagi district, a key growing region for Tur (red gram), has hit the standing agricultural crop, inflicting severe damage to growers. A majority of the agricultural crops have been submerged in the water due to devastating rain and floods in the region. According to estimates by the Karnataka Red Gram Growers’ Association (KRGGA) president Basavaraj Ingin, the damage to standing crops is in excess of Rs 500 crore. The agriculture department is currently undertaking the survey of the rain-affected crop areas. “The agriculture department is yet to complete its survey. In our estimate, the damage to all agricultural crops will be more than Rs 500 crore as there is no let-up in the rains,” Ingin told DH.  The data compiled by KRGGA shows sowing has completed in 7.55 lakh hectares for major crops such as red gram, green gram, black gram, cotton, hybrid jowar, bajra, maize, sunflower, sugarcane, groundnut and bengal gram in Kalaburagi district during the kharif season. Initial estimates show that about 51% of the total area sown has been affected. The loss of various crops is estimated between 10% and 64%. Kalaburagi district is well known for growing red gram and the damage to the crop is in excess of 70%, Ingin said. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is visiting the rain-affected areas on Wednesday. “We are looking forward to the chief minister’s visit to the affected areas. We hope he will announce a relief package to the affected farmers,” Ingin said. Red gram crop hit hard The red gram farmers have carried out sowing in a record 4,76,404 hectares of area this year and the crop was in a good condition till the devastating rains damaged the crop. “We were looking for a bumper red gram crop this year until the rains inflicted heavy damage. As of now, the red gram production in Kalaburagi district is likely to decline in the range of 50-70% this year,” Ingin said. Crop insurance An estimated 37,600 farmers have insured their crops this year. The area insured is around 51,500 hectares in the district, while the sum insured is over Rs 200 crore. These farmers have paid Rs 4.33 crore premium towards the crop insurance. Steep price rise The red gram crop loss is expected to disrupt the supply in the retail markets in the coming days and is likely to result in price rise. Already, red gram is retailed at Rs 95-110 per kg and in the coming days it will go up by 15-20%, Ramesh Chandra Lahoti, a Bengaluru-based pulses trader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/heavy-rain-flood-hit-farming-in-kalaburagi-crop-loss-to-exceed-rs-500-crore-904780.html
20-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Identify under-repair freezers at vaccine stores, Centre tells Karnataka||The Centre on September 10, wrote to Karnataka to identify its under repair equipment at its vaccine stores across the state so as to ready cold chain capacity for storing Covid vaccines in the future. Karnataka has 3,677 ice line refrigerators, 3,395 deep freezers, 10 walk in coolers and two walk in freezers. The state maintained that while this is adequate for existing routine immunisation programmes for storing vaccines like polio, measles rubella among others, it has to identify the under-repair equipment and apprise the Centre on equipment required based on the number of Covid doses that the Centre allocates to the state. The state has 2,900 cold chain points. As many as 10.52 lakh children upto the age of 16 are vaccinated under routine immunisation programmes every year. But the health department is unsure of how many vaccine doses it can store at any given point of time. "We haven't calculated what the maximum cold storage capacity is for vaccines in the state. However, what the Centre says in its letter to us is to use the same distribution network that we used for other vaccines, for example, Polio. But we need more storage space for Covid vaccines," Dr Rajani Nageshrao, Deputy Director, Immunisation, Department of Health and Family Welfare said. On October 6, a meeting was scheduled to be held with the Government of India to discuss the state's preparedness in vaccine storage. While a small ice line refrigerator has a capacity of 140 litres and a large size refrigerator can store 300 litres, it is unknown how many of the state's refrigerators are small and how many are large sized. If one were to assume all refrigerators and coolers can store a minimum 140 litres then the total storage capacity of the state would be 5,16,180 litres. If we assume all refrigerators and coolers can store a maximum 300 litres then the total storage capacity of the state would be 11,06,100 litres. "Since walk in freezers and deep freezers are maintained at a temperature of - 15°C to - 25°C, no vaccines are stored in them except oral polio vaccine, which will remain potent only if stored at temperature not higher than - 20°C. Cool packs that are required to pack the vaccines with during transportation are also stored in deep freezers," she said. All other vaccines are stored between 2°C and 8°C. The Covid vaccine may need a temperature beyond what is provided in a simple refrigerator, as in a deep freezer or an ice line refrigerator.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/identify-under-repair-freezers-at-vaccine-stores-centre-tells-karnataka-904462.html
20-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Will continue to use Remdesivir unless ICMR asks us not to, say doctors||For months now, many critical patients in the state have been administered Remdesivir. Their loved ones have somehow arranged for it even when hospitals did not have stock. Days after the WHO declared that the drug is ineffective, the state government is set to discuss the continuance of the drugs in Covid-19 treatment protocol in its next expert committee meeting, but it will continue to procure these drugs until then. So far it has spent Rs 55.66 crore on procuring Remdesivir, Lopinavir and HCQ, three of the four drugs whose efficacy was tested by WHO. Covid-19 drug procurement details as on October 17 shows Karnataka has so far procured 2,05,000 20 ml vials of Remdesivir at a cost of Rs 51.80 crore, spent Rs 1.67 crore on 7,000 vials of Lopinavir, and Rs 2.18 crore on 2.79 lakh HCQ tablets, all of which were proven to be ineffective by the WHO's Solidarity Trial. The trial showed no reduction in mortality in hospitalised patients after 28 days. The Solidarity Trial is the world's largest global randomised control trial for Covid-19 therapeutics spanning 30 countries with over 12,000 randomisations. India was the 12th country to join this trial in April 2020. Dr KS Satish, one of the two pulmonologists part of the state Covid-19 therapeutic committee said, "We will continue to use it unless the ICMR asks us not to. Patients would go as far as Chennai to procure Remdesivir or stockpile at home. Now, patients themselves are sending us this trial's findings." Dr Anoop Amarnath, member of the State Covid-19 Critical Care Support Unit, said, "The ACT trial showed reduction in recovery time with Remdesivir. Our experience on the ground also suggests the same. No improvement has been suggested in ventilated patients. This brings to question the timing of Remdesivir. It has to be given earlier." Dr Murali Mohan, Pulmonologist, Narayana Health said around 500 patients have been administered the drug at his hospital and although there is no study, anecdotal inputs suggest that the drug does help. "We are all for evidence-based medicine but our experience suggests otherwise." Dr Satyanarayana Mysore, Pulmonologist, Manipal Hospital, who had treated 1,200 Covid patients in the past four months said, "We find that Remdesivir leads to accelerated viral clearance, less incidence of cytokine storm, and very few who were administered the drug were moved into the ICU. We are in the process of looking at our own hospital data and back up with figures which we plan to do in the next couple of months. One way to study is to compare patients prior to July 24 when Remdesivir was introduced in Karnataka and after it was introduced in the treatment protocol."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/will-continue-to-use-remdesivir-unless-icmr-asks-us-not-to-say-doctors-904483.html
20-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Driving licence of people not wearing helmets to be suspended for three months||More than a year after slashing the penalty for not wearing helmets, the state government has notified a stringent rule under which the driving licence (DL) of violators will be suspended for three months. Helmets are also made compulsory for children above the age of four years in the notification. The notification, dated October 16, was issued on Monday. The decision to suspend DL was taken following a direction by the Supreme Court-appointed road safety committee, which held a meeting with the chief secretary and other stakeholders. Additional Commissioner for Transport (Enforcement) Narendra Holkar told DH that the suspension of DL was in addition to the penalty. “The rule applies to all parts of Karnataka, regardless of rural or urban limits,” he said. “Directions have been given to officials at all regional transport offices to begin the enforcement immediately,” he said. The government has notified the necessary changes in Section 194D of the Motor Vehicle Act 1988 for including the suspension of licence. All RTOs have been directed to furnish details of DLs suspended for violation of the helmet rule, by the fifth day of every month. The notification cited Section 129 of the MV Act for making helmets must for children above the age of four years. When it was pointed out that child-specific helmets were not widely available, Holkar said the smaller-sized ones in the market would be sufficient. “The step is taken because children are very vulnerable in accidents. Wearing a helmet is the best safety measure,” he said. In September 2019, the state government had reduced the penalty for not wearing helmets from Rs 1,000 to Rs 500 following opposition from the public, who demanded that the officials first ensure better roads.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/driving-licence-of-people-not-wearing-helmets-to-be-suspended-for-three-months-904536.html
20-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Two held for bomb threat to NDPS judge in Karnataka||Two people have been taken into custody in connection with the bomb threat to a special judge hearing the drug case involving celebrities in Karnataka, police sources said on Tuesday. A family feud in Tiptur of Tumakuru district is suspected to be the reason behind the incident allegedly plotted by rival members who wanted one of their kin to land in trouble, he said without divulging further information. "Two persons have been detained for questioning. They will be brought to Bengaluru," a top police officer told PTI on condition of anonymity. An NDPS special judge hearing the drug racket case received a threat letter and a parcel with a detonator on Monday here, demanding grant of bail to two film actresses and those booked in the August 11 violence here. The person who wrote the letter had warned that a blast would be triggered if the demands were not met. Later, the investigation revealed that there was no bomb inside but some wires which created an impression of a detonator. According to a preliminary inquiry, the letter was sent from Chelur in Tumakuru district, the sources said adding two people were taken into custody for questioning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/two-held-for-bomb-threat-to-ndps-judge-in-karnataka-904560.html
20-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 6,297 new Covid-19 cases, 66 deaths||Karnataka has reported 6,297 new Covid-19 cases and 66 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 7,76,901 and the death toll to 10,608, the Health department said on Tuesday. The day also saw 8,500 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of the 6,297 fresh cases reported on Tuesday, 2,821 cases were from Bengaluru Urban alone. As of October 20 evening, cumulatively 7,76,901 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 10,608 deaths and 6,62,329 discharges, the Health department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 1,03,945 active cases, 1,03,004 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 941 are in ICU. As many 36 of the 66 deaths reported on Tuesday are from Bengaluru Urban, followed by Dakshina Kannada and Kolar (4), Chmarajanagara (3), Bengaluru Rural, Hassan, Haveri, Mysuru and Shivamogga (2), and Bagalkote, Ballari, Dharwad, Raichur, Ramanagara, Tumakuru, Udupi, Uttara Kannada and Vijayapura (1). Most of the dead are either with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 2,821, followed by Mysuru (451), Tumakuru (327), Bengaluru Rural (319), Davangere (206), Ballari (188), Uttara Kannada (180), Chikkaballapura (166) and Dakshina Kannada (146), followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 3,12,842 , followed by Mysuru (45,644) and Ballari (36,076). Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops with 2,44,740, followed by Mysuru (38,739) and Ballari (33,606). A total of over 68,44,594 samples have been tested so far, out of which 98,236 were tested on Tuesday alone, and 23,373 among them were rapid antigen tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-6297-new-covid-19-cases-66-deaths-904749.html
20-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Carnatic vocalist T S Ramaa no more||Well-known Carnatic vocalist and  ‘A’ Grade artiste of All  India Radio (AIR) Prof T S Ramaa breathed her last at a city hospital after a brief illness on Monday night. She was 70.   Ramaa began learning Carnatic music when she was barely three years old under Jayam-Bhagyam sisters and later trained under Prof V Ramaratnam of Mysuru, Seethalakshmi Venkateshan and Suganda Raman.  She continued to learn music through her school, college and even after acquiring a post graduate degree in History and Carnatic music (she was among the first batch of PG students of Carnatic music in Mysuru in 1972). She was head of the department of music at APS College, Bengaluru and helped establish the PG music course at Jain University.   Ramaa was conferred with the title 'Ganakalasri' by Sangeet Natak Akademi in 2006. She won the DD Chandana award in Carnatic music in 2017. Her brother S Raghu told DH, “she never craved for awards or hankered after any position. She was popular for her traditional style and authentic presentation.” Ramaa sang for AIR for 45 years.  Prabhavathi Srinivasan and her daughter Madhuri Srinivasan, who learnt music from Ramaa, said she was an inspiration to them. “She was an authority in the rendition of Puranadaradasa sahitya. Her flawless ‘alapanas’ and ‘kalpanaswarams’ were the epitome of her concerts,” said Prabhavathi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/carnatic-vocalist-t-s-ramaa-no-more-904764.html
20-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||PU teacher recruits withdraw protest after minister's assurance||The candidates, recruited for the post of teachers at the government pre-university colleges in the state, who were staging an indefinite protest for the last eight days seeking appointment letters from the government, have withdrawn their protest.  The development comes following the assurance by the Primary and Second Education Minister S Suresh Kumar of issuing appointment orders after the byelection. The candidates agreed and called off their protest. These candidates were recruited following a 2015 notification and waited to get their postings so far. The PU education department had conducted the counselling for these posts in August.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pu-teacher-recruits-withdraw-protest-after-ministers-assurance-904770.html
20-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||KEA to extend counselling for UG courses till Nov-end||The seat allotment process for undergraduate professional courses will go on up to the end of November as the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has extended the last date for admissions to November 30.  With this, the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) is thinking of conducting at least two extended rounds of counselling to fill the seats for the 2020-21 academic year. As per the regular calendar of AICTE, the admissions to engineering courses should be completed by October 30. However, considering the Covid-19 pandemic and delay in conducting the entrance test, the authorities extended the admission deadline this year. Sources in KEA told DH that currently the document-verification process has started in the state and they are waiting for details of NEET scores of the eligible candidates from the National Testing Agency (NTA). "This year, extending the admission deadline was much needed as the entrance test itself was delayed for months," said an official. According to officials, conducting document verification online is not as easy as offline. Document verification  "We should be extra careful while verifying the documents digitally because identifying fake certificates is easy when it's offline. It takes more time online," the official said. The KEA is planning to conduct at least two extended rounds of counselling to fill the remaining seats. "With the deadline extended, we can conduct extended rounds to fill seats, especially for engineering courses," says officials. However, this extension of the deadline for admissions to first-year undergraduate professional courses will delay the commencement of academic year at least by one and a half month. "There is no clarity yet about conducting physical classes, but as the admissions deadline itself is extended, the commencement of classes for the first semester will be delayed," said the principal of a private engineering college in Bengaluru. Meanwhile, private college management representatives say AICTE should consider giving grace reporting time for students, in case they are from other states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kea-to-extend-counselling-for-ug-courses-till-nov-end-904771.html
20-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: 9 killed in lightning strikes||As many as nine people, including four women, were killed in lightning strikes as thunderstorm lashed parts of north Karnataka on Tuesday. Two women were killed in the lightning strike at Bhairapur village in Siruguppa taluk, Ballari district, when they were removing weed at a chilli farm. Similarly, two shepherd women were struck dead by lightning at Chikkaulligeri in Saundatti taluk of Belagavi district. Deceased have been identified as Yellavva Inchal (30) and Bhagavva Kadakol (50). Revanna Malagi has suffered severe burns in the incident.  As many as 47 sheep belonging to Srikant Dalawai of Hukkeri were killed in a lightning strike near Naviluthirtha. Lightning strike claimed two farmers at Devaragudda road in Ranebennur, Haveri district. Victims have been identified as Dayananda Patil (50) and Parameshwarappa Kalammanavar (49). In yet another incident of lightning strike reported from Hathalli in Chadchan taluk of Vijayapura district, Dhareppa Biradar (45) was killed while returning home in his bullock cart. Interestingly, oxen escaped unhurt in the incident. Roopa Chouhan (14), a Class VI student from Gedageri tanda in Yelburga taluk of Koppal district and Bhagwantaraya Keramagi, aged 26, from Astaga village in Kalaburagi taluk, also killed in lightning strikes. Vijayapura district experienced a widespread thundershowers in the day. However, the floodwaters in Krishna, Ghataprabha and Bhima rivers have receded. Belagavi city and parts of district, including Khanapur, Examba, Chikkodi, Sadalga, Ramdurg and Bailhongal, have received spells of moderate to heavy showers on Tuesday. Parts of Gadag, Haveri and Dharwad district, including twin cities of Hubballi-Dharwad, witnessed heavy showers with thunder for over one hour. Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department has predicted heavy rainfall in 25 districts for Wednesday and Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-9-killed-in-lightning-strikes-904778.html
20-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Issue norms for disposal of used masks: HC tells govt||The High Court on Tuesday directed the state government to immediately issue a protocol with guidelines to dispose of used masks and PPE kits for the benefit of households. The court also directed the government to fix a price for the transportation of oxygen cylinders. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar, while hearing a batch of petitions, said the issue of disposal of masks and PPE kits was of great importance. In a city like Bengaluru, with a population of around 1.3 crore, lakhs of people use masks every day, the bench said. The court directed the government to issue guidelines and give wide publicity. Observing that used masks and PPE kits were biomedical waste, the court directed BBMP to provide necessary training to pourakarmikas in this regard.  The bench directed the government to immediately notify the transportation charges for supply of oxygen cylinders to Covid-19 hospitals. The state has been asked to comply with the orders on or before October 24.  The court said that the failure of the government to fix a price cap on transportation is resulting in patients shelling out more money for oxygen. The government submitted that the price has been fixed at Rs 15.22 per cubic meter for Liquid Medical Oxygen and Rs 25.71 per cubic meter for Oxygen Inhalation in cylinder, as per the norms of the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority. The counsel appearing for one of the petitioners said suppliers were charging varied prices for transportation. The Union government submitted that the N-95 masks were available at all Jan Aushadhi medical stores at Rs 25 per mask. When the bench enquired whether it is available at all stores, the counsel for the Union government answered in the affirmative, saying one such centre is at the City Civil Courts Complex in Bengaluru. The counsel for the PIL petitioners, seeking directions to fix the price for N-95 masks, said that a mask called ‘pollution control mask’ was available at Jan Aushadhi stores at Rs 60. The bench directed the registrar of City Civil Courts to submit a report in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/issue-norms-for-disposal-of-used-masks-hc-tells-govt-904790.html
20-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Dy CM Ashwath Narayan calls D K Shivakumar Mir Sadiq, Suresh retorts||Congress MP D K Suresh on Tuesday lashed out at Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan, referring to him in the singular, for attacking his brother state Congress chief D K Shivakumar.  Earlier in the day, Narayan likened Shivakumar to Mir Sadiq, who is said to have betrayed Tipu Sultan. “Shivakumar is the real Mir Sadiq. He cheats people around him. Siddaramaiah also cheated his party,” he said.  An angry Suresh said Narayan should mind his words. “Mir Sadiq is the one who appears before the media once in a while to portray himself as honest, whereas he’s trying to stab Yediyurappa in the back,” Suresh said.  Former Congress minister Ramalinga Reddy said there were attempts in the BJP to remove Yediyurappa for the past six months. “If Yediyurappa is removed, then that’ll be the end of the BJP. It’ll benefit the Congress,” Reddy said.   Defending allegations against Rajarajeshwari Nagar BJP candidate Muniratna, Ashwath Narayan described Congress leaders Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah as those responsible for the collapse of the previous coalition government. The DyCM shielded Muniratna from taking any questions at the joint press conference. "They should reveal who were responsible for MLAs leaving the party," he said, alleging concerted efforts to defame Muniratna. "Nobody has taken a single rupee to shift loyalties. The coalition collapse was due to a Congress conspiracy and internal strife," he said. People, who do not have the courage to explain why Muniratna (who was close to Shivakumar and Suresh) left the Congress, should not call anyone a sellout, Ashwath Narayan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dy-cm-ashwath-narayan-calls-d-k-shivakumar-mir-sadiq-suresh-retorts-904794.html
20-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||DPAR pulls up staff at Soudha, MS building for littering||Water bottles, used coffee and tea cups, cartons, garlands, bouquets and e-waste. These are among a long list of items found littered on the premises of Vidhana Soudha, Vikasa Soudha and MS building. The Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms (DPAR) has pulled up employees working in these office complexes for littering the premises and defying basic tenets of hygiene.  In a circular, the DPAR has pointed out that employees of certain departments have been dumping waste in open spaces, instead of using dustbins. Some of those working in office spaces in the higher floors of these buildings have been throwing down waste items into open space, the circular said.  Further, employees were also throwing out used food containers while some were leaving leftover food on the window sill. They have been leaving it there to feed birds, but dirtying the premises in the process. “This has led to stench in the premises and has caused an infestation of rodents and cockroaches,” the circular said.  In the strongly-worded circular, the department minced no words in calling out employees for being irresponsible. Add to it, considering the prevalent Covid-19 pandemic, it was important that the employees maintained cleanliness on the premises, the circular said. Pleading with employees to make use of dustbins provided in the offices, the DPAR has emphasised the role of each employee in keeping the buildings clean.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dpar-pulls-up-staff-at-soudha-ms-building-for-littering-904797.html
20-10-2020||West||No parties in Goa just yet; other tourism activity with social distancing: CM Pramod Sawant||Amid a slow increase in tourism activity, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, on Monday, warned that parties should not be allowed in the coastal state's popular night clubs just yet. The Chief Minister's caution comes a day after images of packed dancefloors in night clubs over the weekend went viral, causing uproar in the state. "Home department will give instructions to maintain social distancing. Right now, parties should not start," Sawant said on a day, when the state's total confirmed Covid-19 tally reached  40,746, with five deaths reported linked to Covid-19 infection. Photos of night clubs, especially in the popular Calangute-Baga-Candolim beach belt, packed chock-a-block had gone viral on the social media on Sunday causing outrage amid the pandemic. Sawant also said that tourism activity in general should begin, with strict enforcement of social distancing norms. "Tourism activity should be carried out with social distancing," the Chief Minister said. Tourism activity in the state has been picking up over the last two weekends, with tourists from nearby urban hubs like Mumbai, Pune, Bengaluru and Hyderabad driving down to Goa over the weekends. The state is one of the most popular beach and nightlife destinations in the country, with nearly eight million tourists visiting Goa last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-parties-in-goa-just-yet-other-tourism-activity-with-social-distancing-cm-pramod-sawant-904430.html
20-10-2020||West||Indian Railways asks offices to ensure smooth functioning of network amid workers' threat||Amidst calls of “direct action” by workers unions over delayed payment of bonuses, the Railway Board has asked its zonal offices and production units that “stringent steps” be taken to ensure smooth operations of trains. Asking Ministry of Railways to issue an order for giving productivity-linked bonus for the year 2019-20, All India Railwaymen’s Federation (AIRF) had on Friday threatened to launch “direct action” on October 22 if the government failed to meet the demand by Wednesday. The unions also warned halting of train services for two hours if their demand for issuing order announcing bonus is not met. To prevent any disruptions of train service, the Railway Board said in a missive to all general managers and production units head, “There should not be any room for complacency on the part of the railway administration and all necessary stringent steps must be taken to ensure discipline and smooth functioning of rail movement.” “Their particular attention should be drawn to relevant penal provisions ” Section 173, 174, and 175 of the Railways Act, 1989 — which are attracted in case of abandoning train without authority, obstructing running of the train and endangering the safety of persons by disobeying rule,” it said. The letter also said if any railway servant participates in rallies and demonstrations, a report about them should be submitted to the Board. “If the bonus is not declared by October 21, we will be forced to repeat the history of 1974,” said Shiv Gopal Mishra, general secretary of the AIRF. Despite meeting the railway minister to press the demand, no order issued granting bonus so for, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/indian-railways-asks-offices-to-ensure-smooth-functioning-of-network-amid-workers-threat-904486.html
20-10-2020||West||Covid-19 tally in Maharashtra's Golden Triangle set to cross 10 lakh||The Covid-19 progressive cases in the Golden Triangle of Mumbai, Pune and Nashik is set to cross the 10-lakh mark. The area comprises seven districts of Mumbai City, Mumbai Suburban, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Pune and Nashik – of the total 36 districts in Maharashtra. On Tuesday morning, the total progressive state in the state stood at 16,01,365 and deaths 42,240. The figures for Golden Triangle stood at 9,69,092 and deaths 31,930, according to figures compiled from the Public Health Department and Medical Education and Drugs Department. The Golden Triangle accounts for more than 60 per cent of Maharashtra's tally of total progressive cases. The region, which is bigger than some smaller states, has 13 municipal corporations and two metropolitan regions of Mumbai and Pune. “The Mumbai-Pune-Nashik is a highly industrialised belt. A lot of business houses are there. It is densely populated and there is extensive traffic movement on a daily basis in these districts,” said Dr Suhas Pingle, chairman, Action Committee, IMA-Maharashtra. In Mumbai, the progressive cases are 2,43,169 and 9,189 deaths. As far as the MMR cases are concerned, the total cases are 5,55,786 and 17,331 deaths. As of now, the total train services on Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR) in the MMR is around 1,500 and is being scaled up. According to Dr IS Gilada, an infectious diseases specialist and a leading HIV/AIDS consultant, the peak seems to be over, and now everything depends on the proper use of masks and physical distancing. “We are in the midst of the festive season and the number of train services is being increased,” he said, adding that precautions should be the order of the day. Meanwhile, the number of people sent to home quarantine for Corona increased - from 24,12,921 to 24,14,577 now - while the number of those in institutional quarantine went down from 23,384 to 23,285. The total number of tests has crossed 80 lakh, according to government data. The Mumbai Metro train services too have started and more than 10,000 to 13,000 persons are expected to use it on a daily basis. The gyms and fitness centres are set to open from October 25, however, the government has so far not allowed places of worship to reopen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-tally-in-maharashtras-golden-triangle-set-to-cross-10-lakh-904491.html
20-10-2020||West||Gujarat police search Narmada canal to find remains of Telangana man allegedly killed in police custody||The Gujarat police's CID (crime) on Tuesday launched a major search operation in Narmada main canal in Vadodara to trace the remains of a 65-year-old Telangana resident who is suspected to have been killed in police custody and dumped here in December 2019. Superintendent of Police, CID, Girish Pandya, who is investigating the case, told DH, "We have started the search operation with the help of fire officials of Vadodara (Municipal) Corporation and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) at multiple spots." He later told reporters on the spot that "Search has been launched based on various leads that have come up during the probe." A senior officer told this paper that "All the six accused policemen are refusing to divulge anything. However, while piecing together some evidence, we came across hints that the accused may have dumped the body somewhere in the Narmada canal." The search operation was launched after CID requested the Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Ltd (SSNNL) to stop water supply to empty the canal. CID officials said that since emptying water will lead to a drinking water crisis in Vadodara city, the search will be carried out in a phased manner. "Today, we have started searching in eight to nine km stretch of the canal out of a total 45 km," said the senior officer. Later in the day, the police found skeletons which are said to be of animals. Officials said that they will examine the remains to authenticate it.  The CID is investigating the case on Gujarat High Court's order where a relative of Shaikh filed a habeas corpus petition. In the last order, the division bench of justices Sonia Gokani and N V Anjaria stated, "IO (investigating officer) is to constantly remind himself that this crime is allegedly committed while on duty where the corpus is said to have been tortured in custody and alleged to have been done away with mercilessly and the incident was glossed over till revealed in this petition. Let no stone be left unturned and every possible attempt be made to go to the root of the matter. There must not be any scope of either laxity or soft paddling at any stage of investigation which is not only impermissible, but would also prove to be deleterious for the system." Shaikh had gone missing on December 10, 2019 from Vadodara. After family members failed to find him, his son-in-law Ibrahim Pathan lodged a missing complaint on January 31, 2020 at Sayajigunj police station. It was revealed that Shaikh had been picked up by Fatehgun police station officials on suspicion of being a "thief." He was allegedly beaten up and "tortured" by the accused policemen including police inspector D B Gohil and five of his juniors. CCTV footage of the police station found Shaikh's presence but the record of his exist couldn't be recovered as the cameras were allegedly switched off. Apart from inspector Gohil, sub-inspector D M Rabari and four Lok Rakshak Dal constables-Pankaj Mavjibhai, Yogendrasinh Jilansinh, Rajeshbhai Savjibhai and Hiteshbhai Shambhubhai have been booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder (IPC 304), destruction of evidence (IPC 201), acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention (IPC 34), among other charges. They are currently in jail in judicial custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-police-search-narmada-canal-to-find-remains-of-telangana-man-allegedly-killed-in-police-custody-904519.html
20-10-2020||West||1.3 lakh child labourers working in Gujarat farms: NGO||Nearly 1.30 lakh children, mostly tribal, are illegally employed at cottonseed farms in Gujarat, a city-based NGO has claimed. Taking cognisance of the matter, an official from the state labour department told PTI on Tuesday that they will send their teams in areas specified by the NGO and take action if any wrongdoing is found. Low prices paid by seed companies to farmers is one of the main reasons why cultivators are employing children instead of adults for cross-pollination work in the fields, Sudhir Katiyar, from the Centre for Labour Research and Action, told reporters here on Monday. "According to a study, tribal children are paid just Rs 150 for a day's work, something for which an adult labourer never settles. As many as 1.30 lakh children are engaged as labourers in cottonseed farms," Katiyar claimed. After the state government's firm action against child labour in such farms in north Gujarat region around 10 years back, the cottonseed industry has shifted production to tribal farms in Banaskantha, Sabarkantha, Aravalli, Mahisagar and Chhotaudepur districts, he said. "Though the shift has significantly reduced migration and trafficking of children from south Rajasthan, child labour continues in the cottonseed industry as local tribal children are now engaged as farm labourers," Katiyar said. To stop this illegal practice, seed companies should consider giving better prices to farmers for cottonseed yield, he said. "We also urge the government to take note of the altered practices in the industry and devise a new strategy to stop child labour," he added. When contacted, state deputy labour commissioner M C Karia told PTI that they have taken note of the issue raised by Katiyar and action will be taken if needed. "Our department had earlier broken an entire chain of child labour and trafficking in north Gujarat region. We regularly conduct drives to keep a check on this activity," the official said. "I will send teams in these areas and take action if any wrongdoing is found," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/13-lakh-child-labourers-working-in-gujarat-farms-ngo-904545.html
20-10-2020||West||Ensure SOPs in Covid centres are followed to prevent untoward incidents: NCW to Maharashtra govt||Rattled by the incidents of cases of rape and molestation in Covid-19 centres in Maharashtra, the National Commission for Women (NCW) has asked the administration to ensure that SOPs are followed to avoid untoward incidents. NCW Chairperson Rekha Sharma, who was on a three-day visit to Mumbai, made a courtesy call to Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and met top bureaucrats and police officers. Sharma inquired whether SOPs have been established and are being adhered to for protection and safety of women at Covid centres. “She expressed her anguish at the number of reported cases of molestation and rape of women patients and doctors at Covid centres. She has recommended that strict background checks be conducted and CCTV cameras are installed,” an NCW spokesperson said. Sharma also pointed out that the appointment of Chairperson and members of the State Commission for Women is pending. “The position has been left vacant and should be filled to ensure complaints are addressed in a timely manner,” the spokesperson said. She also highlighted that some 4,000 complaints are not being attended to and redressed. “Till such time that the committee is filled, a member from NCW shall visit the state on a monthly basis to look into concerns raised by women in the State,” the spokesperson pointed out. She raised the issue of rise in love jihad cases in Maharashtra. She highlighted a distinction between consensual inter-faith marriages and love jihad and said that the latter required attention. Sharma also pointed out that the Maharashtra government has assured a law akin to the Disha law in Andhra Pradesh will be enacted; however, no tangible steps appear to have been taken in this regard. During her visit, she also met Chief Secretary Sanjay Kumar, Additional Director General (Law and Order) Rajendra Singh, Inspector General (Prevention of Crime against Women & Children) Rajvardhan, Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ensure-sops-in-covid-centres-are-followed-to-prevent-untoward-incidents-ncw-to-maharashtra-govt-904550.html
20-10-2020||West||81 candidates to contest 8 Assembly seats in Gujarat bypolls||A total 81 candidates are in the fray for by-elections to eight seats in Gujarat to be held on November 3, the Election Commission said on Tuesday. By-elections in Abdasa, Limbdi, Morbi, Dhari, Gadhada, Karjan, Dang and Kaprada seats were necessitated after the sitting Congress MLAs resigned. Monday was the last date for withdrawal of nomination forms. Out of 102 nominations received by the EC for eight seats, 21 forms were withdrawn till Monday, leaving 81 candidates in the fray, a release from the office of the Chief Electoral Officer said. Limbdi has the highest number of 14 candidates, while Kaprada, reserved for Scheduled Tribes (ST) candidates, has the lowest number of four candidates. As per the release, 12 candidates each are in the fray in Morbi and Gadhada seats, followed by 11 in Dhari, 10 in Abdasa, and nine each in Karjan and Dang. Candidates of the ruling BJP and the opposition Congress are pitted against each other in all the eight seats. The Bharatiya Tribal Party has also fielded two candidates -- in Dang, which is reserved for ST candidates, and Karjan. Lesser-known outfits like the Bahujan Maha Party, Bahujan Mukti Party, Bharatiya Jana Parishad, Akhil Bharatiya Rajarya Sabha, All India Majlish-e-Inqulab-e-Millat, Rashtravadi Jana Chetna, Yuva Jan Jagruti, Vyavastha Parivartan Party, and Rashtriya Jankranti Party have also fielded one or two candidates in some of the seats. A total of 51 independents are also in the fray. The BJP has fielded Pradyumnsinh Jadeja (Abdasa), Kiritsinh Rana (Limbdi), Brijesh Merja (Morbi), J V Kakadiya (Dhari), Atmaram Parmar (Gadhada), Akshay Patel (Karjan), Vijay Patel (Dang) and Jitubhai Chaudhary (Kaprada). These candidates include five former Congress MLAs who resigned from the opposition party and joined the BJP. The Congress candidates for the bypolls are Shantilal Sendhani (Abdasa), Chetan Khachar (Limbdi), Jayantilal Patel (Morbi), Suresh Kotadiya (Dhari), Mohan Solanki (Gadhada), Kiritsinh Jadeja (Karjan), Suryakant Gavit (Dang) and Babubhai Patel (Kaprada).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/81-candidates-to-contest-8-assembly-seats-in-gujarat-bypolls-904563.html
20-10-2020||West||Forecast of Eknath Khadse's exit from BJP made every day: Devendra Fadnavis||Amid speculations that senior BJP leader Eknath Khadse may join the NCP in a couple of days, former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday said there are talks every day of such kind of 'muhurat'. Fadnavis, who is in Osmanabad district to assess losses caused to farmers due to heavy rains, refused to make any further comment on the rumours. Khadse has been sulking since he was made to resign as a minister in the then Fadnavis-led BJP government in 2016 on allegations of corruption. When some reporters claimed there were speculations that Khadse may take a 'political decision' on October 22, Fadnavis said, "Such kind of muhurat (auspicious time) is being talked about every day and I will not speak on it." On Monday, NCP chief Sharad Pawar said Khadse was earlier the leader of opposition and played a huge role in building the BJP in the state. "He would criticise us and we would take note of it," Pawar said. "One is bound to feel disturbed if his contributions and hard work are not taken note of. He may think why shouldn't he shift to a party which appreciates his work," the NCP leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/forecast-of-eknath-khadses-exit-from-bjp-made-every-day-devendra-fadnavis-904576.html
20-10-2020||West||Maharashtra claims Rs 30,000 cr dues from Centre||The tri-party Maha Vikas Aghadi government on Tuesday asked the Narendra Modi-government to clear its GST refund to the tune of Rs 30,000 crore. State’s Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat said: “The Central government should extend a helping hand in the current situation, where heavy rains have caused large scale damage, but it has not done so yet. However, the state government is yet to receive its rightful GST refund worth Rs 30,000 crore till the end of September from the Central government.” In the past, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who holds the Finance and Planning portfolios, and senior leaders of Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress have requested the Centre to clear the GST dues. Thorat, who is the President of Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee, said that the state government has raised Rs 55,000 crore for salaries and other daily expenses through loans. “The Covid-19 outbreak has had an adverse effect on the revenue generation. Maharashtra pays the highest taxes to the central government, but the centre is always reluctant to step up and help the state. Even despite all this, the state government stands firmly behind the farmers and will surely be helping them.” Targeting the BJP, he said: “BJP leaders in the state are making huge demands but they are not trying to get the pending Rs 30,000 crore as GST refund from the central government for Maharashtra. Apart from the GST refund, they should also use their relations with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and help in getting maximum financial assistance for the state. If they do this, we will welcome and congratulate them as well.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-claims-rs-30000-cr-dues-from-centre-904685.html
20-10-2020||West||Sushant's former domestic help moves Bombay HC, accuses NCB of illegal detention||Dipesh Sawant, the former domestic help of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, has filed a petition in the Bombay High Court alleging he was illegally detained by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) before being produced in a local court. Sawant in his plea filed earlier this month has sought compensation of Rs 10 lakh from the NCB. The plea came up on Monday before a division bench of Justices S S Shinde and M S Karnik which posted it for hearing on November 6. Sawant has been accused of interacting with peddlers and procuring drugs, allegedly on behalf of Rajput, and has been charged under Narcotic Drugs Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Sawant, who is presently out on bail, in his plea, claimed violation of his fundamental rights by NCB officials who failed to produce him before the metropolitan magistrate court within 24 hours of taking him into custody. As per the petition, NCB took Sawant in their custody from his residence in suburban Chembur on September 4 at around 10pm, but he was produced before the magistrate on September 6 afternoon some 36 hours later. The petition also alleged the NCB wrongly recorded he was arrested on September 5 at 8 pm. "The petitioner was in illegal detention and this is in gross violation of Articles 21 (right to life and liberty) and 22 (any person arrested to be produced before concerned court within 24 hours)," the plea said. Apart from compensation, it also seeks appropriate action against concerned NCB officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushants-former-domestic-help-moves-bombay-hc-accuses-ncb-of-illegal-detention-904704.html
20-10-2020||West||Railway minister allows women to travel in Mumbai local trains||Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Tuesday announced that all women passengers will be allowed to travel in local trains in Mumbai and suburbs from Wednesday. Currently, only those engaged in frontline duties and essential staff as categorised by the Maharashtra government are allowed to travel in the local trains run by the Central Railway and the Western Railway, through a QR code mechanism. The Maharashtra government on October 16 requested the Railways to allow women to commute by local trains during the non-peak hours - from 11 am to 3 pm, and from 7 pm till the end of the day's services. On Tuesday morning, Maharashtra Chief Secretary Sanjay Kumar asked the railway authorities to consider its request "at the earliest". Later, taking to Twitter, Goyal said, "I am happy to announce that Railways will allow women to travel on suburban trains from 21 Oct between 11 am to 3 pm and after 7 pm. We were always ready and with the receipt of letter from Maharashtra Govt today, we have allowed this travel." The Western Railway and the Central Railway are as of now collectively operating around 700 local train services every day on their suburban network.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/railway-minister-allows-women-to-travel-in-mumbai-local-trains-904725.html
20-10-2020||West||8,151 new Covid-19 cases reported in Maharashtra, 213 deaths||Maharashtra's coronavirus infection tally on Tuesday increased to 16,09,516 with 8,151 new cases, said a state health official. The state also reported 213 new Covid-19 deaths, which took the death toll to 42,453, he said. 65,456 coronavirus tests were performed in the last 24 hours, of which 8,151 turned out to be positive at an infection rate of 12.45 per cent, the official said. 7,429 patients were discharged after treatment, taking the tally of recovered cases to 13,92,308. The number of active patients in the state is 1,74,265. Mumbai city reported 1,091 new cases during the day, which pushed its case count to 2,44,260, while its death toll rose to 9,864 with 45 new fatalities being reported. Pune city added 334 Covid-19 cases, raising its tally to 1,68,736, while 22 deaths took the toll to 3,873. The state has so far conducted 82,51,234 tests. Maharashtra's coronavirus figurers are as follows: Positive cases: 16,09,516, new cases: 8,151, death toll: 42,453, discharged: 13,92,308, active cases: 1,74,265, people tested so far: 82,51,234.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/8151-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-maharashtra-213-deaths-904735.html
20-10-2020||West||NCW chief raises issue of `Love Jihad' with Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari||Chairperson of the National Commission for Women (NCW) Rekha Sharma on Tuesday met Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari here and discussed issues related to women in the state, including 'rising cases of Love Jihad'. Sharma claimed that there was a rise in the cases of Love Jihad in Maharashtra, a statement from the NCW said. She also spoke about the need to appoint a full-time head for the state commission for women, it said. Sharma told governor there was a rise in cases of "Love Jihad" in the state and highlighted the distinction between consensual inter-faith marriages and Love Jihad, stating that the latter required attention, the release said. The term `Love Jihad' is used by some right-wing commentators to allege that there is a conspiracy to lure Hindu women and convert them through interfaith marriage. The NCW chief also pointed out that some 4,000 complaints have not been attended to because the state women's commission does not have a chairperson. Fourteen `one-stop centres' in the state, set up to provide single point of contact to victims of sexual and domestic abuse, were defunct, Sharma told the governor. These centres were set up after the 2012 Delhi gangrape incident, and are supposed to provide medical, legal, social and psychological aid to victims. As per the release, The NCW chief also stressed the need to enact a law akin to the Disha Act in Andhra Pradesh which provides for speedy trial of crimes against women and harsh punishment. "Some 188 cases filed under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act are pending beyond the statutory three-month period. This should be looked into on priority," Sharma said. CCTV cameras be put up inside COVID-19 care centres and strict background checks be conducted at these facilities, the NCW chief said, in apparent refernce to instances of women patients getting assaulted or molested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncw-chief-raises-issue-of-love-jihad-with-maharashtra-governor-bhagat-singh-koshyari-904745.html
20-10-2020||West||PM Modi to launch ropeway, hospital, farm scheme in Gujarat on October 24||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to inaugurate three projects in Gujarat on October 24 through video conferencing from Delhi, officials said on Tuesday. The projects comprise the Girnar ropeway in Junagadh, a new hospital building in Ahmedabad and the launch of Kisan Sarvoday Yojana to provide day-time electricity to farmers, said Gujarat Chief Secretary Anil Mukim. "The PM would launch these projects virtually from Delhi on October 24. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani would remain present at Junagadh while Deputy CM Nitin Patel will be at Ahmedabad," Mukim told PTI. The recently completed ropeway on Mount Girnar near Junagadh city of Saurashtra region covers a distance of 2.13 kilometres from the foot to the peak where the temple of Maa Amba is situated. "The ropeway can ferry 800 passengers per hour. The project was originally conceived over two decades ago and was recently completed at a cost of Rs 130 crore. Each passenger trolley will take around eight minutes to cover the distance of 2.13 kilometres," an official release said. The second project, the Kisan Sarvoday Yojana, aims at providing electricity to farmers during the day for agriculture, said state Energy minister Saurabh Patel. At present, the department has created 153 groups of farmers having agriculture connections, with half the groups getting electricity during night and the other half during day, he said. "Under this project, which would completed in around three years, we will provide electricity to all of them during the day," said Patel. Prime Minister Modi will also commission an 800-bed facility of U N Mehta Institute of Cardiology and Research Centre (UNMICRC), popularly known as UN Mehta Heart Hospital, said officials. The UNMICRC is a grant-in-aid autonomous institute promoted by the Government of Gujarat as a public trust.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pm-modi-to-launch-ropeway-hospital-farm-scheme-in-gujarat-on-october-24-904786.html
20-10-2020||West||Gujarat MLA Jignesh Mevani discharged from defamation case for tweeting false video||A local court in Valsad on Tuesday discharged independent MLA and Dalit leader Jignesh Mevani from the trial of a defamation case registered last year by a school for tweeting a video, which turned out to be from another country, showing children being beaten up by a teacher in the classroom. The court said that there was not enough evidence to try Mevani. Mevani was booked by the principal of RMVM school at Valsad police station for criminal defamation based on his tweet which shared a video clip showing school children being brutally beaten up by a man. Mevani wrote an RMVM school teacher was behind the act, which was “Barbarism of worst form...”. The video turned out to be from another country. After realising, Mevani had deleted the tweet and tendered an apology, yet the police began the probe. “After going through all the documents and evidence on record, prima facie no offence has been made out against the accused and the complaint seems to have been registered without any basis. In absence of supporting documents, this case can’t be tried. Proceeding further against the accused will only lead to waste of time,” additional chief judicial magistrate Manish Nimavat stated in his order. The order says that no proof was presented over the alleged threat calls made to the principal and parents gathering outside the school as a result of the video shared by Mevani. The court held that police didn’t probe any such allegations. The court held that police didn't probe any such allegations and no material was placed before the court to support it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-mla-jignesh-mevani-discharged-from-defamation-case-for-tweeting-false-video-904831.html
