21-10-2020||First Edit||There should be no slackening||A committee appointed by the Department of Science and Technology, consisting of health experts and mathematicians, has made some comforting observations, and even positive conclusions, about the course of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country. Using mathematical modelling, it has concluded that there is a steady decline in the number of reported cases since September 17, and the trend will continue till February by when the epidemic will have run its course. There is an overall falling trend, except in some states like Kerala and in some other areas, and Monday had the least number of infections in the last three months. The mortality rate has also seen a welcome decline. While these are good auguries and provide hope about an early end to the scourge, they should not create any complacency. There are reasons to be cautious about the committee's views, and they are weighty and valid.  The conclusions are based on mathematical modelling using various kinds of data related to the pandemic. There have been other models which have given different results and so it may not be right to go by the results of only one study. Any study is only as good as the data on which it is based and its methodology. There is criticism that the panel’s methodology was simplistic and that the modelling was based on publicly available data whose reliability is questionable. There are caveats and assumptions which should be considered in making a judgement on the conclusions. The present decline, noted by the panel, may continue only if the virus does not mutate or become more active during winter. The immunity gained from anti-bodies and other favourable factors and conditions should also endure. There cannot be any certainty about these as the medium and long-term behaviour of the virus is unknown.  The usefulness of any model or study depends on how it aids in policy formulation. Since the methodology, observations and some conclusions of the panel have come under question, it may not be right to base policies to fight the pandemic on its report. Such reports also should not be used to justify or support policies and decisions taken by governments and administrations or to criticise them. Unfortunately, this is being done. There is the danger of people lowering their guard if it is suggested, with or without basis, that the situation is improving. It must be noted that many countries which had seen the pandemic subsiding are seeing its resurgence now. What happens during the festival season will be especially important for the trajectory of the epidemic, and the report should not lead to slackening at any level. This was also the Prime Minister’s message on Tuesday evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/there-should-be-no-slackening-904884.html
21-10-2020||In Perspective||Netflix, Amazon are rewriting Bollywood rules on women||A supernatural film celebrating a female vigilante who’s mistaken for a witch. A biopic about one of India’s first woman combat pilots. And a Mumbai take on “Sex in the City” featuring four working women.  The content of the shows is extremely varied, but what they have in common is they are aimed at an expanding female audience in India and have been churned out by US streaming giants Netflix, Amazon’s Prime Video and others. The companies are rewriting the rules of India’s $34 billion entertainment industry, bringing more women in front of and behind the camera as they spend millions of dollars to grab a share of Asia’s biggest open market for streaming. An unprecedented surge in women-centric content highlights the disruption in India’s entertainment industry, which has typically relied on an A-list male actor in lead roles to lure in mostly male viewers to score a blockbuster. The shift partly stems from the lockdown amid the coronavirus that shut movie theatres for months. With Indian women increasingly willing to pay for content they can view on their phones or laptops, streaming platforms are pivoting to this under-tapped market. As incomes rise in the $2.9 trillion economy, per capita spending on media and entertainment is expected to almost double to $35 in India by 2021 from five years earlier, according to data from Statista.  A 2019 study by the Boston Consulting Group said Indian women are increasingly having a say in household purchase decisions. A 2016 study by Google and A T Kearney estimated that Indian women’s share in overall online spending will jump to 42% by 2020 from 20% in 2015. More than half of Netflix films released in India this year have a female producer or director, according to Monika Shergill, Netflix India’s vice president of content. Netflix saw unique women visitors jump to 40% last year from 26% in 2018, according to Comscore data. The Los Gatos, California-based company is working with 30 women producers and directors besides a dozen women writers this year, Shergill said. “Better access to the internet is pushing creators to make content that resonates with women,” said Ashivini Yardi, producer of Netflix’s hit series “Masaba Masaba,” a show about a single mother and her fashion-designer daughter. Amazon declined to share women viewership of its shows but said all six of its originals released in India this year had women leading the charge as either creators, producers, writers or directors. To capture a larger slice of female viewers, Amazon is “constantly talking to more producers to have different voices represented,” said Vijay Subramaniam, director and head of content at the company’s India operations. India’s experience highlights a global trend in which more women are involved in the creation of streaming content geared toward women. Netflix had women helming 20% of its 53 original US films last year, nearly double the rate of representation for women directors across the 100 top-grossing US films of 2019. While the push for equality is gaining momentum in many film markets, the biggest changes in India are being driven by women seeking more choice in the content targeted to them. Watching movies and television shows are often group activities in India, with the decision on what to watch typically driven by the men in the household. Streaming is allowing women more personal choice in entertainment -- at least in some segments of the population. Personal devices “People can watch what they want, where they want and by themselves on their personal devices,” said Dinkar Ayilavarapu, a partner at Bain & Co. and head of technology, media and telecommunications. That now allows streaming platforms to “cater to niches,” he said. At the same time, in a market like India, women are limited by their purchasing power because those who can pay for a streaming service form a “minuscule” percentage, said Tejaswini Ganti, associate professor of anthropology at New York University. On streaming platforms, producers with prospects of less financial risk and more creative freedom are experimenting, said Ganti, the author of “Producing Bollywood: Inside the Contemporary Hindi Film Industry.” For instance, Amazon Prime’s popular series “Four More Shots Please!” addresses largely taboo issues such as female sexuality and homosexuality. The show, the first of its kind in India, features casual sex, gay sex and sex in an open marriage -- a stark contrast to Bollywood films of yore. “It opens up a storyteller’s world,” said Anvita Dutt, writer and director of Netflix’s “Bulbul,” the film about the female vigilante who is mistaken for a witch. “Someone in Spain could be watching my film.” Bloomberg||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/netflix-amazon-are-rewriting-bollywood-rules-on-women-904883.html
21-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Bandipur Tiger Reserve gets a pair of Mudhol puppies||The Bandipur Tiger Reserve authorities, who were searching for a pair of Mudhol Hound dogs to help them to detect forest crimes, have purchased two puppies of the breed, a few days ago. A pair of puppies, a  male and a female, have been brought from Canine Research and Information Centre, in Thimmapur, near Mudhol, in Bagalkot district. As 'Rana', the sniffer dog, belonging to German Shepherd breed is on the verge of retirement, the Forest department decided to bring two pups of Mudhol Hound breed and train it under Rana, to help them in detecting forest crimes in future. The Mudhol Hound breed, of Karnataka origin, had recently become more popular after being inducted by the Indian Army in several units for operations and daily routines. This breed is said to be highly resistant to diseases and has good eye vision. Forest officials, who felt that Mudhol Hound is suitable for protecting the forests, started a search and bought this pair of puppies from the Canine centre for Rs 27,000. Assistant Conservator of Forests, Bandipur Tiger Reserve, Ravi Kumar said that Bandipur Tiger Reserve director T Balachandra had suggested Mudhol Hound breeds as it was very helpful for protecting the forest and its resources. Accordingly, they had purchased a pair of puppies. The Forest department personnel are taking care of these two white coloured puppies. Rana was trained for 11 months at Bhopal. However, the department is yet to take a decision on this. "There are plans to train it either in Bengaluru or Mysuru, and we are searching for a training centre", Ravi Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bandipur-tiger-reserve-gets-a-pair-of-mudhol-puppies-905215.html
21-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Devaraja Market shifts to JK Grounds for 3 days||Ahead of Ayudha puja, the civic body has ordered temporary closure of flower stalls at century-old Devaraja Market for three days, in an effort to contain the spread of Covid-19, for the safety of the people. The vendors are allowed to make business at J K Grounds on all the three days. Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde issued an order on Monday, restricting flower business at Devaraja market for three days from October 23 to 25. However, the vendors can do business at J K Grounds and the authorities have made all the necessary arrangements for the vendors as well as the customers. It has to be noted that this is for the third-time, the MCC is closing Devaraja Market, also a major market in the city, after the outbreak of Covid-19 in the district in March. An officer said that the initiative is to ensure safety of the customers as well as the vendors visiting the market. A section, where flowers are sold at Devaraja market, is very narrow and becomes congested during the festival season. Thousands of people throng the market to purchase flowers, fruits and other items, well in advance, during the Ayudha Puja and Vijayadashami and it is highly impossible to maintain social distance. Thus, the flower market has been shifted to JK Grounds for three days. As the ground is spacious, all the norms to contain the spread of Covid-19 can be followed, said an officer. The MCC had temporarily had earlier closed the retail and wholesale flower business at Devaraja Market between August 19 to 22 during Gowri-Ganesha festival. The market was also closed during Varamahalakshmi festival. The civic body had made arrangements at JK Grounds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/devaraja-market-shifts-to-jk-grounds-for-3-days-905272.html
21-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mayor Tasneem slams DC Sindhuri, Pratap Simha||Mayor Tasneem on Wednesday criticised Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri of breaching the protocol during Dasara inauguration and MP Pratap Simha for writing to Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) Commissioner over naming the circle. Speaking to reporters here, Tasneem alleged of protocol violation by the DC, insulting the Mayor, the first citizen of the city. She alleged that the DC had instructed the police not to allow the Mayor to welcome Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, during his visit to the city, to participate in the Dasara inauguration.  The DC had violated the norms even during the inaugural ceremony atop Chamundi Hill. Usually, the Mayor is seated next to district in-charge minister. But, this time, the Mayor was made to sit at the end. Besides, the DC did not mention the names of Deputy Mayor and Zilla Panchayat vice-president in her welcome speech. “Whom are you (DC) trying to impress? Follow the rule and work for the people,” Tasneem said. Tasneem also slammed MP Pratap Simha, warning not to make loose comments against corporators and respect the resolution passed in the MCC Council. “Stop targeting personally and cooperate for the development activities,” she suggested. “The MP had proposed naming the Lalith Mahal junction on Mysuru-T Narasipur National Highway 766, after a doctor. But, the civic body decided to name the circle after an ex-corporator, as decided in the council. Now, the MP has written to the MCC Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde claiming that the move is illegal,” she said. The MCC has named several circles in the last seven years, after Pratap Simha was elected as an MP. Are all these illegal and be rejected? she questioned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mayor-tasneem-slams-dc-sindhuri-pratap-simha-905273.html
21-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 cases on decline in state: Sudhakar||Minister for Medical Education, Health and Family Welfare Dr K Sudhakar on Wednesday said that Covid-19 cases and death rate are on the decline in the state. The minister also hoped that the cases will not increase in Mysuru in the days to come. Speaking to reporters here, before attending Covid review meeting, the minister said that the positive and death rates due to Covid have started to decline in the state. “Out of 1.08 lakh tests today, the Covid positive rate was 5.5 % but, it was 11% and 14 %, around 10 days ago,” he said. Earlier detection of the cases result in fewer deaths. Karnataka is the only state in the country conducting highest tests in a day, he said. “In Mysuru district also, the number of positive cases and the death rate are on the decline from the last week. The positivity rate which was 19% last week, has come down to 9.3%. Even the death rate has declined. Covid is coming under control in Mysuru,” the minister said.  “We have to ensure that Covid cases do not increase during Dasara, and all the necessary measures are in place. The Prime Minister’s Office has issued specific guidelines during special occasions like festivals,” he said. “Even though a large number of people are visiting Mysuru, majority of them are following the guidelines and the chances of a rise in cases is very less. As more number of visitors are expected to visit the city during weekend and on the day of Jamboo Savari, all measures will be taken,” he said.  Though the vaccine for Covid-19 is yet to arrive, the government will be prepared for mass immunisation. “We are hoping to get the vaccine in January. A meeting has been convened to discuss how to administer vaccines to all the 6.5 crore people in the state. Experts from different fields, including logistics, medicine, will attend the meeting,” Sudhakar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-cases-on-decline-in-state-sudhakar-905277.html
21-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Plans afoot to improve SSLC results||Amid Covid-19, the Department of Public Instructions (DPI) is chalking out programmes to improve Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) examinations results for the next academic year. The authorities are preparing an action plan to improve the result to ‘A’ grade in the final examination. The district was in ‘B’ grade last year. It has to be noted that the Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) has scrapped the district-wise ranking system from last year and introduced grading system to ensure healthy competition among the districts. An officer attached to Education department said, “Grading will be calculated using three main parameters and the districts will be awarded A, B and C grades.  For calculation, 40% weightage will be given for overall pass percentage of the district, 40% for average marks scored by students (pass/fail) and 20% to the number of students who get distinction and first-class marks in the exams.” Zilla Panchayat (ZP) Chief Executive Officer (CEO) D Bharati directed the Education department authorities to create an action plan without any delay to improve the grade to ‘A’. She pointed out that the neighbouring Chamarajanagar district, which is considered as one of the backward districts in state, tops in SSLC results. The DPI authorities must prepare a programme to ensure that the district will achieve ‘A’ grade, she said. The CEO also suggested the authorities to concentrate more on the academically weaker students and impart special training for them. Bharati said, “The district has more number of rural students and the authorities must ensure all facilities to prepare them for the examination.” As Vidyagama programme was not that effective, Bharati suggested the rural and academically poor students to work on old question papers and also to provide them the answer scripts of the rank students for reference.    Vidyagama is a scheme launched by the department of Primary and Secondary Education Department to reach out to students of the government schools during the Covid pandemic following the uncertainty over reopening of schools. However, the programme is temporarily stopped after more than 100 teachers contracted Covid and a few succumbed, since August.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/plans-afoot-to-improve-sslc-results-905278.html
21-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Take Covid precautions at tourists places: DC||With continuous holidays during the weekend on account of Ayudha puja, Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi has instructed the officials to take precautionary measures at all the tourism destinations and temples in the district. He has directed the Forest department officials, tahsildars and temple executive officers to take necessary measures to prevent the spread of the pandemic at Bandipur National Park in Gundlupet taluk, Bharachukki water falls in Kollegal taluk, K Gudi in Chamarajanagar taluk and all temples coming under Muzrai department. He directed the authorities to ensure that all the tourists and devotees wear masks compulsorily. Maintaining a physical distance of two metres, thermal screening should be made mandatory. Hand sanitisers should be available to the visitors, he said. He also suggested to deploy additional personnel, separate entry and exit points, cleanliness and hygiene of toilets, drinking water facilities and others. Children below 10 years, people above 70 years and pregnant women should not be allowed to the tourist and pilgrim spots. Only packed foods and drinks should be available and the respective authorities should ensure waste management. Legal action would be taken against those violating the safety norms, the DC warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/take-covid-precautions-at-tourists-places-dc-905280.html
21-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||BTR gets pair of Mudhol hound puppies||The Bandipur Tiger Reserve authorities, who were searching for a pair of Mudhol Hound dogs to help them detect forest crimes, have purchased two puppies of the breed, a few days ago. A pair of puppies, a male and a female, have been brought from Canine Research and Information Centre in Thimmapur near Mudhol in Bagalkot district. As 'Rana', the sniffer dog, belonging to German Shepherd breed is on the verge of retirement, the Forest department decided to bring two pups of Mudhol Hound breed and train it under Rana, to help them in detecting forest crimes in future. The Mudhol Hound breed of Karnataka origin, had recently become more popular after being inducted by the Indian Army in several units for operations and daily routines. This breed is said to be highly resistant to diseases and has good eye vision. Forest officials, who felt that Mudhol Hound is suitable for protecting the forests, started a search and bought this pair of puppies from the Canine centre for Rs 27,000. Assistant Conservator of Forests, Bandipur Tiger Reserve, Ravi Kumar said, "Bandipur Director T Balachandra had suggested Mudhol Hound breed as it is very helpful for protecting the forest and its resources. Accordingly, we have purchased a pair of puppies." The Forest department personnel are taking care of these two white coloured puppies. Rana was trained for 11 months at Bhopal. However, the department is yet to take a decision on this. "There are plans to train it either in Bengaluru or Mysuru, and we are searching for a training centre," Ravi Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/btr-gets-pair-of-mudhol-hound-puppies-905281.html
21-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||More Congress, JD(S) leaders to join BJP, says Kateel||BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel said that more leaders from Congress and JD(S) were knocking on BJP doors. Many prominent leaders from these parties will join the BJP in the coming days, he said. He was speaking at an event where the saffron party formally inducted former Congress and JD(S) councillors from Rajarajeshwarinagar. This included Manjula Narayanaswamy, who had protested against Munirathna inside the BBMP council in 2017. Kateel exuded confidence of the saffron party's prospects in the upcoming byelections for two Assembly constituencies, saying that there were no direct competitors for the BJP in both the constituencies. "In Congress, there is a contest between Siddaramaiah and D K Shivakumar themselves," he quipped. While KPCC president Shivakumar was plotting to defeat Sira Congress candidate T B Jayachandra, opposition leader Siddaramaiah was working for the defeat of Kusuma in RR Nagar, he said. Congress and JD(S) leaders who wanted to join the party were tired of the divisive policies of Siddaramaiah, goonda mentality of Shivakumar and family politics of JD(S).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/more-congress-jds-leaders-to-join-bjp-says-kateel-905294.html
21-10-2020||Karnataka Politics||Not trying to become a minister, says Yatnal||Senior BJP legislator Basangouda Patil Yatnal defended his remarks against Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa saying that they were not motivated by aspirations of a Cabinet berth. “I am working for the development of Karnataka as a voice of the people,” he said in a late Tuesday night tweet, adding that he had not begged or indulged in skulduggery to secure a Cabinet berth. “That does not suit my character.” ಕರ್ನಾಟಕದ ಅಭಿವೃದ್ಧಿ ಹಾಗೂ ಜನರ ಧ್ವನಿಯಾಗಿ ಆತ್ಮಸಾಕ್ಷಿಯಾಗಿ ಜನಪ್ರತಿನಿಧಿಯಾಗಿ ಕೆಲಸ ಮಾಡುತ್ತಿದ್ದೆನೆ ಹೊರತು ಸಚಿವನಾಗುವದಕ್ಕೆ ಯಾರದೋ ಕಾಲು ಹಿಡಿದು ತಲೆ ಹಿಡಿಯುವ ಕೆಲಸ ಮಾಡಿಲ್ಲ ಅದು ನನ್ನ ಜಾಯಮಾನ ಅಲ್ಲ Yatnal had stirred another controversy by claiming that Yediyurappa will be removed soon. “...after Yediyurappa, CM will be from north Karnataka. This is almost finalized,” he had said. Following this, Yediyurappa’s Cabinet ministers defended Yediyurappa's leadership with some suggesting that Yatnal was throwing tantrums looking for a Cabinet berth during the upcoming expansion. BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel said there was no question of changing the CM. “Yediyurappa will be the CM for the next three years,” Kateel said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/not-trying-to-become-a-minister-says-yatnal-905107.html
21-10-2020||Karnataka Politics||Yatnal denies reports on his berth aspirations||Senior BJP legislator Basangouda Patil Yatnal has defended his remarks against Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, saying that they were not motivated by the aspiration for a Cabinet berth. “I am working for the development of Karnataka as a voice of the people,” he said in a late Tuesday night tweet, adding that he had not begged or indulged in skulduggery to secure a Cabinet berth. “That does not suit my character.” The tweet came after Yatnal controversially claimed that Yediyurappa will be removed soon. “...after Yediyurappa, CM will be from north Karnataka. This is almost finalised,” he had said. Following this, Yediyurappa’s Cabinet ministers defended his leadership, with some suggesting that Yatnal was throwing tantrums, looking for a Cabinet berth during the upcoming expansion. BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel said on Wednesday that there was no question of change in state leadership. “Yediyurappa will be the CM for the next three years,” Kateel said. BJP will discuss Yatnal’s remarks within the party and take appropriate action, he added. “We will seek an explanation from him,” Kateel said. Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa urged the BJP president to expel Yatnal from the party. “There is no need to even issue a notice,” he said, recalling Yatnal’s repeated remarks against Yediyurappa in the past.  CM refuses reaction Meanwhile, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa refused to react to the statement of Yatnal when he arrived at Jindal air strip in Ballari on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/yatnal-denies-reports-on-his-berth-aspirations-905291.html
21-10-2020||Main Article||India’s Australia Signal| Delhi’s horizontal escalation||For India, the announcement of Australia’s participation in the annual Malabar naval exercises of 2020 is a deliberate horizontal escalation of the continental border crisis whose present centre of gravity is Ladakh. The Malabar exercises began as an Indo-US bilateral exercise in 1992. In 2015, Japan joined in and India has now overcome its reticence about annoying China and opened the door for Australia. The connection with China’s rise and its strategic misbehaviour is obvious and is part of a larger global countervailing move for stability and balance. For India, the burning question is, what difference can this make to China’s threats on its continental borders. A lot actually  Hypothetically, it is feasible, for China to launch an offensive on the Sino-Indian border any time before the winter or even much later. But India is now signalling that if that happens, it may have to confront the possibility of India opening the maritime front, which is China’s weakest strategic arena. India, hopefully, is no longer ignoring this possibility and is also moving towards enlarging cooperation with other maritime powers in the Indo-Pacific region. Such a foreign policy shift might appear speculative but China’s military exertions in Ladakh have now made it a compulsion and have hopefully demolished the illusions regarding the nature of China’s political ambitions and coercive measures it has adopted, which trumpets the message – ‘I am strong and I will be the boss’. In all probability, China’s efforts at military coercion may remain limited to salami slicing, with military operations conducted in the layer below the level of war. In most military situations between nuclear powers, the nuclear elephant in the room cannot be ignored. The big fight can at best be threatened, but to deliberately bring it about has unacceptable risks. All political leaders are only too well aware of the nuclear dangers even when they appear to portray strategic behaviour that ignores realpolitik. The success of the lower form of coercion is limited by the opponent’s ability to withstand strategic and political pain. Post-Doklam, China probably concluded that occasional pressure on the Sino-Indian border will not arrest or slow down the Indian strategic drift towards a coalition that aims to check Beijing’s rise. Wuhan and Mamallapuram were useful to China to buy time for its military preparations as it apprehended that they were insufficient to check the growing proximity between India and the US, as well as other powers of the Quad and powers like France and Germany. This time, therefore, military force has been applied by choosing a geographic area that also brings into the threat dimension the possibility of a two-front war. This possibility, it was hoped, would keep India in check. It has, however, had the opposite effect. Instead, India is politically and strategically pivoting towards the oceans. Some would say – at long last. China may be advertising its arrival as the largest navy, but it is also well known that it has still a long way to go to bypass the US as a global maritime power. If alignments like Quad and Quad-plus materialise, China will not be in any position to relieve itself of its essential strategic dilemma -- the safety of its sea lines of communications that are essential for its energy supplies and trade. No amount of overland connectivity can provide an alternative, except for very short periods. So, the essential Indian challenge is, how does it convey to China that an offensive in the Himalayas might result in India exercising its option of opening the maritime front. Strategists are divided over the possibility and effectiveness of India’s capability to open the third front. The complexity of intercepting China-flagged vessels without impacting international maritime flow is often cited. This is a pertinent point but need not be the showstopper, as India can choose the method and place of interception. International maritime traffic will be impacted; the challenge is to minimise it. The Navy must have studied this issue and war-gamed it. The risks are obvious as ocean trade has multiple routes and too much traffic. However, India’s geographic advantages in the Indian Ocean provides potential for a potent maritime threat that can be utilised. Importantly, this option is not for the Navy only to decide upon but one that is a matter of risk-taking by the political leadership. This must be an option on the Indian table, if China launches a land offensive. The broader Indian military strategy must be based on defending on the land borders and taking the offensive mode in the maritime domain. Also, if salami slicing by China increases, apart from proactive actions like the occupation of the Kailash range, pressure on soft targets like fishing vessels and survey ships in the Indian Ocean could be brought to bear. If the Chinese offensive is a collusive one with Pakistan, India must not hesitate to harness the other maritime powers and utilise the maritime arena as its offensive arm against China and Pakistan. The harnessing of other maritime powers will have to be undertaken through prior diplomatic and foreign policy arrangements in whatever form it can be done and should form the main focus of ongoing diplomatic efforts. In many ways, it will also provide the strategic opportunity to other maritime actors to concentrate their efforts to get China to walk the path of being a responsible power. Looking back, it is perhaps the failure of the US to check China’s open aggression and assertiveness in East Asia and the South China Sea that has emboldened China. Now, it is India’s turn. Successful military coercion without fighting must be dealt with by signalling the readiness to fight. The Indian Ocean and the Indo-Pacific are begging for attention; India must take the plunge. (The writer is Director, Strategic Studies Programme, Takshashila Institution, Bengaluru, and former military adviser, National Security Council Secretariat)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/india-s-australia-signal-delhi-s-horizontal-escalation-904887.html
21-10-2020||National||ICMR warns against Covid-19 reinfection after recovery||One may get reinfected with the coronavirus if the antibodies against the infection diminish in the body in five months' time after recovery, a top ICMR official said on Tuesday, urging people to continue wearing face masks and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. "We are looking at the data as to how many people got infected, then turned negative and then tested positive again. Typically, we know that antibodies persist for about three to five months. "The CDC has said you call it a reinfection if a person gets reinfected after 90 days. We are looking at the data accordingly, as soon as we have it, we will present it to you," ICMR Director General Balaram Bhargava said in response to a question at a press conference. Elaborating further, he said some studies have suggested that antibodies last for three months while some others said they may last in the body for up to five months also. It is a new disease and information regarding this is limited as of now, Bhargava said, adding that if antibodies decrease in the body of a person within five months of recovery, there is a possibility of reinfection with Covid-19. "That is why following Covid-appropriate behaviour like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing has to be continued even after recovery," he said. In a press briefing last week, Bhargava had said the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has decided on a 100-day cut-off for re-infection if it occurs as antibodies are also assumed to have a life of four months, according to some studies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-warns-against-covid-19-reinfection-after-recovery-904848.html
21-10-2020||National||Indian Army launches creative competition||The Indian army’s southern command is organising an open online competition on the theme of ‘Indian army: A symbol of unity in diversity”.  The contest is open to all under various age categories with a total prize money of Rs 1.22 lakh, along with the award of merit certificates from the Indian army. The competition details have also been uploaded to the southern command Facebook page and Twitter handle @IaSouthern.  The competition comprises four aspects: Slogan writing, video making, photography and painting under various age categories. The videos, photographs, paintings and slogans will have to be uploaded as a message on the southern command’s Facebook page or forwarded to sconlinecomp@gmail.com along with the phone number of the contestant and a copy of their Aadhar card.  Headquarters Southern Command said the aim of the online competition was to nurture and tap talent. The entries are open from October 19, 2020, and will close on December 10, 2020. The results of the competition would be announced on December 16, 2020, on southern command’s Facebook page and via Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-launches-creative-competition-904869.html
21-10-2020||National||Digital health ID not mandatory for accessing Covid-19 vaccine: Health Ministry||A digital health identity under the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM) will not be mandatory to get vaccinated when immunization against COVID-19 is available, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. The ambitious NDHM programme was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his Independence Day speech. As per the programme, everyone enrolled for the mission will get a Health ID that will ease access to medical services. "The NDHM, as it exists today, does not make a digital ID or health ID mandatory to receive service under the digital ecosystem that NDHM is creating. To say it would become mandatory for vaccination and those who do not have health ID's would be deprived is probably not the right interpretation," Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said at a press conference.   He said in cases where beneficiaries do not have health IDs, other IDs can be utilised. "It would be almost like an electoral scenario where multiple IDs are prescribed beforehand so that no one is deprived of benefits of either voting on the day of election or vaccination on the designated day," Bhushan said. The Health Secretary's remarks came a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi said India is working on putting a robust vaccine delivery system in place and its digitized network, along with the new digital health ID, will be used to ensure its success. The PM was speaking at the Grand Challenges Annual Meeting on Monday. Bhushan, about concerns regarding data privacy and data security under NDHM, said there is a bill pending in Parliament which addresses this issue. "Till the bill gets passed, NDHM has a data management policy which has been in the public domain for more than the last one month. We have received more than 7,000 comments on the data management policy of NDHM which ensures both individual data privacy as well as data security. Based on the comments that we have received, we would be suitably refining our policies," he said. The National Health Authority (NHA), the apex agency responsible for the implementation of Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY), has been given the mandate by the government to design, build, roll-out and implement the NDHM in the country.     The health ID will contain information about medical data, prescriptions and diagnostic reports and summaries of previous discharge from hospitals for ailments. The mission is expected to bring efficiency and transparency in healthcare services in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/digital-health-id-not-mandatory-for-accessing-covid-19-vaccine-health-ministry-904905.html
21-10-2020||National||Will examine Punjab farm bills thoroughly: Union Agri Minister Narendra Singh Tomar||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Tuesday said the Centre will "thoroughly examine" the bills passed by the Punjab Assembly whenever they are sent to it, and take a decision in farmers' interest. "I learnt that the Punjab government has passed bills related to the agriculture reform bill already passed by the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. "I am confident that the decisions that we have taken in the interest of farmers cannot be compared with anything. But in democracy, the Assembly (too) has the power to take such decisions," Tomar told PTI. "Whenever the decision of the Assembly comes to the Union government, it will be thoroughly examined and we will take a decision in the interest of farmers," the Union minister added. The Punjab Assembly on Tuesday adopted a resolution rejecting the Centre's new farm laws and passed four bills it said will counter the contentious legislation enacted by Parliament.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-examine-punjab-farm-bills-thoroughly-union-agri-minister-narendra-singh-tomar-904906.html
21-10-2020||National||DH Toon | PM's address to nation: 'Heard immunity is different!'||On the eve of the Durga Puja, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday appealed to the people to wear masks, maintain social distancing and avoid crowded places as the coronavirus is still very much around and negligence can bring about disaster for families.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-pms-address-to-nation-heard-immunity-is-different-904922.html
21-10-2020||National||DH Radio | The Lead: Mental health — The intricacies of suicide prevention||In today's episode of The Lead from DH Radio, we talk to Johnson, a counselor, and a social worker on how suicide cases are on the rise and how they can be prevented. He is co-founder and director of Aasra a 24/7 crisis intervention emotional support service for depressed and suicidal. The Centre has been at the forefront of suicide prevention services since 1998.  Ahmed Shariff: Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and welcome to the Lead. In today's episode, I am joined by Johnson Thomas. Johnson is a film, theatre, art and book critic, a counselor and social worker.  Hi Johnson and welcome to DH Radio. My first question to you is, we have been seeing a string of suicides from children appearing for Neet exams and celebrities. Are the cases on the rise? Johnson Thomas: Yes, definitely. When you look at the newspapers, there is evidence that the cases are on the rise. Especially among students who are appearing for Neet and other competitive exams and celebrities who have been rendered without vocation in this pandemic situation. A lot more people are attempting and dying by suicide... Tune in to the podcast to know more about the conversation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-radio-the-lead-mental-health-the-intricacies-of-suicide-prevention-904927.html
21-10-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on October 21||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 75 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact: Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 77,00,770 as of October 20 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  116,550 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->  No. of people discharged: 67,95,103      Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-october-21-904928.html
21-10-2020||National||Indian Army returns Chinese soldier apprehended in Ladakh||Indian Army handed over the Chinese soldier Corporal Wang Ya Long to the Chinese Army at the Chushul Moldo meeting point, last night. A Chinese People’s Liberation Army soldier was on Monday captured in eastern Ladakh by the Indian Army. The army had promised to return him to the PLA authorities after completing the formalities. The soldier was apprehended in the Demchok sector after he had strayed across the Line of Actual Control -- the disputed boundary between the two neighbours. The soldier was handed over early Wednesday morning, according to the report. Both countries have amassed thousands of troops in the region after a deadly clash in June. The nuclear-armed neighbours have been locked in a months-long border confrontation in the Ladakh region, with troops killing each other in hand-to-hand combat and firing shots in the air. (With inputs from Reuters)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-returns-chinese-soldier-apprehended-in-ladakh-904930.html
21-10-2020||National||India to roll out quick and cheap coronavirus paper test||A fast and cheap paper-based coronavirus test will soon be available across India, with scientists hopeful it will help turn the tide on the pandemic in one of the world's worst-hit nations. India has recorded more than 7.5 million infections, second only to the United States, and the outbreak has spread from densely packed megacities like Mumbai to rural communities with limited medical services. The locally developed Feluda, named for a detective in a famous Indian novel series, resembles a home pregnancy paper-strip test and delivers results within an hour. Researchers are optimistic that its low cost and ease of use can help stem the pathogen's spread in poor and remote areas. "This test doesn't require any sophisticated equipment or highly trained manpower," said co-creator Souvik Maiti, a scientist at New Delhi's CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB). "There are lots of remote parts of India where you do not have any sophisticated laboratories... (The test) will be much easier to deploy; it will have much more penetration." India currently diagnoses Covid-19 with either RT-PCR tests, which are highly accurate but require advanced lab machinery, or antigen tests, which can give results in just a few minutes at a limited cost but with significantly lower accuracy. Feluda, like other inexpensive paper-based tests being developed in other countries, claims to combine the accuracy of the PCR test with the accessibility of the antigen kits. It uses the gene-editing technique CRISPR-Cas9, which recently earned its inventors Jennifer Doudna and Emmanuelle Charpentier the Nobel Prize in Chemistry. Feluda has been granted government regulatory approval and Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said last week it could be rolled out in the next few weeks by Indian conglomerate Tata Group. If made available within that timeframe, India will be one of the first countries in the world to begin mass use of such a test. The price has not been released, but local media said it could cost around 500 rupees ($6.80) -- around a fifth of what a PCR test costs in New Delhi. The current prototype requires a PCR machine for processing, but scientists are working on a saliva or self-swabbing version that can be used at home, co-founder and IGIB scientist Debojyoti Chakraborty said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-roll-out-quick-and-cheap-coronavirus-paper-test-904963.html
21-10-2020||National||Donald Trump clears the air Modi way, says 'will release tape of interview'||US President Donald Trump cut short his interview with CBS News journalist Lesley Stahl abruptly. Later on, he tweeted a video of the reporter at the White House not wearing mask, saying, "Lesley Stahl of 60 Minutes not wearing a mask in the White House after her interview with me. Much more to come." "I am pleased to inform you that, for the sake of accuracy in reporting, I am considering posting my interview with Lesley Stahl of 60 Minutes, PRIOR TO AIRTIME! This will be done so that everybody can get a glimpse of what a FAKE and BIASED interview is all about..." I am pleased to inform you that, for the sake of accuracy in reporting, I am considering posting my interview with Lesley Stahl of 60 Minutes, PRIOR TO AIRTIME! This will be done so that everybody can get a glimpse of what a FAKE and BIASED interview is all about... Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2014, prior to being voted into the Prime Minister's Office, did something similar when he released the tape of his interview to DD News. Controversy that Modi claimed Congress chief Sonia Gandhi’s daughter, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, is like his daughter, erupted after this interview. His interview also angered Congress's Ahmed Patel who maintained that he was never close to Modi the way he made it out to be in the interview. To make matters clear, his office, released the tape of his complete interview to DD News in which he is shown to have said, "he would not be angry even if Priyanka hurled a hundred curses at him" and opened up about his friendship with Patel ruefully,||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/donald-trump-clears-the-air-modi-way-says-will-release-tape-of-interview-904984.html
21-10-2020||National||Three crore Indians to get Covid-19 vaccine in Phase 1: Report||Adding that the National Expert Committee on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 has come up with a draft prioritisation plan, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that "if the present trials proceed according to plan and succeed, then the number of doses that would be available from January to July would be sufficient to immunise all those on the priority list." "And we think if the present trials proceeded according to plan, and succeed, then the number of doses that will become available from January to July 2021 would be sufficient to immunize the priority list persons. That we are working on…,” the report quoted Bhushan saying. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had recently said a Covid-19 vaccine was likely by the first quarter of next year and the Centre has estimated to receive and utilise 40-50 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine on 20-25 crore people. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/three-crore-indians-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-in-phase-1-report-904986.html
21-10-2020||National||PM Modi lauds police forces on Police Commemoration Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday paid homage to police personnel who laid down their lives in the line of duty and said police personnel always give their best without hesitation. "We are proud of their diligence and readiness to assist citizens," he tweeted. The Prime Minister added, "Police Commemoration Day is about expressing gratitude to our police personnel and their families all across India. We pay tributes to all the police personnel martyred in the line of duty. Their sacrifice and service would always be remembered."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-lauds-police-forces-on-police-commemoration-day-904989.html
21-10-2020||National||Amit Shah pays tribute to police forces on Police Commemoration Day||The government is undertaking a comprehensive modernisation programme to prepare the police and paramilitary forces of the country for newer challenges of terrorism, cybercrime and border security, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said here on Wednesday. Shah made the remarks while addressing a joint column of police and Central Armed Police Forces jawans and officers at the National Police Memorial in Chanakyapuri here on the occasion of Police Commemoration Day. The day is observed to pay homage to 10 policemen (of the CRPF) killed in an ambush by Chinese troops in 1959 in Ladakh's Hot Spring area.  Armies of both countries are currently locked in a military standoff in the Ladakh area. "The work of police is witnessing new challenges and new dimensions in the areas of terrorism, fake currency, narcotics control, cyber crime, arms smuggling, human trafficking. It is a challenge to prepare the police forces for the new dimensions that have emerged in the last 2-3 decades," Shah said. "We have prepared a comprehensive modernisation programme for the police and I am hopeful that in the coming days the Modi government will prepare them to meet these challenges," he said. He said the government is bringing in technology to make the country's borders "impregnable" and detailed preparations are being made. The technology and promptness of troops will go hand-in-hand and "we will be able to better secure our borders", he said. Shah also said that the government was "going to do many things" so that the deficiency in availability of police personnel per one lakh population is addressed. He lauded the police personnel for ensuring internal and border security in the country with their vigilance. He said a total of 35,398 police and CAPF personnel have laid down their lives in the line of duty till now with 264 making the supreme sacrifice in the past year. He added "many changes" will soon be visible in the context of police housing satisfaction ratio and training and that his ministry was working on these issues. A ceremonial guard of honour by a joint squad of the CAPFs was presented during the event that was attended by Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, Director of the Intelligence Bureau Arvind Kumar and chiefs of various CAPFs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-pays-tribute-to-police-forces-on-police-commemoration-day-905000.html
21-10-2020||National||India's Covid-19 caseload climbs to 76,51,107||The number of new coronavirus infections reported in India in a span of 24 hours remained below 60,000 for the third consecutive day, taking India's Covid-19 caseload to 76,51,107, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. A total of 54,044 fresh infections were reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 1,15,914 with 717 fatalities being registered in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 67,95,103 people have recuperated from the disease so far pushing the national recovery rate to 88.81 per cent while the case fatality rate due COVID-19 has dropped to 1.51 per cent. The active cases of coronavirus infection remained below 8 lakh for the fifth consecutive day. There are 7,40,090 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 9.67 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past  50 lakh on  September 16,  60 lakh on September 28 and crossed 70 lakh on October 11. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 9,72,00,379 samples have been tested up to October 20 with 10,83,608 samples being tested on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-caseload-climbs-to-7651107-905011.html
21-10-2020||National||India's Covid-19 active cases below 7.5 lakh for second straight day||India's Covid-19 active cases remained below 7.5 lakh for the second consecutive day on Wednesday, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said.  It indicated that the country continued the trend of consistent decline in active Covid-19 cases. India sustains the continued trend of consistent decline in Active Cases. In a tweet, the ministry also mentioned that the national Case Fatality Rate (CFR) fell to 1.51% today. The Centre has advised States/UTs to aim at bringing down the CFR to below 1%. Presently, 14 States/UTs are reporting Case Fatality Rate of less than 1%.  The number of new coronavirus infections reported in India in a span of 24 hours remained below 60,000 for the third consecutive day, taking the Covid-19 caseload to 76,51,107, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. As many as 67,95,103 people have recuperated from the disease so far pushing the national recovery rate to 88.81 per cent while the case fatality rate due Covid-19 has dropped to 1.51 per cent. The active cases of coronavirus infection remained below 8 lakh for the fifth consecutive day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-active-cases-below-75-lakh-for-second-straight-day-905013.html
21-10-2020||National||Pioneering first woman IAF officer passes away in Bengaluru||The first woman officer of the Indian Air Force, Wing Commander Vijayalakshmi Ramanan passed away in the city on Sunday evening. She was 96. Born in February 1924, Vijayalakshmi, an obstetrician and gynaecologist by training, had originally joined the Indian Army in 1955 on what only meant to be a short-service commission.  Instead, she was seconded to the Indian Air Force to become its first woman commissioned officer and ended up staying in the service for 24 years. Her son-in-law, S V L Narayan, a resident of Jayanagar, said that until 2013, Vijayalakshmi had been living independently at her own home in Ulsoor with just one helper. “She subsequently moved in with us but was still robust and energetic until last week, when she unexpectedly collapsed. She was admitted to the Indian Air Force’s Command Hospital, where her condition was stabilized,” he said. “When the end came on Sunday evening, it was peaceful,” he added. Officially known as Officer 4971, Vijayalakshmi cut a petite figure compared to her male counterparts in the officer corps. She later told documentarians that “initially I was scared because I had never worked with men. But I had the braveness to face anything in life.” She said that she joined the armed forces, after her husband, also an officer in the Indian Air Force, asked her to apply. She later recalled that for years she was the only woman officer in the air force. “All together, there were maybe only a dozen of us in the military,” she said. But her singular presence in the air force also came with some immediate challenges. For one, there were no uniforms for women. Vijayalakshmi decided to have a custom-made saree tailored in air force blues and a tan blouse. The airforce would later adopt this as standard issue. When asked if she had faced any discrimination in the air force, Narayan said no. “In fact, we asked her this, in the wake of the recent disclosures of the experiences of Gunjan Saxena, but she said had never been made to feel unwelcome,” he said. Vijayalakshmi was subsequently posted to Air Force hospitals in Jalahalli, Kanpur, Secunderbad and in Bengaluru. Besides being a gynaecologist and  delivering  babies, she also had administrative duties of the Medical Board, Family planning. She also  took  classes for Nursing officers in Obstetrics and Gynaecology. When the wars broke out in 1962, 1966 and 1971, she also helped treat wounded troops and airmen. Finally, in 1971, her short-service commission was supplanted by a permanent commission in 1971. By 1979, the year of her retirement, she held the rank of Wing Commander. Two years before, she had been awarded the Vishist Seva medal by President Neelam Sanjiva Reddy for meritorious service. Narayan said that while Vijayalakshmi primarily identified herself as a doctor, she actually wore many hats. “She was a skilled Carnatic musician. In the years before joining the airforce, she was an AIR artiste from the age of 15. While studying medicine at Madras College in the 1940s, she represented her college at music competitions. For All India Radio, she broadcast regularly from Delhi, Lucknow, Secunderbad and Bengaluru,” he said. Vijayalakshmi came from a family with military connections. Her father, a prominent public health official in Chennai (then Madras) had served during World War I.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pioneering-first-woman-iaf-officer-passes-away-in-bengaluru-905014.html
21-10-2020||National||'Nation will never forget their sacrifices', Vice President Naidu on Police Commemoration Day||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday said the nation will never forget the sacrifices made by police personnel in the line of duty. "On Police Commemoration Day today, I pay my homage to all police personnel, who had laid down their lives in the line of duty," the Vice President Secretariat tweeted quoting Naidu. The day is observed to pay homage to 10 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel killed in an ambush by Chinese troops in 1959 in Ladakh's Hot Spring area. "The nation is ever grateful to them for their sacrifice, valour & commitment," Naidu said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nation-will-never-forget-their-sacrifices-vice-president-naidu-on-police-commemoration-day-905030.html
21-10-2020||National||40 policemen killed in militancy related incidents in J&K this year||40 security forces personnel including 13 policemen were killed in line of duty in Jammu and Kashmir the last one year. “From 1 September 2019 till now, 13 police men and 27 other security forces personnel were killed in militancy related incidents. The recent causality is that of an inspector Muhammad Ashraf of Anantnag,” Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbagh Singh said while speaking at the police commemoration day at Zewan on the outskirts of Srinagar city. He said so far 6,000 policemen have been killed while performing their duties in J&K in the last more than three decades. “J&K police are committed to bring peace to the Union Territory. We offer supreme sacrifices to prevent anti-peace elements from fomenting trouble,” Singh said. Policemen, most of them locals, have become vulnerable targets as violence escalates in the region. On October 19, militants shot dead inspector Mohammad Ashraf in Kenalwan area of south Kashmir’s Anantnag district while he was returning home after offering prayers. Although not on the same scale as in the 1990s or early 2000s, militancy-related incidents have been increasing after 2015. The police chief said that it was because of the professionalism and commitment of the force that today, Prime Minister Narendera Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and other ministers praise the role of J&K police on every occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/40-policemen-killed-in-militancy-related-incidents-in-jk-this-year-905033.html
21-10-2020||National||Union transport ministry to issue guidelines for carpooling in a month: Report||The Union Road Transport and Highways Ministry is all set to announce guidelines for carpooling in the country, particularly concerning pooling services offered by private vehicle owners. The new norms are unveiled to tackle pollution issues and decongest metros. In addition to cab aggregators Ola and Uber, other app-based services for carpooling include Quick Ride, redBus, and BlaBlaCar. The new norms will provide a formal framework granted by the Centre that will help the companies in expanding their services and reducing hassles from state-specific norms. The rules will also extend a blanket all-India structure for carpooling and services related to it. The Centre's rules with a larger framework involving cab aggregators were due last year, but due to Covid-19 pandemic, the announcement was delayed. Carpooling is an efficient way of commuting to places as it reduces commuting expense, traffic and also the impact of vehicular pollution on the environment. Anybody with a vehicle can offer rides to neighbours, or co-workers, who travel frequently on a similar route. This results in cost-cutting for both parties.  Redbus chief executive Prakash Sangam welcomed regulations. Any rule that is not overbearing or difficult to implement is acceptable, he told the publication. The Ministry had completed discussing the matter with states and other stakeholders. The service offering will not be commercial and there will be a limit on the number of rides offered by a car owner. Rameesh Kailasam, who heads IndiaTech, a think tank, told the publication, “While it is important to have elements of safety and security, such a policy should also encourage monetization to make it viable."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-transport-ministry-to-issue-guidelines-for-carpooling-in-a-month-report-905062.html
21-10-2020||National||Centre announces Rs 3,737 crore bonus for 30.67 lakh non-gazetted employees||In a Vijayadashami gift to over 30 lakh central non-gazetted employees, the government on Wednesday announced Rs 3,737 crore bonus intended to boost festive demand. The beneficiaries include 17 lakh non-gazetted employees from state-owned establishments such as railways, postal department, EPFO and ESIC. This will be a productivity-linked bonus. Rs 2,791 crore is allocated to them. Another 13 lakh employees will get non-productivity-linked bonus, for which the government has assigned Rs 946 crore. The bonus comes a few days after the railway workers association had warned they would block rail movement if their productivity-linked bonus was not released before Vijayadashami. “Money in the hands of the middle class will push demand in the market,” said Union Minister Prakash Javadekar, announcing the bonus after the Cabinet meeting. He said the bonus will be given in a single installment through direct benefit transfer (DBT) before Vijayadashami. Last week, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced two schemes -- LTC cash voucher scheme and special festival advance scheme for Central and public sector employees that intended to give a demand push of Rs 73,000 crore. Payment of bonus to non-gazetted employees for their performance in the preceding year is usually made before Vijayadashami. After the government had announced suspension of dearness allowance for central government employees soon after the pandemic hit the nation, there were concerns on whether the government will offer bonus. However, depressed demand conditions have forced the government to announce several benefits to its employees in the past about 10 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-announces-rs-3737-crore-bonus-for-3067-lakh-non-gazetted-employees-905085.html
21-10-2020||National||Supreme Court to examine if educational institutions, varsities fall under consumer law||The Supreme Court has agreed to examine the question as to whether an educational institution or university can be sued under the consumer protection law for deficiency in services, saying there have been "divergent views" of the top court on the issue. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and Indira Banerjee has admitted an appeal filed by Manu Solanki and other students of a medical course against Vinayaka Mission University at Salem in Tamil Nadu, alleging deficiency in services. "Since there are divergent views of this Court bearing on the subject as to whether an educational institution or University would be subject to the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act 1986, the appeal would require admission. Admit," the top court said in its order of October 15. It asked lawyer Soumyajit, appearing on behalf of caveator university, to file the response within six weeks to the appeal filed against a decision of the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC). The university has relied upon apex court judgments in the Maharshi Dayanand University and in the PT Koshy cases to say that these verdicts have held that the education is not a commodity and educational institutions are not providing any kind of service. Hence, in matter of admission and fees, there cannot be a kind of service and therefore, there cannot be a question of deficiency of service to be adjudicated upon in consumer forum or commissions. The students, however, cited other judgments in which it has been held that educational institutions would come within the purview of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986. Solanki and eight other students of the a medical course of the university had sought a compensation of Rs 1.4 crore each alleging deficiency in service and on account of "loss of social standing, academic years, career opportunities, mental and physical agony". They alleged the university induced them to take admission in the course on a false assurance that it had all the requisite approvals from the authorities. The students were admitted in the offshore programme in 2005-2006 comprising of two year study in Thailand and two-and-a half year study in the university here, the plea said. The students were assured that they would be getting their MBBS final degree conferred by the university and recognized by the Indian Government and Medical Council of India. However, after two years of study in Thailand, the students were informed that they should continue their course at Thailand and would be conferred a Foreign Medical Degree and should subsequently appear for screening test in India, the plea alleged. The students said they suffered loss of career opportunities as the National Board of Examination said that their qualification was "not a primary medical qualification since the Degree is not recognized by the Medical Council of India or the Council of Thailand". The NCDRC, in its judgement of January 20, had said, "We are of the considered opinion that the institutions rendering education including vocational courses and activities undertaken during the process of pre-admission as well as post-admission and also imparting excursion tours, picnics, extra co-curricular activities, swimming, sport, etc. except Coaching Institutions, will, therefore, not be covered under the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986." Aggrieved by this, the students filed an appeal in the apex court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-to-examine-if-educational-institutions-varsities-fall-under-consumer-law-905119.html
21-10-2020||National||Bofors is example of case sabotaged by Congress with lot to hide: Former CBI chief Raghavan||The Bofors scandal is an example of a genuine case being sabotaged by a government run by a party that has a lot to hide, says former CBI chief R K Raghavan, placing the “guilt” of the case not succeeding in court on those that controlled the agency in the 1990s and in 2004-2014. The corruption scam, which led to the fall of the Rajiv Gandhi-led Congress government in 1989, related to alleged kickbacks in the Rs 1,437 crore howitzer gun deal signed in 1986 with Swedish arm manufacturer Bofors. It was alleged that the Swedish company paid nearly Rs 64 crore as bribe to politicians, Congress leaders and bureaucrats. In his autobiography "A Road Well Travelled", Raghavan, who investigated the case as director of the Central Bureau of Investigation from January 4, 1999 to April 30, 2001, writes scathingly about the role of the Congress but also says it is difficult to confirm whether the payments were actually meant for the party. Former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi was also implicated in the case. "It is possible some of the payments were meant for the Congress party. It is difficult, however, to confirm this," he adds in his upcoming memoirs. "The Bofors case will remain an example of how a genuine case can be deliberately sabotaged by a government run by a party which has a lot to hide from the public. The guilt here rested squarely on the shoulders of those who controlled the CBI in the 1990s and later during 2004-14," writes Raghavan. While Congress leader P V Narasimha Rao was prime minister from 1991-96, it was in power from 2004 to 2014 too with Manmohan Singh at the helm. The minority government headed by Chandra Shekhar for a brief period from November 1990 to June 1991 was formed with outside support from the Congress. Referring to the preliminary enquiry registered by the CBI under the Rajiv Gandhi-led government in 1988, Raghavan argues that it was done because of the "huge public furore created by the Swedish Radio and (national daily) Hindu disclosures". "The government led by Rajiv Gandhi had no option but to do a thorough investigation, even if it meant an unobtrusive 'operation whitewash'," he writes. Raghavan was in-charge of security at Sriperumbudur, Tamil Nadu, where Rajiv Gandhi was assassinated in 1991. The 79-year-old -- who also handled high-profile investigations, including the 2000 South Africa cricket-match fixing, the 'fodder scam' and the 2002 Gujarat riots -- blames certain "questionable judicial rulings" and "judicial insensitivity" for the fizzling out of the Bofors case. "... The deceit and power of those who made money dishonestly was humongous. That they were able to successfully cover up their tracks is a sad commentary on our criminal justice system. The judiciary at the middle level was a willing accomplice, and its 'holier than thou' claim here was almost a charade," writes Raghavan, under whose stewardship the CBI filed its first chargesheet in October 1999. The chargesheet, which he calls "controversial and momentous", named Rajiv Gandhi as an "accused not sent for trial" -- because he was no longer alive -- along with Italian businessman Ottavio Quattrocchi, former defence secretary S.K. Bhatnagar, NRI businessman Wisheshwar Nath Chaddha alias Win Chaddha, the gun-manufacturing company AB Bofors and its then boss Martin Ar The Delhi High Court in February 2004 quashed charges against Gandhi and Bhatnagar. The following year, in May 2005, the same court quashed all charges against the Hinduja brothers, also accused in the case, and others under the Prevention of Corruption Act. Later, in 2011, a special CBI court discharged Quattrocchi from the case, saying the country could not afford to spend hard-earned money on his extradition which had already cost Rs 250 crore. The Supreme Court in 2018 dismissed CBI's appeal for further probe in Bofors case saying grounds of delay are not justified. Though conceding that the CBI could have acted faster and was "tardy" in its procedures, Raghavan defends it too and says it faced "several constraints and obstacles". According to Raghavan, a Tamil Nadu cadre IPS officer who did a stint as India's high commissioner to Cyprus, the CBI "needed the nod of either the External Affairs Ministry or Department of Personnel or the Law Ministry" for every step in the matter of approaching the governments and courts of other countries, such as Switzerland, Malaysia and Argentina. "This was compounded by the perceived apathy of the Narasimha Rao government to the task of ensuring the speedy process in the CBI investigation. For instance, just before the CBI decided to arrest Quattrocchi, it is conjectured that he was tipped off by a senior member of the government, whereupon he fled the country and escaped from the long arm of the law," he explains. On the question of whether there was evidence of any payment made directly to Rajiv Gandhi, he writes that his emphatic response has remained the same: "There was not the slightest evidence to this effect". But he asserts that the big question was, "and is", with regards to money received by Quattrocchi and the Hindujas, both known for links with the Gandhi family. Published by Westland, the 213-page "A Road Well Travelled: An Autobiography" is priced at Rs 599. It chronicles Raghavan's rise through the ranks of the nation's protectors and gatekeepers, "his machinations in the corridors of power, and spiritual, personal, and political encounters overseas", said a statement from the publishers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bofors-is-example-of-case-sabotaged-by-congress-with-lot-to-hide-former-cbi-chief-raghavan-905147.html
21-10-2020||National||35,398 police personnel killed on duty since independence; 264 in past one year||Close to 35,400 police personnel lost their lives in action in the country since independence with CRPF, BSF and Karnataka police forces finding space in the top-five list of casualties in the past one year when 264 were added to the list. According to official statistics released on the occasion of Police Commemoration Day, 264 were killed on duty across the country between September 1 last year and August 31 this year of which CRPF, the main force to fight naxals, topped the list with 29 casualties. BSF and Chhattisgarh came second, recording 25 deaths on duty each. BSF is deployed on the sensitive India-Pakistan and India-Bangladesh borders besides being deployed for internal security duties. Chhattisgarh is one of the worst naxal-infested states in the country where clashes between the Maoists and security forces erupt from time to time. The ITBP, which is deployed on the icy heights of Himalayas to guard the India-China border, was placed third with 18 casualties followed by Karnataka with 17. Sashastra Seema Bal, which guards the India-Nepal border, lost 15 personnel during this period. The statistics for other states and central police organisations included RPF-14, Jammu and Kashmir-12, Delhi-11, West Bengal-11, Bihar-9, Uttar Pradesh-9, Jharkhand-8, CISF-7, Madhya Pradesh-7, Uttarakhand-6, Maharashtra-5, Assam Rifles-3, Andhra Pradesh-3, Tamil Nadu-3, Arunachal Pradesh-2, Haryana-2, Manipur-2, Punjab-2, Rajasthan-2, Andaman and Nicobar-2 and Tripura-2.   Altogether 35,398 police personnel were killed since independence. Besides this, at least 343 personnel have died due to Covid-19 since March this year. Police Commemoration Day is observed on October 21 every year to pay homage to 10 CRPF personnel killed in an ambush by Chinese military in Ladakh's Hot Spring area on the same day in 1959. Addressing a function on the occasion at the National Police Memorial here, Home Minister Amit Shah said the government is undertaking a comprehensive modernisation programme to prepare the police and paramilitary forces for newer challenges of terrorism, cyber crime and border security. "The work of police is witnessing new challenges and new dimensions in the areas of terrorism, fake currency, narcotics control, cyber crime, arms smuggling, human trafficking. It is a challenge to prepare the police forces for the new dimensions that have emerged in the last 2-3 decades," Shah said. Emphasising that the government is bringing in technology to make the country's borders "impregnable", he said technology and promptness of troops will go hand-in-hand. "We will be able to better secure our borders", he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/35398-police-personnel-killed-on-duty-since-independence-264-in-past-one-year-905158.html
21-10-2020||National||Govt replaces safai karamchari, kahar categorisation for CAPF jawans with MTS, kitchen services||The government has done away with service categorisations like safai karamchari, kahar, farash and masalchi for the lowest ranks of paramilitary jawans and replaced them with professional designations like multi-tasking staff and kitchen services. The Union Home Ministry recently issued an order to all paramilitary or Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) and directed them that all constabulary recruitments in these services be advertised and named as per the new nomenclature. The CAPFs, every recruitment cycle, hire hundreds of jawans for rendering various administrative works for the combat troops of these forces, like cooking, cleaning, gardening, washing and some other daily jobs. As per an order issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), the post of constable daftary (office boy), farash and safai karamchari (cleaner) and peon have been "merged" and now will be known as constable MTS or multi-tasking staff. Similarly, as per the order accessed by PTI, the posts of cook, water carrier, butcher, waiter, masalchi (kitchen helper who works with preparation of spices), table boy and kahar (helper for cleaning and other activities) have been merged and will now be known as constable for kitchen services. "These decisions have been taken by the ministry on the recommendations of a committee that was appointed by the MHA under the chairmanship of an ITBP officer. The aim is to have a professional and respectable designation for the jawans who are at the bottom of the hierarchy in these forces," a senior ministry officer said. Also, the two broad categorisations will help in a uniform recruitment policy in these forces who engage hundreds of such personnel for a variety of administrative duties that run a combat unit of troops, he said. There are no financial implications in doing away with these archaic designations, he added. A CAPF officer said the move to re-name these categorisations "does justice to the aspirations of the personnel who apply for and undertake these jobs and does away with the age-old designations which do not evoke respect."A lot of this personnel do not feel it respectable to mention their service designation among their friends and family. These trades are specialisations that are earned after obtaining the required skill so why not give them their professional due," the officer said. The future recruitments in these forces will be done under these new two service categorisations, he said. The CAPFs include the Central Reserve Police Force, the Border Security Force, the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, the Central Industrial Security Force and the Sashastra Seema Bal. There are three other central forces--  the National Security Guard, the National Disaster Response Force and the Assam Rifles--who recruit this category of personnel.  These central forces, with a combined strength of over 10 lakh personnel, render a variety of internal security duties, law and order management, border guarding, counter-insurgency and counter-terrorist operations and disaster rescue and relief under the command of the Union home ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-replaces-safai-karamchari-kahar-categorisation-for-capf-jawans-with-mts-kitchen-services-905159.html
21-10-2020||National||President's Rule to be imposed in West Bengal by December: BJP MP Saumitra Khan||West Bengal BJP Yuva Morcha president and MP Saumitra Khan has claimed that law and order have collapsed under the Trinamool Congress government and President's rule will be imposed in the state by December. Khan also cautioned the Mamata Banerjee government over the killing of the BJP workers in the state. The TMC also hit back at him, claiming that the rule of law has ceased to exist in BJP-governed Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat and saffron party leaders should pay attention to these states. "The law and order situation has completely collapsed in the state. The killing of BJP workers is a daily affair. I want to assure all of you that by December this year, Presidents' Rule will be imposed in the state," Khan said while addressing a party programme in the Bankura district on Tuesday night. A video clipping of his speech has gone viral on social media. Khan's comment comes close in the heels of the demand for Presidents' Rule in the state by BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and Union minister Babul Supriyo. Asked to comment on Khan's statement, senior TMC MP Saugato Roy said that BJP leaders should pay their attention to Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, where the rule of law has ceased to exist. "The BJP has been trying to rake up the issue of law and order to discredit the state government. The law and order situation is much better than what it was during the Left Front regime. They (BJP leader) should divert their attention to Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, where the rule of law has ceased to exist," he said. In an interview to a news channel on Saturday, Union Home Minister Amit Shah had said that "law and order have gone for a toss" in West Bengal. When asked about his views on BJP leaders' demands for implementation of President's Rule in the state, Shah had said, "A leader of a political party is well within his right to make such a statement. As far as the government of India is concerned, we have to work as per the constitutional norms, the ground situation and the governor's report."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/presidents-rule-to-be-imposed-in-west-bengal-by-december-bjp-mp-saumitra-khan-905174.html
21-10-2020||National||Maharashtra village teacher in final 10 for $1 mn Global Teacher Prize||A primary school teacher from a village in Maharashtra has made an entry to the list of top 10 finalists for the USD one million annual Global Teacher Prize 2020, in recognition of his efforts at promoting girls’ education and triggering a quick-response (QR) coded textbook revolution in India. Ranjitsinh Disale, 31, arrived at the Zilla Parishad Primary School in Paritewadi village in Solapur district in 2009 when it was a dilapidated building, sandwiched between a cattleshed and a storeroom. He took on the task of turning things around and ensuring that the textbooks were available in the local language for the pupils. Disale not only translated the class textbooks into his pupils’ mother tongue but also embedded them with unique QR codes to give students access to audio poems, video lectures, stories, and assignments. The impact of his interventions has been that there are now no teenage marriages in the village and 100 per cent attendance of girls at the school. “It’s an incredible achievement to have been chosen from over 12,000 nominations and applications from across the world; and Ranjit you have really taught girls and their families the importance of staying in school,” said actor-author Soha Ali Khan, an education campaigner. “The Global Teacher Prize, which partners with UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation), shines a light on inspiring teachers like you in every corner of the planet. The world is facing some of its greatest challenges today but backing teachers will help light the way for a better future,” she said. Disale’s school was the first in Maharashtra to introduce QR codes and after submitting a proposal and successful pilot scheme, the state ministry announced in 2017 that they would introduce QR coded textbooks across the state for all grades. In 2018, the human resources development ministry announced that all the National Council of Education Research and Training (NCERT) textbooks would have embedded QR codes. “Having found the curriculum was not in your students’ primary tongue of Kannada you chose to learn the language yourself. You also translated textbooks and embedded them with unique QR codes to give pupils access to audio poems, video lectures, stories and assignments,” said English comedian, actor, writer and presenter Stephen Fry, who will host this year’s virtual awards ceremony scheduled for December. "And now, your school has been awarded the best school in the district with 100 per cent attendance and many high achieving students. Congratulations Ranjit and thank you for everything you do," said Fry. Stefania Giannini, Assistant Director-General for Education at UNESCO, hopes that Disale's story will inspire those looking to enter the teaching profession and also highlight the incredible work teachers do all over India and throughout the world every day. "The Global Teacher Prize helps put the teacher voice at the heart of our mission to champion inclusive learning opportunities for children and young people all over the world, especially the most marginalised and disadvantaged, during this sudden and unprecedented disruption to global education,” she said. Disale joins Nigerian teacher Olasunkanmi Opeifa, UK teacher Jamie Frost, Italian teacher Carlo Mazzone, South African teacher Mokhudu Cynthia Machaba, US teacher Leah Juelke and South Korean teacher Yun Jeong-hyun as a top 10 finalist. The remaining three top 10 finalists will be announced one each week in the run up to the Global Teacher Prize ceremony, which will be virtual for the very first time in its history due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Sunny Varkey, the Founder of the Global Teacher Prize – now in its sixth year, said: “The Global Teacher Prize was set up to shine a spotlight on the important role teachers play in society. By unearthing thousands of stories of heroes that have transformed young people’s lives, the prize hopes to bring to life the exceptional work of teachers all over the world. “This year, more than ever, we have seen teachers go above and beyond to keep young people learning throughout the world. Teachers everywhere should be applauded for their creativity, compassion and resolve to fulfil every child’s right to a good education.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-village-teacher-in-final-10-for-1-mn-global-teacher-prize-905181.html
21-10-2020||National||Ambedkar University announces 2nd cut-off list; marginal dip in all courses||Ambedkar University Delhi (AUD) released its second cut-off list for admission in undergraduate courses on Wednesday with the highest cut-off being 98.25 per cent for Psychology for aspirants from outside the national capital. The candidates from Delhi will need 97 per cent marks for admission in Psychology (Honours). For English, the cut-off for Delhi-based candidates is 95.25 per cent while candidates from outside the national capital need 95.75 per cent. Similarly for BBA, the cut-off for Delhi-based and outside Delhi candidates is 94.25 and 95.25 per cent, respectively. For Economics (Honours), the cut-off is pegged at 95.25 and 96.25, respectively. AUD is a Delhi government-run university and reserves 85 per cent of seats for candidates from the national capital and announces separate cut-offs for candidates from Delhi and outside the city. The cut-off for other popular courses like History, Mathematics and Sociology stands at 96 per cent, 92.5 per cent and 96.5 per cent. The admission process is online this year due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ambedkar-university-announces-2nd-cut-off-list-marginal-dip-in-all-courses-905184.html
21-10-2020||National||This entrepreneur turns farm stubble to electricity||An entrepreneur from Haryana has turned farm stubble, blamed for air pollution in the national capital region, into a business opportunity by collecting agro-waste from farmers and selling it to fire captive power plants. Hundreds of farmers in and around Punjab and Haryana have been working with Suvrat Khanna, co-founder and CEO of Verve Renewables, by selling him paddy straw from their farms and earning some money from it. The two-year-old venture collects bales of paddy straw from over 50,000 acres of land, stock it at depots and supply it to captive the power plant at Naraingarh Sugar Mills to fire their boilers between April and December.  “The captive power plant at Naraingarh operates on bagasse (dry sugarcane residue) between December and April during the cane crushing season. The power plant can also operate during the non-season period using paddy straw,” Khanna told DH. In 2019-20, the company collected 75,000 tonnes of paddy straw and aims to double its collection this year. The company pays farmers Rs 2,000 per tonne of paddy straw. The company provides boiler ready biomass resources that could be used for generation of power by captive power plants attached to sugar mills and other large industries without making any changes to the technology. “The captive power plants attached to sugar mills lie idle during the non-crushing season. With supplies of paddy straw and other agro waste, these power plants can run all year round,” Khanna said. According to estimates, Punjab and Haryana alone generate 30 million tonnes of paddy straw every year, of which only a small fraction is used for power generation purposes at present. Every winter, the national capital region is gripped by acute air pollution, a major contribution being the smoke and soot coming from the fields of Punjab and Haryana where farmers burn paddy stubble as they prepare the farm for the rabi crop.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/this-entrepreneur-turns-farm-stubble-to-electricity-905187.html
21-10-2020||National||IIT-Kharagpur develops low-cost, portable Covid-19 testing device||An indigenous rapid low-cost, easy-to-do Covid-19 diagnostic kit, which is touted to be as good as the gold-standard RT-PCR test, has now been validated by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), paving the way for its entry to the commercial market. Developed by the researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, the kit named COVIRAP doesn’t need a sophisticated laboratory or a trained molecular biologist to operate even though it runs on swab samples. The test can be carried out on a tabletop and the results will be known in an hour. “It’s not only cheaper but also doesn’t require the infrastructure of an RT-PCR and trained manpower. The machine is robust and portable and the reagents are stable making it an ideal candidate for Covid-19 detection in rural India,” Suman Chakraborty, IIT scientist and one of the developers of the kit told DH. The National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases, Kolkata NICED, one of the ICMR laboratories, tested 200 patient samples with the IIT Kharagpur kit. “It could correctly pick up 108 of 115 Covid-19 positive samples and 83 out of 85 negative samples. It has 94% sensitivity and 98% specificity in the laboratory and can pick up the virus signatures in samples with very low viral load,” said Arindam Mandal, co-developer from the IIT Kharagpur. Currently, Covid-19 is diagnosed with RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests. A paper-strip test developed by the CSIR scientists and commercialised by the Tata group is likely to enter the market this month. IIT scientists said their diagnostic test is different from the CSIR method and is based on a different technology though both assays use paper strips for detection. The institute has filed a patent application and is in talks with the industry for its commercialization. At the laboratory scale, each portable machine costs less than Rs 10,000 for development while each test would cost about Rs 500. “This test is well set to replace PCR-based tests to a large extent,” said V K Tewari, Director, IIT Kharagpur. “This assay has the capability of detecting extremely low levels of viral loads that any other method based on similar principles of testing could not come up with so far. This means very early stages of infection can be detected, thereby isolating the patient and arresting the uncontrolled spread of infection ,” said NICED virologist Mamta Chawla Sarkar, who oversaw the trials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-kharagpur-develops-low-cost-portable-covid-19-testing-device-905190.html
21-10-2020||National||Government issues draft rules for Rashtriya Raksha University Act||The Centre has issued draft rules for the Rashtriya Raksha University Act 2020, which was enacted in Parliament's monsoon session to set up a multi-disciplinary university for imparting education on policing, research and collaboration of various wings of policing, criminal justice system and correctional administration. According to an order of the Ministry of Home Affairs, suggestions and opinions are sought from the general public on the draft rules, which will be finalised after a month. The Rashtriya Raksha University in Gujarat will replace the Raksha Shakti University. While the Raksha Shakti University was a state university, the Rashtriya Raksha University will be a central institute, the Act states.  The draft rules state the vice-chancellor will suggest a panel of not less than five names each for the post of chairperson and members of the governing body, preferably within eight weeks prior to the likely date of the vacancy. The central government may consider the panel suggested by the vice-chancellor while selecting the members of the governing body. The term of office of non ex-officio members of the governing body shall be for a period of three years or till the time they hold the position by virtue of which they are appointed, whichever is earlier. The term of office of other non ex-officio members of the governing body shall be for a period of three years. A nominated member of the governing body shall be eligible for re-nomination for the next term. The term of office of a member nominated to fill a casual vacancy shall continue for the remainder of the term of the member in whose place he or she has been nominated. A member of the governing body shall cease to be such member if he or she resigns his or her membership or has become physically or mentally incapable of acting as a member or is, or at any time has been, adjudged as insolvent or has been convicted of an offence which in the opinion of the central government involves moral turpitude or he or she accepts a full-time appointment in the university. At present, there are only a few institutions in the country which provide the environment, infrastructure and specialisation for imparting education in police sciences and internal security to meet the demands of modern, citizen-centric policing. Hence, the university will undertake research and impart knowledge in the domain of policing and allied areas to the youth aspiring to join police and security forces at the national level. The Rashtriya Raksha University is proposed to be a multi-disciplinary university to create new knowledge through research and collaboration with different stakeholders and help fulfil the need for a pool of trained professionals with specialised knowledge and new skill sets in various wings of policing, the criminal justice system and correctional administration. The university will have linkage with world-class universities in other countries, which will be need-based, for the purpose of exchange of contemporary research, academic collaboration, course design, technical know-how and training and skill development. The university will promote global standards and provide dynamic and high standards of learning and research; working environment dedicated to the advancement and dissemination of education, research, training and scholarship of the highest quality in the domain of policing including coastal policing, security, law enforcement, criminal justice, cyber security, cyber crime, artificial intelligence and related areas of internal security; and public safety. Foreigners, Overseas Citizens of India cardholders, Non Resident Indians, Indian origin people living in Gulf and South-East Asian countries can enrol in the university.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-issues-draft-rules-for-rashtriya-raksha-university-act-905201.html
21-10-2020||National||HC seeks information from Centre on AI bot that turns pics into nudes||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday asked the Union government what the latter could do on the latest reports of an artificial intelligence (AI) bot that reportedly turns women's photographs into nudes. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni cited a news report in a newspaper on Wednesday on such an AI bot and asked Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh to check with the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting about it. The court was hearing a bunch of public interest litigations seeking that the media, particularly TV news channels, be restrained in their reportage on the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. It was hearing the additional solicitor general's (ASG) arguments on whether a statutory mechanism was required to regulate the content broadcast by the electronic media. The ASG said the Union government was in favour of the press exercising self-regulation. However, if a media house breached any guidelines, the Union government could take action, ASG Singh said. It was then that the court pointed out the above report in a newspaper. "If you can gather from ministry what the print media has reported...We want you to check malice in the report. Kindly check with the ministry," the bench said. The ASG subsequently told the court he had gone through the report and spoken to the officers concerned, and "action could be taken under the IT Act". Singh said there were provisions in the Information Technology Act, namely section 69A and 79(3)(b), under which action could be taken against the menace. The bench then said, "The issue is extremely serious and you (ministry) have to take steps." The ASG assured the bench that the ministry would take steps to address the issue and the concern expressed by the court on an "urgent basis".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-seeks-information-from-centre-on-ai-bot-that-turns-pics-into-nudes-905217.html
21-10-2020||National||From The Newsroom: British scientist says Covid-19 is unlikely to be eradicated; Govt employees get Rs 3,737 cr bonus||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh calls BJP-JD(U) partnership as "superhit" as the opening pair of Sachin Tendulkar and Virender Sehwag in cricket;  British scientist says that coronavirus will be around for "evermore" as it is unlikely it will be eradicated; the government decides to give Rs 3,737 crore bonus to 30.67 lakh central government employees;  Eknath Khadse leaves BJP to join NCP and former CBI chief R K Raghavan says Bofors scandal is an example of a genuine case being sabotaged by a government-run by a party that has a lot to hide.   Here are the top stories of October 21, 2020: The Bofors scandal is an example of a genuine case being sabotaged by a government-run by a party that has a lot to hide, says former CBI chief R K Raghavan, placing the “guilt” of the case not succeeding in court on those that controlled the agency in the 1990s and in 2004-2014. The corruption scam, which led to the fall of the Rajiv Gandhi-led Congress government in 1989, related to alleged kickbacks in the Rs 1,437 crore Howitzer gun deal signed in 1986 with Swedish arm manufacturer Bofors. It was alleged that the Swedish company paid nearly Rs 64 crore as bribe to politicians, Congress leaders, and bureaucrats. Calling the BJP-JD(U) partnership as "superhit" as the opening pair of Sachin Tendulkar and Virender Sehwag in cricket, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday said that one can debate on the quantum of development done by the alliance government in Bihar, but no one can point a finger at Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on corruption. Attacking the opposition RJD, Singh said the people had witnessed its 15-year tenure and can see the difference between its "misrule" and the good governance of the Nitish Kumar-led alliance government. Lashing out at Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, senior leader Eknath Khadse, who left BJP to join NCP said that it was a painful decision but circumstances and false cases compelled him to do so. “I have given 40 years to the BJP…I was among those who raised the party in Maharashtra,” Khadse told reporters in his hometown of Muktainagar in Jalgaon district. When asked whether Fadnavis was the only reason for his departure from BJP, he said: “Yes…of course…that is the reason.” The government on Wednesday decided to give Rs 3,737 crore bonus to 30.67 lakh central government employees to encourage spending during the festival season and add to demand in the economy. The decision to give a productivity-linked bonus and non-productivity-linked bonus for 2019-2020 was taken at the Union Cabinet meeting, Minister of Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar told reporters. The bonus ahead of Vijayadashami and Diwali will encourage the middle-class to go out and spend and thus add to the demand in the economy, he said. The bonus will be disbursed in a week's time. The coronavirus will be around for "evermore" as it is unlikely it will be eradicated, a British scientist on the government's advisory committee for the pandemic said on Wednesday, adding that a vaccine would help improve the situation. Britain, like other countries in Europe, is currently in the grip of a resurgence in Covid-19 infections, with much of the country under local restrictions and more than 21,000 daily cases reported on Tuesday||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-british-scientist-says-covid-19-is-unlikely-to-be-eradicated-govt-employees-get-rs-3737-cr-bonus-905225.html
21-10-2020||National||India to host third edition of 2+2 ministerial dialogue with US on Oct 27||India and the US will hold their third edition of 2+2 ministerial dialogue here on October 27 during which the sides are expected to explore ways to further strengthen defence, security and global strategic ties including in the Indo-Pacific region. Announcing the date for the talks, the Ministry of External Affairs said US Secretary of State Michael Pompeo and Defence Secretary Mark T Esper will visit India on October 26 and 27. The Indian side at the talks will be represented by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. "India will be hosting the third India-US 2+2 ministerial dialogue on October 27 in New Delhi. US Secretary of State Michael R Pompeo and Secretary of Defense Mark T Esper will be visiting India on October 26-27 to participate in the dialogue," the MEA said. The high-level talks are taking place in the midst of India's festering border row with China in eastern Ladakh as well as renewed global focus on growing Chinese military assertiveness in the Indo-Pacific region. Both the issues are expected to figure in the talks. The US has been severely critical of Chinese behaviour in eastern Ladakh. People familiar with the upcoming talks said the overall focus of the deliberations is likely to be on further ramping up of defence and security cooperation including expansion of intelligence sharing as well as military-to-military ties. It is expected that the two sides may finalise the long-pending BECA (Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement) agreement to further boost bilateral defence ties. The BECA will provide for sharing of high-end military technology, logistics and geospatial maps between the two countries. In Washington, Pompeo said:"Looking forward to my upcoming trip to India, Sri Lanka, Maldives, and Indonesia, for productive conversations with our friends and partners, and the US-India 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue." The Indo-US defence ties have been on an upswing in the last few years. In June 2016, the US had designated India a "Major Defence Partner" intending to elevate defence trade and technology sharing with India to a level commensurate with that of its closest allies and partners. The two countries inked the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) in 2016 that allows their militaries use each other’s bases for repair and replenishment of supplies as well as provides for deeper cooperation. The two countries signed another pact called COMCASA (Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement) in 2018 that provides for interoperability between the two militaries and provides for sale of high end technology from the US to India. The first edition of the two-plus-two dialogue was held in Delhi in September 2018 after the mechanism was approved by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Donald Trump. The second edition of the dialogue took place in Washington in December last year. The framework of the 2+2 ministerial dialogue was initiated in order to provide a forward-looking vision for the strategic partnership between the two countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-host-third-edition-of-22-ministerial-dialogue-with-us-on-oct-27-905232.html
21-10-2020||National||Journalist Prashant Kanojia gets bail after spending two months in jail for social media post||Journalist Prashant Kanojia has been granted bail by the Lucknow bench of the High Court on Wednesday, according to reports. Kanojia was arrested on August 18 and had been in jail for the last two months for making a social media post that allegedly promoted communal hatred.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/journalist-prashant-kanojia-gets-bail-after-spending-two-months-in-jail-for-social-media-post-905247.html
21-10-2020||National||Air bubble: Govt expands international flight operations to Bangladesh||The government on Wednesday expanded international flight operations under the bilateral air bubble arrangement to Bangladesh. The pact allows airlines of each country to operate 28 flights per week. Bangladesh is the 18th country with which India has put in place such an arrangement, due to the suspension of regular international air travel services. "To further widen our international civil aviation operations, an air bubble arrangement is now in place between India and Bangladesh. Carriers of India and Bangladesh will operate 28 flights (per week) each between the two countries," Minister of State for Civil Aviation Hardeep Singh Puri said in a tweet. The number of such arrangements has now reached 18, he further said in the tweet. Under the air bubble pact between the two countries, special international passenger flights can be operated into each other's territories under restrictive conditions due to the Covid-19 pandemic. India now has bilateral air bubble agreements with Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bahrain, Oman, Canada, France, Germany, Iraq, Japan, Maldives, Nigeria, Qatar, the UAE, Kenya, Ukraine, Bhutan, the UK, and the US. Scheduled international flights have been suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic. However, special international passenger flights have been operating in India under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under bilateral air bubble arrangements formed between India and other countries since July.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-bubble-govt-expands-international-flight-operations-to-bangladesh-905265.html
21-10-2020||National||Bihar polls: EC warns against political parties flouting Covid-19 norms||The EC took “a serious view of the laxity on the part of political parties and candidates” in implementing the social distancing norms during campaigning for the general elections to the legislative assembly of Bihar as well as for bypolls in other states. The commission reiterated and further advised the candidates and the political parties to demonstrate “utmost vigil and care during electioneering”. The CEOs and the District Election Officers were also asked “to invoke appropriate and relevant penal provisions against the candidates concerned as well as the organizers responsible for such violations” of the measures put in place to contain the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus during campaigning. The poll-panel issued separate instructions to the CEOs for strict compliance with Covid-19 prevention guidelines. The commission wrote to the political parties seeking fullest cooperation from you so that our district election machinery ensures that all the preventive measures are adhering to by all the participants including organizers. The EC will hold polling in 243 assembly constituencies in Bihar in three phases on October 28, November 3, and November 7. The poll-panel will also hold bye-elections to fill up 56 vacancies in the legislative assemblies in 10 states on November 3 and 7 next. The 54 constituencies, where by-elections will be held on November 3, include two in Karnataka – Sira and Raja Rajeshwari Nagar (RR Nagar) – and 28 in Madhya Pradesh. The bypolls to fill two vacancies in the Legislative Assembly of Manipur will be held on November 7. The EC also decided to hold a by-election in Valmiki Nagar parliamentary constituency in Bihar to fill up a vacancy in the Lok Sabha on November 7. The EC in August issued “broad guidelines” for holding polls at the time of the pandemic. Apart from infrared thermometers for checking the body temperatures of the voters, the polling stations will also have sanitizers, soap and water, and all poll officials too will be issued masks, face-shields and gloves to put on. The polling booths will be sanitized, preferably a day before the date of voting. The “new normal” of elections will in fact begin with the filing of nomination by the candidates, who will have the option of filling the forms and the affidavits online and submission of printouts before the Returning Officers. They will also have the option of depositing the security money online. They will however not be allowed to take out long processions while going to submit nomination papers. They can take only two vehicles and two supporters to the offices of the Returning Officers. The campaigning ahead of polling in the Covid-19 era is also going to be a toned-down affair. Not more than five persons will be allowed to go for door-to-door campaigning and only five vehicles can take part in the roadshows. Only a limited number of people will be allowed to attend the public meetings on the designated grounds as the EC wants the authorities to ensure strict adherence to the social distancing norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-polls-ec-warns-against-political-parties-flouting-covid-19-norms-905300.html
21-10-2020||National||India slams UN expert for bias towards ‘community’ unleashing horror on minorities in its neighbourhood||After a Special Rapporteur of the United Nations referred to alleged discrimination against Muslims in India in a recent report, New Delhi accused him of being biased towards “a community”, which itself “unleashed horrors against the minorities” in other countries in South Asia. New Delhi has been highlighting and protesting atrocities on minorities in Pakistan after Imran Khan’s government in Islamabad launched a global campaign alleging growing Islamophobia and persecution of Muslims in India. An officer of the Indian Foreign Service (IFS), however, on Tuesday alleged that the UN Special Rapporteur in a recent report “cherry-picked incidents relating to only one religious community” in India, while the “same religious community” was “unleashing horrors against the minorities” in the neighbourhood “through forced conversions, pursuing targeted persecution under the draconian blasphemy laws, issuing fatwas against construction of places of worship and being a partner in desecration of gravestones of sectarian minorities”. The Third Committee of the UN General Assembly deals with social, humanitarian and cultural issues.  He also referred to the reports of alleged police inaction on cases of mobs destroying property and businesses of the Muslims and violently attacking the Muslims. “There have also been reports of police officers directly attacking Muslims. In one incident, police officers were seen on video beating a group of five Muslim men who had been injured during a mob attack in Delhi and ordering them to sing the national anthem,” he noted. Ashish Sharma, First Secretary of the Permanent Mission of India to the UN in New York, conveyed New Delhi’s objection to the report, alleging that the Special Rapporteur had used a broad brushstrokes to over-generalise and over-simplify the plurality across the country. “How conveniently the Special Rapporteur has chosen to selectively ignore the plight of other religious minorities and has only focused on the plight of one! Does this demonstrate his inherent bias?” Sharma, who joined the IFS in 2009, asked. He wondered if the report was influenced by a hidden agenda. “India represents a sixth of the humanity and is a multi-religious, multi-ethnic and multi-lingual country anchored in the principle of democracy, pluralism and rule of law,” he said, registering New Delhi’s objection to the report presented by the Special Rapporteur. The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Michelle Bachelet, too on Tuesday expressed concern over use of Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) to constrain the activities of the non-government organisations in India. The statement from the top UN human rights official came days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government in New Delhi froze the bank accounts of the Amnesty International and the organization had to shut down its operations in India. New Delhi, however, dismissed the statement, with the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) stating that violation of law by the NGOs could not be condoned under the pretext of human rights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-slams-un-expert-for-bias-towards-community-unleashing-horror-on-minorities-in-its-neighbourhood-905302.html
21-10-2020||National||No fare hike for festival special trains: Railways||The Indian Railways, which recently started more than 400 festival special trains, has clarified that it had not hiked fare for festival special trains. Dismissing allegation about fare hike in festival special trains, the railways on Wednesday said that these were misleading stories. “News regarding the hike in rail passenger fare during festival season is misleading and erroneous," Railways said.  “As per rules, the fare for special trains run during peak demand seasons like the festival season, the summer holiday season is different and higher than regular mail or express time-tabled trains." The railways announced the operation of 416 festival special trains from  October 20 till November 30 to meet the festival rush. Apart from this, the railways will also be operating 682 special trains and 20 cloned trains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-fare-hike-for-festival-special-trains-railways-905303.html
21-10-2020||National||Centre aims to buy 12 lakh tonnes of apples from J&K farmers||The Centre on Wednesday set an ambitious target of directly procuring 12 lakh tonnes of apples from the orchard in Jammu & Kashmir during the 2020-21 season. A similar initiative announced last year after the reading down of Article 370 of the Constitution, that granted special status to J&K and bifurcating the state into two Union Territories, had led to the procurement of nearly 8,000 tonnes of apples at a cost of Rs 70.45 crore. The Union Cabinet, at a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, approved the extension of the Market Intervention Scheme (MIS) for apple procurement in J&K for the current season on the same terms and condition as last season 2019-20, an official statement said. National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation has also been allowed to use the government guarantee of Rs 2,500 crore for this operation. About 12 lakh tonnes of apple can be procured under this scheme directly from apple growers. The payment will be made through DBT into their bank account, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-aims-to-buy-12-lakh-tonnes-of-apples-from-jk-farmers-905305.html
21-10-2020||National||Kangana, sister asked to appear before Mumbai cops next week||Mumbai Police on Wednesday issued notices to Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel, asking them to appear before cops next week to record their statements in connection with a case filed against them for allegedly promoting enmity between communities through their remarks, an official said. The Bandra Metropolitan Magistrate's court had on Saturday ordered the police to investigate a complaint filed by Munawwar Ali Sayyed, a Bollywood casting director and fitness trainer, which referred to Ranaut's and her sister's tweets and other statements. On the directions of the court, Bandra Police had registered a First Information Report against Ranaut and her sister under IPC sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, etc), 295A (deliberate acts hurting religious sentiments) and 124-A (sedition), 34 (common intention), the police official said. "We have issued notices to Ranaut and her sister, asking them to appear before the police in connection with the FIR registered against them. They have been asked to remain present on Monday and Tuesday," he said. In the complaint submitted before the court, Sayyed had alleged that Ranaut has been defaming Bollywood for the last two months by calling it a "hub of nepotism", "favouritism", etc, through her tweets and television interviews. She also tweeted "very objectionable" comments, which not only hurt his religious sentiments, but also the feelings of many artists and she was trying to divide artists on communal lines, the complainant had alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kangana-sister-asked-to-appear-before-mumbai-cops-next-week-905312.html
21-10-2020||National||Union minister Puri launches 'e-Dharti Geo portal'||Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Wednesday launched the 'e-Dharti Geo Portal' that will integrate legacy drawings such as maps and lease plans in the management information system and make it geographic information system (GIS)-enabled, a statement said. Puri said the land & development office (L&DO) is dealing with around 60,000 properties that are commercial, residential, industrial as well as institutional. According to the ministry, the L&DO has devised a property certificate incorporating details and the outline map of the property which is available online on the portal. The statement said the minister urged all organisations to undertake efforts to identify more activities that need to be automated and made free of human interface. "The power of technology is immense and there is no reason that India, which has a formidable capacity in the area of software technologies, cannot harness this strength to our advantage," he also said. The Union minister said the move will integrate legacy drawings such maps and lease plans in the management information system (MIS), namely e- Dharti, and make it GIS enabled, it stated. Union Housing and Urban Affairs Secretary Durga Shanker Mishra, Land & Development Officer Amit Kataria and other senior officers of the ministry were present at the online event. Kataria gave detailed information about the portal, the statement said. It stated that the certificate to be offered includes property details like land type, property type, date of allotment, property status, sub-type, plot area, date of execution of lease deed, property address, details about present lessee and litigation status among others. The property certificate, which will give all the relevant details about the property to the lessee as well as prospective purchaser, will be available by paying a nominal fee of Rs 1,000 and can be accessed by the public by visiting the L&DO website - www.ldo.gov.in. This measure will benefit the general public, particularly the elderly, it said, adding that the move will also help in avoiding unnecessary litigations. Through the certificate, the lessee of the property will be able to get the basic details of his/her property along with the map showing its location. This measure will also help a prospective purchaser to ascertain the details of the property as well as whether any suit or proceeding is pending in respect of the property, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-minister-puri-launches-e-dharti-geo-portal-905327.html
21-10-2020||National Politics||Eknath Khadse quits BJP, to join NCP soon||In a big jolt to the BJP in Maharashtra, veteran leader and powerful orator Eknath Khadse on Wednesday quit the saffron party and is set to join Sharad Pawar-led NCP. Khadse (68), a tall leader from Khandesh-North Maharashtra region, who is popularly known as Natha Bhau, will join NCP in Mumbai on Friday. As Khadse, a veteran OBC leader, made an exit from the BJP, which he raised in Maharashtra along with stalwarts like late Pramod Mahajan and late Gopinath Munde, he lashed out at leader of Opposition and ex-Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis, for his departure from the party. “I have nothing against BJP. I have nothing against the party's central leadership…I am leaving the party that I am associated with over 40 years only because of Fadnavis,” an emotional Khadse told reporters in his hometown of Muktainagar in Jalgaon district. State NCP President and Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil confirmed that Khadse would formally join NCP on Friday. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said that the development reflects on the BJP. “We welcome Khadse to the Maha Vikas Aghadi family,” he said. State NCP President Chandrakant Patil said that he is sad to hear Khadse's exit from BJP. “We have tried to convince him not to leave but that did not happen,” he said. Fadnavis, however, did not comment. “I haven't got anything officially….state BJP President would speak on it,” he said. While announcing his resignation, Khadse accused Fadnavis of engineering false cases against him and completely sidelined him from mainstream politics. “Even a false case of molestation was mounted on me,” he said, adding: “He (Fadnavis) has destroyed my life…I have spent four-five years in mental tension…I had said that I am being forced out of the party…I told the central high-command but justice was not meted out…there was no option left but to resign.” Patil said that the state has seen how injustice was meted out to Khadse. Khadse has been sulking since June 2016 when he was No. 2 to the then Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis and had to resign in the wake of alleged charges of corruption. In the 2019 Maharashtra Legislative Assembly polls, the BJP leadership had denied him ticket. From 2009-2014, he was leader of Opposition and had led the charge against the then Congress-NCP Democratic Front government. After the 2014 elections, he lost the bid for the post of CM – but instead settled for 10 portfolios - Revenue, Relief and Rehabilitation, Earthquake Rehabilitation, Minorities Development and Wakf, Agriculture and Horticulture, Animal Husbandry, Dairy Development and Fisheries and State Excise. However, he had to put down papers following charges of corruption. “No party…Shiv Sena (then in government), NCP or Congress asked for my resignation…not even inquiry,” he said, adding that the allegations against him were false.  “Even they lodged a case of molestation against me…they played low level politics against me,” he said. Asked who will leave with him, he said: “I am alone….no MLA or MP with me.” He also said that his daughter-in-law Raksha Khadse, who is an MP, is free to take her own decision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/eknath-khadse-quits-bjp-to-join-ncp-soon-905031.html
21-10-2020||National Politics||Two non-MLA ministers in Madhya Pradesh government resign to contest bypolls||Madhya Pradesh ministers Tulsiram Silawat and Govind Rajput, who are not members of the state legislature, have resigned from their posts after completion of six months in office, an official said on Wednesday. Both of them are contesting the November 3 state Assembly bypolls. As per Article 164 (4) of the Constitution, "a minister who for any period of six consecutive months is not a member of the legislature of the state shall at the expiration of that period cease to be a minister". "Both Silawat and Rajput have resigned from their posts, a public relation department official told PTI. In a letter dated October 20 addressed to chief minister, Silawat said, "As per the Constitutions Article 164 (4), I am resigning from the post of water resources minister on my own." A copy of the letter has gone viral on social media. Silawat and Rajput, who was holding charge of the transport department, took oath as ministers on April 21. The second state cabinet expansion, in which a number of other non-MLAs were inducted as ministers, took place on July 2 and they won't need to resign from their posts as of now, a constitutional expert said. Silawat and Rajput along with 20 other MLAs loyal to BJP Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia resigned from the Congress and their Assembly memberships in March this year, leading to the collapse of the Kamal Nath-led government. Later, three more Congress MLAs resigned. Besides, three sitting MLAs in the state died. By-elections to 28 Assembly seats in the state will be held on November 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/two-non-mla-ministers-in-madhya-pradesh-government-resign-to-contest-bypolls-905101.html
21-10-2020||National Politics||Friends and foes not permanent in politics, says Khushbu Sundar on joining BJP||She said that her resignation letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi was written and ready to be submitted in February but she was not able to hand over the letter in person.In her resignation letter, she said that she was being pushed and suppressed by the Congress but declined to name the persons trying to influence her. "It was not one person who did that to me. Whether it is at the state level or national level, we have that kind of people. Unfortunately, in Delhi, they have built a bubble. Especially, Rahul Gandhi has built a bubble around himself, and people who are allowed to enter that bubble, they tell him that everything is fine. But the bubble is opaque and not transparent," she told the publication. She said in the interaction that there are many in the party who need to speak up but do not have the means to do so. She added that many who are currently in the party are congratulating her for the move. "I have been tolerating the nonsense, all kinds of insults, and the way my dignity was questioned. I was losing my respectability. I was tolerating it for four years and I took this up with Rahul Gandhi. Only if you are cleaning the problem at the ground level will the party be strong," she said. Furthermore, she also said that she was approached by the saffron party several times earlier but declined to join the party, but after a lot of rethinking, she did so.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/friends-and-foes-not-permanent-in-politics-says-khushbu-sundar-on-joining-bjp-905109.html
21-10-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot slams BJP President J P Nadda's statement on CAA||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday termed as "most unfortunate" BJP President JP Nadda's statement on the implementation of CAA. In a tweet, Gehlot said, "Even before Covid-19 pandemic started, there were communal tensions in the country & the situation was very tense in a number of areas due to BJP's insistence on implementing #CAA".  The Rajasthan chief minister charged that the BJP wanted to stoke tensions. "Now when corona situation is still very serious, they want to stoke tensions again. It is the time to overcome the crises the nation is facing unitedly & not to disrupt peace & communal harmony," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-slams-bjp-president-j-p-naddas-statement-on-caa-905132.html
21-10-2020||National Politics||AAP seeks NCW chief Rekha Sharma's removal over her tweets against women, politicians||The AAP on Wednesday sought immediate removal of NCW Chairperson Rekha Sharma over some of her old tweets, where she allegedly made controversial remarks against women and politicians. Sharma, however, claimed that her Twitter handle was hacked, after her tweets making fun of women, politicians and women politicians drew ire from the public. The tweets date back before she became the National Commission for Women (NCW) chairperson. Sharma has since deleted the tweets and locked her Twitter handle. Addressing reporters, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) spokesperson Atishi said the party seeks Sharma's immediate removal from the post of NCW chairperson. "How can a woman with a foul, contemptible and anti-feminist mindset preside over an institution established to protect the rights of women? We demand the removal of Rekha Sharma from the post of chairman of the NCW with immediate effect," she said. Atishi said when a crime is committed against women, where will the victims go now that even the head of the women's commission is making such comments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aap-seeks-ncw-chief-rekha-sharmas-removal-over-her-tweets-against-women-politicians-905163.html
21-10-2020||National Politics||Congress-RJD alliance with CPI(ML) will revive Naxalism in Bihar: Yogi Adityanath||The Congress-RJD combines poll pact with ultra-Left CPI(ML) in Bihar is deplorable and unfortunate as it can lead to a resurgence of Naxalism in the state which has reeled under Maoist violence for long, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Wednesday. On the second day of his campaign for the assembly elections in the state, where he held back to back rallies in Jamui, Bhojpur and Patna districts, the BJP star campaigner also deftly played the caste card, invoking memories of leaders belonging to communities that dominated the respective constituencies. He also lavished praise on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah for the resolve they showed in scrapping Article 370, facilitating the construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya, stamping down terrorism and offering help to persecuted minorities of other countries through the Citizenship Amendment Act. All this is making the people of the country happy. But Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan is visibly frightened and, strangely, leaders like Rahul Gandhi and Owaisi too are perturbed. Try to understand their mindset and beware of such elements, he said. True to form, Yogi began all his speeches with chants of Bharat Mata Ki Jai and ended with roars of Jai Sri Ram, reminding the people of the state that for him Bihar was the maayka (native place) of goddess Sita. I would have loved to have at least one representative from all villages of Bihar at the foundation stone laying ceremony at Ayodhya. This could not happen because of Covid-19. But I look forward to receiving pilgrims from Bihar once the temple is complete as I hope that the pandemic will be over by then, he said. Ending the day with a rally at Paliganj in rural Patna, where he canvassed for sitting MLA Jai Vardhan Yadav who recently quit the RJD and joined Chief Minister Nitish Kumar's JD(U), Yogi accused the opposition of trying to give a fresh lease of life to elements who chant slogans favouring disintegration of the country at premier educational institutions. The allusion to the student's agitation at JNU was made in the backdrop of the opposition Grand Alliance fielding Sandeep Saurav, a former leader of the JNUSU who is fighting on a CPI(ML) ticket. The tie-up of Congress-RJD with CPI(ML) is an unfortunate and deplorable attempt (durbhagyapoorna aur kutsit cheshta) to revive Naxalism in a state which has suffered a lot on account of the menace, he said. The Uttar Pradesh chief minister also remarked that he had a sense of pride over the coincidence that I come from Lord Krishna's birthplace and have landed on Bihar's soil on a day when the birth anniversary of its first, visionary, Chief Minister Sri Krishna Sinha is being observed. Sinha, who ruled the state till his death in 1961, is hugely popular with upper-caste Bhumihars, traditionally the supporters of the BJP who have a sizeable presence in Paliganj. The NDA is, however, in a fix in the assembly segment with rebel ally LJP of Chirag Paswan fielding Usha Vidyarthi, a Bhumihar who formerly represented the seat. She quit the BJP after she was denied a ticket. At Tarari, which falls in Rajput-dominated Bhojpur district, Yogi invoked the memory of 1857 hero Veer Kunwar Singh, the legendary ruler of Jagdishpur. Beginning his Tarari address with a greeting in local dialect Bhojpuri, Yogi, who hails from Uttarakhand but has been based in Gorakhpur for decades, reminded the locals of their valiant attempts at rooting out Naxal violence. Bhojpur district had spawned Ranveer Sena, an anti-Naxalite private militia propped up by local landowners which became controversial for its brutality and were, subsequently, outlawed. In the years since Modi took over, Pakistan-sponsored terrorism has been dealt with and 95 per cent of Naxalites have been rooted out. Wait for some more time and the remaining five per cent too will be finished, he said. In Jamui, where the BJP has fielded ace shooter Shreyasi Singh, Yogi made an emotional appeal to voters, reminding them of her late father Digvijay Singh, a former Union minister who is held in high esteem by the Rajputs of the area. A former confidante of Nitish Kumar and George Fernandes, Singh had parted ways with the chief minister in 2009 when he fought the Lok Sabha polls as an Independent from his pocket borough Banka and pulled off a stunning victory. He died a year later and his wife Putul Kumari won the seat as an Independent in the ensuing by-election. She retained the seat in 2014 when she fought on a BJP ticket but lost it five years later when she jumped into the fray as an Independent after Banka fell into the kitty of the party headed by Nitish Kumar, with whom she and her family seem not very comfortable till date. The UP chief minister, who is seen as a Thakur leader notwithstanding his association with a caste-neutral monastic order, also cleverly reminded the people in Tarari and Jamui of the disillusionment Raghuvansh Prasad Singh felt towards the RJD, despite being a founding member, which led him to resign from the party a day before his death. Observing that the rallies in Bihar were well-attended despite the pandemic, Yogi said, Most of you are young. Do remember when your brethren were forced to return from far-off places during migration, they might have faced some ill-treatment in Delhi or Maharashtra (ruled by Aam Aadmi Party and a coalition comprising the Congress, respectively) but they were welcomed with open arms in UP. Do make it a point to reach out to your near and dear ones and acquaintances with messages over the phone and social media that the NDA must be voted back to power for Bihar's well being.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-rjd-alliance-with-cpiml-will-revive-naxalism-in-bihar-yogi-adityanath-905170.html
21-10-2020||National Politics||EC issues notice to Congress leader Kamal Nath on 'item' jibe at BJP candidate Imarti Devi||The Election Commission on Wednesday served a notice to senior Congress leader and former chief minister of Madhya Pradesh Kamal Nath for recently referring to BJP candidate Imarti Devi as an ‘item’. The EC noted that Kamal Nath’s comment about Imarti Devi on October 18 had violated the Model Code of Conduct that was put in place in Madhya Pradesh’s 28 Assembly constituencies going to poll on November 3 next. The poll panel issued the notice to Kamal Nath after receiving a complaint from the National Commission for Women as well as the BJP. It asked the senior Congress leader to explain his stand on the controversial remark within 48 hours. Imarti Devi won the 2018 state Assembly elections from Dabra as a Congress candidate. She was a minister in the Kamal Nath-led government. She was among the 22 MLAs, who left the Congress and joined the BJP with Jyotiraditya Scindia earlier this year, leading to the fall of the Congress government and necessitating the bypolls to fill the vacancies in the state Assembly. Madhya Pradesh BJP leaders, led by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, on Monday held a protest against Kamal Nath, while the National Commission for Women sought an explanation from the Congress leader for his remark. Bypolls to 28 Madhya Pradesh Assembly seats will be held on November 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ec-issues-notice-to-congress-leader-kamal-nath-on-item-jibe-at-bjp-candidate-imarti-devi-905214.html
21-10-2020||National Politics||Bimal Gurung's GJM walks out of NDA, to support TMC in 2021 West Bengal Assembly polls||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) supremo Bimal Gurung announced on Wednesday that his party was pulling out of the BJP-led NDA as the ruling party at the Centre had failed to provide a “permanent political solution” for the Darjeeling Hills. Gurung, who had been on the run since 2017 following the Gorkhaland agitation, also said he wants to join forces with West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for the 2021 Assembly election and give the BJP a befitting reply. Earlier in the day, he suddenly arrived at the Salt Lake on the eastern fringes of Kolkata. “The Centre has not yet fulfilled any promises, commitment it made. But Mamata Banerjee fulfilled all her commitments made to every party and organisation. That’s why I am proudly announcing today that I want to leave the NDA and end our relationship with the BJP,” Gurung told journalists. He also said his party would do everything to ensure good results in the Assembly seats in North Bengal so that Mamata Banerjee once again becomes the chief minister. “She does what she says. So I want to request Mamata Banerjee to provide a permanent political situation for the Darjeeling Hills. Our main agenda is Gorkhaland,” he said. Gurung also said he was yet to speak to the TMC leadership about the issue. “There is no permanent enemy or friends in politics. We were with the BJP for our agenda. But since they did not work for the fulfillment for our agenda we are snapping ties with them,” he added. Lashing out at the BJP, the GJM leader said his party had been with the NDA since 2009. But the BJP-led government at the Centre had neither kept its promise of proving a permanent solution for the Darjeeling Hills nor did it include 11 Gorkha communities in the list of Scheduled Tribes. He also said he was in Delhi and for the past two months he was in Jharkhand. He had been charged with more than 100 cases in relation to the agitation for the separate state of Gorkhaland.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bimal-gurungs-gjm-walks-out-of-nda-to-support-tmc-in-2021-west-bengal-assembly-polls-905220.html
21-10-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi keeps up attack on Narendra Modi on Sino-India standoff||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday kept up his attack on Narendra Modi over the Sino-India military standoff, asking people whether they have heard the prime minister mention China over the past couple of months. Winding up his three-day visit to his parliamentary constituency, the Wayanad MP also claimed that the prime minister doesn't want "take" people's attention "to the fact that the Chinese have occupied our land." "Have you heard him saying the word China over the last couple of months? Why do you think he is not saying it? Why do you think the prime minister is not saying the word, China. Because he doesn't want to take the attention of the people of this country to the fact that the Chinese have occupied our land," he told reporters here. He also asked the prime minister when he was planning to "remove the Chinese from our territory." "Do you think there is any bigger issue than that right now. It's the biggest issue and the prime minister doesn't have a word to say about it." "Why? Why does the prime minister not have a word to say about Bharat Mata's territory? It's a strange thing," he said. On Tuesday, Gandhi had attacked Modi telling him the nation wants to know when will the Chinese troops be "thrown out" of Indian territory. The union government had earlier termed as "mischievous interpretation" the Congress' claims that China had occupied Indian territory in the eastern Ladakh region. India and China are locked in an over five-month-long military standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. Meanwhile, in a tweet, Gandhi alleged India "continues to suffer from Modi-made disasters." "India continues to suffer from Modi-made disasters. The stories of starvation deaths, especially of children, are heartbreaking. How can GOI (government of India) allow this when the godowns are overflowing with excess food?" he said in the tweet. Later, Gandhi inaugurated the Arthroscopic surgery unit and ICU Ventilator installed under the MP's fund for local development at the district hospital in nearby Mananthavady. He lauded doctors and health workers for their dedicated service. He also reiterated his appreciation for the exemplary work done by the Kerala government against the Covid-19 pandemic. Gandhi visited a paddy field at nearby Thrissileri in Mananthavady to know about organic farming activities by the Thirunelli Agro Producers Company with NABARD assistance there. "These 200 acre paddy fields protect traditional organic paddy varieties & have proved to be exemplary models for sustainable development. The GoI must focus on supporting such models," AICC General Secretary K C Venugopal tweeted. Gandhi also met Cheruvayal Raman, a traditional paddy farmer, who has a treasure of about one hundred indigenous seeds. Earlier in the morning, Gandhi visited Kochillam in Panamaram, where migratory birds flock during seasons. Later in the day, the Congress leader proceeded to Kannur and left for Delhi by a special flight.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-keeps-up-attack-on-narendra-modi-on-sino-india-standoff-905304.html
21-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi's air quality improves slightly but likely to turn 'very poor'||Pollution levels in the national capital dipped slightly on Tuesday due to favourable wind speed, but the air quality is likely to turn 'very poor' on Wednesday. The Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, stated the share of stubble burning in Delhi's PM2.5 pollution stood at 8 per cent on Tuesday and is likely to increase by Wednesday morning. The city recorded a 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) of 223 on Tuesday. It was 244 on Monday, 254 on Sunday and 287 on Saturday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate',201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. Calm winds and low temperatures allow accumulation of pollutants, while favourable wind speed help in their dispersion. SAFAR said the AQI was likely to slip to the 'very poor' category by Wednesday due to a change in the wind direction and a reduction in the wind speed. The farm fire count around Haryana, Punjab and nearby region across the International Border was 1017 on Monday, it said. "The boundary layer wind direction was favourable for the transport of pollutants towards Delhi. The share of stubble burning in Delhi's PM2.5 was 8 per cent on Tuesday and is likely to increase early tomorrow," it said. It was 10 per cent on Monday, 17 per cent on Sunday and 19 per cent on Saturday. Expecting further deterioration in air quality in the coming days, the Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority had on Monday asked the Uttar Pradesh and Haryana governments to be ready to close thermal power plants that do not meet the standards laid down in 2015. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday requested Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar to hold monthly meetings with the CMs of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and UP to curb air pollution, saying there is a lack of political will at the level of the states to address the problem of stubble burning. The Delhi government will deploy 2,500 environment marshals across the city to generate awareness about its recently launched anti-pollution campaign, 'Red Light On, Gaadi Off' to curb vehicular pollution, according to city Environment Minister Gopal Rai. The Ministry of Earth Sciences' Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said the ventilation index – a product of mixing depth and average wind speed – was 15,000 metre square per second on Tuesday and is likely to be 8,000 metre square per second on Wednesday – favourable for dispersion of pollutants. Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed. A ventilation index lower than 6,000 sqm/second, with average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-air-quality-improves-slightly-but-likely-to-turn-very-poor-904845.html
21-10-2020||North and Central||BJP-VHP activists ransack police station, alleging cops’ inaction in ‘love jihad’ case||A mob of BJP and VHP workers on Tuesday created ruckus at a police station here alleging police inaction in solving what they claimed the kidnapping of a girl involving "love jihad". The activists ransacked the Kila police station and damaged its furniture demanding action against kidnappers despite the allegedly abducted girl saying in a viral video that she was an adult and had left her home with her boyfriend Bilal on her own. The activists, however, insisted that the video was shot under pressure and demanded arrests of Bilal and his friends and recover the girl. City BJP MLA Arun Kumar and Bithri MLA Pappu Bhartaul too had reached the police station. The BJP and VHP activists remained at the police station for over an hour after which the police had to use force to disperse the mob, said police. "Taking note of the incident, the inspector of Kila police station has been sent to lines and the in-charge and two constables of the Malukpur police outposts were suspended,” said Bareilly’s Senior Superintendent of Police Rohit Singh Sajwan. An FIR too has been lodged against five persons for ransacking the police station and damaging its property, said the SSP, adding more people, involved in creating ruckus at the police station would be booked after examining the CCTV footage of the police station. An FIR on the alleged abduction of the girl too was registered on October 17 and the case is being investigated, the SSP said. “A search is also on to recover the girl,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-vhp-activists-ransack-police-station-alleging-cops-inaction-in-love-jihad-case-904896.html
21-10-2020||North and Central||23-year-old group clash: 6 get life term for killing 3, 6 others jailed for 7 yrs for murder bid||A Mathura court on Tuesday sentenced six people to life imprisonment for gunning down three persons in a group clash in the district's Gohari village in the district 23 years ago. Additional Sessions Judge Sanjai Kumar Yadav also sentenced six members of the rival party to seven years of rigorous imprisonment each for making murderous attempts on the lives of various members of the first party. The group clash had occurred in Gohari village under Chhata police station area in which three members of one party were shot dead and several others of both groups were critically injured, said Assitant Government Counsel Madan Mohan Pandey. He identified lifers as Bali, Jawahar, Naval Singh, Braj Kishore, Suresh and Rati Ram. Those sentenced to life imprisonment were also slapped a fine of Rs 18,500 each by the court, which stipulated that on the failure in paying the fines, the convicts would undergo additional imprisonment for two years. The six others who were jailed for seven years each are Vijay Singh, Prem Chand, Maheepal, Khushi Ram, Summer and Tej Singh, said Pandey, adding they were also fined Rs 8,500 each. In default of payments of fines, they will have to spend one year more in the jail, he said. A sole juvenile accused in the case was acquitted by another court for children in the trial. A total of three other accused died during the trial, said the prosecution counsel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/23-year-old-group-clash-6-get-life-term-for-killing-3-6-others-jailed-for-7-yrs-for-murder-bid-904902.html
21-10-2020||North and Central||10 held for running extortion racket from inside Delhi's Rohini Jail||The Delhi Police on Tuesday claimed to have busted an extortion racket that was being operated from inside Rohini Jail and nabbed 10 people, including a juvenile. The accused have been identified as Deepak alias Deepu Bunda (31), his wife Neha Kakkar (32), Surender (40), his wife Sonia, Saddam Gauri (30), Kuldeep, Raj Kumar alias Raju (42), Shiva (30), Satish (37) and the juvenile, they said. Gauri, the mastermind of the gang, is currently lodged in Rohini Jail in MCOCA and several other heinous cases. He was operating his syndicate from inside the jail, police said. On September 2 at 6.25 pm, a businessman got a call from his relative regarding a firing incident at his office. When he reached the spot, he found a broken glass door and a bullet mark on the main gate, a senior police officer said. Two people had come on a bike and one of them identified as Surender fired a bullet at the main gate. The deo then fled from the spot along with the DVR of the CCTV camera installed in the office, police said. “On September 4, the complainant reported the matter to police and also told them that he was getting extortion calls from Surender and Deepak on the direction of their gang leader Gauri,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (west) Deepak Purohit said. On September 21, a similar incident was reported from Rajouri Garden where Surender and Deepak fired at Raju Khan in an attempt to rob him. The victim, who is a rival of the accused, sustained bullet injury in his thigh and was threatened by the duo. During investigation, it was found that the extortion syndicate was being run by Gauri through his associates Surender and Deepak. Gauri was also making extortion calls to the complainant through WhatsApp from inside Rohini Jail, the DCP said. The complainant also alleged that Kakkar and Sonia met him on September 3 and asked him to arrange the cash and give it to their gang members, police said. Deepak and Surender were arrested by the special cell team following an encounter in Vikaspuri. The other accused were caught by the local police, the officer said. One bike, three phones, a DVR and a car were seized from their possession, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/10-held-for-running-extortion-racket-from-inside-delhis-rohini-jail-904907.html
21-10-2020||North and Central||Farooq Abdullah appears before ED in JCKA money laundering case again||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday questioned regional National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah a second time this week in connection with a money laundering probe into an alleged multi-crore scam in the Jammu and Kashmir Cricket Association (JKCA). Flamboyant Abdullah, who is celebrating his 84th birthday today, reached the ED’s Rajbagh office in Srinagar at 11 am, where he is being questioned in connection with alleged misappropriation of Rs over 43 crore when he was the president of the JKCA.  On October 19 Abdullah, who represents Srinagar Lok Sabha constituency in the Parliament, was questioned by the ED for seven hours. After the questioning on Monday, Abdullah had said he was not worried and would cooperate in the probe. “My fate will be decided by the court when they put the case into the court,” he had said after facing grilling by the ED sleuths. The ED is understood to be questioning Abdullah about his role and decisions taken when the alleged scam took place in the association when he was the JKCA president. The last round of questioning took place four days after regional mainstream political parties in Kashmir including the NC and Mehbooba Mufti’s PDP, met at Abdullah’s residence and formed People’s Alliance for ‘Gupkar Declaration’ to restore the special status of J&K, abrogated by the Centre on 5 August last year. The ED case is based on a Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI’s) FIR as part of which the CBI booked former office-bearers of JKCA, including general secretary Saleem Khan and Treasurer Ahsan Mirza. Abdullah was named in the scam in 2012 in which bogus money was allegedly transferred into bogus accounts created by the JKCA officials. The JKCA gets subsidies from the BCCI annually. According to the CBI investigation, the accounts were opened in the name of the JKCA in J&K Bank and the BCCI funds were diverted to these bogus accounts and subsequently siphoned off. The BCCI had given Rs 113 crore to the JKCA from 2002 to 2011 as grant for the promotion of cricket in the region. Of this, Rs.43.69 crore was allegedly siphoned off and misappropriated by the accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farooq-abdullah-appears-before-ed-in-jcka-money-laundering-case-again-905010.html
21-10-2020||North and Central||Kathua rape case lawyer Deepika Singh Rajawat's house mobbed||Advocate Deepika Singh Rajawat’s house was mobbed yesterday night after she posted a controversial Navratri cartoon on her Twitter handle.  The lawyer was in the limelight in 2018 when she was representing the victim's family in the Jammu and Kashmir's Kathua rape case. Rajawat had alleged that she received death threats for "daring to pursue the case". Rajawat posted a video where a crowd could be heard sloganeering “Deepika teri kabar khudegi” (Deepika your grave will be dug). Later in the night, she tweeted that the mob had been cleared by police. Since today afternoon, #ShamelessDeepika has been trending on Twitter, with some tweeting in support of Rajawat and others drawing a parallel between her and actor Deepika Padukone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kathua-rape-case-lawyer-deepika-singh-rajawats-house-mobbed-905016.html
21-10-2020||North and Central||Anti-triple talaq crusader Shayara Bano gets minister rank in Uttarakhand||Anti-triple talaq crusader Shayara Bano, who recently joined the BJP, has been given minister of state status by the Uttarakhand government. The move comes just ten days after Bano, who was the first Muslim woman to question the constitutionality of the practice of triple talaq in the Supreme Court, joined the BJP here in the presence of its Pradesh president Bansidhar Bhagat and a host of other leaders.         Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat's media coordinator Darshan Singh Rawat said, Bano is among three women, who were appointed vice presidents of the State Women's Commission besides being accorded MoS status on Tuesday. The other two women appointed to the post are Jyoti Shah from Ranikhet in Almora district and Pushpa Paswan from Chamoli district. The three posts in the commission had long been vacant. It is the Chief Minister's gift to the women of the state during Navratri, he said.    Bano was the first to challenge the constitutionality of the practice of triple talaq in the apex court in 2014, four months after being divorced by her husband through speed post.           She is a resident of Udham Singh Nagar district in Uttarakhand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/anti-triple-talaq-crusader-shayara-bano-gets-minister-rank-in-uttarakhand-905020.html
21-10-2020||North and Central||National Conference attacks BJP over ED's summons to Farooq Abdullah||The National Conference on Wednesday expressed anger over the ED summoning party president Farooq Abdullah for questioning for the second time within a week, and said these tactics are only aimed at "browbeating" opposition leaders who raise their voice against the BJP's "divisive politics". Abdullah, a former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, appeared before the Enforcement Directorate for questioning in connection with a money-laundering probe into an alleged multi-crore scam in the Jammu and Kashmir Cricket Association (JKCA). He was questioned for over six hours on October 19 in the case. His son and former chief minister Omar Abdullah expressed his displeasure and tweeted the party statement on his father's summoning with a comment: "This on a day when my father turns 84!" The party lambasted the government for "its agenda of cornering any voices of dissent". "How many times will BJP use CBI, ED, anti-corruption bureau and its other agencies to browbeat opposition? The plot has become predictable. Anyone who speaks against the government or musters courage against its divisive politics will be hounded and summoned," it said. Terming the ED summons "calculated coercive measures", NC spokesperson Imran Nabi Dar said that it is aimed at curtailing Farooq Abdullah's efforts to weave unity among mainstream political parties in J&K. Calling the repeated ED summons as pressure tactics, he said, "What is it that ED forgot to ask during the six hours it interrogated an 83-year-old Member of Parliament?” The government and its agencies, the spokesperson said, has no consideration for a law-abiding citizen who is severely immunocompromised and diabetic. "Abdullah being treated like this is a proof that the BJP is not even interested in a face-saving act and is completely comfortable with being seen as a bully by the nation," he said. He said that the "only way to get a clean chit these days is to surrender one's ideology and join the BJP. We've seen this story play out from Assam to Karnataka, from West Bengal to Andhra Pradesh but Dr Abdullah is not going to surrender to the BJP, come what may."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/national-conference-attacks-bjp-over-eds-summons-to-farooq-abdullah-905022.html
21-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi's Air Quality Index falls to lower end of 'very poor' category||Delhi's pollution level worsened on Wednesday morning with the air quality falling to the lower end of the “very poor” category, a government agency said. According to the Central Pollution Control Board, Delhi's Air Quality Index (AQI) was recorded at 268 at 10 am on Wednesday, while on Tuesday it was 223. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. The Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, stated the share of stubble burning in Delhi's PM2.5 pollution stood at 15 per cent on Wednesday. “It is forecasted that the air quality will remain in marginally Very Poor category tomorrow and in marginally Very Poor to higher end of poor for October 23. “The SAFAR synergised stubble burning fire counts around Haryana, Punjab and neighbouring regions stand at 849 for yesterday (Tuesday). The SAFAR model estimate of stubble burning share in PM2.5 is 15 per cent for today,” it said. The city recorded a 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) of 223 on Tuesday. It was 244 on Monday and 254 on Sunday. The farm fire count around Haryana, Punjab and nearby region across the International Border was 1017 on Monday, it said. The Delhi government will deploy 2,500 environment marshals across the city to generate awareness about its anti-pollution campaign, 'Red Light On, Gaadi Off' to curb vehicular pollution. Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai will be visiting the ITO area in the capital to spread awareness about the campaign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-air-quality-index-falls-to-lower-end-of-very-poor-category-905028.html
21-10-2020||North and Central||Badrinath master plan worth Rs 424 crore proposed||A budget of Rs 424 crore has been proposed for the Badrinath master plan for beautification and up-gradation of facilities around the Himalayan temple. Sharing the information at a meeting with locals to discuss the master plan on Tuesday, Tourism Secretary Dilip Jawalkar said the proposed budget awaits the PMO's approval. The master plan has been prepared under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in such a way that the spiritual character of the temple township is retained while giving it a general facelift and up-gradation of facilities meant for pilgrims around the shrine, he said. Jawalkar discussed the master plan with teerth purohits and traders of the area and tried to address their doubts.   To be implemented in three phases, the master plan includes beautification of the Shesh Netra and Badrish lakes near the temple dedicated to Lord Vishnu in the first, expansion and renovation of temple premises and nearby areas in the second and construction of an "Astha Path" from Shesh Netra lake to the temple in the third, Jawalkar said. The official also offered prayers at the temple and inspected areas not far from it including Narayan Parvat, Brahma Kapal, Taptkund and Bamani village.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/badrinath-master-plan-worth-rs-424-crore-proposed-905045.html
21-10-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir LG calls for reforms to deal with radicalisation of youth||While advocating comprehensive reforms for dealing with radicalisation of youth, Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha Wednesday called for a regular monitoring of social media content to prevent its misuse by the anti-national elements. “Police should further strengthen its community support base across J&K. (But) at the same time, there is a need for comprehensive reforms to deal with radicalization. Social media content must be monitored round the clock to prevent its misuse by the enemies,” he said while addressing policemen on the eve of police commemoration day at Zewan, on the outskirts of Srinagar city. “I am sure that there is a mechanism to deal with the radicalization and people involved must put in further efforts to strengthen the grid to prevent youth from treading the wrong path,” he added. While lauding the role of J&K police in dealing militancy, the LG said, “Our police force is playing a significant role in tackling militancy. People should know that if they sleep, it is because of the policemen who remain awake throughout the night on streets.” He assured his full support to the police force. “The police top brass and administration is committed to resolve the issues confronted by the policemen and the families of martyred cops,” he said. Sinha said the message from the police should be clear and loud that "Begunah ko mat chehdo, gunahgaar ko mat chhodo (don’t touch the innocents and don’t leave the culprits).”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-lg-calls-for-reforms-to-deal-with-radicalisation-of-youth-905050.html
21-10-2020||North and Central||Delivery man arrested for duping customer in south Delhi||A man working for an ecommerce platform has been arrested for allegedly duping a customer by falsely telling him that his order has been cancelled and promising him a refund, police said on Wednesday. The accused, identified as Manoj (22), is a resident of Kirti Nagar in west Delhi, they said. A probe was initiated after a complaint was received by a customer at K M Pur police station in south Delhi on October 19, police said. In his police complaint, the complainant alleged that a delivery man working for Amazon had come to his house at Kidwai Nagar in south Delhi on October 1 to deliver a mobile phone he had ordered from Amazon. But the delivery man informed him that his order had been cancelled and he would receive the refund soon, a senior police officer said. However, when the man checked the status of his order, it showed that the mobile phone was delivered to him. He immediately contacted Amazon office regarding refund of the amount paid but the e-commerce platform told him that according to their enquiry, the mobile phone has been delivered to him, he said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said, "After conducting an enquiry, a case was registered under section 420 (Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code and a team was formed to nab the accused." A raid was conducted and the accused delivery man was arrested. The customer's mobile phone was recovered from one Dharamvir to whom the accused had sold the mobile phone, he said. During interrogation, the accused told police that he deliberately showed the mobile phone as delivered in the company and kept it with himself as he was in need of money. He then told the customer that the order had been cancelled and assured him that his money will be refunded within a few days, the DCP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delivery-man-arrested-for-duping-customer-in-south-delhi-905071.html
21-10-2020||North and Central||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi slams govt over farm bills, says farmers not getting MSP in UP||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday attacked the BJP-led government at the Centre over the new farm laws and alleged that farmers in Uttar Pradesh were forced to sell paddy at a rate lower than the minimum support price. Taking to Twitter, she also posted a video of a farmer alleging corruption in crop procurement at the Mohammadi Khiri mandi. "The BJP government is holding a government Khat Sammelan over the bills which are against the interest of the farmers, but is not listening to the pain of the farmers," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. भाजपा सरकार किसानों का हक मारने वाले बिलों पर सरकारी खाट सम्मेलन तो कर रही है लेकिन किसानों का दर्द नहीं सुन रही। "In almost all the places in UP, farmers are forced to sell their paddy crops at Rs 1,000 to 1,100 per quintal, about Rs 800 less than the Rs 1,868 per quintal MSP," she said. This is when there is a guarantee for MSP, think what will happen when this guarantee is not there, she added. Her attack on the government comes a day after the Punjab Assembly adopted a resolution rejecting the Centre's new farm laws and passed four bills that it said will counter the contentious legislation enacted by Parliament. The three farm bills -- the Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 -- were passed by Parliament recently. Subsequently, President Ram Nath Kovind gave his assent to the bills. The Congress, many other opposition parties and several farmers organisations have been protesting against these legislations, claiming that these will harm the interests of farmers and benefit corporates, a claim denied by the government. The Centre has asserted that these new laws will be beneficial for farmers and will increase their income.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-leader-priyanka-gandhi-slams-govt-over-farm-bills-says-farmers-not-getting-msp-in-up-905072.html
21-10-2020||North and Central||'Red Light On, Gaadi Off' initiative takes off in Delhi to tackle pollution levels||Delhi's vehicular pollution can be reduced by 15-20 per cent if commuters turn off their vehicle engines while waiting at traffic signals, city Environment Minister Gopal Rai said on Wednesday. Kickstarting the 26-day "Red Light On, Gaadi Off" campaign in the national capital from the ITO traffic signal, Rai appealed to the people of Delhi to act responsibly and stop burning fuel at traffic signals. "The campaign is an attempt to reduce vehicular pollution. Delhi has around one crore registered vehicles. Altogether, vehicles burn fuel at traffic signals for around 15-20 minutes every day. This campaign aims to stop fuel-burning at signals. "If the city's two crore population joins this campaign and does its bit, then we can reduce around 15-20 per cent pollution from vehicles. This campaign is voluntary. I appeal to the people of Delhi to make it a success," he said. The Aam Admi Party (AAP) government's campaign, which will go on till November 15, aims to spread ground-level awareness at 100 traffic signals in the capital. A total of 2,500 civil defence volunteers will be standing with placards, asking commuters to switch off the engines of their vehicles, at these signals. Launching the initiative at the ITO intersection, Rai gave a flower to a commuter while requesting him to turn off the engine of his car. He said Delhi can become pollution-free only if the government and the public work together. "We have started the 'Red Light On, Gaadi Off' campaign today in Delhi. So far, the Delhi government and other agencies have been working to control pollution. But now, Delhi's population of two crore people is being made a part of it to fulfil their responsibility in the fight against pollution. To make Delhi pollution-free, the government and the public must come together to fight it," Rai told reporters. Civil defence volunteer Geeta, a resident of Sadar Bazar, said she received a good response from the commuters, who are turning their vehicle engines off when asked to do so. "The response is very good till now. People are switching off their engines when we are asking them. No one argued or refused to do so," she said. Another volunteer, Himanshu Wadhwa, a resident of Burari, said people were acting responsibly. "We have noticed that people are aware about the deteriorating situation of pollution in the national capital. Many of them are already switching off their engines. They understand their responsibility," he said. The civil defence volunteers will spread awareness among people at the traffic signals from 8 am to 8 pm, Rai said. The initiative is only an awareness drive and nobody will be issued a "challan", the minister had said on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/red-light-on-gaadi-off-initiative-takes-off-in-delhi-to-tackle-pollution-levels-905074.html
21-10-2020||North and Central||Comprehensive measures needed to deal with radicalisation of youngsters in J&K, says L-G Manoj Sinha||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Manoj Sinha advocated comprehensive measures on Wednesday to deal with radicalisation of youngsters in the Union Territory, saying terror elements from thousands of miles away are trying to infiltrate a large section of the society with the help of rabid propaganda. Addressing policemen on the occasion of the Police Commemoration Day at Zewan on the city outskirts, Sinha hailed the Jammu and Kashmir Police for maintaining law and order and dealing with terrorism in the Union Territory. "Indoctrination is not limited to an individual taking up a gun after brainwashing by terror outfits, but with the help of rabid online and offline propaganda, terror elements sitting thousands of miles away are trying to infiltrate a large section of the society," the L-G said in his address. He said as a part of comprehensive counter-radicalisation measures, there must be a well-coordinated, community-supported platform to publicise and propagate the sensible voices against terrorist ideology. "Our strategy on counter-radicalisation and de-radicalisation must be inclusive and should involve community elders to promote the message of peace, prosperity and harmony," Sinha said. He called for a regular change in strategy to deal with terror-funding from across the border. "To deal with terror-funding, there is a need to change our strategy regularly so that we tackle it with a comprehensive response," the LG said. He said cyber-patrolling and round-the-clock monitoring of malicious content on the dark web is another challenge, but asserted that the police and other security forces are capable of formulating an effective mechanism to deal with it. "As far as I know, they are already working on several aspects. We must have in-house expertise to analyse social media content, which will also help in increasing public outreach. I would suggest regular district-level workshops on the use of social media and communication skills," he said. Hailing the Jammu and Kashmir Police for maintaining law and order and at the same time, dealing with terrorism in the Union Territory, the LG said he is sure that the force will continue to safeguard the reputation and pride of the country. "Apart from maintaining law and order in Jammu and Kashmir, you are fighting the terror inflicted by our neighbouring country. I know you will continue to safeguard India's reputation and pride. I think the police's message that innocents will not be touched, but criminals will not be spared is enough for those spreading terror in the country," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/comprehensive-measures-needed-to-deal-with-radicalisation-of-youngsters-in-jk-says-l-g-manoj-sinha-905076.html
21-10-2020||North and Central||ASI, SPO arrested for allowing inter-state passengers to enter Jammu & Kashmir illegally||A racket that facilitated illegal entry into Jammu and Kashmir of people from outside by taking money from them at the Lakhanpur inter-state border terminal in the Union Territory's Kathua district has been unearthed and two police personnel, including an assistant sub-inspector (ASI), have been arrested, officials said on Wednesday. Acting on complaints about the police personnel on duty at Lakhanpur allowing people from outside to enter Jammu and Kashmir illegally after taking money from them, a police team in civvies caught a special police official (SPO) on duty red-handed while he was seeking a bribe from people to let them enter the Union Territory on Tuesday night, the officials said. An ASI was also arrested by the police and both were taken to a police station for questioning, they added. An order of suspension for the in-charge inspector has been issued and a probe against the deputy superintendent of police (DySP) launched, the officials said. Confirming the news, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Kathua Shailendra Mishra said an ASI and an SPO have been arrested and the suspension of the in-charge inspector has been ordered. So far, the police have arrested 15 persons, including some police personnel, for allowing people from outside to enter Jammu and Kashmir illegally via the Lakhanpur inter-state border terminal on taking money from them, in spite of the Covid-related restrictions since March.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/asi-spo-arrested-for-allowing-inter-state-passengers-to-enter-jammu-kashmir-illegally-905104.html
21-10-2020||North and Central||Uttarakhand CM Rawat allocates Rs 75 lakh to the matryrs fund||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Wednesday paid tribute to police and paramilitary personnel martyred in the line of duty and announced an allocation of Rs 75 lakh for the martyrs fund. Rawat placed a wreath at the Shaheed memorial here and attended a memorial parade at the police lines in the presence of senior police officials, including Uttarakhand DGP Anil Raturi, on the occasion of Police Commemoration Day.           In his address, Rawat said police and paramilitary personnel play a decisive role in maintaining the country's internal security and law and order. He said police and paramilitary personnel killed in the line of duty are an inspiration for all.         A total of 265 police and paramilitary personnel including six from Uttarakhand were martyred last year, he said.         "The whole world is grappling with the twin challenges of terrorism and Covid pandemic at present and a well-planned strategy is needed to overcome them," he said. Rawat also announced an increase of Rs 1000 in the uniform allowance for assistant sub-inspectors and inspectors. The chief minister also honoured the kin of martyred police and paramilitary personnel on the occasion.   Others who offers paid floral tributes at the martyrs memorial included Uttarakhand Assembly Speaker Premchand Aggarwal, Cabinet Minister Subodh Uniyal, Dehradun Mayor Sunil Uniyal Gama and several MLAs including Harbans Kapoor, Munna Singh Chauhan and Umesh Sharma Kau.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-cm-rawat-allocates-rs-75-lakh-to-the-matryrs-fund-905110.html
21-10-2020||North and Central||Resident doctors at AMU hospital demand reinstatement of colleagues||Resident doctors at Aligarh Muslim University's Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College have demanded reinstatement of their two colleagues amid allegations that they were removed for comments in connection with the case of alleged gang rape and death of a woman in Hathras. The AMU authorities have denied the allegations as "highly speculative" and said the two doctors were engaged "on a temporary one-month vacancy from September 9". The order ending the contract of the two doctors -- Dr Mohamnad Azeemudin and Dr Obaid Imtiaz -- was issued by Chief Medical Officer S A Zaidi on Tuesday, a day after the CBI team probing the gang rape and death case visited the hospital. The Resident Doctors Association (RDA) has in a letter to the AMU Vice Chancellor urged him to take immediate steps to withdraw the termination order. If the order was not revoked within the next 24 hours, the RDA said it would call a general body meeting of its members and "decide its future course of action". The letter signed by RDA president Mohammad Hamza Malik and general secretary Mohammad kaashif  states that the action against the two doctors smacked of "vendetta politics" and was aimed at muzzling the right to freedom of expression. The two doctors told reporters on Tuesday that "they were quite taken aback by this step because they had not been given a chance to present their view to the authorities." The two doctors have also written to AMU Vice Chancellor Tariq Mansoor seeking his intervention in the matter. In response to a query by mediapersons, the two doctors had hinted that they might have paid a price for giving their opinion to some journalists who had visited the hospital in connection to the Hathras case. Dr Azeemudin had, however, denied speaking out of turn in the case. The 19-year-old woman, who was assaulted and allegedly gang-raped by four men, was under treatment at the hospital before being referred to Delhi. She died at a Delhi hospital later. When contacted, AMU spokesman Shafay Kidwai told PTI: "The two doctors were on a temporary one-month vacancy from September 9 and when the vacancy ended they were fully informed. There is no question of terminating anyone's services. It was a normal procedure and it is just a coincidence that this step ensued after CBI questioning." "As a matter of fact if the medical college authorities want to extend the appointment of the two doctors for a stipulated period then they can write to authorities concerned at the university," Kidwai said. Local BJP Nishant Sharma has called for a probe by the central government into the role of all doctors who allegedly issued controversial statements on the Hathras case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/resident-doctors-at-amu-hospital-demand-reinstatement-of-colleagues-905114.html
21-10-2020||North and Central||Union Cabinet approves adoption of Jammu and Kashmir Panchayati Raj Act||The Centre on Wednesday approved the adaptation of the Jammu and Kashmir Panchayat Raj Act, 1989, paving the way for three-tier grassroots level democracy in the Union Territory. The adaptation of the Act would allow the people of the Union Territory to elect their representatives to the ward Sabha or the ward Majlis, Gram Sabha or the Halqa Majlis and district development committees. “The move will help establish three-tiers of grassroots level democracy like in the other parts of the country for the first time since Independence,” I&B Minister Prakash Javadekar told reporters here. The government notified the Act on October 16, and the Union Cabinet approved it on Wednesday. “The three-tier system was not there in Kashmir before. They did not have the opportunity to elect their local representatives. This step fulfils the promise made byPrime Minister Modi in Kashmir, and the home minister in Parliament,” Javadekar said. The minister said elections to the local bodies will be held soon and they would also enjoy financial powers to implement welfare schemes. “One sad truth about Kashmir was that power was not in the hands of the people but it was wrested inthe hands of a few people. This decision of the cabinet has handed power to the common man,” Javadekar said. He said he was confident that the people of Jammu and Kashmir would welcome this decision. The decision to devolve powers to the three-tier panchayat system has come a year after the Modi government read down Article 370 that granted special status to Jammu and Kashmir. It also bifurcated the state into two Union Territories that of Jammu & Kashmir, and Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/union-cabinet-approves-adoption-of-jammu-and-kashmir-panchayati-raj-act-905115.html
21-10-2020||North and Central||Greenfield highway to be constructed in Rajasthan under Bharatmala Pariyojana||A 60 kilometre-long stretch of Greenfield highway will be constructed in Rajasthan under the Bharatmala Pariyojana to ensure high-speed traffic movement between Delhi and Mumbai. The highway will be developed as an underground passageway passing through the Mukundra Hill Tiger Reserve. A source from the Ministry of Environment said the Standing Committee of the National Board for Wild Life (NBWL), in its meeting headed by Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar, earlier this month, recommended the proposal of National Highway Authority India (NHAI) for development of eight lanes Greenfield Highway which will stretch from Bhenda Hera village to Moondiya village section of the highway in Rajasthan. The Greenfield highway will be a 59.6 km long tunnel passing through the Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve in Rajasthan. “The proposed highway is part of Bharatmala project and will connect several towns like Gurgaon, Alwar, Bharatpur, Dausa, Sawai Madhopur, Tonk, Bundi, Kota, Jaora, Ratlam etc. and give an infrastructure fillip to the states of Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra,” the ministry source said. The highway will be access-controlled and ensure high-speed traffic movement from Delhi to Mumbai. The proposed alignment is selected to cover one of the most important North-South arterial connectivity in the country, further interspersed with feeder highways on its either sides. “The proposed road network is passing through the Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve and the NBWL recommended the project as a tunnel to be constructed under 8 lanes (Greenfield Highway) from Bhenda Hera village to Moondiya village Section of NH-148N (Total length 59.625 Km) passing through Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve and its Eco-Sensitive Zone involving 26.6354-hectare land. “The start and end faces of the tunnel shall be minimum 500m away from the boundary of Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve as per condition imposed by National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA). This project shows that development can be done without impacting the environment and wildlife,” the ministry source said. The government envisages building 34,800 km of highways at a cost of about Rs 5.35 lakh crore under the ambitious Bharatmala Pariyojna.  According to the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, 2,921 km of highways have been constructed under the Bharatmala Pariyojna. "A total of 322 projects in a length of 12,413 km have been awarded under Bharatmala Pariyojana till August 2020. Further, 2,921 km has been constructed under the Project till the same date," the Ministry had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/greenfield-highway-to-be-constructed-in-rajasthan-under-bharatmala-pariyojana-905118.html
21-10-2020||North and Central||Air quality: Sensitise students against bursting firecrackers, Delhi government tells schools||The Delhi government has directed all schools in the national capital to sensitise students against bursting firecrackers during the festival season in view of the deteriorating air quality, which is an increased cause of concern during the Covid-19 pandemic. Since the schools continue to be closed, the authorities have been advised to use WhatsApp groups and other virtual mediums to motivate the students to "say no to crackers". "Festive season of Diwali, Chhat Puja and Guru Parb is marked by heavy use of firecrackers, which release toxic pollutants like sulphur dioxide, carbon monoxide and many others which pollute the air and cause serious ailments like asthma, bronchitis, hypertension and cardiovascular problems. The air and noise pollution caused by the firecrackers also affect the lives of animals, birds and other living beings on earth," the Directorate of Education (DoE) said in a letter to the school principals. "The ailing and old persons are all the more prone to catch different allergies and diseases caused by pollution. During the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic, ensuring better ambient air quality is essential since respiratory ailment is one of the major symptoms in corona patients and bursting of firecrackers can deteriorate air quality," it added. The department has directed the schools to sensitise the students about the ill-effects of bursting firecrackers and encourage them to celebrate the festivals by lighting candles, electric fancy lights, earthen lamps and keeping the environment neat and clean. "Students should be motivated to 'say no to firecrackers'. In addition to this, heads of the schools should direct the teachers to motivate the students to adopt safer and eco-friendly measures to celebrate Diwali and other festivals in a different way, instead of bursting firecrackers. "In view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, all the schools are closed for students and hence, all the heads of schools are hereby directed to utilise the WhatsApp groups to share the above information with the students to follow at home," the DoE said. According to the Central Pollution Control Board, Delhi's air quality index (AQI) was recorded at 268 at 10 am on Wednesday, while on Tuesday, it was 223. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/air-quality-sensitise-students-against-bursting-firecrackers-delhi-government-tells-schools-905138.html
21-10-2020||North and Central||Cabinet approves procurement of 12 lakh tonne apple in J&K this season||The Cabinet on Wednesday approved the extension of a scheme under which cooperative NAFED will procure 12 lakh tonne apple in Jammu and Kashmir during the current 2020-21 season. National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation (NAFED) has also been allowed to use the government guarantee of Rs 2,500 crore for this operation. The losses, if any, will be shared between the Centre and Jammu and Kashmir government on a 50:50 basis. A decision in this regard was taken in the Cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "The Union Cabinet approved the extension of Market Intervention Scheme (MIS) for apple procurement in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) for the current season also i.e. 2020-21 on the same terms and condition as was done in J&K during last season 2019-20," an official statement said. About 12 lakh tonne apple can be procured under this scheme directly from apple growers of Jammu and Kashmir, and the payment will be made through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) into their bank account, it added. This will provide an effective marketing platform for apple growers and will facilitate the employment generation for the local people. It will ensure remunerative prices for apple, resulting in the overall income enhancement of farmers in J&K, the statement said. According to the government, procurement will be undertaken by the central procuring agency NAFED through the state-designated agency Directorate of Planning and Marketing, Department of Horticulture, and Jammu and Kashmir Horticulture Processing and Marketing Corporation (JKHPMC). The constituted Designated Price Committee of last season will be continued for the fixation of the price of various varieties and grades of apples for this season also. The Union Territory administration of J&K will ensure the provision of basic amenities in the designated mandis. Smooth and continuous implementation of the procurement process will be monitored by the constituted Monitoring Committee under the Chairmanship of Cabinet Secretary at the central level and constituted implementation and Coordination Committee under the Chairmanship of Chief Secretary at the UT level, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cabinet-approves-procurement-of-12-lakh-tonne-apple-in-jk-this-season-905145.html
21-10-2020||North and Central||Over 2,000 Covid-19 patients benefited from plasma therapy in Delhi: Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday asserted that over 2,000 Covid-19 patients here have benefitted from plasma therapy, a day after a top ICMR official indicated that the Centre was considering removing it from the clinical management protocol. At a press conference, Jain also said these patients received convalescent plasma through the dedicated plasma banks of the city government, besides other people getting it directly from donors. The first plasma bank was opened on July 2 by Chief Minster Arvind Kejriwal at the state-run Institute of Liver and Biliary Science (ILBS) in south Delhi. After that another bank was opened at LNJP Hospital, a dedicated coronavirus facility. "We have been doing it (plasma therapy) trials after getting due permission. The ICMR-AIIMS study has not shown much breakthrough. But people are getting benefitted from it here, and over 2,000 have benefitted by receiving plasma from the dedicated bank only," Jain said, when asked about the Centre considering removing it from Covid-19 clinical management protocol. The Delhi health minister, himself a Covid-19 survivor, asserted that "this has helped save my life too". "Even America has acknowledged its benefit. And, research going on it world over. Delhi in a way is a pioneer in it and plasma therapy benefits have been seen. You should go and ask family members of those patients who were administered the plasma therapy," he said. The Centre is considering to remove convalescent plasma therapy from the national clinical management protocol for Covid-19, a top ICMR official had said on Tuesday. Presently, the use of off-label convalescent plasma for treating Covid-19 patients in the moderate stage of the illness is allowed under "investigational therapies". However, a randomised controlled trial, led by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), on 464 patients in 39 hospitals in 25 districts across 14 states and union territories has shown that plasma therapy does not reduce mortality or prevent progression of Covid-19 from moderate to severe. At a press conference on Tuesday, ICMR Director General Balaram Bhargava said, "We have had discussions in the national taskforce and we are in discussion with the joint monitoring group that this (convalescent plasma therapy) may be deleted from the national guidelines. The discussion is ongoing and more or less we are reaching towards that."  The national capital recorded 41 Covid-19 fatalities on Tuesday, taking the death toll to 6,081, while 3,579 fresh cases took the infection tally to over 3.36 lakh. Jain said the positivity rate as on Tuesday stood at 6.32 per cent with death rate of 1.13 per cent, based on data of the last 10 days. "The positivity rate earlier was 8.5-10 per cent, so it seems it has stabilised, compared to the peak that was. And we are closely watching it, the trend should be downward now gradually," he told reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-2000-covid-19-patients-benefited-from-plasma-therapy-in-delhi-jain-905151.html
21-10-2020||North and Central||Fire breaks out at Royal Enfield's transit stockyard in Jaipur: Eicher Motors||Eicher Motors on Wednesday said a fire broke out at Royal Enfield's Jaipur-based transit stockyard facility. Royal Enfield is a part of Eicher Motors. At around 12:30 pm on Wednesday, a fire incident occurred at Royal Enfield's transit stockyard facility at Kukas, Jaipur, Eicher Motors said in a statement. "All manpower and personnel have been evacuated from the area and emergency protocols have been followed. There has been no harm or injury to personnel working at the facility," Eicher Motors said. The fire was in a small section of the warehouse, and the team immediately worked with local police and fire department authorities to bring the situation under control, it added. As of now, the fire is largely contained and the damage to inventory is negligible, the company said. The building and inventory is adequately insured and the incident will not have any adverse impact on the company's operations, it added. The cause of the incident will be investigated, and the company will work with local authorities to assess this, the automaker said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-breaks-out-at-royal-enfields-transit-stockyard-in-jaipur-eicher-motors-905156.html
21-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi riots: Court directs police to supply copy of FIR to ex-JNU student leader Umar Khalid||A court here has directed the Delhi police to supply to former JNU student leader Umar Khalid a copy of the FIR of the case related to the north east Delhi riots in which he was arrested saying it is a settled proposition of law that no person shall be detained in custody without being informed of the grounds for such arrest. The court referred to the provisions of the Constitution and criminal law and said fundamental right of protection against the arrest and detention is safeguarded under Article 22 and section 50 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) provided that relevant grounds for the arrest must be informed to the person by police official. Khalid was arrested in the case related to the riots in Khajuri Khas area on October 1, while he was in judicial custody in another case related to larger conspiracy in the communal violence of February this year. The court also directed the police to supply him the remand application and order of October 1 by which he was sent to three days police custody and reports of the medical examination conducted during police custody. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Purshotam Pathak said that the remand application and remand order and the medical reports did not contain any material which may not be disclosed due to sensitivity of the matter or for any other reason. The court said that Article 22 (1) of the Constitution stipulated that no police official can arrest an individual without informing the grounds of his arrest and Article 22 of the Constitution guaranteed the fundamental right of protection against the arrest and detention. It further said section 50 of the CrPC provided that every police official with authority to arrest someone without warrant, must inform the person getting arrested about the crime for which he is arrested and other relevant grounds for the arrest. “It is settled proposition of law that no person shall be detained in custody without being informed, as soon as may be, of the grounds for such arrest. The provisions of Section 50 of the Code are mandatory. The police official must inform the arrested person all his rights after detainment and this is the duty of police official which he can not refuse. “Arrested person is entitled to full particulars of the offences for which he is arrested or other grounds for such arrest and his detention will be illegal if he has not been communicated the particulars of the offence,” the court said in its order passed on October 20. The court was hearing an application moved by Khalid's counsel seeking copies of the FIR related to the Khajuri Khas violence case, remand application moved by the police for his police custody, remand order and medical report, so as to know the grounds of his arrest. His counsel also sought a copy of the reply filed by the investigating officer (IO) to an application filed earlier with the same prayers. The duty magistrate had on October 3 permitted handing over certain articles to Khalid in custody and meeting with his counsel outside earshot of the police, but the prayer for supply of copies of the documents was pending. The court further said that there were certain judgments of various high courts, requiring the police officials to supply the copy of FIR to accused before filing of charge sheet or immediately after registration of FIR, as it was vitally necessary that the accused should be granted copy of the First Information Report at the earliest possible stage in order to enable him to get the benefit of legal advice. “An accused must be informed of the bare necessary facts leading to his arrest such as the grounds and the reasons, and the facts that in respect of whom and by whom the offence is said to have been committed as well as the date, time and the place of offences etc, and for that purpose there is no prohibition in law restricting the supply of certain documents to accused who has been remanded to judicial custody. “Considering these facts and circumstances and settled position of law, it is expedient and in the interest of justice that a copy of FIR (101/2020), Police Station Khajuri Khas, copy of the remand application dated October 1, remand order dated October 1, granting police custody, medical reports of the medical conducted during the police custody and a copy of reply of IO relied upon in the order dated October 3 should be granted to accused (Khalid),” the court said. Khalid is in judicial custody in the case. He had stated in his application that he had earlier moved an application regarding the same and the duty magistrate on October 2 had called a report from the investigating officer and directed him to supply the copy of the FIR. Special Public Prosecutor Manoj Chaudhary, appearing for the police, opposed the application saying there was no provision in law to supply the documents before taking the cognizance by the court. The public prosecutor further said that Khalid has been informed about the grounds of his arrest and if the documents were supplied to him at this stage, it would open the “Pandora box” as then he might move a number of applications for supplying one or the other document. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-court-directs-police-to-supply-copy-of-fir-to-ex-jnu-student-leader-umar-khalid-905185.html
21-10-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 positive woman escapes from AIIMS, husband files missing report to deceive police||In a bizarre turn of events, a 20-year-old woman who tested positive for coronavirus at AIIMS here allegedly escaped from the hospital, even as her husband filed a missing person complaint despite knowing her whereabouts, police said on Wednesday. According to police, the woman went to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on October 18 as she was unwell. She got herself tested for the infectious disease and was found positive. The hospital staff asked her to get admitted to the dedicated Covid centre, but she escaped from there, they said. Meanwhile, the woman’s husband filed a police complaint alleging that his wife has gone missing, police said. During the course of the investigation, it was found that the woman, after leaving the hospital, managed to reach her rented house in Zamrudpur village in south Delhi. Fearing that she would be caught, she left for her maternal house, a senior police official said. “Her relatives, however, said that she had not reached her maternal house,” he said. The police said the woman’s husband was aware that she was Covid-19 positive and had escaped from AIIMS. He filed the missing person complaint to mislead the police. “A case has been registered under IPC section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) at the Greater Kailash Police Station. “The matter is being investigated and teams have been formed to trace the couple,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said. Once the woman is traced, more details would be clear, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-positive-woman-escapes-from-aiims-husband-files-missing-report-to-deceive-police-905188.html
21-10-2020||North and Central||Punjab farmer bodies ease ‘rail roko’ stir, allow movement of goods trains||The farmer bodies in Punjab on Wednesday announced the easing of their three-week-long 'rail roko' agitation by allowing goods trains in the state. Farmer leader Satnam Singh said the decision was taken keeping in mind the shortage of coal and diammonium phosphate (DAP) fertilizer. “We have decided to allow only goods trains from today till November 5,” he said here. The announcement comes after a meeting of different farmer organisations here. The protesting farmers, however, said they would continue to stage sit-ins outside fuel pumps of some corporates, toll plazas and residences of BJP leaders in the state. “The next course of action will be announced in a meeting fixed for November 4,” Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakunda) general secretary Jagmohan Singh said. The Punjab government had been urging the protesting farmers to relax their rail roko agitation in the wake of severe shortage of coal for thermal plants in the state. Several industrial organisations had also complained of not receiving their inputs due to the agitation. Farmers in the state had blocked rail tracks from October 1 on a call given by several farmer unions. Some tracks had been blocked since September 24. On the four Bills passed by the Punjab Assembly on Tuesday against the Centre’s farm laws, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) president Balbir Singh Rajewal said it was a “big achievement” of farmers' agitation. “It has happened for the first time that a special session of the Assembly was called and the Bills were passed under pressure from farmers. “It is a big achievement of farmers' agitation,” he said. The Bills were passed after an over five-hour discussion, in which BJP MLAs did not take part. The BJP has two legislators in the assembly. The Opposition SAD, AAP and Lok Insaaf MLAs backed the legislations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-farmer-bodies-ease-rail-roko-stir-allow-movement-of-goods-trains-905234.html
21-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi airport emerges second safest globally on Covid-19-related safety protocols: DIAL||Delhi airport operator DIAL on Wednesday said it has been certified as the second safest aerodrome globally for effective implementation of coronavirus-related health and safety protocols. The safe travel score is an initiative by Safe Travel Barometer, which assessed more than 200 airports on their implementation of health and safety protocols during the Covid-19 pandemic. Safe Travel Barometer is among the world's largest and most comprehensive tools to monitor traveller health and safety protocols, a release issued by DIAL said. "Close on the heels of Singapore Changi Airport, which scored 4.7 out of 5, Delhi's IGI Airport has bagged the second position in the Safe Travel Barometer's list by scoring 4.6. "Besides, Frankfurt Airport and Chengdu Shuangliu International Airport have also secured the second position, each tied at 4.6 out of 5," the release said. The Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport in the national capital is operated by Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL), a consortium led by GMR. According to the release, Delhi airport has also become the country's safest airport for various safety measures taken to help control the spread of coronavirus. "These include the launch of RT-PCR testing laboratory, implementation of touchless initiatives to enhance the passenger experience, UV-based disinfection process, and development of AIR SUVIDHA portal for easy and hassle-free arrival process of India-bound international passengers," it added. DIAL CEO Videh Kumar Jaipuriar said it was a moment of pride that in this testing time, DIAL has been able to make exceptional accomplishment by ranking second in the world for implementing effective safety measures at the airport. Safe Travel Barometer is a comprehensive tool to monitor traveller health and safety protocols.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-airport-emerges-second-safest-globally-on-covid-19-related-safety-protocols-dial-905249.html
21-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi Police launch 'cops on wheels' to increase visibility, combat crime||To increase police visibility and combat crime, cops in the outer-north district of Delhi will patrol the streets on bicycles as part of a new initiative launched on Wednesday. 'CoW: Cops of Wheels' was flagged off by Deputy Commissioner of Police (outer-north) Gaurav Sharma from his office in Samaypur Badli on Police Commemoration Day. It will cover high footfall areas and those prone to street crime in the district, police said. Police personnel on bicycles from all the eight police stations of the outer-north district will patrol every corner of their respective beats including the hot spots, a police officer said. A Delhi Police vehicle will accompany each patrolling team to round up habitual offenders caught red-handed for violating the law, said Sharma. The officer said the scheme will also include public interaction, meeting with various stakeholders of both residents as well as market welfare associations to obtain local intelligent and first had feedback about the law and order situation in the area. "We will make an attempt to incorporate juvenile in conflict with the law, police mitras and other such social voluntaries to increase the sense of participation in them and also to enhance the value of yuva scheme," the DCP said. "The scheme will also ensure maximum police visibility during crucial hours, and will also help police staff in maintaining their fitness," the DCP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-launch-cops-on-wheels-to-increase-visibility-combat-crime-905271.html
21-10-2020||North and Central||Ambedkar University students protest against high fees, new reservation policy||A group of Ambedkar University students staged a protest outside Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's house on Wednesday against high fees and the new reservation policy, following which 13 of them were detained. According to police officials, 13 students were detained and taken to Civil Lines police station. They were released later. "The administration in its attempts at resolving the high fees crisis has removed the late fine, extended the payment window and offered a mechanism of payment in instalments on a case-to-case basis for certain students. However, these solutions do not address the core concern of our demands, which is the exorbitant fees being charged from its students even during a pandemic," the group of students said in a memorandum submitted to the Deputy Chief Minister's office. "We would like to bring your attention specifically to the unconstitutional changes that have been made to the reservation policy in our university," the students alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ambedkar-university-students-protest-against-high-fees-new-reservation-policy-905296.html
21-10-2020||North and Central||Punjab assembly passes seven bills on concluding day of special session||The Punjab Assembly on Wednesday passed seven bills, including the one to set up a vigilance commission in the state on the lines of Central Vigilance Commission. On the concluding day of the three-day assembly session, convened to pass Punjab's own Bills to negate the effect of the Centre’s farming laws, the House passed the Punjab State Vigilance Commission Bill, 2020, besides six other bills. The Bill aimed at setting a state vigilance commission on the lines of CVC to bring more transparency and curbing corruption among state's public servants was piloted by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. The assembly also passed another important Bill aimed at the allotment of up to five acres of state government land, under the possession and cultivation of landless or marginal farmers for over ten years, to them on a reasonable, pre-determined price. This Bill, entitled Punjab (Welfare and Settlement of Landless, Marginal and Small Occupant Farmers) Allotment of State Government Land Bill, 2020, was piloted by Revenue Minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar. The assembly also passed another bill for the grant of land ownership to slum dwellers and specified categories of people, who are in occupation of small parcels of agrarian land through inheritance. This Bill, entitled the Punjab Bhondedar, Butemar, Dohlidar, Insar Miadi, Mukarraridar, Mundhimar, Panahi Qadeem, Saunjidar or Taraddadkar (Vesting of Proprietary Rights) Bill, 2020” too was piloted by Kangar. The Bill piloted by the chief minister envisages setting up of a Punjab State Vigilance Commission as an independent body to exercise an effective superintendence over the functioning of Vigilance Bureau and all departments to provide a clean, fair and transparent administration. The Bill also empowers the Commission to probe into various allegations of corruption and other relevant offences against public servants. As per the provisions of the Bill, the Commission would be headed by a chief vigilance commissioner and comprise two vigilance commissioners and other officials and infrastructure to assist it. The Bill provides for the appointment of the Commission’s commissioners by the Governor on the recommendation of a committee comprising the chief minister as its chairman and Vidhan Sabha speaker and the senior-most state Cabinet minister as its members. Piloting the Bill aimed at the allotment of up to five acres of land under the possession and cultivation of landless or marginal farmers, Revenue Minister Kangar told the House that this farmer-friendly law would go a long way toward settling pending litigations on this count. He said any landless, marginal or small farmer in cultivating possession and occupation of land for a period of more than ten years, would be eligible for the allotment of government land not exceeding five acres. The price payable by an eligible applicant for the allotment of the land shall be determined on the basis of the rate fixed by the collector of the area. As per the Bill, up to 2.5 acres, the rate of allotment would be shall 50 per cent of the Collector's rate while for the allotment of land above 2.5 acres and up to 5 acres, it shall be 65 per cent of the collector rate. However, for landless categories of farmers from the Scheduled Caste as well as the general category, the allotment price would be 30 per cent of the collector rate up to 2.5 acres of land and 40 per cent of the collector rate above 2.5 acres of land. About the bill for the grant of proprietary rights to slum dwellers and specified categories of people, who are in occupation of small parcels of agrarian land through inheritance for not less than 20 years, the minister said this move was part of the agrarian reforms initiated by Amarinder Singh's government to empower tillers of such land. Besides the above Bills, Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal moved “The Punjab Tissue Culture Based Seed Potato Bill, 2020'. This Bill aims at boosting potato farmers' income by allowing the production of quality seed potato through tissue culture-based technology, using net house facilities. The other bills passed were the Registration (Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2020, the Punjab Land Revenue (Amendment) Bill, 2020 and the Factories (Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2020. The House was later adjourned sine die by the Speaker.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-assembly-passes-seven-bills-on-concluding-day-of-special-session-905321.html
21-10-2020||North and Central||JNU to reopen in phased manner from November 2||The Jawaharlal Nehru University will reopen in a phased manner from November 2, starting with day scholars and final year PhD students who need to access laboratories and submit their theses, according to an official statement. The university has been physically shut since March in view of the coronavirus pandemic. The JNU Students' Union (JNUSU) has been demanding a phased return of research scholars to the campus and has been on an indefinite sit-in at the university's gate since Saturday. "University will be opened in a phased manner with effect from Monday in view of the pandemic situation, only for final year PhD Research scholars, including 9B students and project staff who require laboratory access only in science schools and special centres," said the statement issued by JNU administration. The second phase, which will begin from November 16, is for final year PhD scholars who were residing in hostels, it added. Supervisor's certification for laboratory access will be mandatory for all students joining the campus. Also, implementation of the second phase would depend on the successful implementation of phase one. "After reviewing the operation of both the phases, the plan for subsequent phases for other students may be worked out. Covid-19 testing camps with the help of local district administration shall be organised in the campus on regular intervals," the statement said. Filling-up of a self-declaration form, downloading Arogya Setu app on phones, undergoing seven days quarantine upon arrival in Delhi from outstation and before joining the university are some of the guidelines made mandatory for the students. "Meetings may be conducted only in an online mode. No social gathering is allowed in the academic blocks and other parts of the University. All students and staff working in the lab must wear face masks/gloves, social distancing norms (six-feet radius) must be maintained inside the lab," it added. According to the statement, the central library as well as canteens and dhabas will stay shut in both the phases and anyone found violating the guidelines and Covid-19 protocols will be liable for disciplinary action. The notification also stated that deans, chairpersons of science schools and centres have been asked to submit an action plan within three days. The decision was taken after JNUSU representatives met the chief security officer (CSO) and dean of students (DoS) on Monday and Tuesday, respectively. Their demands included time extension to the research scholars for theses submission -- at least six months after re-opening of the university -- and a provision to conduct the end-semester examination for graduate and post-graduate students who couldn't attend their last semester due to the pandemic and subsequent lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jnu-to-reopen-in-phased-manner-from-november-2-905335.html
21-10-2020||Opinion||Who said Jack Ma’s Ant IPO is a money maker?||By Shuli Ren Optimism is in the air. People are lining up like ants for what might be the world’s biggest initial public offering. But who says buying into Jack Ma’s Ant Group Co. is a sure win? No doubt, the Chinese fintech giant is a rare gem, boasting enviable sales growth and profitability. Yet making money off hot IPOs is a delicate balance between margin financing and how many shares you expect to get in what can be a convoluted lottery process. Here’s how savvy retail investors in Hong Kong play new listings. They borrow as much as they can from their brokers, in order to apply for as many IPO shares as possible. For hot listings, a good rule of thumb is that 90% of an investment can be covered by margin loans — so for every $10,000 you put down, you get to apply for $100,000 worth of shares. But for Ant, local brokers are so certain things will go smoothly that they're offering leverage at up to 20 times. Interest on these seven-day margin loans is usually somewhere between a 2% and 3% annual rate. The upside, of course, is an IPO pop. As long as the world is sane, buying quality IPOs is a no-brainer. Let’s assume 90% margin financing at a 2.5% annual rate, and a 1% IPO commission fee to the brokers. If our savvy investor can get one out of every 100 shares she applied for, she just needs the new stock to debut with a 5% gain to break even, back-of-the-envelope calculations show. But Hong Kong’s IPO market has become heated, and it’s anyone’s guess as to how many Ant shares you could actually get. Say the allotment rate was only 0.1%, or one out of every 1,000 shares applied. Our savvy investor would need more than a 40% gain from the IPO price to break even. Intuitively, if your chance of getting any shares at all is that low, the IPO lottery is a sure losing game, because all you are doing is paying brokers’ fees, with no upside whatsoever.  We are already seeing some of that frenzy. In early September, Nongfu Spring Co., which bottles mineral water, launched the city’s most popular IPO in a decade, with the retail portion over 1,100 times subscribed in its $1.1 billion listing. For many, the odds of winning Nongfu shares weren’t great. There were 8,377 investors who each applied for HK$4.3 million ($555,000) worth of Nongfu shares; they ended up with only HK$12,900, or a 0.3% allotment rate. As for those who put in even more money, the odds could be as low as 0.14%. Fortunately, Nongfu’s shares are 68% above its IPO price and most investors went home happy. Otherwise, Hong Kong’s sizzling IPO market would have popped already.  Selling shares in this kind of environment is a blessing, but Jack Ma has to thread the needle. The valuation can’t be too low, or he’s leaving money on the table. Yet he also needs to accommodate the city’s enthusiastic retail investors, who have been pushing his Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. stock to record highs. Ant might start trading around the time Americans pick their next president, which could spell market volatility.  Apart from where to get cheap Shanghai hairy crabs (ask me!), or when travel bubbles will be established, this IPO is the talk of town. Next time your auntie tries to convince you that buying into Ant is a slam dunk, tell her, diplomatically, that she’s attempting dumb luck instead.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/who-said-jack-ma-s-ant-ipo-is-a-money-maker-905006.html
21-10-2020||Opinion||Will Netflix raise prices this Covid-19 winter?||By Tara Lachapelle    Forget dinner and a movie. As cinemas remain desolate, cooler weather puts an end to the enjoyment of safe outdoor dining and Covid-19 roars back across the world, takeout and Netflix sound more appealing than ever. And when something’s as in demand as Netflix is, prices go up. Netflix Inc. released results for its latest quarter on Tuesday afternoon, showing it added fewer subscribers to its base than Wall Street analysts predicted. That sent the stock price tumbling 6% in after-hours trading. Still, investors don’t need a report card to tell them of the increasing utility of the streaming-video service or its market dominance. Everyone’s been living it these last seven months. In fact, it may not have been the arrival of new streaming-video competitors like HBO Max and Peacock that hurt Netflix so much as the partial reopening of restaurants around the U.S. and other countries, with consumers itching to get out of the house. Now, the changing leaves are making way for frostier temperatures, which pose an added challenge this year for eateries and other indoor locales given how the novel coronavirus thrives in not-well-ventilated confines. Movie theatres also have nothing to show for the time being. For those reasons, it’s going to be the winter of Netflix — and Netflix knows it. As the company transitions from growth mode to capitalizing on its massive reach, it appears to be inching toward higher subscription rates in the US. It’s already implemented them in Canada, where the market often serves as a testing ground for its southern neighbour. The price of a standard plan, Netflix’s most popular, recently increased for Canadians by C$1 (76 cents in US dollars) to C$15 a month; its premium service for 4K streaming went up C$2 to C$19 a month. The last time the company had a price hike in the US was January 2019, so it’s about due for another. As the company improves its product, it will “occasionally go back and ask those members to pay a little bit more to keep that virtuous cycle of investment and value creation going,” Greg Peters, Netflix’s chief operating officer, said when asked about the potential for higher rates during Tuesday’s pre-recorded earnings video call.  For further signs that Netflix is thinking differently about pricing: It’s phasing out free trials, so forget about creating phony Gmail addresses to avert a steeper bill. At this point, Netflix doesn’t need to offer free trials as the popularity of its shows travel by word of mouth and meme. Just before the September quarter ended, Nielsen reported that Netflix's "Ratched" starring Sarah Paulson — a prequel to the novel, "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest" — was the top streaming program across Netflix, Amazon Prime, Disney+ and Hulu. In fact, Netflix hogged nine of the top 10 spots. It also expects to have a greater number of new original programs in 2021, though they may lean toward the second half of the year because of the Hollywood shutdown. And there’s simply not much else on television lately. While it may be in bad form to raise prices during a recession, users continue to suggest they wouldn’t mind paying more for Netflix. That’s because Netflix still provides the biggest bang for your buck relative to any other forms of TV entertainment, and that’s been especially true during the Covid-19 pandemic. Netflix had a relative advantage going into the pandemic because unlike its rivals, most of its productions for the year were already wrapped up. In a survey that Wall Street research firm Cowen & Co. regularly conducts, 53% of respondents said in September that they’d be willing to pay more for Netflix than they already do — a jump from 48% at the end of last year.  Regardless of how long the pandemic persists — and as much of a leader as it is now with 195 million paying members — Netflix’s growth is slowing in the U.S., and so it’s going to need another way to pay for its immense content bills. The company added only 2.2 million net new subscribers globally during the period, missing its own forecast of 2.5 million. And once Hollywood can fully return to filming, the company is likely to ramp up spending again and resume burning cash, as executives reiterated in Tuesday’s letter. Plus, there’s the impending Disney threat. Walt Disney Co. just announced a shakeup that entails reorganizing its media operations around its streaming initiatives. That means the full force and imaginative brilliance of Disney is behind its budding streaming business, and its studios have been given direct orders to make it their life’s mission to propel Disney+. Until now, Disney+ has thrived mostly on brand power while lacking much in the way of actual new content — that’s about to change.  The streaming wars haven’t been as brutal as the moniker indicates. Netflix has been enjoying an easy lead, and executives may be thinking now’s the time to cash in on its primacy before other fledgling rivals such as HBO Max figure out what they’ve been doing wrong.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/will-netflix-raise-prices-this-covid-19-winter-905043.html
21-10-2020||Opinion||Donald Trump’s H-1B reforms will make America poorer||Newly announced reforms to the H-1B immigrant visa system have the potential to reduce the number of foreign workers allowed into the US, just as the Donald Trump administration intends. The problem is that goal makes no sense. If implemented, the changes will seriously harm many businesses — small firms and health-care providers especially. Overall, they’ll harm US workers, not help them. Trump has already modified the H-1B program, which brings 85,000 skilled workers to the US a year, but the new rules go further. The policy tightens the definition of “speciality” occupations that qualify for H-1B status and prevents companies from hiring foreign workers unless they have degrees that precisely match available job postings — making it impossible to hire a worker with an engineering degree as a software programmer, for instance. To prevent businesses from undercutting wages, the government will also require employers to increase the salaries of H-1B visa holders. The highest-skilled immigrants will have to be paid at the 95th percentile of the prevailing wage for their occupations, up from the 67th percentile under current rules. And visas for workers hired by information-technology placement firms will be limited to one year, a change affecting tens of thousands of people, mostly from India.  The administration expects the changes to reduce demand for H-1B visas by one-third and sees this as a triumph for US workers. In fact, it’s a defeat. Nearly two-thirds of H-1B recipients work in “computer-related” fields, where labor is in short supply. The third-quarter unemployment rate for programmers was 2.9%, compared to 8.8% for all US workers, and vacancies in the sector are up 4.7% since April. These jobs increase consumer demand and help companies expand by filling critical roles. In other words, skilled immigrants spur growth and help create jobs for American workers. The new rules will discourage innovation and entrepreneurship by making the cost of employing foreign talent prohibitive for small businesses. US-based startups that rely on skilled immigrants for IT services will outsource more tasks to workers outside the US And, in the midst of a pandemic, the changes will worsen shortages of health-care workers. The new policy requires all medical professionals on H-1B visas to be paid at least $208,000, regardless of speciality or experience. For many clinics and hospitals in underserved areas, that’s unaffordable. Normally, public review might have allowed these defects to be exposed and remedied before the rules took effect. Not this time. The Office of Management and Budget issued waivers allowing the departments of Labor and Homeland Security to move forward without completing the usual review process. At a minimum, the courts should suspend the new rules until they’ve received public comment. Congressional leaders should also insist on closer scrutiny and remind the administration that far-reaching changes to immigration laws should be carried out through legislation, not executive fiat. The most important point is the simplest: The strongest possible US economic recovery requires more talent drawn from the rest of the world, not less. A smart immigration system would recognize this fact, and in that way advance the interests of all Americans.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/donald-trump-s-h-1b-reforms-will-make-america-poorer-905054.html
21-10-2020||Opinion||Cathay Pacific sees a discount path to survival||For an airline built in an era of globe-spanning cosmopolitanism, a pandemic that’s shut the world’s borders is particularly brutal. No wonder Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. is struggling. Just four months after receiving a HK$40.95 billion ($5.3 billion) bailout package from Hong Kong’s government, the carrier is planning to cut a quarter of its workforce and close the Cathay Dragon shorter-haul brand that it has operated since the 1990s.  Remaining Hong Kong-based crew will be asked to agree to changes “to match remuneration more closely to productivity and to enhance market competitiveness,” Cathay said in a statement Wednesday. That’s a fancy way of saying many of them will be exchanging their glitzy full-service uniforms for the more cheap-and-cheerful outfits of recently acquired discount carrier HK Express. With the city’s unemployment rate at a 15-year high and limited opportunities to move to a rival or another city, staff may end up having to take whatever they can get. All of this represents a remarkable turnaround. Cathay was traditionally so hostile to discount travel that it fought a three-year regulatory battle to stop Qantas Airways Ltd. from setting up a budget airline in the city. Almost uniquely among Asia Pacific carriers, it didn’t have a low-cost arm until management finally jumped on board last year by purchasing HK Express from cash-strapped HNA Group Co. The best explanation for the demise of Dragon is that management sees its future as one split between a low-cost HK Express and a premium Cathay Pacific brand, with no space in the middle for a regional carrier. For a major city and tourism hub, Hong Kong is a surprisingly difficult place to catch a budget flight, with such traffic accounting for just 12% of the total last March, according to consultancy CAPA Centre for Aviation. Full-service regional carriers like Dragon appeal to pretty much the same shorter-haul market as discount airlines, except with higher staffing costs and a chunk of seats at the front for business-class passengers. With management cutting 8,500 jobs and corporate travel likely to recover even more slowly than leisure flying, now is as good a time as any to jump into low-cost aviation with both feet. Repainted in HK Express livery, Cathay Dragon’s A320s would be perfectly placed to give the group a discount fleet that could take passengers to other Asian destinations such as Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan and Japan, where infection rates have been low and travel bubbles may open up in the coming months. Even these planned cuts are going to leave the airline with more employees than it knows what to do with. Roughly half of Cathay’s traffic connects with Europe and North America, which have seen an alarming spike in coronavirus infections in recent weeks. The carrier will be operating at about 10% of usual capacity for the rest of this year and well below 25% for the first half of 2021. In a best-case scenario it will be at 50% capacity through 2021, the airline said Monday. Cathay will still remain hobbled by the fact that its home territory is a single city that has seen its promised autonomy eroded. To the extent that any airlines are coping in the current climate, it’s those with dominant positions in cosy domestic markets where coronavirus infection rates have been low. Industry-wide passenger traffic on domestic routes in August was down only 51% from a year earlier, compared with the 88% fall on cross-border routes, according to the International Air Transport Association. While Cathay’s shares are down 43% this year, the mainland-listed stock of China Eastern Airlines Ltd. has fallen just 16%. Shares of Spring Airlines Co., a budget carrier operating out of China Eastern’s home hub of Shanghai, have actually risen 1.2%. In theory, mainland China should be the domestic market Cathay so badly needs. Yet it has traditionally accounted for a surprisingly small share of traffic, less than Southeast Asia or Northeast Asia. As an emblem of Hong Kong’s independent identity, Cathay and HK Express can expect few favours from Beijing in its current mood. Going head-to-head with Spring Airlines, whose Chairman Wang Yu is one of the great and good on the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, doesn’t look like a smart way to curry favour with the mainland leadership, either. President Xi Jinping plans to integrate Hong Kong further with the Greater Bay Area megalopolis that includes Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Dongguan and Macau, but there haven't been too many carrots for businesses such as Cathay. China has been remarkably slow at opening up its border with Hong Kong since the pandemic struck, in spite of an infection rate that's mostly been lower than in the mainland in recent months. Meanwhile, Taiwan has been left off the list of 11 destinations with which Hong Kong is discussing travel bubbles, a decision that makes little sense except as an expression of Beijing’s political priorities. Even with a newfound love of discount airfares, there’s no cheap way out of Cathay Pacific’s current crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/cathay-pacific-sees-a-discount-path-to-survival-905058.html
21-10-2020||Panorama||All disabilities aren't visible||Did you know that all disabilities are not visible? Invisible disabilities are often not talked about or understood. These include illnesses such as Lupus, Fibromyalgia, ME/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome etc. They come with myriad symptoms such as chronic pain, cognitive difficulties, fatigue, irritable bowel syndrome etc. These symptoms are often invisible to a cursory glance. Even though they are invisible, they have an important impact on the quality of life of people suffering from such disabilities. Even though our law has taken progressive steps to recognise the right of persons with disabilities, it has largely left out people with invisible disabilities. People with invisible disabilities should get recognition under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. A person with a disability is defined under the Act as: “a person with long term physical, mental, intellectual or sensory impairment which, in interaction with barriers, hinders his full and effective participation in society equally with others.” This is a progressive and inclusive definition. The problem is a Schedule to the Act which has listed out 21 disabilities for the purpose of many of the benefits under the Act. The Act has expanded this list but is regressive in so far as it leaves out many disabilities. Under Section 58 of the Act, only people with these 21 disabilities can apply for the certificate of disability. This certificate is important for people to exercise rights under the Act. It is important that persons with invisible disabilities are given reasonable accommodation and protection against discrimination in workplaces. In case of invisible disabilities, there is the matter of disclosure of disability. People often remain silent about their illnesses as they fear the loss of job or discrimination. With proper protection, people with invisible disabilities would be more likely to disclose their disability. This would benefit the workplace as well as they can devise the right environment and methods to ensure proper functioning and productivity of the persons with disabilities. In fact, this is an extension of Right to Equality and Non-discrimination under Section 3 of the Act. We need more awareness so that these rights are included in non-discrimination and equal opportunity policies at workplaces. Many with invisible disabilities may need access to accessible amenities in public spaces such as accessible toilets, lifts, accessible parking, seats for people with disabilities in public transport. People may need a handrail, accessible parking and access to lift. These are just some of the examples of cases where access to amenities are necessary. Access to these amenities is monitored based on a disability certificate. This implies that they are not available for many invisible disabilities. There is a lack of statistics and information about invisible disabilities. We do even have am estimate of people living with invisible disabilities in India. There is also a lack of information and awareness about invisible disabilities. Patients struggle for years with misdiagnosis or in absence of a clear diagnosis. This problem can be mitigated if we have proper statistics, information, and awareness. This data is also important for medical research. The Washington Group has devised question sets to get a clear idea of the number of persons with disabilities in a region. Another important requirement is to spread awareness about the broad definition of the disability under the Act so that people come forward to identify themselves as disabled even when the Enumerator does not ask the right questions during Census. There is increasing awareness about invisible disabilities. A lot more people with invisible disabilities have been talking about their experiences since I first got diagnosed. The Act now covers thalassemia, mental illnesses and chronic neurological conditions, so the benefits are reaching more people. With greater awareness and changes in policy, we can make our society more accessible for persons with invisible disabilities. (The writer is a graduate from National Law School of India University, Bengaluru. She is a Fibromyalgia and Bipolar Disorder Type-II warrior)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/all-disabilities-arent-visible-904882.html
21-10-2020||Right in the Middle||Madame Corona||I have often wondered who names disasters around the world! Some call this particular disaster a monster while others address her as a Mahamaari. I choose to call her Madame Corona.  The word Corona, in Latin, means crown and has been given to the virus because it is in the shape of a Coronet worn by members of a royal household. True to her regal name, she’s plastered over the news and our minds. She has taken us mortals by storm, changing our long-held notions of humanity.                    After several days of house arrest, we have started slowly limping back to normal. Despite having witnessed lockdown for so long, we fail to understand the perils of disregarding it. Us citizens are the most are a disobedient lot— after all, how long can we expect a government to baby-sit us? Children of working parents automatically become  responsible for themselves while their parents are busy. Alas, now at such a crucial time we are hardly acting like responsible Citizens, defying all safety measures. Here’s a small illustration of the irresponsible attitude: A mini-truck driven by a vegetable-seller often stops outside my apartment complex. A catchy musical tune asking the people to buy emanates from it, and I’m sorely tempted to rush down, but I, being a  super senior citizen, am permitted only to watch from my balcony,  and lo! I see near-by women throwing caution to the winds and rushing to buy vegetables as if the world is coming to end the next day. Not a mask on their faces, nor a pair of gloves on their hands! In fact, it appears to me that it isn’t the purchase of vegetables, but gossip that they crave for. If only Madame Corona didn’t crave the same! Instead of being a model adversary to the Mahamaari, we have as a nation mocked the efforts of our brave hearts who risk their lives to protect us. Despite our movements being severely restricted, we senior citizens also have the pleasure of the company of our children and grandchildren who were otherwise scattered across different parts of the country. This bonus bonding apart, we have obviously decreased our TV viewing replete with Madam Corona and instead have increased our reading to know more about our rich culture and heritage.  Will the sadistic Madam Carona continue to play with our lives at her will or will we be able to vanquish her from the face of this earth? Only time will tell.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/madame-corona-904889.html
21-10-2020||Second Edit||Ardern alternative to strongman politics||At a time when countries around the world are electing politicians and political parties espousing narrow nationalism and muscular politics, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern’s landslide victory in New Zealand’s general elections provides a glimmer of hope. Ardern's centre-left Labour party won 49% of the vote, giving it 64 seats in the 120-seat parliament. The victory is historic for several reasons. This is the first time in four decades that Labour has won an outright majority. Importantly, the verdict bucks the global trend. While elsewhere, right-wing parties with hate-filled, polarising and belligerent agendas are winning elections, New Zealanders put their faith in Ardern’s politics of inclusion, co-operation and compassion. At no time during her first prime ministerial term did Ardern waver in her commitment to building a progressive and inclusive New Zealand. When a white supremacist shot dead 51 Muslims at mosques in Christchurch, she stood resolutely against Islamophobia and empathised with the victims’ families, religious minorities and immigrants. She swiftly enacted gun law reforms and forced social media giants to tackle online hate speech. Ardern’s governance stood in sharp contrast to that of leaders in several other countries who have backed extremism and xenophobia to shore up support among ethnic and religious majorities. If her governance and campaign style prioritised compassion over hatred, her decisive victory signals that an alternative to strongman and divisive politics can win the support of voters. This is heartening. Among the major successes of Ardern’s premiership was her robust and efficient handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. New Zealand has been successful in containing the coronavirus and keeping fatalities down so far; a country of four million saw only 25 people dying due to Covid-19. This seems to have played an important role in her election victory. In her first term, Ardern did not address the economic recession. Some of the Labour party’s conservative partners in government were reportedly opposed to the government adopting progressive policies to tackle the recession’s impact on the poor. Recession has hit the indigenous communities the hardest and Ardern must address this crisis now. She has the parliamentary majority to take the tough measures needed. She has promised affordable housing and to eliminate child poverty and address climate change. She claims to be a feminist but has not done enough for poor or elderly women. Her main challenge in the second term will come from within her party; Labour party centrists could obstruct her policies. But given her significant skills in coalition-building, this should not be a major problem for her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/ardern-alternative-to-strongman-politics-904886.html
21-10-2020||South||Tamil Nadu: Chennai textile showroom sealed for breaking Covid-19 lockdown norms||A popular textile showroom in Chennai’s shopping district of T Nagar was sealed on Tuesday for not ensuring physical distancing and flouting Covid-19 protocol over the weekend. The showroom attracted huge crowds on October 18 due to clearance sale, thereby flouting the rules framed by the government during Covid-19 pandemic. As videos of a large number of people inside the showroom went viral, officials from the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) sealed the premises on Tuesday. The GCC also imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 on the showroom for not adhering to Covid-19 protocol. “The showroom flouted rules and videos that went viral showed no steps were taken by the management to ensure Covid-19 rules. People were seen flouting the physical distancing norms. The premises were sealed in accordance with the law,” a GCC official said. T Nagar is the shopping district of Chennai and houses showrooms of almost all major textile and jewelry brands. The GCC had issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) for large showrooms to follow when they were allowed to open after the Covid-19 lockdown was lifted gradually. Tamil Nadu had 6,94,030 positive cases as on Tuesday including 6,46,555 discharges and 10,741 deaths. In Chennai, the tally was 1,91,754 of which active cases are 11,845.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-chennai-textile-showroom-sealed-for-breaking-covid-19-lockdown-norms-904893.html
21-10-2020||South||Crocodile living in pond of temple in Kerala's Kasaragod decides to enter shrine premises||Babiya, the crocodile that lives in the pond of the Sri Anandapadmanabha Swamy temple in Kerala's Kasargod district, entered the temple premises for the first time in recorded history on Tuesday evening.  Babiya is believed to be vegetarian and eats prasadam that's fed to her. The crocodile has made the temple pond her home for many years.  "It came to the temple premises on Tuesday evening and spent some time there and went back after chief priest Chandraprakash Nambisan asked it go to its permanent habitat - the temple pond,” temple official Chandrasekharan said, according to several reports.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/crocodile-living-in-pond-of-temple-in-keralas-kasaragod-decides-to-enter-shrine-premises-904995.html
21-10-2020||South||Telangana CM directs officials to stay on high alert due to thunderstorm forecast||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao on Wednesday instructed the official machinery to remain on high alert and ensure that tanks and lakes in the city are not breached due to heavy rains and flash floods. The direction was issued in the wake of a Met department forecast that thunderstorm accompanied by lightning is very likely to occur at isolated places in the state. Rao wanted 15 special teams to be constituted to examine the tanks in the city from time to time and take necessary steps, an official release said on Wednesday. "As the tanks in the city have water to their capacity and there is still floodwater inflow in them, there is every likelihood of these water bodies getting breached causing more damage. Hence, at least 15 special teams comprising officials and staff of Water Resources department should be formed," he said. The teams should examine each and every tank and lake in the city and identify breaches if any and take precautionary measures. He also instructed the authorities concerned to alert people living in low lying areas and shift them to safer places. The city received heavy rainfall, unprecedented in the last hundred years, resulting in inundation of low-lying areas, brimming of dams and lakes, he said. The heavy rains have left 70 people dead in the state in the last one week and caused damage to properties with the state government pegging losses at over Rs 5,000 crore as per preliminary estimates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-cm-directs-officials-to-stay-on-high-alert-due-to-thunderstorm-forecast-905053.html
21-10-2020||South||Ready to protest alongside AIADMK over quota issue: DMK||The DMK on Wednesday said that it is ready to join forces with the AIADMK government and protest for getting the 7.5 per cent quota in medical admissions for state-run school students, a day after the ruling dispensation sought early clearance by the Governor for a bill envisaging the reservation. Chief Minister K Palaniswami should come forward and announce a protest on the matter after consulting the opposition parties, DMK president M K Stalin said in a tweet. In this matter, "DMK is ready to protest/agitate together with the AIADMK government.@CMOTamilNadu should come forward to announce protest (demonstration) by talking with parties," the leader of the opposition in the state assembly said. Stalin also wrote to Governor Banwarilal Purohit seeking his immediate approval to the bill, passed by the assembly on September 15 for providing the horizontal reservation to students of government schools who clear the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET). "I urge you to immediately give assent to the bill and help the fulfillment of the dream of government school students to an extent to pursue medicine as their profession," he said in the letter, a copy of which he shared with his tweet. The DMK chief's offer to work with the government and protest alongside AIADMK comes a day after a group of ministers, including A Sengottaiyan and D Jayakumar, called on Purohit at the Raj Bhavan here to seek his nod for the bill. The meeting came in the backdrop of various political parties, including the DMK and PMK, urging the Governor to give assent to the bill so that the quota can be implemented this year itself. After the meeting, Jayakumar had said the government was confident that Purohit would come out with a "favourable decision" on the bill which is aimed at lending a helping hand to students from government schools. In his letter to the Governor, Stalin said government school students could benefit from a reservation in this academic year itself only if the Governor gave his assent to the bill "without further delay." He recalled that DMK, the principal opposition party in the state, had supported the TN Admission to Undergraduate Courses in Medicine, Dentistry, Indian Medicine and Homeopathy on Preferential Basis to the students of the Government Schools Bill 2020 in the assembly. Stalin noted that his party has been demanding scrapping of NEET which acted as a "hindrance" for the rural and urban poor to pursue medicine. The 7.5 per cent reservation bill, passed unanimously by the assembly and sent to the Governor for his assent, was to bring equality between government and private school students, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ready-to-protest-alongside-aiadmk-over-quota-issue-dmk-905129.html
21-10-2020||South||Shops, retail outlets in Tamil Nadu allowed to function till 10 pm||All shops, restaurants and commercial complexes in Tamil Nadu would be allowed to function till 10 pm from Thursday in view of the coming festive season and to facilitate further economic recovery, Chief Minister K Palaniswami said, easing coronavirus-induced curbs further. Barring shops located in full containment zones, all others could function up to10 pm by following the Standard Operating Procedure to prevent the spread of Covid-19, Palaniswami said in an official release on Wednesday. Shops are presently allowed to remain open till 9 pm. Considering the upcoming festival season, and the necessity of facilitating further economic recovery, "vegetable shops, groceries, restaurants, and all shops including tea stalls and commercial complexes are permitted to function till 10 pm from October 22," the Chief Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/shops-retail-outlets-in-tamil-nadu-allowed-to-function-till-10-pm-905140.html
21-10-2020||South||Horses come to fore in rescue of Hyderabad flood victims||Horses turned out to be saviours helping a group of good samaritans in taking relief materials, including food and rescuing marooned people in narrow streets and by-lanes, where boats could not venture during recent floods in the city. Members of the Hyderabad Horse Riding School banded together and lent a helping hand to the personnel of Army, NDRF and police in reaching out to residents, whose houses were inundated following incessant rains last week. The horseriders waded through chest-deep water, navigating obstructions such as electric poles, trees, to deliver essentials like milk and medicines to people. Our horses came in handy at places where boats were unable to reach in view of electricity poles, parked vehicles, trees, and others, Md Abdul Wahab, President of Hyderabad Horse Riding School (HHRS) told PTI on Wednesday. Relief activities were carried out at Nadeem colony, Virasat nagar, Balreddy nagar and others in Tolichowki for four days starting October 15. The team deployed around 15 equines besides relief workers on the ground to carry out rescue and relief work, Wahab said. The relief work involved a big team and required a lot of planning. Our team rescued citizens who were reluctant to move out of their homes, by convincing them, he added. The horse riding school, established a decade ago, is run with a service motive and has also taken up Swachh Bharat work earlier. The heavy rains have left 70 people dead in the state in the last one week and caused damage to properties with the state government pegging losses at over Rs 5,000 crore as per preliminary estimates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/horses-come-to-fore-in-rescue-of-hyderabad-flood-victims-905165.html
21-10-2020||South||Move to drop plasma therapy raises questions among doctors in Kerala||The Centre's move to drop convalescent plasma therapy for Covid-19 treatment seems to have not gone down well with a section of doctors in Kerala who feel that it was quite effective in Kerala, which has a low mortality rate of 0.34%. Kerala had even set up a plasma bank following the positive feedback towards plasma therapy. Government medical college hospital at Manjeri in North Kerala has been quite active in carrying out plasma therapy. The enthusiasm shown by those recovered from Covid-19 in donating plasma had received attention. A preliminary study conducted on Covid-19 patients at the medical college found that plasma therapy had a success rate of 73%. Malappuram district's Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Shinaz Babu told DH that the experience of the district in plasma therapy found it very effective. Around 150 patients have been so far given plasma therapy at the Manjeri medical college hospital and it worked for over 100 patients. Kerala health authorities also issued guidelines for plasma therapy. He, however, preferred not to comment of the Centre's moves to stop plasma therapy based on studies. Another doctor in government service said that since any effective medicine for Covid-19 was yet to come, there was nothing wrong in continuing plasma therapy in patients who have no other ray of hope of recovery. Kerala is offering the treatment free of cost. After plasma therapy was found to be effective, Kerala government in July set up a plasma bank at Manjeri medical college, which is now catering to the plasma requirements of other districts. So far, around 250 have donated plasma in the district. Whatsapp groups of those recovering from Covid-19 were created for the purpose and the response of donors has been positive, said Dr Babu. Plasma needs to be taken from a recovered person within 14 days to four months and it could be preserved for up to one year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/move-to-drop-plasma-therapy-raises-questions-among-doctors-in-kerala-905235.html
21-10-2020||South||Approve NEET Reservation Bill immediately: Stalin to Governor||DMK President M K Stalin on Wednesday wrote to Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit to “immediately” give his assent to the Bill providing 7.5% horizontal reservation in medical admissions to government school students who clear NEET. Stalin's move came a day after Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami deputed five senior ministers to meet Purohit and ask him to approve the Bill passed by the Tamil Nadu Assembly on September 15. However, the governor has not yet signed the Bill even after Palaniswami, Health Minister C Vijayabaskar and Law Minister C Ve Shanumugam clearing his doubts a fortnight ago. Stalin has also told Palaniswami that the DMK was prepared to join the ruling AIADMK in fighting for the rights of the students. “The chief minister should come forward to discuss the issue with political parties and decide the strategy for getting governor's assent," he said. The Bill assumes significance after publishing of NEET results last week and political parties feel the governor not giving his assent would only result in government school students losing out on medical admissions. Tamil Nadu had been opposing conducting of NEET exam for admission into medical and dental colleges, but when it became clear that the Centre would not give an exemption, the state government came out with an idea to provide reservation to the students of the schools run by it. “In light of NEET results announced on 16.10.2020, the government school students could benefit from the reservation in this academic year itself, only if the assent for 7.5% horizontal reservation bill passed by the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly is given immediately, without further delay,” Stalin wrote in the letter. Noting that the DMK supported the Bill, Stalin asked the governor to immediately give his assent and help “fulfilment of the dream of government school students to an extent” to pursue medicine as their profession.” The move to provide reservation was taken after the number of government school students getting into medical colleges witnessed a massive dip in the past few years after the introduction of NEET. The reservation would apply to all government colleges and government quota seats in self-financing medical colleges in Tamil Nadu and would ensure 300 students from government schools pursue medicine every year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/approve-neet-reservation-bill-immediately-stalin-to-governor-905241.html
21-10-2020||South||Kerala girl clears NEET overcoming physical challenges, fulfils her wish to meet Rahul Gandhi||A Kerala girl who cleared the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test overcoming her physical deformities fulfilled her desire to meet Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in person. Rahul also assured of looking into the issues faced by differently-abled persons in pursuing medical education. Kollam native Amina S, who has a deformed left hand by birth, cleared the NEET with 1916th rank. She also has a weak financial background. Congress leaders who got to know about her wish to meet Rahul Gandhi arranged a meeting at Wayanad on Wednesday, before Rahul's three-day tour to his constituency ended. Amina explained the difficulties being faced by those with deformities in pursuing medical education. Rahul assured to take it up with the Centre. In a subsequent social media post, Rahul said that Amina's impressive accomplishment despite her disability and challenging personal circumstances was commendable. It was time to adopt more inclusive criteria for medical education and welcome doctors with disabilities into the healthcare system, he said. Despite her physical deformities, Amina takes care of her father suffering from kidney ailments and vision problems as her mother had to work abroad to eke out a living for them. Siddique Kappan's family meets Rahul The family of Delhi-based Malayali journalist Sidiqque Kappan, who was held from UP on the way to Hathras, called on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and pleaded for justice. Siddique's wife and brother called on Rahul at Wayanad and sought his intervention. Rahul left the state after his three-day visit to Wayanad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-girl-clears-neet-overcoming-physical-challenges-fulfils-her-wish-to-meet-rahul-gandhi-905248.html
21-10-2020||South||Nearly one third of Chennai's population exposed to Covid-19, says serosurvey; Tamil Nadu reports 3,086 new cases||Tamil Nadu reported just over 3,000 fresh coronavirus cases for the second straight day, taking the tally to 6.97 lakh on Wednesday while the results of a serosurvey showed nearly one-third of the population in the city has been exposed to the pathogen. The results of the second serosurvey conducted here recently to detect the transmission of coronavirus has shown an overall positivity rate of 32.3 per cent, authorities said. This was more than the number of those found affected by the virus during the first survey conducted in July. "Results of Chennai Serosurvey-II: Serosurvey samples tested- 6,389 out of which 2,062 are positive for IgG antibodies presence with overall positivity of 32.3 per cent," Greater Chennai Corporation said in a brief statement. The first phase of the survey, with a sample size of around 12,000, had revealed (on September 1) that a fifth of the population (21.5 per cent) in the metropolis had an exposure to the pathogen. On Wednesday, the state logged 3,086 new cases taking the tally to 6,97,116 while the death toll touched 10,780 with 39 more fatalities. Chennai added 845 cases, taking its infection count to 1,92,527. Recoveries continued to eclipse fresh infections and 4,301 patients were discharged from various hospitals as the aggregate of those cured so far climbed to 6,50,856, a health department bulletin said. Coimbatore recorded 314 fresh cases and Salem 198 while the remainder was scattered across the state. Tenkasi (7), Ariyalur (8) and Perambalur (9) were among districts that recorded less number of new cases. The active cases continued to fall and stood at 35,480 as on date. Those dead include a man and woman aged 40 and 84 respectively and except one all had co-morbidities. Chennai's toll rose to 3,556 while in neighbouring Chengelpet it stood at 643. Chengelpet and another neighbouring district Tiruvallur accounted for 41,845 and 36,510 cases respectively. A total of 81,782 samples were tested, taking the cumulative specimens examined to 91,93,849, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nearly-one-third-of-chennais-population-exposed-to-covid-19-says-serosurvey-tamil-nadu-reports-3086-new-cases-905257.html
21-10-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh: Landslide at Vijayawada Kanaka Durga temple, no loss of life reported||Scores of devotees at the Vijayawada Kanaka Durga temple had a narrow escape on Wednesday afternoon after large boulders rolled onto the premises causing heavy damage to the steel-framed sheds and other pilgrim amenities near the sanctorum. While a few people, including some of the temple staff, are reportedly injured and rushed to the hospitals, there is no confirmation of any loss of life yet. Fire, police and disaster relief personnel are clearing the debris in search of anyone trapped under the mounds of mud and rocks. The continuous rains of the past one week have soaked the Indrakiladri hill on which the famous temple is located. The incident happened a short while before Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy's visit to the popular hill shrine on the Navaratri occasion. There was a rush of pilgrims since morning because of the auspicious Moola nakshatra day. However, temple and police authorities pausing the queues to facilitate the chief minister's movement are said to have averted a major casualty. The Navaratri celebrations at the temple were subdued this year because of the pandemic and restrictions. Only around 13,000 devotees are being allowed according to time slot tokens. Reddy presented silk robes to goddess Kanaka Durga on behalf of the state government. Though rains have largely subsided in Vijayawada, the flow of the Krishna River at the Prakasam Barrage is at about four lakh cusecs because of the inflows from Karnataka and Telangana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-landslide-at-vijayawada-kanaka-durga-temple-no-loss-of-life-reported-905264.html
21-10-2020||South||37 passenger trains in Karnataka to be converted to Express||The Railway Board has approved the conversion of more than 362 passenger trains across the country, including 37 trains running in Karnataka, into mail/express trains by speeding them up and reducing the number of halts. The conversion of passenger trains into mail/express means such trains will operate with curtailed stops and increase the speed. The Railway Board has approved the list of trains sent by different zones which runs beyond 200 km. This was part of the railways' plans to introduce Zero Timetable’ in the coming days wherein trains with poor occupancy will be cancelled and scrap commercially unviable halts. The new trains will operate once the railways normalise its service. At present, the railway only operating around special trains. Though there was an apprehension among passengers that this would hit a large number of poor and marginal class as they depend on passengers trains for the daily commute, the railway official said that the decision to increase the speed of the trains by curtailing stops mainly due to low passenger occupancy and commercially unviable halts. The railway official also added that if they halted stops of some passenger trains, the national transporter will ensure that one or the other train stops at a particular station to cater the local passengers' needs. The official also said that even after converting passenger trains that run more than 200 km as express trains, passengers still give less money for travel in train compare to another mode of transport. The railways always earns less in passengers while it is being cross subsided due to earning from freight transportation. Passenger trains converted to Express in Karnataka Bellary to Hubballi ( 51411/12), Yeshvantpur to Mysuru ( 56215/16) KSR Bengaluru to Shivamogga town ( 56227/28), Selam to Yeshwanathpur ( 56241/42), Arasikere to Hubballi ( 562737/4), Talaguppa to Mysuru ( 56275/76), Chikkamagaluru to Yeshvanthpur ( 56277/78), Bengaluru Cant to Vijayawada ( 56503/04), Karaikal to KSR Bengaluru (56512/13), KSR Bengaluru to Huballi (56515/16), Solapur to Dharwad ( 56903/04), Solapur-Hubballi (56905/06), KSR Bengaluru to Hubballi (56911/12) KSR Bengaluru to Huballi ( 56913/14) KSR Bengaluru to Shivamogga Town (56917/18), Channapatna to Kolar ( 76525/26), Mangalore Madagoan ( 56640/41) and Madgoan-Mangalore ( 70105/06), Mangalore-Kozhikode (56654), Mangalore-Coimbatore (56323/24).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/37-passenger-trains-in-karnataka-to-be-converted-to-express-905270.html
21-10-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh CM Jaganmohan Reddy launches insurance scheme for the poor||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has launched the YSR Bima scheme to provide insurance cover to 1.41 crore BPL families in the state. A similar insurance scheme for the poor in the unorganised sector 'Chandranna Bima' was implemented earlier under the previous TDP rule. However, Reddy said since the central government has withdrawn its contribution, the state will be now bearing the Rs 510 crore as premium every year. Under the scheme, insurance coverage for accidental death and permanent disability of people aged between 18-50 years is Rs 5 lakh and for those between 51-70 years is Rs 3 lakh. Natural death cases (18-50 years) will get a sum of Rs 2 lakh. Partial permanent disability cases because of accidents in the 18-70 years group will get Rs 1.5 lakh assistance. Speaking during the launch event on Wednesday, Reddy termed the loss of the primary bread earner as the worst nightmare for any family. "Our government shall stand by such families in their hard times by providing financial assistance through this insurance cover," he said. All the families with white ration cards are eligible for the insurance scheme. The village/ward volunteers would visit the families and enroll the names of the primary householders. The list of the enrolled insurance holders will be displayed in the village secretariats. The chief minister promised that the claim amount would be directly credited into the bank account of the beneficiary in 15 days of the claim. Also, he said immediate assistance of Rs 10,000 would be provided to the families through village and ward secretariats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-cm-jaganmohan-reddy-launches-insurance-scheme-for-the-poor-905285.html
21-10-2020||South||Karnataka sees 5,872 new Covid-19 cases, 88 deaths||Karnataka has reported 5,872 new cases of Covid-19 and 88 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 7,82,773 and the death toll to 10,696, the health department said on Wednesday. The day also saw 9,289 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of 5,872 fresh cases reported today, 2,717 cases were from Bengaluru urban alone. As of October 21 evening, cumulatively 7,82,773 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 10,696 deaths and 6,71,618 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 1,00,440 active cases,99,493 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and stable, while 947 are in ICU. A total of over 69,52,835 samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,08,241 were tested on Wednesday alone, and 21,623 among them were rapid antigen tests Karnataka conducted 1,08,241 Covid tests across 155 labs in a single day today, Health Minister K Sudhakar said. "So far we conducted 69,52,835 tests with a positivity rate of 5.2 per cent..947 patients out of 1,00,440 active cases i.e.0.94 per cent cases are being treated in ICU. State's case fatality rate stands at 1.49 per cent," he said in a tweet. Out of 88 deaths reported today, 53 are from Bengaluru urban, followed by Dakshina Kannada (9), Tumakuru (4), Hassan, Kalaburagi and Mysuru (3), Ballari, Bengaluru Rural and Dharwad (2), Belagavi, Chitradurga, Davngere, Koppal, Ramanagara, Shivamogga and Vijayapura (1). Most of the dead are either with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounted for 2,717, Bengaluru Rural 366, Davangere 304, Mysuru 220, Dakshina Kannada 215, Mandya 208, Shivamogga 177, Ballari 145, Tumakuru 143, Hassan 140, followed by others. Bengaluru urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 3,15,559 infections, followed by Mysuru 45,864 and Ballari 36,221. Among discharges too, Bengaluru urban tops the list with total 2,48,584 discharges, followed by Mysuru 39,886 and Ballari 33,816.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karnataka-sees-5872-new-covid-19-cases-88-deaths-905286.html
21-10-2020||South||Hyderabad rain rage: KCR government turns to divine for relief||Faced with the flood fury for over a week, the Telangana government has now turned to the divine offering gifts and praying for relief.   On Wednesday, the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi ministers - Talasani Srinivas (fisheries, animal husbandry), Mahmood Ali (home), and Hyderabad mayor Bonthu Rammohan, deputy mayor Baba Fasiuddin have conducted a "Shanthi-pooja" to the River Musi beseeching the Gangamma to show pity on the city and calm down. A silk saree among other auspicious benefactions were made to Goddess Ganga (river/water) and special prayers were conducted at a temple in the old city. Later, a chadar (shawl) was offered at a dargah.    The river which was Hyderabad's lifeline during the Qutub Shahi and the Nizam rules was reduced to a large sewer due to the decades of mismanagement by the successive governments and rampant encroachments.  The incessant rain on Tuesday, October 13, has unleashed the Musi's wrath on the city's inhabitants. Several areas in and around Hyderabad recorded up to 32 cm rainfall on that day, breaching embankments of at least three lakes, swelling the river, and inundating about a quarter area of the city. Tuesday was said to be the highest single-day precipitation since the 43 cm rainfall recorded on September 28, 1908, in the city.  The Wednesday veneration to Musi is said to be the first since 1908, offered by the state. Following widespread destruction and loss of human life in thousands in 1908, the Nizams later got the Osman Sagar and Himayat Sagar reservoirs built upstream on the Musi and the embankments within the city were fortified.   Last week floods claimed 33 lives in Hyderabad and affected about 4 lakh families. The Chandrasekhar Rao government is distributing Rs 10,000 per affected family as a relief measure. Several colonies are still submerged in 3-4 feet deep water.   While the state suffered an estimated Rs 5,000 crore loss, the damage to the civic infrastructure alone in Hyderabad is Rs 670 crore.  Thousands of people in low lying areas especially in the South and Southeast parts of the city like Charminar, LB Nagar zones are spending sleepless nights with intermittent rains and more downpour in prediction till Thursday.  However, in the news that brings some respite, the well-marked low-pressure area over the west-central Bay of Bengal on Wednesday is very likely to move towards West Bengal-Bangladesh off the Odisha coast during the next two days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hyderabad-rain-rage-kcr-government-turns-to-divine-for-relief-905287.html
21-10-2020||State||Restriction for darshan at Kollur temple on October 24||The authorities have restricted the darshan of deity at Kollur Mookambika Temple from 5 pm on October 24. The rathotsava of the temple will be held on the day of Mahanavami at 5 pm. As a precautionary measure to check the spread of Covid-19, the rathotsava is restricted for the devotees and will be held in the presence of priests, and staff of the temple. The Vidyarambha will be initiated at the temple on October 25 from 4 am. Only children along with parents are allowed for vidyarambha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/restriction-for-darshan-at-kollur-temple-on-october-24-905003.html
21-10-2020||State||For fish-loving travellers to Mangaluru, a delicious meal coming up!||To ensure nutritious food for bus and railway passengers, the Fisheries College in Mangaluru will now provide jowar, rice, ragi roti, along with fish delicacies, at a low price. To ensure that fish lovers from North Karnataka, coastal districts and other parts of the state get nutritious food cheaply, the college has readied Matsya Siri, which will be launched by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa in Bengaluru on October 21. Matsya Siri is available in a combo pack with rice, jowar and ragi roti with prawn chutney, prawn pickle and fish chips. Separate packs are also available. Keeping in mind both safety and health, the college decided to come out with these seafood delicacies. It has been prepared keeping in mind passengers travelling in KSRTC buses and trains. Fisheries College Dean, Dr Senthil Vel said, “Many times, people do not wish to have food from restaurants and hotels while travelling during the night. Thus, migrant labourers get deprived of nutritious food. As the packet of fish delicacies is available at a minimum price, it will benefit the common man.” He said the entire process would be completed within a week. The food packets will be supplied to all 40 KFDC stalls and will be made available to people soon.  "The food has been prepared while keeping in mind food safety and quality. Only a restricted quantity has been prepared. The delicacy will be introduced in the market," said Dr Vel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/for-fish-loving-travellers-to-mangaluru-a-delicious-meal-coming-up-905009.html
21-10-2020||State||Srinivas University confers Honoris Causa on Palimar Mutt seer||Palimar Mutt seer Sri Vidyadheesha Tirtha Swami was conferred Honoris Causa by Srinivas University during its second annual convocation in Mangaluru on Tuesday. Universities play a pivotal role in imparting knowledge to students from different backgrounds without discrimination, said Palimar Mutt seer Sri Vidyadheesha Tirtha Swami. He was addressing a gathering after accepting Honoris Causa in Philosophy (Vedic Science and Dwaita Vedanta), conferred on him during the second convocation of Srinivas University in Mukka, on the city’s outskirts, on Tuesday. “The concept of the university has existed in India from time immemorial. Nalanda and Takshashila Universities were renowned centres of learning in the past,” he added. Deputy Chief Minister Dr Ashwath Narayan in his virtual address said that the convocation is a happy moment for the graduating students who have toiled hard all these years to receive the degree. Students look forward to the graduation ceremony as it is one of the best moments in a student’s life, he added. Earlier, Vice Chancellor Dr P S Aithal said that Covid-19 pandemic situation had affected all, including the education sector. Usual classes and even some academic programmes had already taken online platforms. Owing to this situation, Srinivas University had decided to conduct its second annual convocation ceremony virtually. A total of 38 ranks, 11 gold medals, 232 undergraduate students, 87 postgraduate students from various disciplines and one PhD, were awarded on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/srinivas-university-confers-honoris-causa-on-palimar-mutt-seer-905019.html
21-10-2020||State||Rowdy sheeter cum actor murdered in broad daylight||Rowdy sheeter cum actor, Surendra Bantwal, who had wielded a Talwar to threaten BJP workers in BC road was brutally murdered in broad daylight in a building in Bastipadpu near BC Road on Wednesday afternoon. Surendra Bantwal had shot to notoriety, after a video clipping of his brandishing a talwar and threatening BJP workers in Bantwal town in 2018, had gone viral on social media. Surendra who was arrested in this connection was released on bail recently. Bantwal who had joined Congress was seen with ring-wing political groups. Police who have registered a murder case suspect that Surendra Bantwal was murdered by his own men. He had acted in the Tulu blockbuster film, Chali Polilu, and a Kannada film--Savarna Deergha Sandhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rowdy-sheeter-cum-actor-murdered-in-broad-daylight-905096.html
21-10-2020||State||Siddaramaiah snubs Yediyurappa over Karnataka floods, says as CM he should have met the people||Leader of Opposition in Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah on Wednesday stated that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa should have met people in flood-affected areas to know the facts, instead of conducting an aerial survey and holding officials' meeting. "Officers give figures without visiting flood-affected places, and only people of flood-hit area can give true information. I will meet flood-affected people in Vijayapura, Kalaburagi, Bidar and other districts on October 25 and 26," he said. Charging that the economy has collapsed due to the failures of the BJP government, Siddaramaiah stated that the B S Yediyurappa-led government has availed Rs 1.30 lakh crore loan, while funds are not released even to construct houses for flood-affected people. Funds for reconstructing houses which collapsed due to last year's floods were not released, while flood situation has again emerged this time. Union Government has also not come to the help of flood-affected people, he lamented. On Covid-19 situation "The Covid-19 situation was also not managed properly, and I am afraid that India may become No 1 globally in terms of the highest number of Covid-19 cases. Clapping, lighting lamps, and beating jagate were their only achievement during Covid-19 situation," Siddaramaiah criticised. In reply to an allegation against him about the fall of JD(S)-Congress coalition government, he said, "MLAs went against H D Kumaraswamy government as funds were not released for their constituencies, and that was not the case when I was the chief minister. Who are the BJP leaders to charge that I troubled H D Deve Gowda's family? Why were they silent so far? They are now speaking so because elections have come". Mosque-temple issue at Mathura or Kashi is not people's problem. But, BJP leaders are trying to play communal politics to create division among people, Siddaramaiah charged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/siddaramaiah-snubs-yediyurappa-over-karnataka-floods-says-as-cm-he-should-have-met-the-people-905116.html
21-10-2020||State||Udupi: Giant stingray fish caught by fishermen||Two giant stingray fish weighing 750-kg and 250-kg each respectively was caught by fishermen who had gone for deep sea fishing from Malpe port. The stingray fish were caught by Subhash Salian. Using the crane, the bumper catch was unloaded from the boat at Malpe port. Sting Ray is locally called Thorake or Kombu Thorake. A large number of people had gathered at the port to get a glimpse of the giant fish and many were seen clicking the photographs and recording video and sharing it among their friends.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/udupi-giant-stingray-fish-caught-by-fishermen-905135.html
21-10-2020||State||Karnataka BJP warns against indiscipline in the party, says no change of CM||Ruling out any leadership change, the BJP's Karnataka unit on Wednesday said it will face the next election too under Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, and warned of action against indiscipline. The assertion comes following a comment by senior BJP legislator Basanagouda Patil Yatnal that Yediyurappa will not remain Chief Minister for long. Facing flak from partymen, Yatnal has tried to defend his remarks saying he was functioning as a public representative with conscience and not motivated by ministerial aspirations. "There is no question of Chief Minister change in the state, for the next three years Yediyurappa will remain the Chief Minister, " state BJP said in a tweet quoting its president Nalin Kumar Kateel. "Yediyurappa will complete his term and we will face the next election also under his leadership. Disciplinary action will be taken against those indulging in indiscipline," he said. Indicating a rebellion, Yatnal had on Monday said that Yediyurappa will not remain the Chief Minister for long and the high command has decided that his successor will be from the north Karnataka region. The former Union Minister had even accused the Chief Minister of taking all the development work to his home district of Shivamogga, while taking back the funds allocated to MLAs of other constituencies. While Yediyurappa, not wishing to react to Yatnal's statement, has merely said he will talk to the disgruntled leader, several BJP leaders and ministers have hit out at him. Continuing the attack against Yatnal, senior BJP leader and Rural Development Minister K S Eshwarappa today termed his statements as "foolish" and urged the party state unit president to expel him immediately and there was no need to give any notice as he has given an open statement, which is an act of indiscipline. "It has become a habit for some people to make such statements as it will attract media attention. At a recently held legislature party meeting where he (Yatnal) was present, the Chief Minister asked all legislators to share their concerns, and he was sitting with his mouth shut and now is giving statements," he said. Amid attacks on him by partymen, Yatnal on his part has tried to defend himself. In a late night tweet, he said "I'm working as a public representative with conscience and by becoming the voice of the people for Karnataka's development. I have never bowed down before any one or indulged in skulduggery with a Ministerial aspiration.I'm not that type." This is not the first time that Yatnal has expressed his displeasure against Yediyurappa. Claiming that he was upset regarding development of his constituency, Yatnal, while denying ministerial aspirations and rebellion against the 77-year-old Chief Minister, had in June stated that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah were his leaders and Yediyurappa was "only the Chief Minister." There has been speculation in some quarters in recent times about the possible change in leadership, considering Yediyurappa's age, but the BJP has strongly rejected it||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-bjp-warns-against-indiscipline-in-the-party-says-no-change-of-cm-905192.html
21-10-2020||State||RR Nagar: Cong stages protest, says workers were attacked||The Congress on Wednesday lodged a police complaint claiming that its workers were attacked during a door-to-door campaign in the Lakshmidevi Nagar ward in Rajarajeshwarinagar.  Bangalore Rural MP D K Suresh said ex-corporator Velu Nayakar, who was with the Congress, attacked party workers “at the behest” of the BJP candidate Munirathna. Congress workers even staged a protest outside the Nandini Layout police station demanding action.  “In Lakshmidevi Nagar ward, during the campaign, Velu Nayakar attacked our party workers at the behest of Munirathna. Our local leaders say the attack happened with police support,” Suresh, who is leading the Congress’ campaign in Rajarajeshwarinagar, told reporters.  “There are complaints that Congress voters have been deleted from the list. Also, it’s a challenge to identify genuine voters in this constituency. So, our party workers were going door-to-door to verify. There’s nothing wrong in this. If we were doing something illegal, let them approach the Election Commission instead of taking law into their own hands,” Suresh said, adding that their protest will continue if the police failed to act. Nayakar refuted the charges. “We didn’t attack them. They were going door-to-door collecting names, photocopies of ID cards, phone numbers and that they would be given Rs 2,000 for every vote. I requested the former Congress MP Dhruvanarayana not to do this,” he said. “They said those who want to take (cash) will take and that it wasn’t our business.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rr-nagar-cong-stages-protest-says-workers-were-attacked-905292.html
21-10-2020||State||Congress conspiring to create unrest in RR Nagar: BJP candidate Munirathna||Rajarajeshwarinagar BJP candidate Munirathna on Wednesday accused the Congress of “plotting to create disturbances” in the constituency ahead of the November 3 bypolls. “They want to gain sympathy by creating a tense situation,” he said, speaking at an event held here Wednesday. “BJP is looking for a peaceful election in the constituency. However, Congress has brought more than 4,000 people from outside to create unrest in RR Nagar, Munirathna alleged. “By doing such acts they want to depict BJP in bad light,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/congress-conspiring-to-create-unrest-in-rr-nagar-bjp-candidate-munirathna-905293.html
21-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||B S Yediyurappa conducts aerial survey of flood-hit districts||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday conducted an aerial survey of flood-affected areas in four districts of the state and said additional funds would be released after holding discussions with officials. "Already funds have been allotted to the flood-affected districts and more will be released after holding a meeting with the officials," the Chief Minister said. He was talking to reporters before boarding a special plane from Jindal Vijayanagar Airport here to conduct an aerial survey of Kalaburagi, Vijayapura, Raichur and Yadgir districts, to assess the damage caused by the heavy rains last week. Yediyurappa was accompanied by Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chauhan and the Commissioner of Karnataka Disaster Management Authority Manoj Rajan during the aerial survey. River Bhima, a tributary of river Krishna that originates in Maharashtra, had wreaked havoc in Vijayapura, Kalaburagi, Yadgir and Raichur districts due to the torrential rain in the catchment areas for the past 10 days. Yediyurappa said heavy rains and floods have caused inundation in several villages in Kalaburagi and Vijayapura districts, damaging crops and houses. To a query, the chief minister said a central team would carry out an inspection after the state government submits the complete report, which may take at least four to five days. He, however, maintained that the Prime Minister was aware of the prevailing situation and has assured him of assistance. Later talking to reporters at Kalaburagi after the aerial survey, the Chief Minister said he cannot make any fresh announcements due to the model code of conduct in place in the state in the wake of MLC elections and bypolls to two assembly segments -- Sira in Tumakuru and Rajarajeshwari Nagar in Bengaluru urban district. He said he has sought a detailed report from officials during a meeting with them and gave them necessary directions. The Chief Minister said he has asked the officials to supply drinking water in Kalaburagi, the district headquarter town, as the water pipeline has been damaged. "We will make sure that there is no water scarcity for which we will hire more tankers. Electricity and water will be restored and all the roads will be repaired. All the other important services will be restored in the next few days," the Chief Minister said. Yediyurappa said he had asked the officials to make sure that no communicable disease spreads in the flood-hit areas. In addition to it, there should be adequate supply of food and medicines, in the relief camps, so that people do not go through any hardship. When asked about the extent of damage, the Chief Minister said he has sought a detailed report, which may take at least three to four days. However, he said, 43,000 people in 14 Taluks of the four flood-hit districts are affected. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai who was accompanying the Chief Minister, said a joint survey by the state government and Central government officials has to be conducted to assess the actual damage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/b-s-yediyurappa-conducts-aerial-survey-of-flood-hit-districts-905098.html
21-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Heavy rains flood low-lying areas, uproot trees in Bengaluru||The torrential rains lashed some parts of Bengaluru on Wednesday, resulting in waterlogging and uprooting of trees. Many layouts in the low-lying areas had knee-deep water. The worst affected areas were Rajarajeshwari Nagar, Vishveshwarapuram, Lakkasandra, Gottigere, Nagarabavi and Kengeri. Vehicles in the basement of some apartments in the low-lying areas were submerged. Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan, along with the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad, visited Rajarajeshwari Nagar. According to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre, about 70 mm rainfall was recorded in most parts of the city. Channenahalli received the highest at 126.5 mm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/heavy-rains-flood-low-lying-areas-uproot-trees-in-bengaluru-905186.html
21-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM Yediyurappa lauds Army’s flood-relief efforts||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa lauded the army’s flood relief operations which have been ongoing in several districts since October 18. In all, 20 flood relief and 10 Engineer Task Force (ETF) Teams from the Madras Engineers Group (MEG) in Bengaluru, The Maratha Light Infantry Centre in Belgavi, and the Bison Division from Hyderabad have been deployed in Vijayapura, Kalburgi, Yadgir, and Raichur. They have been carrying out flood rescue and other aid operations. Yediyurappa, who visited Kalburagi on Wednesday commended the Army for its prompt response to the Civil Administration's call for Humanitarian Assistance in flood-affected areas in North Interior Karnataka. The army said that its teams had provided timely aid to flood-affected communities across the four districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-lauds-army-s-flood-relief-efforts-905200.html
21-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Experts puzzled by Karnataka's falling Covid-19 positivity rate amid 'complacency'||More and more people are exposing themselves to Covid-19 by moving about in the streets, but the state’s official test positivity rate (TPR) has plummeted by nearly seven points. This could be because many asymptomatics are slipping under the radar, an expert said. The TPR is a way to measure containment. The smaller the percentage, the better. According to Covid-19 mobility data compiled by Google, the average movement of people statewide is about 25% below the pre-epidemic baseline. Despite being under the baseline, there have been substantial increases of people stepping out.  Over a six-week period from September 4, there was 6% increase in retail visits and recreation, a 9% increase in visits to supermarkets and pharmacies, a 6% in visits to parks, a 5% increase in the use of public transport and a haphazard 17% increase in workplaces opening up again. Official data for the same period shows that the statewide TPR has dropped from an average of 14.7% six weeks ago to 7.78% this week, which puts the rate close to the 5% top baseline set by the World Health Organization (WHO) to indicate good clinical management. However, as DH had reported last week, the inclusion of retests means the actual TPR can be almost 2% higher. ‘Virus under control’ Nevertheless, the drop is a positive step for the state, experts said, as it matches the Covid-19 trend in other states. Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar suggested that the declining TPR is a result of increasing tests being carried out. “The virus is under control,” he said. Nevertheless, the key could be asymptomatic patients, said Dr Manindra Agrawal of the IIT Kanpur, who is a member of the Covid-19 Supermodelling Committee. He suggested that the TPR is low because a vast majority of asymptomatic Covid-19 patients never get detected by the surveillance machinery. “Covid-19 is unique because it results in a large number of asymptomatic who are never detected. They never need any medical intervention and so they go unnoticed. At the same time, they do contribute to the spreading of the infection so it becomes difficult to estimate how many infections there are at present,” he said. He added that continued TPR drop amid increased mobility may also be happening because people are continuing personal hygiene and social distancingprotections. To at least one expert, the increase in tests and decreasing burden in areas which have seen a surge in cases or both has also helped. “The surge in cases is receding, at least in few areas with higher population density compared to others,” said the noted epidemiologist Dr Giridhar Babu. However, another expert, Sanjeev Mysore, Convenor of Jeevan Raksha Covid-19 analysis project, said Karnataka’s TPR has never really dropped. By calculating the total number of cases and the total number of tests, the TPR is a solid 11.4%. “This number has never really changed,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/experts-puzzled-by-karnatakas-falling-covid-19-positivity-rate-amid-complacency-905240.html
21-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 cases dipping, situation under control in Karnataka: Sudhakar||Minister for Medical Education, Health and Family Welfare Dr K Sudhakar on Wednesday said Covid-19 cases and the death rate were on the decline in the state. The minister also hoped that the cases will not increase in Mysuru in the days to come. Speaking to reporters here, the minister said, "Out of 1.08 lakh tests today, the Covid positive rate was 5.5 %. It was between 11% and 14% around 10 days ago.". Early detection of cases results in fewer deaths. Karnataka is conducting the highest number of tests per day in the country, he said.  Though the vaccine for Covid-19 is yet to arrive, the government will be prepared for mass immunisation. “We are hoping to get the vaccine in January. A meeting has been convened to discuss how to administer vaccines to all the 6.5 crore people in the state. Experts from different fields, including logistics and medicine, will attend the meeting," Sudhakar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-cases-dipping-situation-under-control-in-karnataka-sudhakar-905283.html
21-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Gas leak: 1 dead, 3 injured at Raichur pharma plant||A 30-year-old worker was killed and three others were hospitalised following a chemical leak at Raichur Labs Pvt Ltd, a pharma company, near here on Tuesday night. Victim has been identified as Lakshman Lingampalli, a native of Telangana. Three other workers Anil of Devasugur, Maruti of Chillasugur and Aravind of Indupur have been admitted to RIMS hospital. The Raichur Rural police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/gas-leak-1-dead-3-injured-at-raichur-pharma-plant-905284.html
21-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||CM B S Yediyurappa conducts aerial survey of flood-hit Kalyana Karnataka||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday conducted an aerial survey of the flood-hit Kalaburagi, Raichur and Yadgir districts. He, however, did not make any announcement as the model code of conduct, in view of Council and Assembly bypolls, is in force. Yediyurappa was accompanied by Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chauhan and the Commissioner of Karnataka Disaster Management Authority Manoj Rajan during the aerial survey. After the survey, the chief minister held a meeting with the officials of the affected districts at the airport itself due to the poll code.  “I have conducted the aerial survey of the flood-hit areas of Kalaburagi, Yadgir and Raichur districts. I will not make any announcement as the model code of conduct is in force,” Yediyurappa told reporters after the meeting. “A total of 14 taluks in four districts, including Bidar, were affected by prolonged wet weather and the floods. About 43,000 people have been evacuated from affected districts. As many as 247 villages on the banks of Bhima and Krishna rivers were inundated. Several hundreds were shifted to safer places from 117 villages. The Army jawans, NDRF and SDRF personnel have rescued about 5,000 people during the floods,” the CM explained. Yediyurappa added, “Rs 10,000 ex gratia will be immediately given to those who’ve lost household goods in the floods. Steps will be taken to provide compensation as per the NDRF norms after the detailed report by the officials.”  About 38,000 people have taken shelter at Kalaji(relief centres). Clear picture on the extent of crop loss will be available only after the joint survey by the officials of agriculture, horticulture and revenue departments, he said. The CM said that he’d asked the officials to ensure adequate supply of drinking water, food and medicine to the flood-hit people put up in reliefcentres. Before boarding a special plane from Jindal Vijayanagar Airport in Ballari district to conduct an aerial survey of the flood-affected Kalyana Karnataka districts, Yediyurappa said, “Already funds have been allotted to the flood affected districts and more will be released after holding a meeting with the officials.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-b-s-yediyurappa-conducts-aerial-survey-of-flood-hit-kalyana-karnataka-905289.html
21-10-2020||West||Porn message row: Oppn demands Goa Dy CM’s resignation||The Opposition in Goa, in one voice, has demanded the resignation of Deputy Chief Minister Chandrakant Kavlekar over an alleged porn message which the BJP leader inadvertently sent to a Whatsapp group in the early hours of Monday. While Kavlekar has insisted that his phone was hacked and he was in fact asleep when the message was sent from his phone at 1:20 am on Monday, women’s wings of Opposition parties like Goa Forward and the Congress have filed complaints with the state police accusing Kavlekar of outraging the modesty of women on the Whatsapp group ‘Villages of Goa’ and demanded his ouster from the cabinet. “The BJP says it believes in ‘Beti Padhao, Beti Bachao’. But their deputy chief minister sends porn messages involving women on a public Whatsapp group. He does not deserve to be in the cabinet. His continued presence as deputy chief minister will also deter a police probe into the incident,” Pratibha Borkar, head of the social media wing of the Goa Congress told DH. Kavlekar in a statement had said that efforts were on to defame him and unknown persons had hacked his phone to send the porn message and that a complaint is already been filed with the Cyber Cell of the Goa Police. The Goa Bharatiya Janata Party unit has also backed Kavlekar. “The Minister has sent me a copy of his complaint. His criminal complaint says that his mobile phone was hacked. He has filed a complaint with the Crime Branch. The truth will come out after the police investigation,” state BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/porn-message-row-oppn-demands-goa-dy-cm-s-resignation-904891.html
21-10-2020||West||Maharashtra govt sanctions Rs 64 lakh to conserve Great Indian Bustard, Lesser Florican||The Maharashtra Government has stepped in to initiate a major plan to save the Great Indian Bustard and Lesser Florican bird species. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has sanctioned Rs 64 lakh to Maharashtra Forest Department to aid the effort. According to state Forest Minister Sanjay Rathod, the funds would be utilised in Nannaj (Solapur), Warora (Chandrapur) and Akola. The Great Indian Bustards or GIBs and Lesser Floricans are facing extinction. Thackeray, a photographer and conservationist, has sanctioned Rs 1.25 crore for 2020-21 for the conservation of GIBs and Lesser Florican. “Rs 63 lakh is the first instalment of the same,” said Rathod. “This is welcome news! Very positive indeed! After a long long time, any Maharashtra state government is talking about bustard conservation. I am not sure what plans they have for bustard habitat development. I hope they will ensure that it is retained as a grassland savanna and not convert it to woodland,”(sic) said Kedar Gore, the Director of The Corbett Foundation, which is engaged in conversation of the GIBs. It may be recalled, in 2019 that the Supreme Court had constituted a committee to urgently frame and implement an emergency response plan for the protection of these species. Over the last 50 years, the population of the Great Indian Bustard has recorded a decline of over 82 per cent and in the last few decades, the population of the Lesser Florican has seen a sharp decline of 80 per cent. A plea blamed various reasons for the threats faced by the two endangered birds including mortality by collision with infrastructure, particularly powerlines and wind turbines, depletion of grasslands and hunting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-sanctions-rs-64-lakh-to-conserve-great-indian-bustard-lesser-florican-904973.html
21-10-2020||West||Not received any info on Eknath Khadse, says Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis||Maharashtra's of Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis refused to comment on the resignation of senior BJP leader Eknath Khadse. "We have not received anything officially," Fadnavis said. According to him, BJP state President Chandrakant Patil will take a call on it. In Mumbai, state BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhyay confirmed that Khadse has resigned. "Our best wishes to him," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/not-received-any-info-on-eknath-khadse-says-maharashtra-cm-devendra-fadnavis-905044.html
21-10-2020||West||Aaditya Thackeray discusses tourism in Maharashtra with Sharad Pawar||Maharashtra Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray met NCP chief Sharad Pawar here on Wednesday. Thackeray, who is the Shiv Sena leader, later said they held parleys on encouraging tourism in the state. He also shared on Twitter a photograph of his meeting with Pawar, whose party is an alliance partner in the state government. "Met @PawarSpeaks saheb today morning. Held discussion from the point of view of encouraging tourism in Maharashtra. Took his guidance," Thackeray said on the micro-blogging site. The Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress are in power in the state under the aegis of the Maha Vikas Aghadi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aaditya-thackeray-discusses-tourism-in-maharashtra-with-sharad-pawar-905048.html
21-10-2020||West||Uddhav Thackeray pays tributes to cops who died in line of duty||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday paid tributes to policemen who laid their lives for the country while discharging their duties. Marking the Police Commemoration Day, Thackeray paid respects at the police headquarters in Naigaon, where Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and Ministers of State for Home Satej Patil and Shambhuraj Desai were also present. Later, Deshmukh in a Twitter post said, "I paid my respect to brave police officers on Police Martyrs Day, who sacrificed their lives serving society by offering a floral tribute at the police Hq. in Naigaon today. CM @CMOMaharashtra Ji,MoS @satejp, @DesaiShambhuraj Ji, police officers were present at the occasion." The home minister also hailed the policemen who lost their lives "while serving the nation" during the Covid-19 pandemic||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/uddhav-thackeray-pays-tributes-to-cops-who-died-in-line-of-duty-905052.html
21-10-2020||West||Gave 40 years to BJP: Eknath Khadse blames Fadnavis for exit||Lashing out at Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, senior leader Eknath Khadse, who left BJP to join NCP said that it was a painful decision but circumstances and false cases compelled him to do so. “I have given 40 years to the BJP…I was among those who raised the party in Maharashtra,” Khadse told reporters in his hometown of Muktainagar in Jalgaon district. When asked whether Fadnavis was the only reason for his departure from BJP, he said: “Yes…of course…that is the reason.” He said that he has nothing against the party but was left with no option. “I did not get justice from the party (BJP) and hence I was pained….even when I complained against him (to the high-command) but nothing was done,” he said. Khadse confirmed that state BJP President Chandrakant Patil spoke to him, however, he had made up his mind. “No party…Shiv Sena (then in government), NCP or Congress asked for my resignation…not even inquiry,” he said, adding that the allegations were against him was false.  “ They even lodged a case of molestation against me…they played low level politics against me,” he said. Asked who will leave with him, he said: “I am alone….no MLA or MP with me.” He said that his daughter-in-law Raksha Khadse, who is an MP, was free to take her own decision. Khadse will join the NCP on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gave-40-years-to-bjp-eknath-khadse-blames-fadnavis-for-exit-905059.html
21-10-2020||West||Fire at market in Mumbai's Dadar; no casualty reported||A fire broke out in a market in Dadar area of Mumbai on Wednesday morning, but there was no report of any casualty, a fire brigade official said. The fire broke out in a shop at Agar Bazar in Dadar at around 7 am. The blaze was doused with the help of a fire engine and jetty within 30 minutes, the official said. "It was a small fire. No one was injured, but a couple of shops were gutted," he said. The fire was caused by a short-circuit, a civic official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-at-market-in-mumbais-dadar-no-casualty-reported-905103.html
21-10-2020||West||Khadse's decision to quit BJP 'unfortunate': Danve||Terming senior BJP leader Eknath Khadse's decision to quit the party as "unfortunate", Union minister Raosaheb Danve on Wednesday said the issues he had could have been resolved with time. Maharashtra NCP chief and state minister Jayant Patil on Wednesday said Khadse will join the Sharad Pawar-led party on Friday. Khadse was sulking since he was made to resign as minister in 2016 in the then Devendra Fadnavis-led BJP government over corruption allegations. Khadse had a long career in the BJP, from holding the post of market committee chairman to minister in the state, Danve told a TV channel. "Due to some reasons, he was away from the main flow of politics, but that doesn't mean Khadse should leave the BJP. This is unfortunate," the senior BJP leader said. "The issues with Khadse would have been resolved, but time was needed for it. There were some legal things and after clearing them, the party would have done justice with him," Danve said. He further said the party (NCP) where Khadse is now going had earlier "criticised him a lot". "Khadse has now forgotten everything and is going in the party which criticised him," he said. Noting that Khadse contributed towards building the BJP in the state, Danve said, "This was a challenging time for Khadse and the party tried its best to convince him." After this phase, the party would have taken a decision about him, but now "he should remain satisfied where he is going", he said. Asked about relations between Fadnavis and Khadse, Danve said, "There would be differences between leaders while working in the same party, and there is nothing new about it. Khadse and Fadnavis were good friends."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/khadses-decision-to-quit-bjp-unfortunate-danve-905127.html
21-10-2020||West||Eknath Khadse to stonewall MVA from repeated BJP attacks||The entry of Eknath Khadse quitting BJP and joining NCP puts the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi on a strong footing as the seasoned politician will stonewall the alliance government from repeated attacks of BJP. Khadse’s bête noire Devendra Fadnavis, who is Leader of Opposition in Assembly and an ex-Chief Minister, and his close aides are repeatedly attacking the MVA government that came into being after Shiv Sena broke ranks with BJP. Whether it is Covid-19 related issues, Palghar lynching, or the Sushant Singh Rajput case, the MVA, the Thackerays and the Pawars have been facing repeated political attacks from Fadnavis and his core team. The development comes exactly 12 months after the 2019 Vidhan Sabha polls and around 11 months after Shiv Sena, NCP, and Congress managed to form a government by sidelining BJP and Fadnavis. Khadse, a grassroots politician, efficient administrator, and powerful orator, may get a berth in the Council from the Governor’s quota, and become a minister in the MVA government. “Let closed doors meeting be closed doors,” Thackeray said when asked about the finer details. NCP state unit president Jayant Patil too refused to go into the details. “Khadse is a senior leader and we will be strengthened,” he said. Even a section of BJP leaders feels that Khadse’s switch over is not good. “What has happened is not good. We have worked under him….there should be some sort of introspection,” said senior BJP leader Sudhir Mungantiwar. Groomed by the Mahajan-Munde duo, Khadse had traveled from being a Sarpanch of Kothali village to being the No. 2 in the BJP-led government. In fact, he was a CM-aspirant, but Prime Minister Narendra Modi and then BJP President Amit Shah chose Fadnavis instead, who had been groomed in legislative affairs by Khadse himself. Since 1989, he had represented Muktainagar constituency from Jalgaon district in the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly. From 1995-99, he served under two CMs – Dr Manohar Joshi and Narayan Rane and held portfolios like Higher and Technical Education, Finance and Planning, Irrigation, and Command Area Development. From 2009-2014, he was Leader of Opposition and led the charge against the then Congress-NCP Democratic Front government. After the 2014 elections, he lost the bid for the post of CM – but instead settled for 10 portfolios Revenue, Relief and Rehabilitation, Earthquake Rehabilitation, Minorities Development, and Wakf, Agriculture and Horticulture, Animal Husbandry, Dairy Development, and Fisheries and State Excise. However, he had to put down papers following charges of corruption. His daughter-in-law Raksha Khadse is an MP from Jalgaon. In 2019, when he was denied a ticket, the party high command offered the Muktainagar seat to his daughter Rohini Khadse-Khevalkar, however, she lost the polls. The Khadse-camp had accused Fadnavis and his team of engineering of the defeat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/eknath-khadse-to-stonewall-mva-from-repeated-bjp-attacks-905173.html
21-10-2020||West||UK university research offers water purification solutions for Indian farmers||Water experts at the UK's University of Birmingham say they have designed a low-energy and high-efficiency means of purifying water for India’s rural farming communities, which could allow farmers to safely use high-saline groundwater and wastewater to grow crops. Working in Gujarat, scientists in the Birmingham-led India-H2O project have used emerging membrane technologies that allow saline groundwater and domestic/industrial wastewaters to be safely and efficiently recycled. Based on fieldwork in the village of Lodhwa, which confirmed the poor quality and availability of water in the region, scientists believe they have now designed a system that can recover 80 per cent of the unusable groundwater-fed into it – producing usable water with low energy consumption. “India-H2O is developing, designing and demonstrating low-cost water treatment systems for saline groundwater and for domestic and industrial wastewaters in Gujarat, where over-extraction and pollution of groundwater makes it more and more difficult to access clean water,” said Philip Davies, Professor of Water Technology at the University of Birmingham. “Combining novel engineering solutions with new reverse- and forward-osmosis membrane technologies should substantially reduce energy consumption – allowing efficient operation of these systems in rural India using solar energy. They should increase the amount of drinking water extracted from groundwater by 50 per cent,” he said. His team is also developing ways of growing special crops using the brine solution produced as a result of desalination, as well as progressing plant-based treatments to recycle domestic wastewater and developing solar-energy to break down pollutants in industrial wastewater. The new technology should enable cultivation of halophytic crops – salt-tolerant plants usually found in areas such as in saline semi-deserts, mangrove swamps, marshes and sloughs and seashores. Some of these species are high yield and nutritious, with important potential to supplement diet, the university said. “Novel use of halophytic plants in an integrated water management system to eliminate harmful brine discharges and produce commercial crops will represent significant progress in water management in India. Such crops are rarely commercialised in India and little is known about the native species and their potential for use with desalination brines,” added Prof. Davies. Groundwater is the major source of water across India, with 85 per cent of the population dependent on it. Much of this groundwater, however, is of poor quality and water below 60 per cent of India’s countryside is too saline for human consumption or conventional agriculture. Over-extraction and pollution of groundwater are also making it more difficult to access clean water. Over the next decade, the number of people affected by severe water shortages is expected to increase fourfold. Of the 2,700 billion m3 hike in water demand forecast for 2030, some 468 billion m3 (17 per cent) is expected to occur in India. Desalination of brackish water and recycling of wastewater hold potential to fill the widening gap, but the cost of energy and the investment in equipment required for desalination and recycling has limited implementation of these technologies so far, the university experts note. The India-H2O consortium comprises 18 participating organisations from across the European Union (EU) and India, including universities, research institutes, industries and NGOs. Consortium members have been working in teams, each dedicated to a specific work package – for example groundwater desalination, phytoremediation, industrial systems, control systems, water governance, and business development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/uk-university-research-offers-water-purification-solutions-for-indian-farmers-905224.html
21-10-2020||West||Cong moves court against BJP for trying to create 'artificial majority to take control of Amul||Drubbed in the polls held in August, the BJP is reported to have been trying to take control of Kaira District Co-operative Milk Producers Union Ltd, popularly known as Amul Dairy, through the backdoor with the help of state government which has appointed three persons associated with the BJP, as government representatives in the union. The Congress party has termed this an attempt to create "artificial majority" ahead of elections for union's chairman and vice-chairman. Amul dairy is the only union where Congress still has some hold out of a total of 18 such unions in the state which are under the umbrella of Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF). The BJP, over the last two decades, has been able to wrest control over the rest of the unions. The polls for 13 seats of the union were held in August in which nine candidates won who belonged to a panel supported by the current chairman Ramsinh Parmar and vice-chairman Rejendrasinh Parmar. Interestingly, Ramsinh, an ex-Congress MLA, joined BJP in 2017 while Rajendrasinh is a Congress MLA from Borsad. On October 14, Registrar of Co-operative Societies, state government, issued show-cause notices to all the elected members of the dairy as to why three persons identified as Bharat Patel, Prabhat Zala and Dinesh Patel not appointed as government representatives in the managing committee of the union. The registrar also issued an "agenda notice to hold and convene a meeting for the chairman and vice-chairman to be held on October 23." The shocked elected members including two Congress MLAs - Rajendrasinh, Kanti Sodha Parmar (Anand), moved Gujarat High Court against the appointment. In the petition the Congress has alleged, "The notice directed the members to appear before the registrar on 20th and looking to these factual events and scenarios, the dates have been so fixed by the registrar so as to see that the elected members and petitioners do not get the adequate time limit to challenge the intended action of appointing the government representatives by the register on the managing committee of the union and meeting gets concluded on 23 by the artificial majority." In the meeting on 23rd, chairman and vice-chairman are to be elected. The petition says three government representatives are associated with the BJP. The petition was listed on Wednesday before justice Ashutosh Shashtri who recused from hearing the case. The petition will be taken up on Thursday. When contacted, Rajendrasinh Parmar told DH: "I can only say that the government had tried a similar trick back in 2015 which failed. I will only say that there shouldn't be any politics in the union." Rajendrasinh and his co-petitioner Sanjay Patel are eyeing the posts of chairman and vice-chairman. The petition states that Rajesh Pathak, one of the elected members and associated with BJP, is aspiring for the post of chairman or vice-chairman and has barely three to four elected members in his support. The petition accuses the registrar of "exercise the powers colourably and with malafide intention" to create an artificial majority in favour of the BJP members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cong-moves-court-against-bjp-for-trying-to-create-artificial-majority-to-take-control-of-amul-905244.html
21-10-2020||West||Land deal linked to IIT campus costs Goa govt support of one MLA||A controversy stemming from alleged land deals linked to an upcoming IIT campus in Goa, has led to the BJP-led coalition government losing the support of one Independent MLA. Prasad Gaonkar, an Independent MLA from the South Goa's Sanguem Assembly constituency, on Wednesday formally withdrew support to the Chief Minister Pramod Sawant-led coalition government. But the development should not in any way impact the ruling dispensation, which continues to have the support of 28 MLAs in a 40-member state legislative Assembly. Gaonkar announced his withdrawal of support to the Goa government, after a verbal spat with the chief minister and top Bharatiya Janata Party office-bearers over the relocation of the Indian Institute of Technology project to his constituency of Sanguem, where Gaonkar on Monday had said, the campus could be set up on available land. "The chief minister with his comments and the BJP has let me down by accusing me of doing land deals in the garb of the IIT campus. I have sent a formal letter withdrawing support to the current government to the Governor," Gaonkar said. "I also request the chief minister to start an independent enquiry to prove if I have done any land deals in Sanguem. I only offered my constituency to set up the IIT, because of the current unrest in the village of Melaulim (in North Goa) where the campus is being set up against people's wishes," Gaonkar said. For the last few months, villagers from Melaulim in the Sattari sub-district have been protesting hasty land acquisition procedures put in place by the Goa government to acquire 10 lakh square km land for setting up of the IIT campus. Reacting to Gaonkar's offer for setting up of an IIT campus in his constituency, Sawant on Tuesday had accused the Independent legislator of allegedly doing "land deals" and using the IIT campus project as a ruse to push his deals through. "Just because he is doing some land deals there, that does not mean the IIT campus will be shifted to his constituency," Sawant had said.Goa BJP general secretary Damu Naik had also said that Gaonkar's comments were made keeping an eye on the 2022 state Assembly polls and therefore should be taken seriously. "All politicians are getting ready for the 2022 elections. Gaonkar is also making his ground for the upcoming elections with these comments," Naik said. Ever since an IIT was allotted to Goa by the central government in 2014, the institute has been functioning from a temporary campus shared by the Goa Engineering College in Farmagudi village, in South Goa.The current site for the campus was identified by the Goa government earlier this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/land-deal-linked-to-iit-campus-costs-goa-govt-support-of-one-mla-905274.html
21-10-2020||West||Bombay High Court allows dining halls of Jain temples to open for 9-day fast||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday permitted dining halls attached to Jain temples to open for five hours each day during the annual nine-day fast for Ayambil Oli Tap, saying it does not see any problem if a limited number of persons are allowed to eat there without congregating. While granting permission, a division bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and V G Bisht said even Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said that the lockdown imposed amid the Covid-19 pandemic was over. "But the virus (coronavirus) continues. Now we have to leave it to the public. How long can we continue this lockdown?" the court said. The court permitted the dining halls, which are spread over 1,000 sq ft and more, to remain open for six hours (10 am to 4 pm) for serving food (10 am to 3 pm) and one hour for cleaning thereafter. A total of 40 persons will be allowed to eat inside these halls every hour and in five hours, not more than 200 people can be fed each day, the court said. "We, however, clarify that the Jain temples would not be open and nobody would be given access to the same. Only the dining hall shall remain open," the court said. The bench was hearing an application filed by Shree Atma Kamal Labdhi Suriswarji Jain Gyan Mandire Trust seeking permission to open dining halls attached to Jain temples in the city during the nine-day fast, which is scheduled to begin on October 23. The trust moved the high court after the Maharashtra government permitted hotels, food courts, restaurants and bars to operate with 50 per cent capacity. The trust's advocate Prafulla Shah told the court that boiled food of a particular kind is consumed by devotees during the Ayambil Oli once a day and is cooked without any spices. Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni opposed the application and said if permission is granted to one community, then other communities would also seek similar reliefs. Kumbhakoni said the state cannot permit the same keeping in mind safety and health of citizens. The court, however, noted that the state government was concerned about the health and safety of people only on paper and said the state's standard operating procedure for local trains and other public places is not being followed. Pointing to photographs of crowded local trains, Justice Kathawalla said, "This is what is happening in our state. What health concerns are we talking about? When someone asks for permission for some religious festival, then you (state government) will say no." "What is wrong if 40 persons are fed in a hall spreading over 1,000 square feet each hour? We don't see any problem. These religious practices have been followed since time immemorial and we do not see any issue in putting a stop to it now," the court said. "We are conscious of the fact that the state government, keeping in view the general interest of the members of public, has started the process of unlocking and we are sure that the government will, at the appropriate stage, also open up the doors of places of worship," the court said. "However, since the state government has now allowed restaurants and bars to commence their business with 50 per cent capacity, we are of the view that not allowing devotees of the Jain community to perform the ritual of Ayambil Oli Tap by not congregating would amount to grave discrimination," the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-high-court-allows-dining-halls-of-jain-temples-to-open-for-9-day-fast-905290.html
21-10-2020||West||Maharashtra CID nabs 24 more accused in Palghar mob lynching case||At least 24 more people were arrested on Wednesday in connection with the mob lynching case, in which three persons were killed in a Gadchinchale village of Maharashtra's Palghar district, an official said. A total of three FIRs have been registered in connection with the incident that took place on April 16, following which the government came down heavily on the police personnel. The Maharashtra CID, which is probing the incident, has arrested 24 more persons, the official said. As many as 128 persons, including two juveniles, have been arrested in connection with the attack. Three persons, including two sadhus, were on their way to attend a funeral in Surat amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown and were passing through the village when a mob attacked them. The attack took place amid rumours that child-lifters were roaming in the area during the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cid-nabs-24-more-accused-in-palghar-mob-lynching-case-905301.html
21-10-2020||West||Mumbai police summon Kangana Ranaut, sister Rangoli in sedition case||The Mumbai police on Wednesday summoned Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister and manager Rangoli Chandel in a sedition case registered against them. While Kangana has been asked to appear on October 26,  Rangoli has been called on October 27. The Mumbai police had registered an FIR on October 17 following directions from the Bandra Magistrate Metropolitan Court. The sisters have been accused of creating a communal divide through their tweets. The court had asked the Mumbai police to register an FIR based on the complaint of Munawwar Ali Sayyed, a casting director and fitness trainer. Sayyed’s lawyer Ravish Zamindar had pleaded for registration of an FIR under IPC Sections 153A (promoting enmity), 295A (malicious acts intended to outrage the religious feelings), 124A (sedition) against the actor and her sister. In the detailed complaint, Sayyed has accused Kangana and Rangoli of defaming Bollywood, portraying people working in it in a bad light with claims of nepotism, drug addiction, communal bias, attempting to create a rift between artistes of different communities, insulting religions, calling them murderers through their social media handles and making public statements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-summon-kangana-ranaut-sister-rangoli-in-sedition-case-905309.html
21-10-2020||West||Fake TRP scam: Names of two more channels crop up during probe||The names of two more TV channels have surfaced during the investigation of alleged fake Television Rating Points (TRP) scam, police said on Wednesday. While one is a news channel, the other one is an entertainment channel, the official said. "During the investigation, it came to light that these two channels were also involved in fixing the TRP by paying money to households for watching them," he said. "While investigating the fake TRP racket, the police have added fresh Sections of IPC, including 174, 179, 201, 204," he said. According to the official, the police had earlier registered an offence under Section 409 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 120(B), 34 of IPC in the case, he said adding the crime branch submitted the letter to the court about adding new sections. Earlier three channels, including Republic TV, was found allegedly involved in the TRP racket. Meanwhile the probe team on Wednesday once again recorded statements of Republic TV CFO S Sundaram and executive editor Niranjan Narayanswami, he said. The alleged fake TRP scam came to light when ratings agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint with the police through Hansa Research Group, alleging that certain channels were rigging TRP numbers to lure advertisers. It was alleged that some families at whose houses meters for collecting data of viewership were installed were being bribed to tune into a particular channel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fake-trp-scam-names-of-two-more-channels-crop-up-during-probe-905310.html
