23-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Carbon-14 dating facility set up in Mangalore University||The Centre for Advanced Research in Environmental Radioactivity (CARER), Mangalore University, has established a facility for Carbon-14 dating of archaeological artifacts or materials of biogenic origin based on Liquid Scintillation Counting technique. Carbon-14 dating is a method for determining the age of an object containing organic material by using the properties of radiocarbon, a radioactive isotope of carbon, Mangalore University Registrar Raju Mogaveera said on Thursday. The method was developed in the late 1940s at the University of Chicago by Willard Libby, who received the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for this work in 1960. Measuring the amount of Carbon-14 in a sample from a dead plant or animal, such as a piece of wood or a fragment of bone, provides information that can be used to calculate when the animal or plant had died. He said this facility has been established through financial support from the Board of Research in Nuclear Sciences (BRNS), Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), Government of India. Through a research project sanctioned by BRNS, DAE and with collaboration with Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC), Mumbai the CARER had undertaken a study for standardising method for Carbon-14 measurements in the vicinity of nuclear power plants. A team of scientists led by Prof Karunakara, in collaboration with Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC), Mumbai, has standardised a batch method for the thermal combustion of the samples by tube furnace system for Carbon-14 measurements. The spin-off application of this method is its application for determining the age of the material up to 30,000 years old. He said the Centre for Advanced Research in Environmental Radioactivity (CARER) with state-of-the-art facilities has been established by the Mangalore University as a national facility through financial support from the BRNS, DAE. This is an advanced centre for radioecological and radiation protection research in the country with collaborations with many advanced laboratories of the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/carbon-14-dating-facility-set-up-in-mangalore-university-905930.html
23-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||34-year-old hacked to death in Srirangapatna||A 34-year-old man was hacked to death near a resort in the taluk, on Thursday night. The deceased has been identified as Harish alias Kallapachi, son of Narayana of Palahalli, Srirangapatna taluk. Miscreants murdered him and damaged his face beyond recognition. The incident occurred near a resort on Palahalli-Srirngapatna road. SP K Parashuram visited the spot. The body has been shifted to the mortuary at K R Hospital in Mysuru. It is alleged that Harish was a history-sheeter and was involved in a murder case in KRS and also in several incidents relates to crime. Town police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/34-year-old-hacked-to-death-in-srirangapatna-905966.html
23-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Ahead of Legislative Council polls, JD(S) candidate from West Graduates Constituency quits fray||With less than a week left for Legislative Council elections from West Graduates constituency, JD(S) candidate Shivashankar Kallur has retired from the poll fray, and the party has announced support for independent candidate Basavaraj Gurikar. The JD(S) had announced the candidature of Kallur almost one year back. The party has now decided to retire its candidate from the fray, and has extended support to Gurikar, who also headed the primary school teachers' association. "Kallur could not campaign in recent days due to death of a member of his family. Other leaders of the party also could not campaign properly due to communication gap. To avoid setback for the party and to maintain distance from BJP and Congress, the party has decided to support Gurikar, in consultation with the leaders of four districts in the constituency," said JD(S) MLC Basavaraj Horatti. Kallur noted that he would abide by the decision of the party. Basavaraj Gurikar said, "JD(S) has extended unconditional support to me, and it has enhanced my confidence about being victorious in polls". MLC retiree S V Sankanur is the BJP candidate, while R M Kuberappa has contested from the Congress in this constituency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ahead-of-legislative-council-polls-jds-candidate-from-west-graduates-constituency-quits-fray-905968.html
23-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Fuel tanker overturns at bound for Hassan near Alur, thousands of litres diesel destroyed||Thousands of litres of diesel was destroyed when a fuel tanker overturned on national highway 75, on Mangaluru-Alur route, near Alur taluk, Hassan district, on Friday morning. The fuel tanker was bound for Hassan from Mangaluru, when the mishap occurred near Alur at around 10 am. The driver lost control of the vehicle, when he tried to avoid hitting an overtaking car, when the tanker toppled, said sources. Thousands of litres of fuel got wasted due to leakage. Fire and Emergency Services personnel rushed to the spot. The traffic on the highway was affected for about an hour. The vehicels were diverted via another route, according to sources. Police rushed to the spot, and prevented people from going near the vehicle, to avoid any possible mishap.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fuel-tanker-overturns-at-bound-for-hassan-near-alur-thousands-of-litres-diesel-destroyed-906020.html
23-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 pandemic doesn’t deter people from enjoying illumination||Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, a large number of tourists are visiting Mysuru to enjoy the illuminated ‘City of Palaces’ in the wake of Dasara celebrations. Even Mysureans are coming out to see the illumination during evening hours. Even though Dasara-2020 is a low-key affair, the city is illuminated for a stretch of 50 km and several circles and tourist hotspots are illuminated with colourful lights, by Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation. A large number of tourists are visiting the city, but the hotel and hospitality sector has not seen improvement in business. According to hoteliers, a majority of the visitors are from the neighbouring districts and come for just one day. They come to the city by noon and leave after the lights are switched off, hardly a few visitors stay. K B Nutan from Bengaluru said, “We came to the city only to see the illumination. This Dasara is the best, to enjoy illumination as there is less traffic, compared to previous years. I had visited the city two years back. Then, I could not enjoy the illumination due to traffic." With hundreds of vehicles arriving in the city, traffic jam was seen near Mysuru Palace, major circles like KR Circle, Jayachamaraja Wadiyar Circle (Hardinge Circle), Hunsur Road, Kalidasa Road, and near Railway Station during evening time. The visitors capturing photographs and videos was a common scene in the city. A large number of people were taking photographs and video of the illuminated Mysuru Palace. A Police officer said, "Traffic has drastically increased across the city and major streets were choking, particularly in the evening. Not only tourists, even residents of the city are coming out to watch the illuminated city."    Even though the City Traffic Police have taken certain measures to ensure free flow of traffic, vehicle movement came to halt at many circles. The police have installed automatic signal lights and are also manually controlling vehicle movement. The police also banned parking of vehicles at particular places. It has to be noted that the lifting of ban on tourist hotspots is a reason for the increase in the number of tourists. The district administration had banned the entry of tourists to Mysuru Zoo, Chamundeshwari Temple, and Nanjangud Srikanteshwara temple. But, following a direction from Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, the ban was lifted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-pandemic-doesn-t-deter-people-from-enjoying-illumination-906164.html
23-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||No shortage for Covid beds, says Mysuru DC||Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri said that Mysuru district has no shortage of oxygen beds and beds for Covid-19 patients, and warned private hospitals against over-charging the infected persons. Addressing on Facebook live, on Friday, the DC said, “In government hospitals, more than 1,000 beds are available. In addition, a new trauma care centre has 50 beds.” According to the DC, a total of 1,944 beds are available in government facilities. Out of them, 652 are occupied and 1,292 are available. In addition, 211 beds with oxygen and 53 beds in ICUs are available, she added. Sindhuri said that the district administration is facilitating all taluk hospitals with 50 beds with oxygen and three taluk hospitals - Nanjangud, T Narasipur and Periyapatna - are ready with beds with oxygen. Each hospital will have three beds with ventilator, she informed.  Sindhuri warned private hospitals against collecting hefty amount for isolating Covid infected persons. The government has fixed the charges and the hospitals can collect a maximum of Rs 10,000 for general ward, Rs 12,000 for High Dependency Unit (HDU) and Rs 25,000 for isolation ICU, with ventilators. The district administration will take the responsibility and get the exorbitant charges refunded by the hospitals, she said.  As many as 64 private hospitals have more than 25 beds reserved for Covid patients and 24 hospitals have patients at present. Private hospitals must display boards about available beds. The district administration and Police department have formed teams for inspection. If caught violating norms, the district administration will take measures to refund the amount, she said. Sindhuri urged the people not to worry about medical care and suggested them to follow the guidelines to keep the infection at bay. She advised the people to wear mask, to maintain social distance and to undergo tests regularly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-shortage-for-covid-beds-says-mysuru-dc-906165.html
23-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Night safari of actor Dhanveer in ‘Bandipur’; video goes viral||A video clipping, said to be of actor Dhanveer Gowda and his friends on night safari, at Bandipur Tiger Reserve on Thursday night, has irked environmentalists, who asked, how could the actor go on a safari during night, as it is prohibited? The safari timings at Bandipur is from 6.30 am to 8.30 am and from 3 pm to 5.30 pm. A video clip of the safari has gone viral on social media. According to sources, the group spotted a tiger during the safari, and one of them circulated it on a WhatsApp group, which went viral. It is also alleged that they were taken on a safari in a vehicle belonging to the Forest department. Reacting to the incident, Bandipur Tiger Reserve Director T Balachandra said, "There is no provision for night safari in the Bandipur forest. The department has not given permission to anyone. The last safari is at 5.30 pm and the vehicle has to return by 6.40 pm." "The video is said to be taken during the official safari time, i.e., before 6.40 pm. I have instructed the personnel to conduct a probe into the incident. In case, the night safari is true, action would be taken against the department staff and also against the person, who has posted this on the social media," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/night-safari-of-actor-dhanveer-in-bandipur-video-goes-viral-906166.html
23-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 death rate declined by 0.6%: Rohini Sindhuri||The Covid-19 death rate has declined by 0.6% in Mysuru district and the district administration has decided to increase the number of tests and has promised of giving reports within 24 hours, after Vijayadashami. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri on Friday, said that since the last 25 days, Covid-related fatality rate has come down in Mysuru district by 0.6%. "The death rate has declined to 1.5% from 2.1%. It is decided to ramp up Covid tests and reports will be given within 24 hours of swab collection after Vijayadashami," she said. "The swab tests are conducted in only two laboratories in Mysuru and they have a capacity to test only 1,500 samples per day. The remaining are sent to labs in Bengaluru. It takes five days to get the report from Bengaluru," she said. "In order to ramp up testing and to give reports within 24 hours, it is decided to facilitate a 'Liquid handling system' at MMC&RI. With the new system, 4,000 swabs can be tested in Mysuru and reports can be given within 24 hours," she said.  The DC said that at present, two-type of tests -- Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) and Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) -- are being conducted. "Although test reports will be available within 20 minutes in RAT, the results are not 100% accurate, as it will not detect the virus, if the virus load is minimal. Thus, the government has directed to conduct 90% RT-PCR test. But, we need to wait for five days to get the result, at present," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-death-rate-declined-by-06-rohini-sindhuri-906168.html
23-10-2020||Karnataka Politics||Paramilitary forces arrive in Bengaluru for Karnataka bypolls||Central paramilitary forces arrived in the city on Friday to be deployed for the bypolls to Rajarajeshwari Nagar Assembly constituency, a top police official said. "The Central paramilitary forces have arrived in the city. One is from Bengaluru, another being grouped from Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Mysuru," Bengaluru Deputy Commissioner of Police (West division) Sajeev M Patil said. He said the Central Industrial Security Force contingent is also being deployed in the west division. The battle in the RR Nagar constituency, where bypolls will be held on November 3, has intensified with candidates and political parties trading allegations of poll code violations. The BJP has fielded Munirathna, a Congress turncoat, while H Kusuma and V Krishnamurthy are the Congress and the JD(S) candidates respectively. Kusuma is the wife of a former IAS officer late D K Ravi whose 'suicide' had kicked up a storm in the state. She is also the daughter of a JD(S) leader Hanumantharayappa, who unsuccessfully contested the 2008 Assembly elections from RR Nagar. At present, the fight appears to be mainly between the BJP and the Congress who are leaving no stone unturned to win the seat. The election has become a prestige issue for Munirathna and Congress state president D K Shivakumar, as his brother D K Suresh represents the Bengaluru Rural constituency in the Lok Sabha under which the RR Nagar assembly segment falls. Eight days ago, a case of poll code violation was registered against Congress candidate Kusuma and the escort staff of former chief minister Siddaramaiah for not abiding by the directions of the Code of Conduct at the office of the Returning Officer for Rajarajeshwari Nagar constituency. Two days ago, the Congress workers staged a demonstration at the Nandini Layout police station alleging that the BJP activists assaulted a party worker. On Thursday, Munirathna had stated that the situation in RR Nagar has become 'explosive' as more than 4,000 outsiders have arrived in the constituency and were allegedly conducting a door-to-door survey. "They are collecting all the information. I appeal to people not to share personal information with anyone," Munirathna told reporters on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/paramilitary-forces-arrive-in-bengaluru-for-karnataka-bypolls-905984.html
23-10-2020||Karnataka Politics||A H Vishwanath criticises BJP over Bihar manifesto, vaccine sop||Karnataka BJP MLC A H Vishwanath on Friday expressed his anguish against his own party over its poll promise of free Covid-19 vaccine to all if the party is voted to power in Bihar. Speaking to reporters, Vishwanath condemned the party's election manifesto for Bihar. He asked the party leadership, "Will you let the people die, if they do not vote for BJP in Bihar?" "Covid is a serious issue and no political party should take such an issue for the election manifesto," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/a-h-vishwanath-criticises-bjp-over-bihar-manifesto-vaccine-sop-906158.html
23-10-2020||Main Article||Setbacks dwarfed by success||October 24, 2020 is a landmark moment in the history of the United Nations (UN) as it would mark the 75th anniversary of the formation of this great institution. Scholars might argue and differ whether one can call UN great but any institution that can survive for around 75 years as a truly global institution with an impact that is second to none deserves a unique place in history and by extension can be called great. To appreciate the largesse of UN as an institution, one needs to remember the context in which this organisation came up. After the World War II that destroyed millions of lives and turned many cities into dust and rubble, the world was yearning for a lasting peace. The last three decades before 1945 were filled with violence, whose scale was unprecedented in the recorded human history and within a span just 20 years, the world had seen two world wars being fought. The great powers had decided to come up with an institutional mechanism to prevent world wars after World War-I ended in 1919. That institution was called ‘League of Nations’. Many commentators call the United Nations as the successor of this League of Nations which had utterly failed to prevent World War II to take place. So, when one now looks back into history, United Nations as an institution stands out as a body that didn’t fail to prevent a third major global war. That in itself is a major marker of the success of the United Nations. This is not to say that UN has no drawbacks in the way it functions or the way it has been functioning since 1945 but its drawbacks are almost dwarfed by the grandiose success of this institution in maintaining global peace and the international order. Yes, countries have fought wars, nation-states have crumbled and dissolved (like USSR, Yogoslavia), Cold War started and ended and the world maybe on to a Cold War 2.0. But despite all that, the UN has been a key force in maintaining a global framework in which nation-states have been working largely and been interacting with each other as well. From ensuring global peace to providing food to the deprived people across nations, the UN as a body has truly diversified its interests and works. This can be seen when one looks at the scale of work done by the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) to the United Nations’ WorldFood Programme that has just been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for the year 2020. United Nations has shown both ‘intent’ and ‘character’ to possess system-shaping capabilities. From the arena of environment (through its United Nations Environment Programme) to the arena of championing human rights globally (through United Nations Human Rights Council), the journey of United Nations in the last 75 years since its formation has been that of a roller-coaster yet a steady ride.  The UN has found that balance to ensure that the world doesn’t go back to what it looked like before 1945 and most of the international relations scholars would agree to the fact that the coming of UN and its existence since then made sure that a paradigm shift in the international order and the world cannot relapse to pre-1945 days of international chaos. In its 75 years of history, the UN saw through the period of decolonisation in large parts of Asia and Africa. It made sure that the newly born nation-states got their memberships and became a part of the comity of nations. The importance that UN has got over the years can be seen through the sheer value that the leaders of nation-states (barring few exceptions) attach into what UN’s views are about various matters and issues related to them. However, many argue that UN has relatively failed to keep checks on the mis-actions and misadventures of great powers when compared to the same set of actions by smaller powers and nation states. Arm-twisting  This is an issue that the UN as an institution needs to work on with sincerity but truth be told, UN’s outlook is that of a liberal institution working within a hyper-realist world. Therefore, it seems that despite possessing the intent to take actions on each of its member-state in an egalitarian manner, its capabilities to do so are arm-twisted by the Big-5 that constitute the UNSC - US, China, Russia, France and UK. These five great powers are also the five biggest financers who funnel huge amount of money into making UN work on a daily basis globally. So, it makes it hard for UN to take actions against any one of these five nation-states when they are caught on the wrong foot. The best example is of Covid-19. Enough amount of proof has been gathered by now that China has been responsible in making the world suffer through the spread of Coronavirus which has taken over a million lives and counting, making this one of the worst pandemics that the world has ever seen on this scale.  Still, no concrete action has been taken against China because it is a great power on the cusp of becoming a superpower, although an irresponsible power and UN is a ‘toothless institution’ when it comes to taking strong actions against major powers. Despite these drawbacks, the world is a much better place with United Nations in it than without it. Today, UN is facing a serious challenge of tackling coronavirus pandemic but it is working hard for shaping our future together. To sum up, the world needs solidarity today more than ever and what better than UN as an institution to fulfil this idea. (The writer is Senior Research Fellow, School of International Studies, JNU)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/setbacks-dwarfed-by-success-905884.html
23-10-2020||National||Have allowed policy related promises even for Congress in poll manifestos in past: ECI||Amid demand by some opposition leaders for action by the Election Commission against BJP's manifesto promising free coronavirus vaccine in Bihar, officials on Thursday pointed out that the poll panel had allowed policy related promises made by various political parties, including the Congress, in the past. The Commission had not found the scheme violative of the model code. It had also said that the scheme did seem to have come under the domain of corrupt practices as enshrined in the Representation of the People Act, 1951. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday released the BJP manifesto for the Bihar Assembly polls which promised free Covid-19 vaccine once it has been cleared by the ICMR. The officials also referred to a clause in Section 123 of the Representation of the People Act which deals with corrupt practices. A provision of section 123 says that "declaration of public policy, or a promise of publication, or the mere exercise of a legal right without intent to interfere with an electoral right, shall not be deemed to be interference within the meaning of this clause". Opposition parties on Thursday slammed the BJP for promising free Covid-19 vaccines in its Bihar poll manifesto and demanded action by the EC, while alleging that the ruling party was using the pandemic for political gains. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took a swipe at the BJP, saying one has to refer to the state-wise election schedule to know when one will have access to the vaccine. The BJP, however, said health is a state subject and its manifesto is for Bihar, not for the entire country, where it has promised that the state will buy the vaccine for its people. The RJD, the Congress, Shiv Sena, Samajwadi Party and the National Conference all raised questions on the BJP's poll promise of free vaccine for Bihar, alleging that it is politicising the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/have-allowed-policy-related-promises-even-for-congress-in-poll-manifestos-in-past-eci-905759.html
23-10-2020||National||Harassed for dowry, pregnant woman dies by suicide||A pregnant woman died by suicide in her house here due to alleged harassment by her husband and parents-in-law for additional dowry, police said on Thursday. The 24-year-old techie, who was five months pregnant, took the extreme step by hanging herself from a ceiling fan on Wednesday, the police said. The woman's mother lodged a complaint stating that her daughter was pestered by her in-laws and her husband, a gym instructor, for additional dowry, they said. Based on the complaint, a case was registered and further investigations were on, the police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harassed-for-dowry-pregnant-woman-dies-by-suicide-905769.html
23-10-2020||National||India has taken up case of workers not paid end of service dues in Saudi: MEA||The Indian mission in Saudi Arabia has taken up the matter of 286 Indian workers who were reportedly not paid end of service dues by a private firm there, and it is hopeful of a "positive resolution" of the issue, according to the Ministry of External Affairs. As per media reports, many Indian migrant workers from Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha, who have returned to India after they were laid off by a private company in Saudi Arabia due to the coronavirus pandemic have approached the Indian government over unpaid end of service benefits. MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava on Thursday said all such cases, including the case of 286 Indian workers who were working for a company in Saudi Arabia, are raised by India's missions in these countries with employers as well as local authorities. "In this particular case, this has been followed up by our embassy and we are hopeful for a positive resolution," he said at an online media briefing. Asked about the steps taken by the government to deal with such cases, Srivastava said, "We have a portal called 'Madad' where all such cases, people who are affected, can register their grievances. Our missions and posts in these areas proactively follow it up with concerned authorities to get a resolution." To a separate question on the upcoming UN Day, Srivastava said this year marks the 75th anniversary of the United Nations and to commemorate this event the UN had held a high-level event last month in which the PM participated. "In his address, the PM underscored, 'While the world is a better place because of the UN and much has been achieved, today's challenges can't be fought with outdated structures and comprehensive reform of the UN is needed' ". As a special initiative Friday to mark the occasion, the department of Post will be releasing a stamp in the presence of External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, who is the chief guest for the event, Srivastava said. "On the issue of the reforms of the UNSC and our preparations for the same, you are aware that India attaches the highest priority to the expansion of the security council in both its categories -- the permanent and non permanent -- so that it reflects contemporary realities of the world. Even in our upcoming innings as non-permanent member in 2021 reformed multilateralism is a key pillar of our approach and we aim to make a push in this regard along with like minded partners," Srivastava said. On another question pertaining to India-South Korea ties, Srivastava said the two countries share a special partnership which spans a whole range of areas and this relationship has taken great strides in recent years, particularly since the visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to South Korea in 2015. "It is spurred by a mutual convergence of interest by mutual goodwill and through high-level visits," he said. High-level communication has been maintained even in COVID times, including the telephone conversation between Prime Minister Modi and South Korean president Moon Jae-in, Srivastava said. In these conversations, the two sides have exchanged views on the Covid-19 situation, the challenge it poses to the global health system and the ongoing diversifications of the international value chains, he said. At the briefing, Srivastava also informed that as on Thursday, 19.40 lakh Indians have been repatriated through the Vande Bharat Mission. "Phase 7 of VBM has been operational since October 1, 2020. Of the 1,050 international flights scheduled under this phase, 690 flights have already been operated from 20 countries, reaching 22 airports across the country and repatriating an estimated 1,30,000 persons," he said. "Our Missions continue to proactively work with the respective local governments to facilitate the movement of Indians stranded in those countries," Srivastava said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-taken-up-case-of-workers-not-paid-end-of-service-dues-in-saudi-mea-905793.html
23-10-2020||National||Covid-19: ICMR issues advisory for use of Feluda paper strip test||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Thursday issued an advisory for the use of indigenously developed Feluda paper strip test, which is based on CRISPR-Cas9 technology for diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2, by the laboratories. The paper-strip uses cutting-edge CRISPR gene-editing technology to identify and target the genetic material of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19 in less than an hour. As claimed by the manufacturer, no further RT-PCR based confirmation is required for samples that are confirmed as positive or negative by the CRISPR SARS-CoV-2 test, the advisory stated. The test has been developed by Council of Scientific and Industrial Research's  (CSIRs) Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB), Delhi and has been validated by the National Centre for Biological Sciences and Tata Institute of Fundamental Research. The test has been approved by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for use in the country. "The test works by identifying SARS-CoV-2 virus strain and uses a Thermal Cycler instead of a qPCR machine for conducting the test. As claimed by the manufacturer, no further RT-PCR based confirmation is required for samples that are confirmed as positives or negatives by the CRISPR SARS-CoV-2 test, " the ICMR said in its advisory. Existing government or private laboratories already approved by the ICMR for SARS-CoV-2 RT-PCR based testing may use this new CRISPR test if the laboratory desires to do so. No further approval is required from ICMR for existing laboratories. New laboratories intending to initiate molecular testing of SARS-CoV-2 testing by any method will be required to seek approval as per the standard process laid down by the ICMR and NABL before initiating any kind of molecular testing, the advisory said. Any prescription for RT-PCR, CRISPR, TRUENAT, CBNAAT may be considered equivalent. All testing data should be essentially entered into the ICMR Covid-19 web portal on a real time basis. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had recently said that based on tests in over 2,000 patients during the trials at the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) and testing in private labs, the tests showed 96 per cent sensitivity and 98 per cent specificity. This compares favourably to ICMR's current acceptation criteria of RT-PCR kit of at least 95 per cent sensitivity and at least 99 per cent specificity, he had stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-icmr-issues-advisory-for-use-of-feluda-paper-strip-test-905800.html
23-10-2020||National||India crosses 10 cr-mark in conducting Covid-19 tests: ICMR||India has crossed the 10 crore-mark in conducting tests for the detection of Covid-19 as on Thursday with an average testing of more than 10 lakh samples per day in the last 17 days, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said. Till now, 74,000 tests per million population have been conducted. India has conducted last 5 crore sample testing in only 45 days, Lokesh Sharma, scientist and media coordinator at ICMR said. As on September 8, India had tested 5 crore Covid-19 samples, and in less than 50 days on October 22, it has reached the 10 crore-mark, Sharma said. "This has been enabled by rapidly increasing testing infrastructure and capacity across the country. The ICMR has been enhancing Covid-19 testing capability across the country by expanding and diversifying testing capacity by leveraging technology and facilitating innovation in affordable diagnostic kits," the ICMR said in a statement. Balram Bhargava, Director General, ICMR said, “We have effectively responded to the evolving epidemic through focused and collaborative efforts of the Centre, state and UT governments." "Exponential increase in testing has led to early identification, prompt isolation and effective treatment of Covid-19 cases along with effective contact tracing. These have eventually resulted in a sustained low fatality rate," he said. "This testing milestone is testimony to the fact that India has been successful in implementing strategy of 5T approach 'Test, Track, Trace, Treat and use of Technology efficiently, which will enable us to contain the spread of the pandemic," he added. Ramping up of testing facility across India was at the core of increased testing per day, he said. Through our ardent efforts, it was ensured that a specific testing platform is made available addressing general testing (RT-PCR), High-throughput testing (COBAS), testing at remotest places and PHCs (TrueNAT, CBNAAT),in containment areas (rapid antigen testing) and for a large number and migrant population testing (pooled sample testing), Bhargava said. The total number of diagnostic laboratory has reached 1,989. Of which dedicated government laboratories are 1,122 and private laboratories number stands at 867.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-crosses-10-cr-mark-in-conducting-covid-19-tests-icmr-905802.html
23-10-2020||National||Kerala-Bahrain flight tickets cost Rs 30-39k as only 750 fliers allowed per week from India: Puri||The average fares on special flights operating between Kerala and Bahrain are between Rs 30,000 and Rs 39,000 as the Gulf country allows only 750 passengers to come from India per week, said Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Thursday. Moreover, Puri said on Twitter that average fares on Kerala-Dubai flights are between Rs 6,500 and Rs 12,800 while Kerala-Doha flights cost between Rs 7,150 and Rs 15,500. Earlier during the day, Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan met Puri and told him about "the surge in the pricing of flight tickets" from GCC (Gulf Cooperation Council) countries to India. Muraleedharan tweeted that he "sought his (Puri's) urgent attention to alleviate the financial and mental hardships faced by Keralite expatriates working in those countries". Puri responded to Muraleedharan's tweets, saying: "Bahrain has placed a restriction of 750 passengers per week from India & fare band on Kerala-Bahrain sector is ₹30,000 to 39,000 for Indian carriers." "Average fare band for Indian carriers on Kerala-Dubai sector is ₹6,500 to 12,800 & on Kerala-Doha sector it is ₹7,150 to 15,500," he added. Scheduled international passenger flights have been suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic. However, special international passenger flights have been operating since July through bilateral air bubble arrangements between India and 18 other countries. Kerala is connected to UAE, Bahrain, Oman and Qatar via these air bubbles, Puri said. Under an air bubble pact, the countries' airlines can operate special passenger flights between their territories with certain restrictions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-bahrain-flight-tickets-cost-rs-30-39k-as-only-750-fliers-allowed-per-week-from-india-puri-905813.html
23-10-2020||National||EAM Jaishankar holds talks with Moroccan counterpart||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Thursday held a virtual meeting with his Moroccan counterpart Nasser Bourita, covering a range of key issues including ways to deal with threats of terrorism and climate change. The Ministry of External Affairs said Jaishankar and Bourita also discussed the respective national approach of India and Morocco to deal with the challenges of the coronavirus pandemic. It said Jaishankar thanked Bourita for the Moroccan government’s support in the repatriation of Indian nationals stranded in Morocco due to the suspension of international flights in the wake of the pandemic. Bourita, in turn, conveyed his government’s appreciation for India’s facilitation of commercial exports of medicines during the critical period.   "The two Ministers had an in-depth exchange of views on regional and global issues, including the UN reforms, international fight against terrorism, climate change, renewable energy and cooperation under the India Africa Forum Summit mechanism," the MEA said. In the talks, Bourita briefed Jaishankar on the developments in Libya, including at the recent intra-Libyan dialogue in Bouznika. In his response, the external affairs minister commended Morocco’s resolute and constructive engagement with all the Libyan parties since the beginning of the crisis, and lauded its contribution to the UN efforts aimed at finding a peaceful resolution through a Libyan-led and Libyan-owned political process, the MEA said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eam-jaishankar-holds-talks-with-moroccan-counterpart-905819.html
23-10-2020||National||India, European Union discuss strategic partnership in a post-Covid-19 world||India and the European Union on Thursday reviewed their overall cooperation in a range of key areas including cyberspace, non-proliferation, maritime security, and ways to effectively deal with terrorism. The review was carried out at a virtual meeting of the India-EU Foreign Policy and Security Consultations. The meeting was co-chaired by Vikas Swarup, Secretary (West) in the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) and Enrique Mora, Deputy Secretary General for Political Affairs in the European External Action Service. In a statement, the MEA said the two sides also discussed the opportunities for strengthening the India-EU strategic partnership in a post-COVID world, including in areas of healthcare, global supply chain resilience, and reformed multilateralism. It said both sides took stock of the decisions taken at the India-EU summit and reaffirmed their commitment to implement the roadmap firmed up by the leadership of the two sides to further expand their ties. The India-EU summit had taken place in July. "They reviewed the working of various institutional mechanisms between India and the EU, including on cyber security; counter terrorism; maritime security; and disarmament and non-proliferation, and explored the possibilities of enhanced cooperation under India-EU security partnership," the MEA said in a statement. It said the two sides also noted the importance of India-EU cooperation for global economic recovery and agreed to hold the high-level dialogue on trade and investments at an early date. "The two sides also agreed to expedite the discussions on the India-EU connectivity partnership and strengthen bilateral cooperation in the digital domain, including in cyber security and artificial intelligence," the MEA said. "The two sides exchanged views on the regional and global issues of mutual interest and agreed to maintain close cooperation for the next India–EU27 leaders meeting to be held in Portugal in 2021," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-european-union-discuss-strategic-partnership-in-a-post-covid-19-world-905820.html
23-10-2020||National||Russia's Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine to first be tested on 100 Indians: Report||The Russian Sputnik V vaccine is to be tested on 100 volunteers in India, according to multiple media reports. Dr Reddy's Laboratories on Saturday said it along with Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) has received approval from the DCGI to conduct phase 2/3 human clinical trials for Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V in India. “The firm should generate safety and immunogenicity data on 100 subjects in Phase II clinical trial and submit for evaluation before proceeding to Phase III clinical trial,” the SEC decided in a meeting on 16 October, according to a document uploaded on the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation’s (CDSCO) website. This will be a multi-centre and randomised controlled study, which will include safety and immunogenicity check, the Hyderabad-based drug major said in a statement. Earlier in September 2020, Dr.Reddy's and RDIF entered into a partnership to conduct clinical trials of Sputnik V vaccine and its distribution in India. As part of the partnership, RDIF shall supply 100 million doses of the vaccine to Dr.Reddy's upon regulatory approval in India.  (With inputs from Agencies - Reuters, PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/russias-sputnik-v-covid-19-vaccine-to-first-be-tested-on-100-indians-report-905822.html
23-10-2020||National||CDSCO panel recommends granting permission to conduct phase 3 clinical trials of Covid-19 vaccine||An expert panel at the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has recommended granting permission for conducting phase 3 clinical trials of its indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine with certain conditions. The recommendation was given after assessing the safety and immunogenicity data of phase 1 and 2 clinical trials and have been sent to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for final approval, official sources said. "The DCGI is likely to give its final nod by tonight or tomorrow," they said. The vaccine -- 'Covaxin' -- is being indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The Hyderabad-based vaccine maker had on October 2 sought the DCGI's permission to conduct phase 3 randomised double-blind placebo-controlled multicentre trial of its COVID-19 vaccine. But it was asked to submit the complete safety and immunogenicity data of the phase 2 trial besides providing some clarifications before proceeding to the next stage. The firm in its application has said that the study would cover 28,500 subjects aged 18 years and above and would be conducted in 19 sites across 10 states including places like Delhi, Mumbai, Patna and Lucknow. The phase 3 clinical trial application has proposed a dose of 0.5 ml on day 0 and 28, sources said. In continuation of the subject expert meeting held on October 5, the Hyderabad based firm presented their data from phase 1 and 2 along with animal challenge data in two species including non-human primates (NHP) on the inactivated coronavirus vaccine (BBV152) along with the proposal to conduct event driven phase 3 clinical trial to assess the efficacy of the vaccine, the recommendations stated. "After detailed deliberation and the available evidences, the committee recommended that permission to conduct phase 3 clinical trial be granted subject to the condition that the primary efficacy endpoint for symptomatic cases should be amended as below...," the panel said.   Once a suspect case is confirmed, the principal investigator will evaluate the clinical information to classify it as a symptomatic case. "Two criteria must be met for a participant to be a confirmed symptomatic case. Either criteria A or B with positive RT-PCR confirmation," the recommendations stated. Criteria A includes shortness of breath/difficulty in breathing, new onset anosmia/aguesia, oxygen saturation of <94 per cent or escalation in supplemental O2, pneumonia diagnosed by chest X-ray or CT scan, evidence of shock, ICU admission/death (one or more) while criteria B  includes fever, chills, new cough, myalgia/fatigue, headache, sore throat, nausea/vomiting, diarrhea, congestion/runny nose (one or more symptoms) . In July, the DCGI had given permission to Bharat Biotech to conduct phase 1 and 2 clinical trials of its Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cdsco-panel-recommends-granting-permission-to-conduct-phase-3-clinical-trials-of-covid-19-vaccine-905823.html
23-10-2020||National||Navy Chief reviews combat readiness; addresses combatants through broadcast from INS Vikramaditya||Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh on Thursday addressed a select group of combatants of the Navy's Carrier Battle Group over a broadcast from the INS Vikramaditya, India's only aircraft carrier, and reviewed the force's overall combat readiness, officials said. In his remarks, Admiral Singh complimented his force for continuously maintaining "peak combat-readiness" and "high tempo" of operations over the past few months, they said. The Indian Navy has significantly increased its deployment in the Indian Ocean Region, in an attempt to send across a message to China in the wake of escalation in tension between the  two countries over the border row in eastern Ladakh. Giving an overview of the prevailing security situation, the Chief of Naval Staff stated that the Navy would continue to maintain a high-tempo of operations in the coming months. "He also complimented the Carrier Battle Group and its combatants for accurate and effective weapon firings, which left no doubt about the Navy’s readiness to meet any emergent contingencies," the Navy said in a statement. A carrier battle group is a mega naval fleet comprising an aircraft carrier, accompanied by a large number destroyers, frigates and other ships. Admiral Singh highlighted that tri-service synergy and coordination has peaked with establishment of the Department of Military Affairs as was visibly demonstrated in the joint response of the three services to recent events, in an oblique reference to India's response to the border row. In a mega reform initiative, the government on December 31 last year appointed Gen Bipin Rawat as the country's first Chief of Defence Staff and created the Department of Military Affairs with an aim to bring in convergence in functioning of the three services. "The Indian Navy has remained mission-deployed and combat-ready across the Indian Ocean Region, even through rough seas during the monsoon period, towards maintaining the maritime security of the nation," the Navy said. Admiral Karambir Singh, the Chief of the Naval Staff (CNS), reviewed the operational preparedness and combat-readiness of the Indian Navy’s principal combatants on 22 October 2020. Earlier, Admiral Singh, accompanied by Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Western Naval Command Vice Admiral Ajit Kumar, arrived at Karwar naval base in Karnataka where he interacted with the Navy personnel deployed there. During the interaction, he emphasised on various operational aspects including key issues relating to cyber-security, protection against terror attacks, asymmetric warfare, and exhorted all personnel to maintain the highest-level of alertness, officials said. Admiral Singh, thereafter, departed by helicopter to embark on the Carrier Battle Group, comprising INS Vikramaditya, accompanied by a number of destroyers, frigates, corvettes, fleet support ships and swing-role fighter jets and helicopters.   On embarking on indigenous guided-missile destroyer Chennai, he was given a briefing by the Fleet Commander, after which weapon firings, air-to-air combat operations, anti-submarine drills and fleet manoeuvres were demonstrated, the Navy said. Following the drill, the Chief of Naval Staff embarked on a fleet support ship Deepak and interacted with the ship's crew. Then he embarked on INS Vikramaditya where he witnessed the Carrier Battle Group’s capabilities for air defence as well as strike missions. In his address, Admiral Singh, also advised continued compliance of protocols by naval personnel and their families to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic.   "Indian Navy continues to maintain a high tempo of operations and combat-readiness despite the COVID-19 pandemic by adhering to stringent protocols onboard warships, submarines and aircraft squadrons and bases, and is fully prepared to tackle challenges in the maritime domain," the Navy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/navy-chief-reviews-combat-readiness-addresses-combatants-through-broadcast-from-ins-vikramaditya-905827.html
23-10-2020||National||Centre holds consultations with states for formulating new S&T policy||Union minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday held detailed consultations with the states for the formulation of Science Technology and Innovation Policy (STIP) 2020, the Department of Science and Technology said. Addressing a virtual meeting with the state ministers and senior officials of the Ministry of Science and Technology, Vardhan said the policy aims to re-energise the country's scientific ecosystem and redefine the priorities and sectoral focus so as to directly translate efforts in S&T for the benefit of the society and economy. He said through extensive deliberations, the STIP 2020 proposes institutionalisation of Centre-State STI engagements and creation of pathways to successfully percolate the policy instrument to the grassroots level. “There is a need to identify national priorities that are driven by the needs of the states. Through development of formal linkages, we hope to carry out continuous highest level of engagements, extensive capacity-building exercises, technology development support programs, and other related activities,” the Union Science and Technology Minister said. Vardhan said this would also help in streamlining resource mobilisation to avoid duplicity of efforts within the ecosystem, thereby leading to exponential growth. “This engagement is imperative at both the policy-making and implementation processes and is achievable through greater communication and collaboration between the Centre and states,” Vardhan pointed out. “We would like to make this truly an inclusive policy in all aspects – each and every state should become an equal partner and should share ownership and responsibility not only in formulation of this policy but also in implementing them with full rigour,” he said. K Vijay Raghavan, Principal Scientific Adviser to the government, said proactive participation of states would make the entire STIP-2020 formulation process truly inclusive and decentralised. DST Secretary Professor Ashutosh Sharma explained the crucial role of the state-level consultation in providing valuable inputs for the policy and expressed DST's keenness in facilitating them for creating a “robust, bottom-up, and inclusive policy that shapes the New India”. The Ministry of Science and Technology has been holding consultations with different stakeholders for the formulation of the policy. Vardhan said the current pandemic stands witness to the immediate need for indigenous STI development and growth that can be achieved through “harmonised Centre-State relationships based on the ideals of cooperative federalism”. “Centre-state cooperation thus remains at the heart of building a truly Atmanirbhar Bharat,” he added. He pointed out that the consultation on STIP 2020 with S&T ministers of the states is a milestone event towards building greater synergy between the Centre and the states and also among states. “To empower the STI ecosystem, there is a need to strengthen institutional linkages and joint funding systems. State S&T Councils must be reinvigorated as they remain crucial in achieving these goals,” Vardhan stressed Outlining the previous National Science Policies - Science Policy Resolution 1958, Technology Policy Statement 1983, Science and Technology Policy 2003 and Science Technology and Innovation Policy 2013, Vardhan said the past few years have witnessed accelerated growth placing India as a global STI leader in terms of publications, patents, and quality of research publications, per capita R&D expenditure, participation of women in extramural R&D projects. India's engagement in emerging technologies such as nanotechnology, inclusive and frugal innovation, several schemes have been implemented by the Centre and state governments to support and stimulate R&D culture among students and young researchers, the minister noted. Conrad Sangma, Chief Minister of Meghalaya, Yumnam Joy Kumar Singh, Deputy Chief Minister of Manipur, Jishnu Dev Varma, Deputy Chief Minister of Tripura, Dinesh Sharma, Deputy Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh also lauded the Centre's initiative and assured their cooperation in STIP-2020 process. S&T Ministers of many other states also participated in the meeting. These included: Balineni Srinivas Reddy (Andhra Pradesh), Honchun Ngandam (Arunachal Pradesh), Michael Lobo (Goa), Om Prakash Saklecha (Madhya Pradesh), Robert Romawia Royte (Mizoram), Mmhonlumo Kikon, (Advisor- Information Technology & Communication, S&T – Nagaland); Ashok Chandra Panda (Odisha), Vijay Inder Singla (Punjab), Madan Kaushik (Uttarakhand) and Bratya Basu (West Bengal). The formulation of STIP 2020 is driven by four interrelated tracks, 21 expert-driven thematic groups, and focused public discussions. The process aims to define priority issues for the national STI ecosystem, recommendations with aligned implementation strategies, expected deliverables, and a rigorous monitoring mechanism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-holds-consultations-with-states-for-formulating-new-st-policy-905828.html
23-10-2020||National||No foolproof anonymity: Retired Justice Srikrishna on data protection||Retired Justice B N Srikrishna on Thursday said anonymous data is not foolproof and can be de-anonymised in future. Legislation can only make entities de-anonymising the data answerable to the law, he added. Justice Srikrishna headed the committee on framing data protection norms, set up by the Ministry of Electronics and IT. The government in the draft personal data protection bill has favoured processing of anonymous data to protect privacy of individuals. He further said the personal data protection bill is before a joint parliamentary committee and it will be good if it comes out soon. "What is thought to be anonymous can be de-anonymised tomorrow. Therefore, there is no foolproof anonymity. All that law can say is take it as anonymous, if you do de-anonymity, identify the person, then you will be answerable to the law," Justice Srikrishna said at a FICCI event. The draft of the personal data protection bill, approved by the Cabinet in December 2019, proposes a penalty of up to Rs 15 crore and up to three-year jail term for company executives for violating privacy norms. Justice Srikrishna said that he sees a triangle of forces where citizens are at the apex, state on one side and on the third side is trade and business. "We have to find resultant in the forces of the triangle which will take forward the society and not scuttle either progress or individual rights," he added. In response to a query, he said the data protection issue is too complex and therefore the bill has been sent to a parliamentary committee. "Data is the buzzword today because people have realised that the data can be monetised," he added. The bill was introduced in the Lok Sabha in February and has been referred to a Joint Parliamentary Committee of both the Houses, headed by BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi. The draft approved by the Cabinet in December mandates storage of critical data of individuals by internet companies within the country. Sensitive data can be transferred overseas only after explicit consent of the data owner. Critical data will be defined by the government from time to time. Data related to health, religious or political orientation, biometrics, genetic, sexual orientation, health, finances, among others, have been identified as sensitive data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-foolproof-anonymity-retired-justice-srikrishna-on-data-protection-905830.html
23-10-2020||National||India committed to reconstruction and development of Afghanistan: MEA||India has conveyed to prominent Afghan leader Ata Mohammad Noor that it is committed to reconstruction and development of Afghanistan, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Thursday. The former governor of Balkh Province held talks with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Wednesday. Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) Anurag Srivastava said the current situation in Afghanistan including the peace process and increasing number of incidents of violence in that country figured in the talks. "We reiterated our long-term commitment towards reconstruction and development of Afghanistan," Srivastava said at a media briefing The Taliban and the Afghan government are holding direct talks, aimed at ending decades of war that has killed tens of thousands of people and ravaged various parts of Afghanistan. India has been a major stakeholder in the peace and stability of Afghanistan. It has already invested USD two billion in aid and reconstruction activities in the country. India has been keenly following the evolving political situation after the US signed a peace deal with the Taliban in February. The deal provided for the withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan, effectively drawing curtains to Washington's 18-year war with Taliban in the country. New Delhi has also been maintaining that care should be taken to ensure that any such process does not lead to any "ungoverned spaces" where terrorists and their proxies can relocate. India has been calling upon all sections of the political spectrum in Afghanistan to work together to meet the aspirations of all people in that country including those from the minority community for a prosperous and safe future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-committed-to-reconstruction-and-development-of-afghanistan-mea-905832.html
23-10-2020||National||Pak continues to provide safe havens to terror entities, UN-designated terrorists: India||As global anti-terror watchdog FATF reviews Pakistan's performance in curbing terror-financing, India on Thursday said the neighbouring country continues to provide safe havens to terror entities as well as UN-designated terrorists including Masood Azhar and Zakir-ur-Rahman Lakhvi. At a media briefing, Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) Anurag Srivastava said Pakistan has addressed only 21 out of 27 "action items" prescribed by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) to contain terror financing. The FATF began its three-day virtual plenary meeting on Wednesday in which it is reviewing Pakistan's performance in implementation of the action plan recommended by it to choke channels of funding to the terror groups operating from the country. Asked about the possibility of the FATF blacklisting Pakistan for failing to check terror financing, Srivastava said the global anti-terror watchdog has laid out standards and procedures for such action. "It is understood that Pakistan has addressed only 21 action items so far out of the total 27 points in the FATF action plan. Six important action items are yet to be addressed," he said. "As is well known, Pakistan continues to provide safe havens to terrorist entities and individuals and has also not yet taken any action against several terrorist entities and individuals including those proscribed by the UNSC such as Masood Azhar, Dawood Ibrahim, Zakir-ur-Rahman Lakhvi etc," Srivastava added. The FATF had put Pakistan on its "grey list" in 2018 for failing to contain terror financing in the country. The global body has been periodically reviewing the implementation of the action plan it had recommended to Pakistan to curb financial activities of terror groups. Notwithstanding the coronavirus pandemic in the region, Pakistan has been resorting to unprovoked ceasefire violations along the LoC and making concerted efforts to push militants into Kashmir. Pakistani hostilities increased after India announced its decision to withdraw the special status of Jammu and Kashmir and divide the state into two union territories in August last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pak-continues-to-provide-safe-havens-to-terror-entities-un-designated-terrorists-india-905840.html
23-10-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on October 23||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 77 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:   Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  78,11,120 as of October 23   States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 1,17,894  
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> No. of people discharged: 69,48,497      Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-october-23-905853.html
23-10-2020||National||NIA charge sheet claims IS operatives used bitcoin to fund terror activity: Report||According to the report, Jahanzaib Sami, an IS operative, had arranged a bitcoin wallet through a British contact, on which he asked associates to deposit funds. Sami and his wife were arrested on March 8 for planning to carry out attacks in India. According to the charge sheet, the duo had acquired the bitcoin address on Threeema from an account belonging to a British woman based in Syria. Sami had also gotten in touch with a Libya-based IS operative to discuss arranging funds through blockchain. The charge sheet claimed that Sami planned to carry out 100 bombings in a single day. The two also discussed arranging funds through stolen credit cards to acquire weapons, according to the charge sheet. The charge sheet also alleged that Abdullah Basith, a key IS member lodged in Tihar was using smartphones inside the prison to interact with Sami and several overseas ISIS commanders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-charge-sheet-claims-is-operatives-used-bitcoin-to-fund-terror-activity-report-905902.html
23-10-2020||National||Delhi High Court ends its blanket order extending bails, interim stays||The Delhi High Court has decided that its blanket order extending all interim stays and bails granted prior to and during the Covid-19 lockdown would not remain in effect after October 31. All undertrials whose bail period was extended have to surrender in a phased manner between November 2 and November 13, it said. The court also said that the order would also be applicable to 356 prisoners who were granted bail by the high court and they would have to surrender before the jail authorities on November 13. The high court on August 24 had extended till October 31 all the interim orders which were to expire on or after August 31 in cases that are before it as also the district courts in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.   A full bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and justices Siddharth Mridul and Talwant Singh said that bail granted by the trial court to 2,318 undertrial prisoners involved in heinous crimes and which was being extended from time to time on the basis of the high court's blanket extension order, would come to an end on October 31 and all of them have to surrender in a phased manner between November 2 and November 13. The surrender process would start on November 2 with the prisoners of Central District, Tis Hazari Courts and would culminate on November 13 with the surrender of prisoners from Rouse Avenue Courts Complex, New Delhi, the high court said in its order of October 20. The high court said the interim bail and interim stay extension order of March 25, which was extended from time to time, "was necessitated because functioning of the courts was curtailed due to complete lockdown declared on March 25", but "now the situation has changed and all the courts at high court and district court level are functioning through physical mode/video conference mode". Another reason given by the bench, for modifying its March 25 order, was that there is no spread of Covid-19 in the jails and out of about 16,000 prisoners only 3 are infected and they have been segregated and are admitted in hospital. The bench said its order would also be applicable to those 356 prisoners who were granted bail. "The jail authorities shall make appropriate arrangements to ensure surrender of prisoners as detailed above and take all required steps in view of guidelines issued by government authorities from time to time to contain the spread of Covid-19," the bench directed. "As far as 2,907 prisoners, who have been granted bail on the recommendation of the High Power Committee are concerned, a request is made to the High Power Committee to take a decision in respect of the said prisoners within ten days from today," it said in its order. The bench further said that the interim orders passed in civil matters, which were extended vide orders dated March 25 and subsequent orders, "shall cease to have effect on the next date of hearing in the said matters.  The high court said that in all the bail matters and the civil cases the parties affected can move courts concerned for extension of the interim orders or bails. It said that such pleas for extensions would be decided by courts concerned on merit without being influenced by the directions of the high court. With these observations and directions, the bench disposed of the PIL initiated by it to extend the interim orders of stay and bail granted in civil and criminal matters, respectively, during the lockdown. During the hearing on October 20, the bench had observed that its blanket order extending interim bails and paroles granted to prisoners in view of the Covid-19 pandemic should come to an end as the number of infected persons in jails here was only three. The high court had said, "Let us bring to an end the Covid chapter. Let these people surrender or go back to jail. We passed the order in view of the pandemic. Our order has nothing to do with overcrowding of the jails. We are not concerned by the nature of the crimes." The observations by the bench came while hearing an application, moved by one of the prosecutors dealing with the northeast Delhi riots cases in the trial courts, seeking modification of the high court's July 13 and July 24 orders by which it had clarified that its orders extending interim bails/paroles would be applicable to everyone granted the relief before or after March 16. The application had alleged that the two orders were being misused by the accused in the riots cases by seeking bail on grounds of family illness or some such other reasons, instead of seeking regular bail, and then getting the same extended on the basis of the high court's direction. The lawyer told the bench that around 20 accused in riots cases were out on interim bail on some pretext and are now enjoying benefits of the high court's blanket order. The Delhi government standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra, appearing for the DG Prisons, had told the bench that removing the blanket order would go against the spirit of the Supreme Court's order to decongest jails during the pandemic as Covid-19 cases have not gone down in the national capital. He had also said that the decongestion of prisons has not led to any increase in crimes or anarchy. On March 25, the high court had extended till May 15 the interim orders in all matters pending before it and subordinate courts in view of the lockdown. Thereafter, the relief was extended from time-to-time and it was last extended till October 31 on August 24.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-high-court-ends-its-blanket-order-extending-bails-interim-stays-905913.html
23-10-2020||National||Indian Railways says direct recruitment without exams against rules||Rejecting the demand of regularising services of trained apprentices without open competition, Indian Railways has said any direct recruitment without a competitive exam is against government rules. "It may be noted that regular appointments without any open competition as demanded by some will be against the Constitutional provisions and GOI (government of India) rules about regular recruitment," the railways said in a statement. "All eligible citizens of the country are entitled to compete and apply for regular jobs. Direct recruitment without any open competition is against the rules," the statement added. Recently there have been news reports that trained apprentices at railway establishments are demanding regular appointments by asking for the restoration of the earlier powers given to general managers that were discontinued in March 2017, the statement said. Before March 2017, a general manager could make a regular appointment of a trained apprentice without an open competition. Section 22 (i) of Act Apprentices Act, 1961 amended on December 22, 2014, provides that, ‘Every employer shall formulate its own policy for recruiting any apprentice who has completed the period of apprenticeship training in his establishment’. In compliance with this, instructions have been issued vide Railway Board’s letter No.E(NG)II/2016/RR-1/8 dated 21.06.2016, providing that 20 per cent of the vacancies in case of direct recruitment to posts/categories in Level-1 shall be filled by giving preference to Course Completed Act Apprentices (CCAAs) trained in railway establishments. During 2018, Railway Recruitment Boards (RRBs) have recruited 1288 apprentices in Level-1 posts. Further, 20 per cent vacancies (i.e. 20,734 vacancies) have been kept reserved for apprentices in 1,03,769 notified vacancies for level-1 recruitment currently under process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-says-direct-recruitment-without-exams-against-rules-905915.html
23-10-2020||National||India's Covid-19 tally crosses 77.6 lakh with 54,366 new cases||Covid-19 recoveries in India have crossed 69 lakh, while the number of coronavirus infections reported in a span of 24 hours remained below 60,000 for the fifth consecutive day as the country's caseload rose to 77,61,312, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. A total of 54,366 new infections were reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 1,17,306 with 690 fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of active cases of the coronavirus infection is below 7 lakh. There are 6,95,509 active cases of Covid-19 in the country as on date which comprises 8.96 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. A total of 69,48,497 people have recuperated from the disease so far pushing the national recovery rate to 89.53 per cent while the case fatality rate due to Covid-19 was recorded at 1.51 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28 and crossed 70 lakh on October 11. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 10,01,13,085 samples have been tested up to October 22 with 14,42,722 samples being tested on Thursday. The 690 new fatalities include 198 from Maharashtra, 74 from Karnataka, 64 from West Bengal, 52 from Chhattisgarh, 45 from Tamil Nadu and 35 each from Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. The total 1,17,306 deaths reported so far in the country include 42,831 from Maharashtra, 10,825 from Tamil Nadu, 10,770 from Karnataka, 6,790 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,524 from Andhra Pradesh, 6,308 from West Bengal, 6,163 from Delhi, 4,072 from Punjab and 3,667 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website and added that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-crosses-776-lakh-with-54366-new-cases-905924.html
23-10-2020||National||India working on relief, return of 33 Indians stuck in Somalia||India is working on relief and return of 33 Indians stuck in Somalia and the High Commission in Nairobi has taken up their predicament with Somalian authorities, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Friday. Thirty-three Indian labourers, including 25 workers from Uttar Pradesh, have been allegedly held hostage by a company in Somalia for the last eight months. They had joined the company 10 months ago. In the first two months, the company treated them well, but from the last eight months, the workers were allegedly not paid their salaries. In a tweet, Jaishankar said the government is also in touch with the Somali Embassy in India. "MEA and our High Commission in Nairobi are working on the relief & return of 33 Indians stuck in Mogadishu, Somalia. The HC @IndiainKenya has taken up their predicament with the Somalian authorities. We are also in touch with the Somali Embassy in India. Hope for an early resolution," the external affairs minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-working-on-relief-return-of-33-indians-stuck-in-somalia-905926.html
23-10-2020||National||Amazon may face 'coercive action' as it refuses to appear before Parliament panel on data protection||Citing Covid-19, Amazon has refused to appear before the Joint Committee of Parliament on Data Protection Bill next week prompting the panel head Meenakshi Lekhi on Friday warn of stringent action against the e-commerce giant for breach of privilege. However, Facebook India's representative Ankhi Das appeared before the panel on Friday during which MPs in the 30-member multi-party panel questioned her for around two hours on various aspects of data protection. The Joint Committee, which is looking into the contentious Bill, was unanimous in its opinion that "coercive action" can be suggested to the government against Amazon in case its officials do not appear before it on October 28. Lekhi, a senior BJP MP, said the e-commerce giant has refused to appear before the panel and it amounted to breach of privilege. Amazon has told the committee that its subject-experts are overseas and travel risk due to Covid-19 are preventing them from travelling to India. The panel has also summoned officials of Twitter on October 28 and Google and Paytm on October 29, sources said.  Sources said Facebook's Das, who was the centre of a controversy recently following a media report that the social networking site looked the other way on hate speeches by BJP leaders, faced some tough questions from the MPs. During the meeting, sources said one of the MPs suggested that Facebook or other social media sites should not use personal data to draw inferences to benefit from advertisements. It should also not be used to benefit businesses or parties in elections. The Facebook official was also asked about the money spent by the social media giant on data protection. One of the MPs asked Facebook how much revenue it generates and how much tax it pays. The Personal Data Protection Bill seeks to provide for protection of personal data of individuals, create a framework for processing such personal data, and establish a Data Protection Authority for the purpose. Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had said the Bill empowers the government to ask companies like Facebook, Google and others for anonymous personal and non-personal data. However, the Bill was referred to a joint committee following concerns raised by Opposition parties. Civil society groups opposed the Bill claiming that it provides open-ended exceptions to the government allowing for surveillance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amazon-may-face-coercive-action-as-it-refuses-to-appear-before-parliament-panel-on-data-protection-905965.html
23-10-2020||National||Indian Navy releases video of anti-ship missile destroying sinking ship||In a demonstration of its combat readiness in strategic sea lanes around India, the Indian Navy on Friday released a video of an anti-ship missile destroying a sinking ship with "deadly accuracy" somewhere in the Arabian Sea. The missile was fired by frontline corvette INS Prabal as part of a mega naval drill involving aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya and a number of warships, attack helicopters, aircraft and other assets of the Navy. An Indian Navy Spokesperson tweeted that the missile homed in on its target, an old ship, hitting with deadly accuracy at its maximum range. "#AShM launched by #IndianNavy Missile Corvette #INSPrabal, homes on with deadly accuracy at max range, sinking target ship," he said. Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh on Thursday reviewed the operational preparedness of his force at various shore-based locations a well as at sea. He also addressed a select group of combatants of the Navy's Carrier Battle Group over a broadcast from the INS Vikramaditya, India's only aircraft carrier, and reviewed the force's overall combat readiness, officials said. In his remarks, Admiral Singh complimented his force for continuously maintaining "peak combat-readiness" and "high tempo" of operations over the past few months, they said. The Indian Navy has significantly increased its deployment in the Indian Ocean Region, in an attempt to send across a message to China in the wake of escalation in tension between the two countries. Giving an overview of the prevailing security situation, the Chief of Naval Staff stated that the Navy would continue to maintain a high-tempo of operations in coming months. "He also complimented the Carrier Battle Group and its combatants for accurate and effective weapon firings, which left no doubt about the Navy’s readiness to meet any emergent contingencies," the Navy said in a statement on Thursday. A carrier battle group is a mega naval fleet comprising an aircraft carrier, accompanied by a large number destroyers, frigates and other ships.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-navy-releases-video-of-anti-ship-missile-destroying-sinking-ship-905969.html
23-10-2020||National||India's active Covid-19 caseload falls below 7 lakh for the first time in two months||In a "significant milestone" India's active Covid-19 caseload has fallen below 7 lakh for the first time after two months, while the total recoveries have crossed 69 lakhs, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. The recovered cases are nearly 10 times more than the active cases, it said. The active caseload of the country has fallen below 7 lakh for the first time after two months (63 days), the ministry said. The active caseload was below the 7-lakh mark (6,97,330) last on August 22. There are 6,95,509 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country as on date, which comprise merely 8.96 per cent of the total caseload, according to ministry data updated at 8 am. "With a high number of Covid-19 patients recovering every day along with a steadily falling and sustained low mortality rate, India's trend of registering decreasing active cases continues," it underlined. The total recovered cases have surged to 69,48,497 and exceed active cases by 62,52,988 as on date. The data stated that a total of 73,979 patients have recovered and were discharged in a span of 24 hours, whereas 54,366 new infections were reported during the same period. The national Covid-19 recovery rate has further progressed to 89.53 per cent. Increased countrywide medical infrastructure, implementation of the Centre's Standard Treatment Protocol by states and union territories (UTs), and total dedication and commitment of doctors, paramedics and frontline workers have "led to a persistent increase in the number of total recoveries with commensurate dip in the fatality rate", the ministry said. It said that "as on date the case fatality rate stands at 1.51 per cent".  "These have together resulted in a consistent slide in the active cases," the ministry underscored. Twenty-four states and UTs have less than 20,000 active cases of Covid-19. The ministry said 81 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and UTs which are Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh.  Maharashtra has contributed more than 16,000 to the single-day recoveries followed by Karnataka with more than 13,000 recoveries, it said.  Of the total 54,366 new cases of Covid-19 recorded in a span of 24 hours, 78 per cent are from Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka, West Bengal, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha.  Maharashtra and Kerala contribute the maximum to new cases with more than 7,000 cases followed by Karnataka with more than 5,000 cases. Also, 690 case fatalities have been reported in a span of 24 hours. Of these, nearly 81 per cent are concentrated in 10 states and UTs -- Maharashtra, Karnataka, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha, the ministry said. Maharashtra has reported the highest number of single-day deaths at 198.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-active-covid-19-caseload-falls-below-7-lakh-for-the-first-time-in-two-months-905987.html
23-10-2020||National||Chopper scam: Rajeev Saxena granted interim bail||A Delhi court on Friday granted interim bail to Dubai-based businessman and alleged middleman Rajiv Saxena in the Rs 3,600-crore AgustaWestland VVIP chopper scam case. The court granted interim bail to him on a personal bond of Rs two lakh and one surety of like amount till December 11, the next date of hearing. The CBI opposed his regular bail application and sought time to file a reply in this regard. Special Judge Arvind Kumar, meanwhile, granted regular bail to another alleged middleman Sandeep Tyagi and others on a personal bond of Rs two lakh and one surety of like amount each after the CBI did not oppose their bail applications. All the accused persons had appeared before the court through video conferencing in pursuance to the summons issued to them by the court. Dubai-based businessman Saxena was extradited to India on January 31, 2019, in connection with the scam relating to the purchase of 12 VVIP helicopters from AgustaWestland, after which he was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate in a money laundering case related to the scam.  He was later granted bail in the ED's case and he turned approver.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chopper-scam-rajeev-saxena-granted-interim-bail-905989.html
23-10-2020||National||Modi govt mulls special immunisation programme for Covid-19 vaccine||The coronavirus vaccine, once available, will be distributed under a special Covid-19 immunisation programme with the Centre procuring the doses directly and making it available for priority groups, official sources said. According to them, the Centre will procure the vaccine directly to make it available to the priority groups free-of-charge through the existing network of states and districts. States have been asked not to chart separate pathways of procurement, they said. The Centre, with the help of state and union territory governments, has started the process of identifying around 30 crore priority beneficiaries who would be given vaccine dose in the initial phase. This special Covid-19 immunisation programme would run in parallel with the Universal Immunisation Programme, but will use its processes, technology and network of the existing vaccine distribution framework, sources said. The government has demarcated four categories of people for vaccination in the initial phase -- around one crore healthcare professionals including doctors, MBBS students, nurses and ASHA workers, etc.; around two crore frontline workers including municipal corporation workers, personnel of the police and armed forces; about 26 crore people aged above 50; and a special group of those below 50 years of age with co-morbidities and requiring specialised care. "States have been asked to enlist by mid-November the priority population groups... Each person in the immunisation list will be linked with their Aadhaar cards so as to track them," a source said. The existing digital platform and processes used for the Universal Immunisation Programme (UIP) are being enhanced to track Covid-19 vaccine administration and movement -- from procurement to storage to distribution to individual beneficiaries -- as and when the vaccine becomes available, Health Ministry officials have said. Also, online training modules are being developed for vaccinators. The digital platform that is being enhanced is Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN), which provides real-time information on vaccine stocks and storage temperatures across all cold chain points in the country under UIP. Under UIP, children, adolescents and pregnant women are currently vaccinated against vaccine-preventable diseases free-of-cost by the state. The National Expert Committee on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 has already mapped the existing cold chain being utilised under the government's immunisation programme and has also made a projection of the additional requirement, Health Ministry officials had said earlier. Presently, the committee is engaged in mapping private sector facilities that could serve the needs of supplementing the cold chain equipment. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan has said that the Centre estimates to receive and utilise 40-50 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine covering around 25 crore people by July next year. Vardhan had said the government is working round-the-clock to ensure that there is a fair and equitable distribution of vaccines, once they are ready. The biggest benefit that India has is that it has a robust immunisation programme in place and it is implementing the largest immunisation programme of the world, with nearly 27 million newborns targeted for immunisation annually, the minister said. "We have an established infrastructure for supply, storage and delivery of vaccines to the last mile, under our Universal Immunisation Programme, where we are administering around 600 million doses to children every year," he said. "The strength of these experiences in the vaccination landscape, our best practices and the robustness of our health delivery System will be leveraged and augmented using a strong IT backbone to ensure that this humongous national mission of vaccinating the identified priority groups with Covid-19 vaccine is achieved in a timely manner. The Indian government will leverage the integrated IT platform eVin for managing vaccine distribution," Vardhan said. Vardhan re-affirmed the commitment of the Indian government and assured that it has accorded top most priority to the research and manufacturing to ensure that the vaccine reaches to the last person. A controversy erupted on Thursday after the BJP in its manifesto for the Bihar assembly elections promised free Covid-19 vaccines, once it is available, for all.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govt-mulls-special-immunisation-programme-for-covid-19-vaccine-905991.html
23-10-2020||National||India needs to fix domestic issues, economy to face world with more credibility: Shashi Tharoor||Underlining that India has been more of a "rule-taker" than a "rule maker" at the UN, senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Friday said the country needs to fix its domestic issues, including that of the economy, and have "moral authority" if it wants to be a rules contributor to the world. The former Union minister said he has always argued that India's international credibility is often a reflection of its domestic postures and the success at home is the best guarantee that "we will be respected and effective abroad". "Now we have unfortunately been going through a few very bad years domestically in terms of crumbling social cohesion, the eruption and uncontrollable spread of the coronavirus pandemic, the border troubles with China, the economic collapse after demonetisation, unemployment figures worst recorded in the history in these years, everything is wrong," he said at a session of the 7th national forum of the Public Affairs Forum of India. Tharoor said India must use its capacity to demand constructive changes in global governance. "India has to be what it was trying to be before the last five years or so which was a sort of an example to the developing world -- the world's first development power," the former UN under secretary-general said. Tharoor hoped that India would contribute to initiatives to catalyse a new consensus for the world. "But before it does so, we really have to fix our internal situation first so that we can face the world with greater credibility and with renewed admiration that we used to enjoy till very recently," he said. Asked about reforms at the UN and whether they were linked with monetary contributions by member states, Tharoor said, "I don't think cheque book alone is important." India is a state that has contributed generously and was among the leading donors to UN's democracy fund, initiatives on ideas, decolonisation, racism, apartheid, and also contributed in-kind through peacekeeping, Tharoor said. "India has nothing to be ashamed of, we have very much been in the forefront of international efforts at the UN to do a lot of good work and to contribute in terms of leadership. Yet, we have been more of a 'rule-taker' than a 'rule maker' and these rules have been made by the big powerful countries and we haven't been counted amongst them," he said. "Which is why we need both economic growth and prosperity on the one hand, which has gone down the tubes in the last few years, and we also need moral authority if we want to be a rule contributor," Tharoor said. That moral authority comes from the successful management of our own challenges including the great challenges of religious, ethnic and linguistic diversity in India which the country had been managing very well till recently, he said It also involves managing some of the contradictions in the neighbourhood and being magnanimous to neighbours rather than being hostile to them, Tharoor said, claiming that India had slipped on that count recently. Tharoor said it was important for India to come across to the rest of the world as an example of a thriving and harmonious society. "If we can get our act together and lead our country in the direction that we have traditionally aspired to -- that has been hailed as a success in the past, we will once again be in a position to set an example whether on the Security Council or off it," he said. If India does this and also prospers economically, people from other countries will state that they cannot imagine a Security Council without India "rather than us demanding it as we are doing it now", Tharoor said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-needs-to-fix-domestic-issues-economy-to-face-world-with-more-credibility-shashi-tharoor-905998.html
23-10-2020||National||Khadse was not an 'original' BJP worker: Danve||Union minister Raosaheb Danve on Friday hit out at his former party colleague Eknath Khadse, who is now set to join the NCP, saying that the latter was "not an original BJP worker". Danve's statement comes two days after he praised Khadse for his contribution towards building the BJP in the state and also for his "long career" in the party. Khadse, who had been sulking since he was made to resign as a minister in 2016 in the then Devendra Fadnavis-led BJP government over corruption charges, left the saffron party on Wednesday. Since his resignation as a minister, Khadse had largely been sidelined in his party. Maharashtra NCP chief and state minister Jayant Patil had on Wednesday said Khadse will join the Sharad Pawar-led party. Talking to reporters, Danve said, "Khadse was part of the Congress(S) in the late 1970s. Sharad Pawar, who was a Congresss leader then, had organised a rally from Jalgaon to Nagpur, in which Khadse had participated as a worker of that party." "Khadse was never an original BJP worker...I am an original BJP worker and also senior to him," Danve added. He also refuted Khadse's charges that the state unit of the BJP has become "one man's organisation". "I used to discuss several contentious issues with Devendra Fadnavis when he was chief minister. Fadnavis even agreed to some of these issues, hence it is unfair to say that the BJP is being run by a single person," Danve said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/khadse-was-not-an-original-bjp-worker-danve-905999.html
23-10-2020||National||Covid-19 plasma therapy shows little benefit in patients in India: Study||Convalescent plasma therapy, which uses the blood of recovered Covid-19 patients as a potential treatment, has shown limited effect in reducing the progression to severe disease or death in a trial conducted in India, scientists say. The study, published in the British Medical Journal (BMJ) involved 464 adults with moderate Covid-19 who were admitted to hospitals in India between April and July. As many as 239 adult patients received two transfusions of convalescent plasma, 24 hours apart, alongside standard care, while the control group comprising of 229 patients received standard care only. One month later, 44 patients or 19 per cent of those who received the plasma had progressed to severe disease or had died of any cause, compared with 41 patients or 18 per cent in the control group. Plasma therapy did, however, seem to reduce symptoms, such as shortness of breath and fatigue, after seven days, according to the researchers, including those from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), and National Institute of Epidemiology, Tamil Nadu. "Convalescent plasma was not associated with a reduction in progression to severe Covid-19 or all-cause mortality," the researchers wrote in the journal. "This trial has high generalisability and approximates convalescent plasma use in real-life settings with limited laboratory capacity,” they said. The researchers noted that a prior measurement of neutralising antibody titres in donors and participants might further clarify the role of convalescent plasma in the management of Covid-19. Patients in the study were aged at least 18 years who had confirmed Covid-19 based on a RT-PCR result for SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes the disease. Participants in the intervention arm received two doses of 200 milliliter (mL) of convalescent plasma, transfused 24 hours apart, in addition to the best standard of care. Although the observational studies conducted previously suggested clinical benefits in recipients of convalescent plasma, the trials were stopped early and failed to ascertain any mortality benefit from plasma treatment in patients with Covid-19, the researchers said. The new study shows that in settings with limited laboratory capacity, convalescent plasma does not reduce 28 day mortality or progression to severe disease in patients admitted to hospital with moderate Covid-19, they said. Although plasma treatment was associated with earlier resolution of shortness of breath and fatigue and higher negative conversion of SARS-CoV-2 RNA on day 7 of enrolment, as a potential treatment for patients with moderate Covid-19 it showed limited effectiveness||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-plasma-therapy-shows-little-benefit-in-patients-in-india-study-906001.html
23-10-2020||National||Goa night clubs not following social distancing is a shame: Health Minister||Videos of packed dancefloors at nightclubs in Goa, with no social distancing measures or mask-wearing norms in place, amid the pandemic, are shameful, Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said on Friday.  Rane also said that the state's Covid-19 treatment protocol involving administering a combination of Remdesivir, blood plasma, and steroids has had a 70 per cent success rate and that the state government would continue the treatment protocol.  The Health Minister, however, also made a plea for responsible tourism in wake of the pandemic which has caused the deaths of over 560 Covid-19 patients, saying night clubs were not the only calling card for attracting tourists to the coastal state.  "We also know that a lot of hotels, clubs, and night clubs have not been following norms. As a result, we have taken it very aggressively with the Collectors, that they should ensure that clubs must maintain 50 per cent (occupancy). They cannot not be wearing masks and maintaining no social distancing. The videos which came out were shameful," the Health Minister said at a press conference in Panaji on Friday. Photos and videos of several packed nightclubs located in Goa's coastal areas had gone viral last week, causing outrage. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has already directed the Home Ministry to probe the practice of night clubs not following social distancing norms.  "Young people are being given plasma as we speak because that is what is the situation. Night clubs are not the only thing that drives Goa's tourism. Tourism has got restaurants, there are restaurants, hinterland tourism. There are multiple ways to market tourism," Rane said.  The onus for such irresponsible lapses should lie directly on the promoters of night clubs as well as patrons and not just on the government and the state administration alone, he also said.  "Onus has to be on owners of these types of facilities and clubs and the individual who goes there. Children do not visit such places. There are adults. It (onus) is on them... Ultimately, we are going through a pandemic," Rane said.  Commenting on the state government's health protocol, the Health Minister said that a treatment combo evolved by the government and private medical practitioners in the state had achieved a 70 per cent success rate.  "In Goa, we have also found that plasma in a combination with Remdesivir and maybe in a certain proportion with steroids, has given us excellent results. So, we are going ahead with this protocol as far as Goa is concerned," Rane said on a day when the US Food and Drug Administration accorded full approval to the antiviral drug Remdesivir for Covid-19 treatment. "Remdevisir should be given immediately when the patient is admitted within a specific period of time and if during that period of time if the plasma is administered it helps in raising the saturation level and prevents further damage to the lungs..." Rane said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-night-clubs-not-following-social-distancing-is-a-shame-health-minister-906007.html
23-10-2020||National||Right of inhabitants to clean environment cannot be defeated: NGT||The National Green Tribunal, on Friday, said that industrial polluting activity should not be permitted in a residential zone as the right of inhabitants to a clean environment cannot be defeated. Hearing petition by Haryana-based industrial unit seeking review of an order directing the state pollution control board to shut it down for causing air pollution, the Principal Bench of the NGT headed by its Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said that the unit was functioning in violation of consent conditions and parameters of air quality as found by an expert committee. Junking the petition from the SSF Polymers Ltd, the green panel refused to agree with the industrial unit''s submission that permission given to it was for 10 years, not from July 30, 2008, but from the date of setting up in 2012, and to this extent, there is an error in the order. "Thus, the right to continue for 10 years being not unconditional and absolute cannot be asserted. The right of the inhabitants to a clean environment cannot be defeated on this plea. Thus, even if it is to be accepted that permission of 10 years from the date of establishment which is still not over, we do not find any merit in the review application," the bench said. However, the NGT said the applicant is at liberty to approach the pollution control board for seeking time for shifting. This may be considered by the state pollution control board on its own merits, it said. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by SSF Polymers Ltd seeking review of the NGT order dated September 29 directing the state pollution control board to take action against the unit for causing pollution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/right-of-inhabitants-to-clean-environment-cannot-be-defeated-ngt-906008.html
23-10-2020||National||Aviation Ministry allows NTPC to use drones for research, inspection at its 3 thermal power plants||The Civil Aviation Ministry has allowed NTPC to use drones to carry out research and inspection activities at its three power plants in Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, an official statement said on Friday. Granting the public sector unit (PSU) a "conditional exemption" from some of the drone rules, the ministry said NTPC can use drones at Vindhyachal super thermal power station and Gadarwara super thermal power plant, both in Madhya Pradesh, and Sipat super thermal power project in Chhattisgarh. The ministry said the conditional exemption is till December 31 or till the full operatalisation of Digital Sky Platform, whichever is earlier. While conditional exemption has been given to NTPC, it will still need to obtain necessary clearances from the local administration, the Defence Ministry, the Home Ministry, the Indian Air Force (IAF) and Airports Authority of India (AAI), the release said. Amber Dubey, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Civil Aviation, said, "NTPC will use the drones to carry out terrain mapping, stockpile volumetric analysis, aerial inspections and other applications at the three NTPC sites." "This will provide NTPC excellent data with high accuracy at a fraction of the cost. This is in line with Government of India's attempts to promote use of industrial drones in infrastructure, mining, agriculture and disaster relief etc," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aviation-ministry-allows-ntpc-to-use-drones-for-research-inspection-at-its-3-thermal-power-plants-906011.html
23-10-2020||National||Former Maharashtra BJP leader Eknath Khadse joins NCP||Former Maharashtra BJP leader Eknath Khadse on Friday joined the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) in the presence of the party's chief Sharad Pawar. Sulking since his unceremonious exit from the Devendra Fadnavis-led ministry in 2016 over land grab allegations, Khadse (68) on Wednesday quit the BJP. The same day, state NCP chief Jayant Patil announced he would be joining the Pawar-led party. NCP is part of the ruling alliance in the state along with Shiv Sena and Congress, whose Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government assumed office 11 months ago. Khadse, former Maharashtra Revenue Minister and also an ex-Leader of Opposition in state Assembly, was inducted into the NCP at the partys head office here. The leader, who flew in here on Thursday from his native Jalgaon district in north Maharashtra, was in political wilderness during the last four years, though he quit the BJP only two days ago. Khadse's formal entry into NCP, scheduled at 2 pm, was delayed by over an hour as Pawar was in a meeting with party minister Jitendra Awhad. Jayant Patil welcomed Khadse in the party, by offering him a scarf. Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, Khadse had blamed Fadnavis for "trying to destroy his life" and political career, over three decades of it spent in strengthening the BJP in Maharashtra. Responding to the charges levelled by Khadse against him, Fadnavis (50) had said his former BJP colleague was speaking "half truth", adding Khadse had painted him a villain while making the allegations against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-maharashtra-bjp-leader-eknath-khadse-joins-ncp-906026.html
23-10-2020||National||Donald Trump's description of India as filthy sets off calls for cleaner air||US President Donald Trump's description of India as a filthy place with polluted air has unleashed calls on social media for urgent clean-up action, particularly over New Delhi. Defending the clean air in the United States, Trump made the comment during his final debate on Thursday with Democratic rival Joe Biden ahead of the November 3 presidential election, saying "Look at India. It's filthy. The air is filthy." On Friday, air pollution in New Delhi and surrounding cities was at its worst in eight months, with the air quality index surging above 300 on a scale of 500, indicating "emergency conditions". "Trump's commentary on India's air in the backdrop of his justification from withdrawing from the Paris pact is unfortunate and juvenile," said Vimlendu Jha, the founder of an activist group, Swechha. "America is historically the largest emitter in the world and currently the second largest one," he added. Trump was correct, said Kapil Mishra, a member of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). "Trump is right," Mishra said on Twitter. "Our air quality is actually filthy. In Delhi, we are breathing poison. Time for all of us to come together and deal with the real reasons." Modi's party is not in power in New Delhi, which is ruled by the Aam Aadmi (Common Man) Party, officials of which have often sparred with BJP functionaries over blame for the poor quality of air in New Delhi. In a 2017 interview with Reuters, Trump complained that China, India, Russia and other countries were paying too little to help poorer countries battle climate change under the Paris accord's Green Climate Fund. "It’s not a fair situation because they are paying virtually nothing and we are paying massive amounts of money," he said at the time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/donald-trumps-description-of-india-as-filthy-sets-off-calls-for-cleaner-air-906030.html
23-10-2020||National||Mehbooba Mufti regrets trusting PM Modi, says 'will not accept any flag unless J&K flag is brought back'||Former chief minister and PDP president, Mehbooba Mufti on Friday said that she regretted reposing faith in Prime Minister Narendra Modi even as she asserted that she will not raise any flag till the flag of Jammu and Kashmir is returned. Addressing her first presser after being released earlier this month, she alleged that the ruling BJP at the Centre was trying to replace the constitution of the country with its party manifesto. “Our fight is not confined for the restoration of Article 370, but for the resolution of Kashmir issue as well. Kashmir issue is an issue and nobody can turn their eye blind towards it,” Mehbooba said. While putting out the flag of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir in the presser, she added that “those who think we will forget Article 370 are living in fool’s paradise. People have given a lot of sacrifices and we won’t allow the sacrifices to go waste.” The state flag along with her party flag was displayed in front of her while she was addressing the presser at her official Gupkar residence in Srinagar. The 61-year-old former CM parroted National Conference president and another former CM, Farooq Abdullah’s views on China, saying that Beijing speaks of Article 370 too, “calling it disputed and asking why it was made UT?” Asked whether she has any regret of forging an alliance with the BJP, she said that she regretted posing faith in the Prime Minister who belonged to a party of which A B Vajpayee was also a part. PDP was running an alliance government with the BJP from March 2015 to June 2018 in J&K. The PDP president also alleged that the BJP had demolished the country’s constitution and “had been implementing anti-people acts.” However, she said that the current era of ‘authoritarian’ rule will also not sustain forever, saying that Hitler’s rule also culminated. “Anyone who is raising his or her voice over the abrogation of Article 370 is being suppressed. The fact is that the government has failed to come up with the expectations of people over development, employment, and other mandatory issues and to divert the attention, the government is blocking minorities and also Kashmiris,” she said in her first press conference, 11 days after she was released from 14-month-long detention. Mehbooba asserted that their fight was not confined for the restoration of Article 370, “but for the resolution of Kashmir issue as well. Kashmir issue is an issue and nobody can turn their eye blind towards it.” She added that she will be the first person among the leaders to give her blood for this cause in case the need arises. “We (leaders) are united and people should also fight it in unison. It is not the fight of Dr Farooq, Sajad Lone, or any other leader. But of one and all,” the PDP president added. Mehbooba along with dozens of high-profile politicians in Kashmir was arrested hours before the revocation of Articles 370 and 35A by the Center on August 5 last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mehbooba-mufti-regrets-trusting-pm-modi-says-will-not-accept-any-flag-unless-jk-flag-is-brought-back-906039.html
23-10-2020||National||We didn't leak information about Sushant case: CBI to HC||The Bombay High Court on Friday observed that the media has become "highly polarised" and changed over time while journalists were "neutral" in the past. Hearing PILs alleging media trial in the reportage of the Sushant Singh Rajput's death case, the court also remarked that it was a question not of regulation but "checks and balances". During the hearing, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is probing the case, told the court that it had not leaked any information related to the matter to the media. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, representing the CBI, asserted that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Narcotics Control Bureau(NCB), which are also probing cases related to the actor's death by suicide in June, too had not leaked any information. All the three central agencies had filed affidavits in the court stating that they had not leaked any probe-related information, he said. "We know our responsibilities and there is no question of leaking information by any of the agencies," the ASG added. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni was hearing final arguments on public interest litigations(PIL) seeking that the media be asked to be restrained in its coverage of the probe into the actor's death. The court is hearing arguments on whether a statutory mechanism is required to regulate the TV news content. As lawyers of news channels cited old judgments to argue against a statutory regulatory mechanism, the court remarked that the media has changed. "The media was neutral then (in the past). It is now highly polarised....This is not a question of regulation, this is a question of checks and balances. People forget where to draw lines. Do it within lines." "You want to criticize the government, do it. The issue is someone has died and the allegation is you are interfering," the court added. The hearing will continue next week. At an earlier hearing, the petitioners, which include a group of retired police officers, had claimed that news channels were broadcasting sensitive information. "How were the channels getting access to such information?" the petitioners asked, alleging that probe agencies must have been their sources. The Union government, National Broadcasting Standards Authority, and the news channels which are party to the case told the court that the electronic media has a self-regulatory mechanism and the state must not have any control over their content.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-didnt-leak-information-about-sushant-case-cbi-to-hc-906050.html
23-10-2020||National||First-of-its-kind flash flood warning system for South Asian countries launched||The first-of-its-kind system for South Asian countries that will provide alerts for flash floods 6-24 hours in advance was launched at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) here on Friday. The World Meteorological Department (WMO) has entrusted India with the responsibility of the Regional Centre of South Asia Flash Flood Guidance System for coordination, development and its implementation. India also shares cyclone warning alerts with neighbouring countries. The system will enable the member countries -- India, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan -- issue impact-based forecasting of floods which are very sudden and of short duration at watershed and also city level, IMD director general Mrutunjay Mohapatra said at the online launch. Representatives of the member countries attended the event. Flash floods are highly localised events of short duration with a very high peak and usually have less than six hours between the occurrence of the rainfall and peak flood. There is a general lack of flash flood warning capabilities and capacities among countries across the world. Recognising that flash floods have a particularly disastrous impact on lives and properties of the affected populations, the 15th WMO Congress had approved the implementation of a Flash Flood Guidance System (FFGS) project with global coverage. The system has been developed by the WMO Commission for Hydrology, jointly with the WMO Commission for Basic Systems and in collaboration with the US National Weather Service, the US Hydrologic Research Centre (HRC). The IMD has highly advanced capabilities with respect to computing power, numerical weather prediction, vast observational network (ground, air and space-based), and an internationally acclaimed weather forecasting system. It has tested the performance of the system during recent monsoon seasons in the pre-operational mode and the flash flood bulletins were issued to national hydrological and meteorological services in the region for its validation, said BP Yadav, a senior scientist at the IMD. The system has in-depth science, dynamics and diagnostics to provide guidance for the possible occurrences of flash floods at the local level, Yadav added. "The guidance for flash floods in the form of Threats (6 hours in advance) and Risks (24 hours in advance) will be provided by Regional Centre to National Meteorological & Hydrological Services, National and State Disaster Management Authorities and all other stakeholders for taking necessary mitigation measures to reduce the loss of life and property in the South Asian region countries of India, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Nepal and Sri Lanka,” Mohapatra said. M Rajeevan, the secretary in the Ministry of Earth Sciences, stressed the need for enhancing the observational network for rainfall and soil moisture to improvise the performance of the system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-of-its-kind-flash-flood-warning-system-for-south-asian-countries-launched-906051.html
23-10-2020||National||New Parliament building to be ready by October 2022; Construction to begin this December||The original Constitution of India, handcrafted by artists of Shantiniketan, will go on public display in the Constitution Hall planned in the new Parliament Building, construction of which will begin in December. The original handcrafted document, prepared under the guidance of Acharya Nandalal Bose and calligraphy text done by Prem Bihari Narain Raizada, currently is kept in a helium-filled case in the library building of the Parliament. The Constitution Hall in the new Parliament building will also have digital displays showcasing the democratic heritage of the country which will be open for visitors. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla reviewed the construction schedule of the new Parliament building and issued directions to constitute a committee for daily monitoring of the project. “The construction of the new building will commence in December 2020 and is likely to be completed by October 2022,” a Lok Sabha Secretariat statement said. The triangular complex is designed to include 120 offices with six separate entrances for members of the public, MPs, and VIPs, including the Speaker and the vice president. The new Parliament will have larger chambers for the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha with the latter designed to accommodate 1,350 MPs during the joint sittings of both the Houses. The seating arrangement for MPs would be on broad two-seater benches with access from either side. The same bench would accommodate a third person at the time of a joint sitting of both the Houses. The seats for MPs would be equipped with digital interfaces, which will be a step forward towards a paperless office, the Lok Sabha Secretariat statement said. During the meeting, the Speaker was briefed about the progress made in the shifting of facilities and other infrastructure from the area proposed for the construction of the new building. The barricading plan and the various mitigating measures to control the air and noise pollution during the construction process and the proposed movement plan of VIPs and staff during this period, including during the Parliament Sessions was also presented to the Speaker. Construction of the existing Parliament House Building had begun in 1921 and commissioned in 1927. The building is already 93 years old and its facilities and amenities are considered “highly inadequate” to meet the current demand of Parliament.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-parliament-building-to-be-ready-by-october-2022-construction-to-begin-this-december-906053.html
23-10-2020||National||From The Newsroom: Kapil Dev undergoes angioplasty; Karnataka colleges to reopen from November 17||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Kapil Dev undergoes angioplasty; Tejashwi Yadav says that his father and party supremo Lalu Prasad will come out of jail on November 9 after securing bail in a fodder scam case; Prime Minister Narendra Modi launches a stinging attack on the RJD-led opposition in poll-bound Bihar; colleges in Karnataka are set to open from November 17; Amazon refuses to appear before a Joint Committee of Parliament on Data Protection Bill and Bengaluru's first Covid-19 victim autopsy shows virus absent from the skin surface.  Here are the top stories of October 23, 2020: India's first World Cup-winning cricket captain Kapil Dev underwent an angioplasty on Friday after complaining of chest pain and is expected to be discharged in the next couple of days, said the hospital where he is admitted. The 61-year-old felt uneasy on Thursday following which he was taken to a hospital. "Cricketer Kapil Dev came to Fortis Escorts Heart Institute (Okhla Road) emergency department at 1:00 am on 23rd October with a complaint of chest pain. He was evaluated and an emergency coronary angioplasty was performed in the middle of night," the hospital stated. "Currently, he is admitted in ICU and under close supervision of Dr Atul Mathur and his team. Kapil Dev is stable now and he is expected to get discharged in a couple of days." RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav Friday asserted his father and party supremo Lalu Prasad will come out of jail on November 9 after securing bail in a fodder scam case, and Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar will have his farewell the next day. The votes for the state assembly polls will be counted on November 10. Prasad is in judicial custody in Jharkhand capital Ranchi after his conviction in fodder scam cases. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched a stinging attack on the RJD-led opposition in poll-bound Bihar, blaming the "anarchy and bad governance of the 1990s" for most of the ills that plagued the state even now. Addressing an election rally in Gaya, Modi said the "Mahagathbandhan" (Grand Alliance) was a "pitara" (basket) comprising elements wary of the "governments crackdown on anti-national activities", and stressed that the state must vote to power the NDA led by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar so that "Bihar does not fall ill (Bimar) again". Almost eight months after the Covid-19 pandemic shut them down, the colleges for various courses in Karnataka are set to open from November 17. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday. With this, classes for undergraduate, postgraduate and diploma courses in the state will commence with necessary restrictions. However, consent of parents will be mandatory for allowing students to attend classes. Ecommerce giant Amazon has refused to appear before a Joint Committee of Parliament on Data Protection Bill on October 28, panel chairperson and BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi said on Friday. Meanwhile, Facebook's policy head Ankhi Das appeared before the panel on the issue of data security on Friday. Bengaluru's first Covid-19 victim autopsy conducted 16-18 hours after the death of a 61-year-old Covid patient showed that the virus was absent from the skin surface but was present in the nose, mouth and the throat. The autopsy was conducted by head of the Department of Forensic Medicine at Oxford Medical College, Dr Dinesh Rao, sought to address three major questions: presence of virus in the dead body, understanding disease process and the outcome of disease process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-kapil-dev-undergoes-angioplasty-karnataka-colleges-to-reopen-from-november-17-906058.html
23-10-2020||National||Cricket without pressure is boring: Morris on his key role at RCB||For all-rounder Chris Morris, cricket without pressure is boring and he feels the clarity over his role in the Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) set-up has helped him perform consistently so far in the IPL. Morris has always been a sought-after cricketer in the IPL and after four seasons with the Delhi Capitals, he is currently with the RCB providing the balance that Virat Kohli's team was seeking desperately. After missing the first four games of the season due to a side strain, the South African made an instant impact and he has already picked up nine wickets in five matches at a very impressive economy rate of five runs per over. Along with Navdeep Saini, he has plugged the hole that RCB had in the death bowling department. To add to it, he has also been making the new ball talk. So, what has worked for him this season? "The break (due to Covid-19) was really nice both for the body and mental freshness. Good to be playing again and it is just lot of clarity and how the execution needs to be," said the 33-year-old in an online media interaction on Friday. "We do a lot of homework. By the time we get to the game, we know what is required. Our plans have been clear and if something falls we have a plan B ready, if that doesn't work we got a plan C and if that also fails, hopefully, my over is done (laughs)." Morris said his injury rehabilitation period was tough on him but the support staff made things a lot easier. "It is always nice to feel important. The medical staff did great. It was a new injury for me too. I tweaked a stomach muscle while I was batting. It was a tough four and a half weeks. "I had a machine in the room to treat myself. I would ice myself every two hours. It was a hard graft and now really happy to be playing pain free." Asked about bowling in the beginning as well as at the death, Morris said: "To be honest, I feel I am in a blessed position. Cricket without pressure is boring. You always want to get tested as a cricketer. "You need to bowl fast, bowl yorkers, and hit sixes. What more do you want. Have not been smacked yet but it is going to come, that is the nature of the beast, the IPL. But when that happens I will keep my clarity intact else things go pear-shaped." Staying in a bio-bubble for more than two months can be mentally exhausting, Morris said it has its advantages too as the players don't need to travel like they usually do in India. "It has been magnificent. Travelling is one of the toughest parts about the IPL, the cricket is always going to be tough, it is the best cricket tournament in the world. "But people don't realise the travelling in India, it is not as easy as it looks. it is absolutely draining... it has been quite refreshing to be at one place and not needing pack my bags (after every game), it is almost like playing at home." Morris is loving the swing on offer early on in the UAE but going forward, he sees spinners' role gaining more and more significance with the pitches getting slower. Talking about his teammates, Morris could not understand why a bowler like Saini did not get to play when he was at Delhi Capitals. "What has impressed me about the Indian pacers is the amount of work they put in. They bowl and bowl and bowl." Comparing young opener Devdutt Padikkal to the great Matthew Hayden, Morris said, "Dev on top has been incredible. He has got a similar imposing way of batting as Hayden...the way he conducts himself, you can say 'he is the future of Indian cricket'."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cricket-without-pressure-is-boring-morris-on-his-key-role-at-rcb-906077.html
23-10-2020||National||Over 379 girls from Delhi govt schools crack NEET||From an electrician's daughter to an elder sibling of five surviving on limited resources, 379 girls from Delhi government schools have cracked the medical entrance exam NEET this year. Twenty-three girls from a government school in Okhla's Noor Nagar are elated over their feat though some of them plan to appear for the exam again to improve their scores. "We were expecting that at least 15 of our students would clear the tests but not these many. Some of the students come from very humble backgrounds, someone is an electrician's daughter, someone has five siblings and has to teach them too besides surviving on limited resources," said vice-principal Mudassir Jahan, Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya, Noor Nagar. "Some of them plan to appear again to improve their scores because they cannot afford fees of private medical colleges," Jahan said. Seventeen-year-old Ariba Naeem said, "COVID-19 threw different financial challenges before us. Also I took time to gain confidence that I can perform at par with private school students who have access to all facilities". Tamanna Goel, who studies in Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya, Sector 11, Rohini, secured 655 of the maximum 720 marks in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET). Twenty-nine girls from Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya, Molar Band, and 24 from girl's schools in Yamuna Vihar are among the students who have cracked the exam. A total of 569 students of Delhi government schools have passed the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) examination, out of which 379 are girls. There are a total of 48 students who have bagged over 500 marks out of 720. The NEET was conducted on September 13 amid strict precautions in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. From this year, the admissions to the MBBS course in 13 All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research, Puducherry, will also be made through NEET following the amendment in National Medical Commission Act, 2019, passed by Parliament last year. The test was offered in 11 languages -- English, Hindi, Assamese, Bengali, Gujarati, Kannada, Marathi, Odia, Tamil, Telugu, and Urdu -- this year. Based on the initial report, more than 77 per cent of aspirants took the test in English, around 12 per cent in Hindi, and 11 per cent in other languages. The exam was earlier postponed twice due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the government decided to go ahead with it, despite opposition by a section, to mitigate any further academic loss. The National Testing Agency had set in place strict standard operating procedures in view of the pandemic, including measures like reducing the number of candidates per room from the earlier 24 to 12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-379-girls-from-delhi-govt-schools-crack-neet-906079.html
23-10-2020||National||Centre seeks frontline health workers database as they will be first to get Covid-19 vaccine shots||India is urgently preparing a database of all government and private health personnel to quickly vaccinate them against the novel coronavirus once it is safe to do so, health authorities said on Friday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has promised to provide any successful vaccine to each of India's 1.3 billion people, but frontline health workers would be the first to get the shots. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare is aiming to vaccinate 200 million to 250 million people by July. "Vaccine would be supplied by the government of India to all states for free," Pradipta Mohapatra, the top health bureaucrat of Odisha state who attended a video conference with federal health officials, told Reuters. "First to be vaccinated are the health workers both in government and private sector. The policy is uniform for the whole country." Mohapatra said states would have to provide details of such workers to the federal government by next Friday. India has the world's highest vaccine-making capacity and the privately held Serum Institute of India has pledged to make up to 200 million Covid-19 doses for poorer countries, including India, next year. It has contracts to mass-produce vaccine candidates from AstraZeneca Plc and Novavax Inc. While preparations for a possible vaccine roll-out gather pace, India's recorded rise in infections has slowed since reaching a peak on Sept. 17. It reported 54,366 new cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 7.8 million. It has the second highest number of reported infections after the United States. On Friday, Modi held his first election rally since the virus took hold in the country in March, drawing thousands of cheering supporters standing shoulder to shoulder and ignoring social distancing rules. Other politicians including opposition Congress party's Rahul Gandhi also attended big rallies in the eastern state of Bihar, where local elections start in phases from next week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-seeks-frontline-health-workers-database-as-they-will-be-first-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-shots-906081.html
23-10-2020||National||Lokpal received 55 complaints in last six months, sees significant dip||The anti-corruption ombudsman has received 55 complaints in the past six months, including three against MPs, of which 28 cases were closed after preliminary examination. According to official data between April and September this year, 22 were against Group A and B category central government officials while 26 were against chairpersons, members and employees of boards, corporations and autonomous bodies wholly or partially financed by the Centre. Four were in other categories. A preliminary inquiry has been ordered into 13 complaints and it included a probe by the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) in 12 cases and one by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). If one compares the rate of complaints received by the anti-corruption watchdog in 2019-20, Lokpal received fewer complaints in the first half of 2020-21. Officials attributed this dip to people getting more acquainted with the role of Lokpal, as earlier pension-related and grievance petitions were received. During 2019-20, 1,427 complaints were received by the Lokpal out of which 613 were related to state government officials and public sector undertakings, statutory bodies, judicial institutions and autonomous bodies at the state level. Central government officials faced 245 complaints while another 200 complaints were filed against officials at PSU's, statutory bodies, judicial institutions and autonomous bodies at the central level. A total of 135 complaints were also filed against private persons and organisations. The Lokpal also received 220 "requests/comments/suggestions". On October 18, DH reported that at least 80% of the 1,427 complaints, including four against Union Ministers and MPs and six against state ministers and MLAs, received by the Lokpal during 2019-20 did not fall under its jurisdiction. Of the 1,347 complaints disposed by the Lokpal in the last fiscal, official data showed, only 195 fell under the ombudsman while the rest 1,152 or 85.52% were beyond its remit. If one takes the total number of complaints received, this would come to 80.72%. While the Lokpal found that 1,152 complaints beyond its remit, 78 complainants were asked to file their complaint on the prescribed form while 45 were sent for a status report. Thirty-five matters were found to be under the consideration of other authorities while directions were issued to authorities in 32 complaints.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lokpal-received-55-complaints-in-last-six-months-sees-significant-dip-906082.html
23-10-2020||National||Next 3 months decisive in determining India’s Covid-19 trajectory: Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday said the next three months are going to be decisive in determining the coronavirus situation in the country as he urged people to follow Covid appropriate behaviour in the coming festival season and winter months. He also highlighted that the number of active Covid-19 cases in the country are less than 7 lakh and the doubling rate has increased to 97.2 days. Vardhan, who reviewed the Covid-19 preparedness with the health and medical education ministers and other senior officials of Uttar Pradesh, said in the last three months, the country has seen significant improvement in the Covid parameters, the health ministry said in a statement. “From recording over 95,000 Covid-19 cases in a day, they have been substantially reduced to less than 55,000 per day. The recovery rate of India is nearing 90 per cent. The Case Fatality Rate (CFR) is also declining. CFR stands at 1.51 per cent and is moving towards the target of being less than 1 per cent," he was quoted as saying in the statement. “The number of active cases are less than 7 lakh and the doubling rate has increased to 97.2 days, as of now," Vardhan said. From just one lab, the country now has nearly 2,000 laboratories. The number of total Covid-19 tests conducted across the country have surpassed 10 crore. "This is a positive indication that we are moving in the right direction," the minister said. He said appropriate measures are being taken to combat the infectious disease. "But the next three months are going to be decisive in determining the situation of Covid-19 in the country. If we take adequate precaution and follow Covid appropriate behaviour in the coming festival and winter season, we will be in a better position to fight coronavirus," Vardhan said. “For a big state like Uttar Pradesh, it becomes important that maximum thrust is given to simple precautionary measures which are effective in preventing the spread of the disease to a large extent like wearing masks/face cover, especially in public spaces, and following hand and respiratory etiquettes,” he added. The health minister also spoke to officials of the districts where fresh Covid-19 cases or deaths are increasing. He said as on date, Uttar Pradesh has a fatality rate of 1.46 per cent which is less than the national average. The recovery rate of the state (92.2 per cent) is also more than the national recovery rate. The positivity rate is 3.44 per cent, the statement said. Vardhan also stressed that the northern state needs to focus on increasing testing, surveillance, contact tracing and early diagnosis to keep the fatality rate low. He appreciated the efforts of the state in vaccinating those children who were left out of immunisation due to the pandemic, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/next-3-months-decisive-in-determining-india-s-covid-19-trajectory-harsh-vardhan-906083.html
23-10-2020||National||Centre borrows, transfers Rs 6,000 crore to 16 states, 2 UTs||The Centre has borrowed and transferred Rs 6,000 crore as the first tranche of GST compensation shortfall to 16 states and two union territories, including Maharashtra, Gujarat, Bihar, Assam, Delhi and J&K, the finance ministry said on Friday. Last week, the Centre gave in to the demands of opposition-ruled states to borrow and fund the GST compensation shortfall. The finance ministry said that the Centre would borrow from the market to pay the GST compensation shortfall of Rs 1.1 lakh crore to states, and then act as an intermediary to arrange back-to-back loans to state governments. The ministry said the government of India has evolved a special borrowing window to address the shortfall in the GST collection during the year 2020–2021. Twenty-one states and two union territories opted for this special window involving back-to-back borrowing coordinated by the Ministry of Finance. Out of these, five states did not have any shortfall on account of GST compensation.   "Today, the central government borrowed and transferred Rs 6,000 crore as first tranche to 16 states namely Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and two union territories: UT of Delhi and UT of Jammu and Kashmir," it said in a statement. The borrowing is at an interest rate of 5.19 per cent and tenor of borrowing is expected to be broadly in the range of 3 to 5 years, the ministry said it intends to release Rs 6,000 crore to the states every week. This arrangement, the ministry said, will not reflect in the fiscal deficit of the Centre and will appear as capital receipts for state governments. The Centre had in August proposed two options to states: borrow Rs 97,000 crore (on account of GST implementation) from a special window facilitated by the RBI or the complete shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore (including Rs 1.38 lakh crore due to COVID) from the market. The options have since been revised to Rs 1.10 lakh crore and Rs 1.8 lakh crore, respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-borrows-transfers-rs-6000-crore-to-16-states-2-uts-906085.html
23-10-2020||National||HC asks TV Today Network to deposit BARC fine with court||The Bombay High Court has directed TV Today Network Ltd, which runs the news channel India Today, to deposit Rs five lakh, the fine imposed on it by the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), in the court registry. A division bench of Justices Nitin Jamdar and Milind Jadhav was on Thursday hearing a petition filed by TV Today Network Limited challenging the July 31, 2020 order passed by the disciplinary council of BARC imposing the fine for alleged viewership malpractices. Petitioner's counsel Veerendra Tulzapurkar sought interim relief from the court, seeking a direction to the BARC not to take any coercive steps pending the hearing of the plea. BARC's counsel Ashish Kamat opposed the grant of interim relief. The bench said it would hear the plea on November 5. "You (petitioner) can deposit the Rs five lakh fine amount in the registry of this court. If you do so then the question of the respondent (BARC) taking any coercive steps does not arise," the court said. The BARC had on April 27 issued a show-cause notice to the petitioner after the statistical data provided by BARC's Measurement Science Team allegedly showed an abnormal and inexplicable increase in viewership. Finding the media group's response unsatisfactory, the BARC on July 31 asked the network to pay Rs five lakh as a fine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-asks-tv-today-network-to-deposit-barc-fine-with-court-906088.html
23-10-2020||National||Modi govt maintains silence as Donald Trump says India's air is filthy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government in New Delhi on Friday refrained from officially reacting to United States President Donald Trump’s remark that the air in India was filthy. “Look at China, how filthy it is. Look at Russia, look at, India, it’s so filthy, the air is filthy,” Trump, who is seeking a second term in White House, said during a debate with Democratic Party’s candidate for the US presidential elections, Joe Biden. He made the remark while defending his government’s June 2017 decision to withdraw the US from the 2016 Paris Agreement. This is the second time Trump made a critical comment about India during pre-election debates with Biden, notwithstanding his bonhomie with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He had alleged during his first debate with the former US Vice President on September 30 that the Government of India was not making public the actual number of people died of the Covid-19 in the country. The air pollution is indeed a serious issue in India, just as it is in China. The air quality in the National Capital Region – Delhi, Gurgaon and Noida – in fact, worsened to “very poor” category on Friday. But the US President apparently made the remark to once again accuse developing nations like India and China of contributing more than the US and other developed countries to global warming and climate change – an allegation dismissed by New Delhi and Beijing in the past as unscientific and politically motivated. “The Paris accord, I took us out because we were going to have to spend trillions of dollars, and we were treated very unfairly when they put us in there, they did us a great disservice. They were going to take away our businesses,” said the US President. The Paris Agreement set a long-term goal to limit the rise in global average temperature below two-degree centigrade above the levels that existed before the industrial revolution. The agreement required each country to determine, plan and regularly report on the contribution that it would undertake to mitigate global warming, albeit without forcing a country to set a specific target for lowering emission by a specific date. India set a target to reach 175 gigawatts (GW) of installed capacity in renewable power by 2022 as well as to achieve a 40% level of reliance on non-fossil fuel power by 2030. Trump has since long been blaming that the 2016 deal has gone in favour of India and China but put the US in a disadvantageous position. “I will not sacrifice millions of jobs... thousands of companies because of the Paris Accord. It is very unfair,” said Trump, even as Biden pointed it out that climate change was “an existential threat to humanity” and the US had a moral obligation to deal with it. New Delhi did not officially react to the comment made by the US President, sticking to its officially articulated policy of not commenting on internal politics of another country. “When you talk about numbers you don't know how many people died in China, you don't know how many people died (of Covid-19) in Russia, you don't know how many people died in India,” Trump had said at the first debate with Biden. “They don't exactly give you a straight count.” New Delhi had not reacted to the allegation against the Modi Government then. His comments during pre-election debates were just the latest in a series of typical “Trump Talks” that put New Delhi in a tight spot and embarrassed the Prime Minister, notwithstanding the “bromance” the two leaders displayed in public – be it at the “Howdy! Modi” conclave in Houston on September 22 or at its sequel, the “Namaste Trump” conclave, in Ahmedabad on February 24 this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govt-maintains-silence-as-donald-trump-says-indias-air-is-filthy-906113.html
23-10-2020||National||India to operate first Vande Bharat Mission flight to Wuhan on Oct 30||Air India will operate its flight to Wuhan on October 30, the first after the central Chinese city from where the coronavirus initially emerged in December was officially declared safe from the virus in June and all curbs were lifted. A Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) flight would be operated from Delhi-Wuhan sector on October 30, the Indian Embassy here announced on Friday. This will be the sixth VBM flight by Air India to China to help Indians stranded in both the countries to travel back to their destinations. The Delhi-Wuhan flight was announced after the cancellation of October 23 flight between Delhi-Guangzhou. Those who are arriving from New Delhi has to undergo 14-day quarantine in the designated hotels. The Indian Embassy press release here said the upcoming VBM flight scheduled for October 23 has been postponed to October 30. The flight will be now operated on Delhi-Wuhan-Delhi sector. The travellers have been asked to reach out to helpdesk (helpdesk.beijing@mea.gov.in) for any assistance or guidance. India operated three flights to Wuhan to airlift Indians stranded in the city when the virus was at its peak there in February this year. Air India has operated five VBM flights so far helping Indians stranded in both the countries to travel back to their destinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-operate-first-vande-bharat-mission-flight-to-wuhan-on-oct-30-906116.html
23-10-2020||National||61% sceptical of taking Covid-19 vaccine; 23% tired of pandemic restrictions in India: Survey||Nearly 61% of persons surveyed in India have said they were sceptical about the Covid-19 vaccine and will not rush to take it next year even if it is available. The survey, carried out by community social media platform LocalCircles, showed that only 12% of the 8,312 respondents were keen to get vaccinated and return to pre-Covid lifestyle. As many as 25% respondents said they will get vaccinated but still will not go back to pre-Covid lifestyle, and 10% said they will not take it at all in 2021. Scientists from around the world, including India, are developing several vaccines that are at different stages of clinical trials. The central government maintains it has started putting in place systems to ensure that the vaccines reach every citizen across the country. Respondents were also asked how they felt mentally after eight months into the Covid-19 pandemic. Of 8,590 respondents, 33% said they feel anxious or worried, while 13% were dealing with depression. As many as 19% of respondents were calm and happy, 5% said they were enthusiastic, 20% were feeling thankful, while 10% chose the response ‘none of the above’. With seven months of Covid-induced restrictions, 38% of the 8,496 said they were prepared to continue with pandemic-forced limitations on their lives as long as it takes. While 14% respondents each said they can sustain the post-Covid way of life till December 31, 2020, and till March 31, 2021, 6% said till June 30, 2021, 2% said till September 30, 2021, and 3% said till December 31, 2021. If the numbers are added up, 63% of citizens feel they can easily sustain the post-Covid way of living with restrictions till March 31, 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/61-sceptical-of-taking-covid-19-vaccine-23-tired-of-pandemic-restrictions-in-india-survey-906148.html
23-10-2020||National||UPSC CSE preliminary 2020 exam result declared||UPSC announced results for Civil Services Examination (CSE) preliminary round on Friday.  The results can be checked on the official website - upsc.gov.in. The exams were held on October 4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/upsc-cse-preliminary-2020-exam-result-declared-906152.html
23-10-2020||National||Dilip Ghosh dissolves BJYM district units, rift out in open||The rift in the BJP's West Bengal unit was out in the open on Friday after the party's state president Dilip Ghosh dissolved all the district committees of the Yuva Morcha, which is led by Saumitra Khan. Ghosh announced that for "some reasons" all the district committees and post of district presidents of the BJP Yuva Morcha are dissolved. "Till further announcements, their responsibilities will be taken care of by the respective district presidents of the BJP," he said in a statement. The development came just two days after Khan announced new district presidents of the Yuva Morcha. Khan, an MP, told reporters that he is not aware of the development. According to sources, Khan, who joined the BJP from TMC, is considered to be close to the party's national vice- president Mukul Roy. "Dilip Ghosh was not happy that he was not consulted before appointing Yuva Morcha district presidents. So he decided to use his powers as the state unit chief to dissolve the BJYM district units," a senior state BJP leader said. A few months ago, Ghosh expressed reservations over the new state committee of the BJP Yuva Morcha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dilip-ghosh-dissolves-bjym-district-units-rift-out-in-open-906176.html
23-10-2020||National||Plasma Therapy: Avoid unproven Covid-19 treatments, experts caution doctors||Top medical experts on Friday cautioned practising doctors not to succumb to unproven and investigational treatments that are being permitted throughout the world as an emergency to tackle Covid-19, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) published its study. The Council issued this advisory on the futility of plasma therapy in one of the world’s top medical journals. In an editorial, British Medical Journal noted that the desperation generated by the pandemic led to several treatment options that are exceptions rather than norms. "But the medical community should not succumb to such exceptions allowed in a pandemic. Rather, high-quality clinical research should be a part of the response," the study said. The warning comes along with the publication of the ICMR’s PLACID trial that categorically showed convalescent plasma was not associated with a reduction in progression to severe Covid-19 or all cause mortality. The study found no difference in 28 day mortality or progression to severe disease among patients with moderate Covid-19 treated with convalescent plasma. While small beneficial effects were found for resolution of shortness of breath and fatigue, experts have cautioned to interpret such results carefully because of a design limitation of the study.    In its editorial, the BMJ said the PLACID trial was a rigorous randomized controlled study on a topic of enormous global importance, ethically designed and implemented. “The desperation engendered by Covid-19 demands that we strongly resist the urge to succumb to pandemic research exceptionalism. High quality clinical research must be an integral part of a coordinated international response. Specifically, scientific validity is a necessary component of ethical research. Low quality research not only wastes scarce resources, it is also inherently unethical,” it added. The caution comes at a time when a section of doctors in several parts of India including Karnataka and Kerala decided to continue with the convalescent plasma therapy ignoring the ICMR study findings that the therapy doesn't work. The proponents cited initial studies with much smaller number with unclear results to justify the therapy. The ICMR team pointed out that while use of convalescent plasma as treatment for Covid-19 is allowed for off-label use in India, such authorisation has been paralleled by questionable practices like calls for donors on social media and the sale of convalescent plasma on the black market with exorbitant price tags in India. Moreover, it’s a resource-intensive process for which the resources and facilities are available in only a few hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plasma-therapy-avoid-unproven-covid-19-treatments-experts-caution-doctors-906197.html
23-10-2020||National||Delhi's air quality may deteriorate to 'severe' on Saturday: EPCA||Delhi's air quality could deteriorate to 'severe' category on Saturday, the EPCA said on Friday, cautioning that one should go out only when absolutely necessary and wear mask at all times. As Delhi's air quality worsened on Friday with several areas in the national capital recording 'severe' levels of pollution, Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority, the Supreme Court-appointed pollution monitoring authority, in its statement, said it was watching the situation closely. Referring to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) forecast, it said, "SAFAR has informed us that we could be in severe category tomorrow for some period. What is not certain is if the wind direction will change on October 25 for the better or worse. "So we are watching the situation carefully. For the moment our recommendation is that we must ensure enforcement on ground to check all polluting sources. We are also reiterating the advice given to be safe from COVID-19 that we should only go out when absolutely necessary and at all times wear masks," the EPCA said. According to SAFAR, air quality will deteriorate further in the coming two days. The air quality index (AQI) on Friday was recorded at 374 in the morning and 366 by evening as compared to 302 on the previous day. An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. Ten monitoring stations in Delhi entered the 'severe' zone, according to the AQI monitoring mobile application SAMEER, developed by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).      These include Alipur with AQI of 447, Shadipur with 441, Mundka with AQI of 419, Wazirpur with 432, Anand Vihar with 405, Bawana with 413, Vivek Vihar with 422, Rohini- 401, Jahangirpuri with AQI of 418 and Patparganj with 405. According to SAFAR, extremely calm surface wind conditions prevail over the Delhi region and are forecast to continue for two days. "This will lead to low ventilation conditions for an extended period and accumulation of pollutants near the surface. Further deterioration of AQI is expected for the two days," it said. "It is forecasted that the air quality will be in the higher end of 'very poor' on October 24 and 25 and may touch the 'severe' category," SAFAR said. It said a significant increase in stubble fire count was observed around Haryana, Punjab, and neighbouring regions which stood at 1,213 on Thursday. "However, as the boundary layer wind direction is not fully favourable for pollutant transport towards the Delhi region, the SAFAR model estimate of stubble burning share in PM 2.5 is 17 per cent for today," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhis-air-quality-may-deteriorate-to-severe-on-saturday-epca-906214.html
23-10-2020||National Politics||Congress MLAs consumed liquor during Jaipur resort stay: Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Thursday claimed Congress MLAs consumed liquor and enjoyed in the swimming pool during their stay at a resort in Jaipur in March. He made the remarks at a by-election rally at Abdasa in Kutch district. Abdasa is one of the eight assembly seats were by-polls will be held on November 3. Hitting back, Congress legislators asked Rupani why the BJP inducted those MLAs into its fold and gave tickets for by-polls if they are "tipplers". In March-end, when coronavirus cases had started emerging in Gujarat, the Congress had shifted around 60 of its MLAs to a resort in Rajasthan's Jaipur to fend off what it called "poaching attempts by the BJP" ahead of the Rajya Sabha polls. The ruling party had denied any poaching bid. In July 2017, the Congress had sent around 40 of its legislators to a resort outside Bengaluru citing similar reasons in run to the Rajya Sabha polls that year. "My government always cared for the people in the times of the coronavirus outbreak. But these Congress leaders went to a resort in Jaipur and were enjoying in the swimming pool after consuming liquor," said Rupani while addressing the rally near Naliya village. "They were enjoying in Jaipur when you were fighting against coronavirus. You must seek an explanation from Congress leaders when they will come here to seek your votes," said the BJP leader. He added that when north Gujarat was battling floods, Congress MLAs went to a resort in Bengaluru in July 2017. Rupani was campaigning for BJP candidate from Abdasa Pradyumansinh Jadeja, who along with seven other Congress MLAs had resigned after the Rajya Sabha polls. Five of them had joined the BJP and subsequently given a ticket for the bypolls. Besides Abdasa, the other bypoll-bound seats are Karjan, Kaparada, Morbi, Gadhada, Dhari, Limbdi and Dang. Kirit Patel, the sitting Congress MLA from Patan, sought Rupani's resignation for his comments. "Former Congress MLAs for whom Rupani is campaigning at present were also there in Jaipur resort with us. "Are they tipplers according to the CM? If yes, then why they were inducted into the party and given tickets for by-poll?" asked an angry Patel. "Such comments on elected representatives are totally uncalled for, and Rupani must tender a public apology," said Patel. Gujarat Congress president Amit Chavda asked Rupani to first curb the menace of illegal liquor dens which have "flourished under his rule".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-mlas-consumed-liquor-during-jaipur-resort-stay-gujarat-chief-minister-vijay-rupani-905773.html
23-10-2020||National Politics||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar may do another volte face, Chirag Paswan cautions BJP||Lok Janshakti Party president Chirag Paswan on Thursday cautioned the BJP that Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar might do yet another volte-face and re-align with Lalu Prasad's RJD which he had dumped a few years ago to return to the NDA. Paswan also alleged that Kumar, who heads the JD(U), "conspired" to make the BJP fight on less than 157 seats, the number it had contested in 2015, and pointed out that the Chief Minister had agreed to field his party's candidates in only 101 constituencies when he was contesting in alliance with his "political guru" the jailed RJD supremo. "In the last assembly polls, respected@NitishKumar became the Chief Minister with the blessings of respected @laluprasadrjd whom he ditched and again grabbed the chair with the blessings of the Prime Minister", Paswan tweeted. "May he not again rush towards @laluprasadrjd, seeking refuge, after receiving the blessings of @narendramodi", he added. Paswan's barbs referred to the events of July 2017 when Kumar had abruptly resigned as chief minister, sullen over the RJDs refusal to heed mounting pressure for the resignation of his then-deputy and Prasad's younger son Tejashwi Yadav, whose name had cropped up in a money laundering case. In less than 24 hours, Kumar armed with the unconditional support of the BJP, his old ally which he had dumped in 2013 again took oath as the chief minister. Initially, LJP leader Pashupati Kumar Paras, younger brother of party founder and Chirags late father Ram Vilas Paswan, was a member of the new cabinet headed by Kumar. However, after Paras got elected to the Lok Sabha last year, the party was left with no representation in the state cabinet though Ram Vilas Paswan retained a cabinet berth in the Narendra Modi -2 government. Chirag wished Union Home Minister Amit Shah on his birthday Thursday calling him his "guardian." "Best wishes to the country's Home Minister, guardian Amit Shah on his birthday. Sir you inspire lakhs of youth like me to do something for the country. May god always keep you healthy," Chirag tweeted on the senior BJP leader's 56th birthday. Chirag, who took over as the party chief from his father less than a year ago, announced his decision to go solo in the Bihar assembly polls last month. The LJP president has vowed to ensure the defeat of the JD(U), whose chief he has accused of having misbehaved with his late father and refused to give smaller alliance partners their due. The 37 years old LJP MP has been, however, swearing by his loyalty towards Modi and the BJP and repeatedly asserting that he would work towards formation of a new government headed by the saffron party. Paswan's puzzling stance has given rise to misgivings among the JD(U) rank and file that he enjoyed the tacit approval of the BJP which has been anxious to gain the upper hand in Bihar, the only Hindi heartland state where it has always played the second fiddle. Nonetheless, BJP leaders have been trying hard to appease the mercurial JD(U) boss with repeated assertions of trust in Kumar's leadership and attempt to distance the party from Paswan. Paswan has been busy muddying the waters between the JD(U) and the BJP, going hammers and tongs against the former and soft on the latter. His party has been circulating posters with the tagline "Nitish Asambhav" seeking to underscore that it was impossible to accept him as the chief minister again. The LJP social media accounts also carry photographs of its workers donning masks of prominent Bihar BJP leaders and carrying the posters the implicit suggestion being all was not well between the two parties though these were contesting polls in alliance. Chirag, who visited Nawada during the day charged the chief minister with neglecting youths and failing to check migration of workers outside the state. "Nitish Kumar has no roadmap to give jobs to the youths. Corruption is at its peak under him," he told reporters in Nawada.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-may-do-another-volte-face-chirag-paswan-cautions-bjp-905779.html
23-10-2020||National Politics||Middlemen, not farmers, behind agitation against farm laws in Punjab: J P Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda said on Thursday that middlemen and not farmers are behind the agitation against farm laws in Punjab while asserting that the Narendra Modi government has freed farmers from the "slavery" of selling their produce to predesignated markets and traders. Addressing a group of farmers from Delhi and nearby villages at the BJP headquarters here, Nadda also took a swipe at Rahul Gandhi saying had the Congress leader been a well-wisher of farmers, he would be thanking the prime minister. He said the three laws enacted by the Centre have many measures that the Congress had promised in its manifesto, adding the prime minister has done what Gandhi had been advocating. "It is never clear if Rahul Gandhi speaks himself or he is made to speak. Are you a well-wisher of farmers or of the middlemen who only harass peasants," Nadda said. The BJP had organised the programme for farmer representatives to thank Modi for the farm reform laws. The BJP president said there had been many leaders for farmers, but it is Modi who took measures to comprehensively change the situation for them by launching many welfare measures since coming to power at the Centre in 2014 He also took a swipe at West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for not implementing in her state the Center's scheme to deposit Rs 6,000 into every farmer's account under the 'Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana'. She has been creating hurdles in farmers' development, but this will not go on for long, he said and stressed that the BJP will come to power in the state next year and implement the scheme. Assembly polls in West Bengal are due in the first half of the next year. Lauding the Modi government for its pro-farmer measures, he said the Congress only spoke of waiving farmers' loan and that did not amount to more than Rs 54,000-55,000 crore in the 10 years of the UPA rule. But the BJP-led NDA government has so far deposited over Rs 92,000 crore directly in the bank accounts of over 10 crore farmers, Nadda said, adding that by enacting the three farm reform laws, the Modi government has unshackled farmers who can now sell their produce anywhere. The BJP chief alleged that the opposition parties have been trying to mislead farmers and said PM Modi has worked to implement many measures that he had promised, including paying farmers 1.5 times of their input cost by hiking minimum support price.  Targeting the Congress with a snide remark, he said the party, after tasting defeat in many elections, has "begun behaving like a street cricket player who would refuse to play after losing his wicket". The Congress has now started protesting every decision of the government, including what it had once promised, Nadda added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/middlemen-not-farmers-behind-agitation-against-farm-laws-in-punjab-j-p-nadda-905858.html
23-10-2020||National Politics||BSP all set to field candidate in Rajya Sabha by-election in Uttar Pradesh||In a surprise move, the Mayawati-led BSP is all set to field a candidate for the November 9 Rajya Sabha by-election in Uttar Pradesh though it lacks the required numbers to secure victory. The BSP has decided to field its national coordinator Ramji Gautam and the nomination papers will be filed on Monday, a party leader said on condition of anonymity. "We have taken a nomination paper for Ramji Gautam with the signatures of 10 MLAs and he will file his nomination on Monday," the leader said. The assembly secretariat confirmed collection of a nomination paper in the name of Ramji Gautam. The by-election to 10 Rajya Sabha seats will take place on November 9. According to an assembly secretarial official, there are 395 MLAs currently and it is necessary to secure votes of around 37 members to win a Rajya Sabha seat from UP. The ruling BJP, having 304 members in the Uttar Pradesh assembly, is set to win eight to nine seats, and the main opposition Samajwadi Party with 48 MLAs will easily secure only one seat. The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) has 18 MLAs. The Apna Dal has nine members, the Congress seven, the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party four and five are Independents. The BSP leader said, "Parties like the Congress and the Bharatiya Samaj Party do not have the numbers and the Samajwadi Party too with its present strength is not in a position to get its second candidate elected. If all want to stop the BJP, they will support us though we have not yet had any discussion with them". Among the 10 Rajya Sabha seats from Uttar Pradesh falling vacant on November 25, the BJP held three, Samajwadi Party four, Bahujan Samaj Party two and the Congress one. The 10 retiring members are Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri, Arun Singh and Neeraj Shekhar of the BJP; Chandrapal Singh Yadav, Ram Gopal Yadav, Ram Prakash Verma and Javed Ali Khan of the SP; Rajaram and Veer Singh of the BSP; and Panna Lal Punia of the Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bsp-all-set-to-field-candidate-in-rajya-sabha-by-election-in-uttar-pradesh-906002.html
23-10-2020||National Politics||Depression over Bay of Bengal moving away, no heavy rain likely during Durga Puja days||The depression over north Bay of Bengal has begun moving away from the West Bengal coast on Friday afternoon, lessening the possibility of heavy rainfall in the metropolis and its neighbouring districts during the Durga Puja days, the Met office said. Light to moderate rain is likely in isolated pockets, it said. "The depression over Northwest Bay of Bengal off Odisha coast moved north-northeastwards with a speed of 22 km/hour during past hours. It now lay centred over Northwest Bay of Bengal off West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts, about 50 km southeast of Sagar Islands (West Bengal)," a Met department official said. The system is likely to move further north-northeastwards and cross Bangladesh and adjoining West Bengal coasts around afternoon hours, reducing the possibility of heavy downpour across south Bengal. However, fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea on Friday as well. The weatherman had on Thursday forecast heavy rain in the city and several south Bengal districts between Friday and Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/depression-over-bay-of-bengal-moving-away-no-heavy-rain-likely-during-durga-puja-days-906009.html
23-10-2020||National Politics||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray announces Rs 10,000 crore aid to flood-hit people||The Maharashtra government on Friday announced an immediate relief package to the tune of Rs 10,000 crore for the flood-affected areas. “The amount would be disbursed by Diwali,” Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray told reporters in Varsha, his official residence at Malabar Hill in Mumbai. Parts of Maharashtra mainly Marathwada and Western Maharashtra were badly affected because of last week’s mega-floods. Of the total package, Rs 5,500 crore is meant for agriculture, Rs 2,635 crore for rebuilding roads and bridges, Rs 300 crore for the urban development department, Rs 239 crore for power utilities, Rs 102 crore for water resources and Rs 1,000 crore for rural roads and water supply. Thackeray also urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to look into the dues of the state. “Central government is to pay Rs 38,000 crore to the state government. Had they paid to the state, we would not have faced difficulties in announcing the relief package,” he said. Thackeray also urged the opposition BJP not to bring in politics into relief and rehabilitation. "I don't want to speak politics, whatever I have to say I will speak as Shiv Sena President at the Dussehra rally," he added. Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who is into self-quarantine in Pune, joined the meeting by video-conference. Those present in the meeting include Revenue Minister Balasabeb Thorat, Transport Minister Anil Parab, Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil, Soil and Water Conservation Minister Shankarrao Gadakh Patil, Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-announces-rs-10000-crore-aid-to-flood-hit-people-906015.html
23-10-2020||National Politics||Promise of 19 lakh jobs akin to Rs 15 lakh in bank accounts: Rahul Gandhi in Bihar||In a dig at the BJP's election promise of 19 lakh jobs in Bihar, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Friday that it was similar to that of depositing Rs 15 lakh in the bank accounts of the people. Addressing an election rally here, Gandhi alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Nitish Kumar broke the backbone of the farmers, and medium and small businesses in the state. He said that Modi calls himself a nationalist but weakened the country over the last six years. "Economy is suppressed and farmers oppressed," Gandhi added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/promise-of-19-lakh-jobs-akin-to-rs-15-lakh-in-bank-accounts-rahul-gandhi-in-bihar-906038.html
23-10-2020||National Politics||Maharashtra government's rain package betrayed trust of farmers: Fadnavis||Maharashtra Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Friday criticised the Uddhav Thackeray-led government's Rs 10,000-crore assistance to rain-affected people, saying the announcement "betrayed" the trust of farmers. Earlier in the day, the chief minister announced Rs 10,000 crore aid to rain-affected people in the state, including farmers, and said the relief will be provided by Diwali. Referring to the demands made by Thackeray during the crop loss last year, when he was a BJP ally, Fadnavis said, "Earlier, Thackeray himself had demanded financial assistance of Rs 25,000 and Rs 50,000 per hectare for rain-affected farmers. He had even demanded compensation of Rs 1 lakh per hectare. But today's announcement has betrayed the trust of farmers." The Maha Vikas Aghadi government was showing budgeted provisions as a special package and trying to portray a false picture of helping farmers, the BJP leader alleged. "It is a lame excuse to point the finger at the Centre for not helping the state at the time of a natural crisis. It is an attempt to hide the MVA government's failure," he alleged. While announcing the relief package, Thackeray claimed that the Maharashtra government is yet to receive a total of around Rs 38,000 crore from the Centre. Heavy rains and floods last week claimed several lives in Pune, Aurangabad and Konkan divisions, which also left crops on lakhs of hectares damaged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/maharashtra-governments-rain-package-betrayed-trust-of-farmers-fadnavis-906065.html
23-10-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan BJP releases 'black paper' to highlight Ashok Gehlot government's failure||Ahead of civic polls in Rajasthan, the BJP released a 'black paper' flagging failure of the Ashok Gehlot government and deteriorating law and order in the state. "The black paper contains the failure of the Congress government in Rajasthan. Law and order situation has deteriorated as three firing incidents took place in one day in Bikaner recently, chain snatching incidents are on the rise and all such issues have affected people in urban areas,” Union Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs Arjun Ram Meghwal said. Meghwal, who is the coordinator for municipal elections in Jaipur, released the black paper along with the party's state president Satish Poonia. "We will also release a vision document to highlight the party's visions for the cities," the Union minister told reporters at the party office. Poonia said the Jaipur Municipal Corporation had the board of Congress but no work order was issued in the past one-and-a-half-year and the Congress government did nothing for the development of Jaipur. "In order to expose the government's negligence and indifference, we have released the black paper,” he said. The municipal corporation elections will be held in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota in two phases. Voting in Jaipur Heritage, Jodhpur North and Kota North municipal corporation will be held on October 29, while Jaipur Greater, Jodhpur South and Kota South municipal corporations will go to polls on November 1. A total of 2,238 candidates are in the fray for the post of councillor in the six municipal corporations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-bjp-releases-black-paper-to-highlight-ashok-gehlot-governments-failure-906066.html
23-10-2020||National Politics||Fourth anniversary of demonetisation: Modi govt should bring white paper, says Congress||Ahead of the 4th anniversary of demonetisation, the Congress on Friday demanded that the government bring a white paper on the benefits of its decision to ban notes of higher denomination. Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh asked why is the government afraid to make public the names of entities involved in scams, the details of defaulters and transaction trails, since the Income Tax Department was probing all those with undisclosed incomes. "In the next couple of weeks, when we will be commemorating the 4th anniversary, we demand that the government should come out with a white paper highlighting the cost and benefits of this 'Tughlaqi decree'," he said at a press conference. The Congress leader said the government should answer how many such alleged defaulters has the Income Tax Department probed and what is the undisclosed income unearthed. The Income Tax Department had announced that they would initiate assessment proceedings to check black money instances after demonetisation, but till date there has been no disclosure from the department. "Demonetisation was an organised loot and legalised plunder," he said. "How much black money has the government recovered from such defaulters so far," he asked. Vallabh alleged that serious charges of tax evasion have come out in the wake of demonetization against a prominent jeweller of Surat, who made sales of Rs 96.3 crore post 8.30 pm on November 8, 2016, when noteban was imposed. Subsequently, between November 10 and 12 the jeweller deposited close to Rs 110 crore cash in banks and the total tax paid as per allegations is only Rs 80 lakh. He said what is surprising is that rather than acting on the complaint, the IT Department has been after the complainant itself, who is a former income tax officer. "Why did the government decide to misuse the machinery to raid the whistleblower instead of instituting an inquiry against the alleged scam," he asked. Vallabh also accused the Modi government of being "autocratic in the garb of a democratic one". He said the Indian economy is still reeling with the aftershocks of this ill-advised move.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/fourth-anniversary-of-demonetisation-modi-govt-should-bring-white-paper-says-congress-906205.html
23-10-2020||North and Central||Bihar holds MLC polls amid pandemic; voting percentage up||Member of Legislative Council elections to four graduate and as many teachers' constituencies were held in Bihar on Thursday with a high voter turnout, the Election Commission said. The polls were conducted at 976 polling stations in 30 districts, out of the total 38 districts of Bihar. This was the first major election during the period of pandemic in the state, the Commission pointed out. The total number of electors in graduates constituency is 4.06 lakh and teacher's constituency is 40,631. "All measures directed by the Commission were put in place for free, fair and safe elections at each polling station," a spokesperson said. The overall voting percentage in 2014 was 56.33 per cent which has increased to 60.58 per cent. There is a net increase of 4 per cent. In case of teachers' constituency the increase is from 64 per cent to 72.5 per cent. "This demonstrates active participation and faith of electors in the safety measures put in place by EC," the spokesperson added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bihar-holds-mlc-polls-amid-pandemic-voting-percentage-up-905789.html
23-10-2020||North and Central||After being raped, minor girl in Punjab's Hoshiarpur killed, set on fire||In a horrifying incident, a six-year-old girl was allegedly raped, killed and then set on fire with her half-burnt body found at a home at Jalalpur village in Tanda here, police said on Thursday. The accused -- Gurpreet Singh and his grandfather Surjit Singh -- have been arrested on charges of murder, rape and other relevant sections of the IPC and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, they further said. The victim was the daughter of a migrant labourer who was living in the same village. According to the victim's father, Gurpreet allegedly took the girl to his home where he allegedly raped her. Thereafter, both Gurpreet and Surjit allegedly killed her and then burnt her body. The half-burnt body of the girl was found from their house, said police. Meanwhile, the Punjab State Scheduled Castes Commission Chairperson Tejinder Kaur took suo motu notice of the incident and sought a detailed report from Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Hoshiarpur by October 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-being-raped-minor-girl-in-punjabs-hoshiarpur-killed-set-on-fire-905790.html
23-10-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh journalist booked over 'abusive' video clip||A case has been lodged against a journalist in Chhattisgarh's Surguja district for allegedly using abusive and derogatory language in a video clip related to an anti-encroachment drive undertaken by the local civic body and circulating it on social media, police said on Thursday. Refuting the charges, the journalist, Manish Soni, claimed he was being falsely implicated in the case as someone else had edited his news clip and made it viral. An FIR was lodged on Tuesday night at the Ambikapur police station against Soni under sections 294 (obscene acts) of the IPC and sections 66 and 67 of the Information Technology Act based on a complaint of Mayor of Ambikapur Municipal Corporation Ajay Tirkey, a police official said. As per the complaint, Soni allegedly made the audio-video clip in a news form and used abusive and derogatory language in it and circulated it on WhatsApp and Facebook, he said. The accused tried to malign the image of the Congress through his posts, Tirkey,a leader of the ruling party, said in the complaint. Further investigation into the matter was underway, the official said. Soni, who works as a freelancer, said on October 17, he had posted on YouTube the video clip of a news report related to some farmers whose paddy crops were destroyed by JCB machine used during the anti-encroachment drive undertaken by the Ambikapur Municipal Corporation (AMC). The AMC claimed the crop were planted on government land. The video also contained reactions of farmers who said they had been sowing crops on that land for the last several years and without giving any prior notice, the municipal corporation destroyed their crops, he said. After the news video was widely circulated, someone who was apparently annoyed with it, edited the clip and made a meme which went viral, Soni claimed. He alleged that without carrying out a proper investigation, police have falsely implicated him in the case. Earlier in August, the police had booked Soni in another case for allegedly putting up an objectionable post on social media platform over an encounter between security forces and naxals. Responding to a tweet on the issue, Health Minister T S Singh Deo on Thursday said the Congress is committed to ensure protection to impartial journalism and rights of farmers. The Chhattisgarh Congress is committed to protect impartial journalism and rights of Annadata. I assure that no injustice to journalists and farmers will be accepted, he tweeted in Hindi. Through this FIR, our aim is to make it clear that use of abusive and explicit language is not journalism, Singh Deo, the MLA from Ambikapur, said in another tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-journalist-booked-over-abusive-video-clip-905826.html
23-10-2020||North and Central||J&K govt summons Facebook India head to appear in person in online cheating case||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Thursday summoned the Facebook India managing director and other officials to appear before the adjudicating officer on November 12 in connection with a complaint of an alleged online cheating case. Orders for appearance in person against Ajit Mohan, MD of Facebook India, and other respondents have been issued by adjudicating officer Simrandeep Singh, who is the Secretary to J&K government's Department of Information Technology. Taking cognisance of a complaint filed under the Information Technology Act 2000 by Jammu resident Vivek Sagar through advocate of J&K High Court Deepak Sharma, the secretary issued notices to them to appear before him on 12 November. In the notice issued to the Facebook India head, it is said that Vivek Sagar had filed a complaint against others including the company under the IT Act. The notices for appearance have also been issued to Director of Bajaj Finance Ltd, Director of Quadrant Televentures Ltd and an SBI manager. The complaint has been filed by Vivek Sagar alleging that Facebook and the other respondents have violated the provisions of the IT Act by cheating and defrauding the complainant as he was made to deposit Rs 20,700 for getting a loan at 4 per cent interest from Bajaj Finance Ltd, he said. “As such, in order to the inquiry and adjudicate into the allegations levelled by the complainant, you are hereby directed to appear in person before the undersigned office on 12th of November 2020 at 11 am in the forenoon”, the notice reads. Under Section 46 of the Information Technology Act, the secretary of the department of Information Technology is designated as the adjudicating officer by the government to deal with complaints.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-govt-summons-facebook-india-head-to-appear-in-person-in-online-cheating-case-905829.html
23-10-2020||North and Central||J&K ACB arrests NGO director for embezzling funds under Swachh Bharat Abhiyan||The Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Thursday night arrested a director of an NGO for allegations of fraud, corruption and embezzlement of public money worth over Rs 38 lakh under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan in Jammu, officials said. A joint surprise check was conducted by the ACB to look into the allegations against an NGO named Social Welfare India and officials of Srinagar Municipal Corporation (SMC) regarding the construction of Individual House Hold Latrines (IHHL) units under Swachh Bharat Mission, they said. During the investigation, it was established that an agreement was made for 218 IHHL and nine twin-storage pits to be constructed by the NGO and it submitted a completion certificate in respect of aforesaid constructions attaching the list of beneficiaries, they added. The SMC commissioner got the matter verified through the engineering wing and physical verification report was submitted to the commissioner that the IHHL and twin-storage pits have been constructed as per guidelines, subsequent to  which an amount of Rs 38,81,612 was released in favour of the NGO, they said. It has come to fore that not a single unit has been constructed by the said NGO and the engineering wing of SMC submitted false completion and verification report to higher-ups facilitating release of the huge amount of money in favour of the NGO against the non-existing work, the ACB said. The officials of SMC were in league with the NGO and abused their official positions for their own pecuniary benefits by submitting false completion and verification report that led to the release of Rs 38,81,612. This has caused a huge loss to the exchequer apart from undue benefits for the NGO and themselves, they said. Accordingly, a case was registered in ACB Srinagar branch against the officials of SMC which included then SMC Executive Engineer Maroof Ahmad, then SMC Junior Engineer Javaid Iqbal Shah, and office bearers of the NGO Zaheer Abbas Bhatti (Director, Social Welfare of India) and Ishrat Ashraf Shah (General Secretary, Social Welfare of India), they added. They said that the investigation of the case is under progress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-acb-arrests-ngo-director-for-embezzling-funds-under-swachh-bharat-abhiyan-905836.html
23-10-2020||North and Central||Modi govt mulls new surrender-cum-rehabilitation policy for militants||The surrender-cum-rehabilitation policy of the Central government for the militants, who shun the path of violence, is in the final stage and the matter is currently being deliberated between Defence and Home ministries, sources told DH. The Indian Army and Jammu and Kashmir police have sent recommendations regarding the policy to the Center and in all likelihood, the new surrender policy may be rolled out soon, they said. “The primary focus of the policy is on the rehabilitation front so that the militants who return to the mainstream live a secure and happy life. The policy entails amnesty from prosecution for local militants who surrender and if a surrendered militant gets a job, he wouldn’t be disqualified because of his past,” sources said. Recently General-Officer-Commanding (GoC) of Srinagar based 15-Corps, Lieutenant General B S Raju had said that the government was working on a surrender and rehabilitation policy. “There are a lot of issues involved,” he said, adding he has directed those engaged in counter militancy operations to ensure that no out-of-proportion force is used. “Whenever a local terrorist is involved, we offer him to surrender first. Just because someone has held a gun and taken a picture doesn't mean that he has to die,” said the officer. His views were echoed by GOC of north Kashmir-based Kilo Force, Major General Force HS Sahi, who on Thursday said the army has advocated rehabilitation policy for the surrendered militants. “The army and the police have sent some recommendations regarding surrender policy but so far there is no final draft. Till new policy is rolled out, we will follow the existing one,” he said. The first surrender policy in J&K was introduced in 1995, when militancy was at its peak. It promised a fixed deposit of Rs 1.5 lakh, monthly stipend of Rs 1,800 and some vocational training for the militants who surrendered. In 2004, a new rehab policy was approved which was applicable to “known militants who surrender with weapons” and “dreaded militants even without weapons”. It also promised a fixed deposit of Rs 1.5 lakh, monthly stipend of Rs 2,000 and some vocational training. In 2010, another policy was announced for Kashmiri militants who had gone to Pakistan occupied Kashmir for arms training between 1989 and 2009 and wanted to return.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/modi-govt-mulls-new-surrender-cum-rehabilitation-policy-for-militants-905952.html
23-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi's air quality still in 'very poor' category; 10 monitoring stations enter 'severe' zone||Delhi's air quality deteriorated on Friday morning with several areas in the national capital recording 'severe' levels of pollution, according to authorities. The air quality index (AQI) on Friday was recorded at 374 as compared to 302 on the previous day. The AQI for Delhi, however, is in the 'very poor' category, the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) said. An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. Ten monitoring stations in Delhi entered the 'severe' zone, according to the AQI monitoring mobile application SAMEER, developed by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). These include Alipur with AQI of 447, Shadipur with 441, Mundka with AQI of 419, Wazirpur with 432, Anand Vihar with 405, Bawana with 413, Vivek Vihar with 422, Rohini- 401, Jahangirpuri with AQI of 418 and Patparganj with 405. According to SAFAR, extremely calm surface wind conditions prevail over the Delhi region and are forecast to continue for two days. “This will lead to low ventilation conditions for an extended period and accumulation of pollutants near the surface. Further deterioration of AQI is expected for the two days," it said. "It is forecasted that the air quality will be in the higher end of 'very poor' on 24th and 25th October and may touch the 'severe' category,” SAFAR said. It said a significant increase in stubble fire count was observed around Haryana, Punjab, and neighbouring regions which stood at 1,213 on Thursday. “However, as the boundary layer wind direction is not fully favourable for pollutant transport towards the Delhi region, the SAFAR model estimate of stubble burning share in PM 2.5 is 17 per cent for today,” it said. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the air quality will deteriorate further with pollutants PM 10 (presence of particles with diameter less than 10 micrometres) and PM 2.5 increasing. PM 2.5 are tiny particulate matter less than 2.5 microns in diameter and can enter deep into the lungs and even the bloodstream. “Air quality will deteriorate in the coming two days till October 24. There are factors other than farm fires which are worsening the air- like vehicular pollution, waste burning. PM 2.5 will increase and PM 10 which is now in 'poor' category will fall to 'very poor' by October 24,” Anand Sharma, Additional Director General IMD, had told PTI on Thursday. The stubble fire count for Wednesday was 1,428. The 24-hour average Delhi's AQI was recorded at 256 on Wednesday, 223 on Tuesday and 244 the day before. The figures are based on data collected from 34 monitoring stations in the city. The Delhi government has kick-started its 'Red Light On, Gaadi Off' anti-pollution campaign for which it has deployed 2,500 environment marshals at 100 traffic signals across the city to generate awareness and curb vehicular pollution. The drive will be implemented in all 70 assembly constituencies from October 26 and will go on till November 15 from 8 am to 8 pm. It is an awareness drive by the Delhi government and no person will be issued challans, the government has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-air-quality-still-in-very-poor-category-10-monitoring-stations-enter-severe-zone-905958.html
23-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi CM lays foundation for new block at LNJP Hospital, hails Covid-19 warriors||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday laid the foundation stone for construction of a towering state-of-the-art 1,500-bed block at LNJP Hospital that will make it one of the largest facilities in the country. The Delhi government-run hospital at present has 2,000 beds, all of which have been dedicated for coronavirus patients. The chief minister also hailed the "corona warriors" of the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash (LNJP) Hospital, who have either lost their lives or continue to serve in the frontline. Kejriwal after laying the foundation stone of the Maternity, Medicine and Advanced Pediatrics Block on the hospital premises in the presence of Health Minister Satyendar Jain, asserted that this will be a "world-class facility for the people of the capital city". "With the construction of the new state-of-the-art block with 25 floors, fully air-conditioned with modular OTs and other facilities, the bed strength of LNJP will grow to 3,500, and additional block coming up will have 300 more beds. So, a total of 3,800 beds, and that will make LNJP Hospital, one of the biggest facilities in the country," he said. The new 1,500-bed block is to be built at a cost of Rs 450 crore with per bed cost coming out to be Rs 30 lakh, he said. "This is much less than similar projects done by the Centre or any state government, where the average cost turns out to be Rs 1.25 crore to Rs 1.5 crore per bed," Kejriwal claimed. The chief minister also asserted that his government in the last five years has finished various projects in different sectors before time and saved money. "The LNJP’s new block is to be completed in 30 months. But the health minister (Satyendar Jain) has said that their target is to finish it in two years or 24 months only," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cm-lays-foundation-for-new-block-at-lnjp-hospital-hails-covid-19-warriors-905970.html
23-10-2020||North and Central||Ballia firing: Police recover weapon used in crime||The police on Friday recovered the revolver used in the shooting incident in Durjanpur village here which had left one person dead. According to police, BJP leader Dhirendra Pratap Singh, arrested for allegedly killing the man during the allotment of a ration shop in the district, revealed that he hid the weapon under a tree near his house after the incident. A Ballia court had on Wednesday remanded Singh in police custody for two days. He was taken to his house in Durjanpur village by the police on Thursday. Singh told the police that he had used his licensed revolver during the incident on October 15 leading to the death of Jai Prakash Pal alias Gama Pal, police said in a release here on Friday. The BJP leader was arrested from Lucknow on Sunday. When asked by media about the incident, Singh had said, "I fired in self-defence and for the security of my family.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ballia-firing-police-recover-weapon-used-in-crime-905988.html
23-10-2020||North and Central||NGT slams Centre over inadequate measures to prevent wastage of groundwater||Slamming Centre over inadequate measures to prevent wastage and misuse of groundwater, the National Green Tribunal said that there has to be specific time-bound action plans and monitoring to check overexploitation. The NGT principal bench headed by its Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said that response filed both by the Ministry of Jal Shakti as well as Delhi Jal Board (DJB) on check misuse of groundwater does not show clear enforceable policy. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Rajendra Tyagi, a BJP councillor from Ghaziabad in Haryana and an NGO, Friends, alleging that steps are not being taken to prevent the misuse of water. "The affidavit is vague and general. It is stated that Jal Shakti Ministry has written letters to the States to prevent misuse of groundwater. Apart from writing a letter, there has to be specific time-bound action plans and monitoring which should include coercive measures for enforcement," the bench said. The NGT also said that the affidavit filed by the DJB is wholly inadequate to address the problem. "Overriding environmental law principle of ''Polluter Pays'' must be invoked by all the regulators to ensure that wastage of water is not profitable and cost of such wastage is recovered which is necessary for the restoration of the environment without merely limiting to statutory changes which are no substitute to ''Polluter Pays'' principle," the bench said. The petitioners said that 4,84,20,000 cubic metres of water was wasted every single day and around 163 million population of the country was facing deprivation of fresh, drinkable water at the hands of few others who are almost habitual of wasting and misusing precious fresh potable water. "Around 600 million people are facing extreme water stress in the country. Millions of litres of fresh potable water are being wasted in absence of appropriate regulations or action-plans to curb the same," the plea said. The demand for water is expected to grow from 40 billion cubic metres currently to around 220 billion cubic metres in 2025.  The Composite Water Management Index report prepared by the Niti Ayog has clearly cautioned that 21 cities in India will run out of groundwater as soon as by 2020, affecting 100 million people," the plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ngt-slams-centre-over-inadequate-measures-to-prevent-wastage-of-groundwater-905990.html
23-10-2020||North and Central||Man, sister suffer acid attack after brawl over IPL match in Aligarh||A 24-year-old man and his sister suffered burn injuries after two men allegedly threw acid at them following an argument over an IPL match, police said on Friday. The incident took place in Delhi Gate locality here on Wednesday night. Aamir Khan (24) and his sister Shaista were rushed to the Jawahar Lal Nehru medical college hospital here, police said. According to station officer of Delhi Gate police station, Arshish Kumar, the brother-sister duo was attacked by Dilshad and Mohsin, allegedly involved in a cricket betting racket, with acid. Khan and Dilshad had a heated argument over an IPL match, Kumar said. Dilshad and Mohsin were arrested on Thursday and a case of attempt to murder was registered against them, the station officer added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-sister-suffer-acid-attack-after-brawl-over-ipl-match-in-aligarh-906003.html
23-10-2020||North and Central||Centre steps in to cool onion prices, caps stock limit||Barely a month after amending the Essential Commodities Act, the Centre on Friday imposed stock limits on onions in a bid to arrest the rising prices.  Wholesalers have been allowed to stock up to 25 tonnes of onions, while the limit for retailers has been capped at two tonnes, thus enabling release of onions to the market as prices of the key ingredient in large number of Indian kitchens crossed Rs 80 per kg. The revised stock limit norms will be in force till December 31st. These restrictions are not applicable to imported onions. The order to impose stock limits invoking the Essential Commodities Act, came barely a month after the Parliament put its seal on the amendments to allow the government to lean on to the Act only under extraordinary circumstances such a war or famine. “The Narendra Modi government has taken immediate steps to control the rising prices of onions and curb hoarding,” Consumer Affairs Minister Piyush Goyal said. The sudden rise in onion prices is attributed to the loss of crop due to unseasonal rains in Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and parts of Karnataka. According to the government estimates, the production of kharif onions was pegged at 43 lakh tonnes, but had to be revised to 36 lakh tonnes. The government has also released onions from its buffer stock of one lakh tonnes to cool down the rising prices. Earlier, the government had also relaxed the import norms for onions and asked Indian missions in onion producing countries to facilitate shipments of the bulb to India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-steps-in-to-cool-onion-prices-caps-stock-limit-906041.html
23-10-2020||North and Central||Ishrat Jahan Encounter: Court rejects discharge plea of four cops, directs CBI to seek sanction from Gujarat govt||A special CBI court on Friday rejected the discharge application of four accused policemen in the Ishrat Jahan encounter case with a direction to CBI to seek sanction from the state government to prosecute these officers. With this, the fate of accused cops will be decided on the Gujarat government's decision.  Earlier, in a similar situation, the government had refused to grant permission to prosecute former IPS officer D G Vanzara and retired Superintendent of Police N K Amin, both were key accused in the case, based on which they were eventually discharged from the trial.  The special judge V R Raval disposed of the discharge applications moved by accused IPS officer G L Singhal, retired Deputy Superintendent of Police (DySP) Tarun Barot, ex DySP J G Parmar, and assistant sub-inspector Anaju Chaudhary. Parmar, passed away last month, was abated.  The accused policemen had moved separate applications but had identical grounds that they should be discharged on parity with Vanzara, Amin, and ex-Director General of Police Pandey who have been discharged already. In the case of Vanzara and Amin, the CBI court discharged them on the ground the Gujarat government refused to grant sanction under section 197 of the code of criminal procedure mandated for prosecuting government servants. The state government had denied permission on the ground of "larger public interest" and claimed that Ishrat Jahan was an "operative of Pakistan-based terror organisation Lashkar-e-Taiba." 19 years old Ishrat, her friend Javed Sheikh alias Pranesh Pillai and two alleged Pakistani nationals had been killed in a joint operation by Gujarat policemen and four officers of the Intelligence Bureau. During the pendency of the case, Ishrat's mother Shamima Kauser had submitted in writing in the court saying that she left the case at the mercy of CBI to prosecute all 11 accused policemen and Intelligence Bureau officers. She stated that she felt "hopeless and helpless" that even after 15 years of her daughter's murder trial has "barely started."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ishrat-jahan-encounter-court-rejects-discharge-plea-of-four-cops-directs-cbi-to-seek-sanction-from-gujarat-govt-906046.html
23-10-2020||North and Central||Muslim cop suspended for growing beard without permission in Uttar Pradesh||The Uttar Pradesh government suspended a Muslim policeman in Baghpat district, about 450 kilometres from here, for growing a beard without permission. According to officials here, sub-inspector Intesar Ali, posted at the Ramala police station in the district, was suspended after being "repeatedly warned" for growing a beard "without permission". A senior police official in Baghpat said barring a member of the Sikh community, no other police personnel could grow a beard while in service without permission. "Ali was warned thrice in the past few months...he was asked to either cut his beard or obtain permission...he did not heed the direction," the official said. "We tried to persuade him to cut the beard...We told him that it was against the rules...but our efforts did not yield any result," the official added. However, Ali said he had been trying to get permission from the department to grow a beard for the past one year. "I have been trying to get permission since November last year," he said. Muslim clerics from the prestigious Islamic seminary Darul Uloom, Deoband, sharply condemned the move and demanded to reinstate the policeman. "It is highly improper to suspend a Muslim cop for growing a beard...He must be reinstated and those who passed the suspension order should be punished," said a prominent cleric from the seminary on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/muslim-cop-suspended-for-growing-beard-without-permission-in-uttar-pradesh-906060.html
23-10-2020||North and Central||Row over appointments at Delhi University, Centre steps in||An ugly row over appointments has broken out at Delhi University, prompting the central government to step in to overturn decisions taken by Vice-Chancellor Yogesh Tyagi, while on medical leave. Trouble began on Wednesday when a university professor P C Jha, armed with an “appointment letter”, occupied the office of the varsity’s Registrar, seen as a move by Tyagi to pre-empt the due process of appointment set in motion by the varsity’s Executive Council. As Jha stayed put in the Registrar’s office, the Executive Council, which is tasked by the Delhi University Act to make appointments, selected Vikas Gupta as the regular Registrar and Girish Ranjan as regular Finance Officer. The appointments were notified by P C Joshi, the pro-vice-chancellor, who has been officiating at the Vice-Chancellor during Tyagi’s leave of absence since July. On Thursday, Tyagi had removed Joshi and appointed Geeta Bhatt, an associate professor of the Bhaskaracharya College, in his place, escalating the ugly row at the varsity campus. Late Thursday night, the Education Ministry stepped in upholding the appointments made by Joshi and issuing clear instructions that Tyagi can resume duties as Vice-Chancellor, only after submitting a proper medical fitness certificate issued by competent authority treating him. “The orders issued by the Vice-Chancellor during his period of absence on medical ground without joining office properly and officially is not valid and should not be acted upon by the university functionary,” said a letter issued by Birendra Kumar Singh, Deputy Secretary, Education Ministry to varsity registrar Vikas Gupta. “In future, if the vice-chancellor wants to join office, a proper medical fitness certificate issued by a competent authority who treated him should be obtained,” he said. The ministry also made it clear that all the orders that are to be issued under the statutes of the university with the approval of the Vice-Chancellor should be issued with the approval of the pro-vice-chancellor Joshi. Armed with the letter from the ministry, newly appointed Registrar Gupta also issued a statement saying that Joshi was the only Competent Authority to approve or issue orders as per the provisions of the law and any other orders were “null and void”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/row-over-appointments-at-delhi-university-centre-steps-in-906071.html
23-10-2020||North and Central||Seven houses gutted in fire in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur||Seven houses were gutted and three others partially burnt in a fire that broke out in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district on Friday evening, a district official said.  However, no one was injured in the incident. The fire at Purbani village in Kalpa subdivision was controlled with the assistance of fire brigades, Army, police and local people, he added.  Kinnaur Deputy Commissioner Gopal Chand, along with other senior officers of the district, rushed to the spot and supervised the rescue and relief operation. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has expressed grief over the fire incident, an official spokesperson said.  Thakur directed the district administration to provide immediate relief and rehabilitation to the affected families and assured of all possible help and support. On the directions of the chief minister, the district administration also provided immediate relief of Rs 10,000 each to those affected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/seven-houses-gutted-in-fire-in-himachal-pradeshs-kinnaur-906137.html
23-10-2020||North and Central||UP family court orders woman to pay Rs 2,000 as maintenance to unemployed husband||A family court in Uttar Pradesh has ordered a woman, who was a retired government servant, to pay maintenance to her unemployed husband. Kishori Lal, a resident of Khatauli village in UP's Muzaffarnagar district, about 500 kilometres from here, had been married to Munni Devi, who worked as a fourth class employee with the central government. After spending 20 years together the couple, owing to some differences, started living separately. While Munni Devi settled in Kanpur, her workplace, Kishori Lal shifted to Khatauli. Kishori Lal, who was unemployed, moved a petition before the family court in Muzaffarnagar in 2013 seeking maintenance from his wife on the ground that he had neither any work nor property to sustain himself. The court directed Munni Devi to pay Rs 2,000 monthly maintenance to him from the money she got as pension. Kishori Lal, however, is not happy with the court order. ''I should get one-third of the pension being received by my wife...how will I be able to survive with this meager amount,'' he said. ''I suffered a lot in the past seven years....when we were together I used to take care of the domestic work while my wife worked...I did not try to get job then,'' he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-family-court-orders-woman-to-pay-rs-2000-as-maintenance-to-unemployed-husband-906146.html
23-10-2020||North and Central||HC stays Delhi govt decision asking 12 DU colleges to pay staff salaries forms students fund||The Delhi High Court Friday stayed the decision of the AAP government asking 12 Delhi University colleges, fully funded by it, to pay outstanding salaries to staffers from the Students Society Fund. Justice Navin Chawla passed the order on a plea by Delhi University Students Union (DUSU) which said the students fund cannot be used for any other activity other than for students welfare. DUSU’s counsel said the fund cannot be used for paying teachers salaries. The petition was also supported by the Delhi University. DUSU has challenged the October 16 order of Delhi government asking the 12 colleges to pay the salaries of staff-- both teaching and non-teaching-- from the students fund and the amount should be released within two weeks. The college staff are not paid for the last three months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-stays-delhi-govt-decision-asking-12-du-colleges-to-pay-staff-salaries-forms-students-fund-906199.html
23-10-2020||North and Central||Nine-year-old daughter of migrant labourer raped in Haryana's Ambala||A nine-year-old daughter of a migrant labourer was allegedly raped by some unknown person in the district, police said on Friday. The girl, whose parents were away for work on Thursday, was alone at home when some unknown person barged into their house, police said. The accused took her to a secluded spot near her house and raped her, they said. The girl managed to reach home but did not narrate the incident to her parents initially. Later, she complained of pain in her body and was taken to a hospital at Naraingarh near here. The girl disclosed to her mother that she was raped. The girl was referred to the Ambala City Civil Hospital on Friday afternoon, where doctors confirmed that she was sexually assaulted. Ambala Woman Police Station SHO Sunita Dhaka a case has been registered in this regard. Police said that efforts are on to identify the accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nine-year-old-daughter-of-migrant-labourer-raped-in-haryanas-ambala-906204.html
23-10-2020||North and Central||ED summons Punjab CM's son for questioning in FEMA case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh's son for questioning in an alleged foreign exchange violations case, official sources said on Friday. Raninder Singh has been asked to depose at the central probe agency's office in Jalandhar on October 27, they said. The summons pertain to a case registered by the ED under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) with regard to alleged possession of undisclosed assets abroad. He was questioned by the agency in this case in 2016 and was asked to explain the alleged movement of funds to Switzerland and creation of a trust and a few subsidiaries in the British Virgin Islands. The alleged instances of possession of properties in abroad was first investigated by the Income Tax Department. Raninder Singh had earlier denied any wrongdoing. The agency will record Raninder Singh's statement again once he deposes, the official sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ed-summons-punjab-cms-son-for-questioning-in-fema-case-906208.html
23-10-2020||Opinion||Joe Biden’s first war would have to be against propaganda||By Francis Wilkinson, Less than two weeks from Election Day, most talk of a political “bloodbath” remains metaphorical. A 59-year-old man was arrested in Wichita, Kansas, last week after threatening to slit the throat of the mayor, who led the city’s effort to pass a mask mandate. The week before in Michigan, 13 men were arrested on charges of conspiring to kidnap their state’s governor and “try” her for treason. Both plots, while ghastly, made headlines because they are atypical. The warped worldview that drives such plans, however, is growing alarmingly commonplace. According to a Yahoo News/YouGov poll, half of Trump supporters claim to believe in the mad ravings of the group that calls itself QAnon. Attacking the roots of propaganda that feed such paranoia should be one of most urgent tasks of a Joe Biden presidency. The asymmetry of the two major parties is driven in part by information asymmetries that feed extremism. The decades-long project of Fox News and the conservative movement to destroy shared truth has paved the way. Regular imbibers of Fox News, according to a new survey from the Public Religion Research Institute, occupy a climate more extreme than other Republicans, who tend to have more varied and less dishonest information sources. As insidious as Fox is, it appears almost benign compared with other feeders of fanaticism around Trump. The conspiracy theories of QAnon are not a departure from Trumpism; they are a subsidiary of it. Devotion to Trump requires not only defying the facts revealed by journalism, history, science and lived experience. It requires disbelieving the literally dozens of former Trump loyalists who openly dispute MAGA fantasies and see the president as childish, solipsistic, vindictive and uninterested in, or incapable of, doing his job. Meanwhile, Trump’s baseless accusations against others routinely turn to dust.  Some Trump supporters willfully ignore these realities. Others don’t care or perversely admire his corruption and incompetence. Both mindsets will persist even if Trump is removed from office in January. Men like Donald Trump don’t prosper in a healthy political culture. The emergence of a reality-based conservative information sphere — the Bulwark is a new example — is a necessary but insufficient development. The alienation of the MAGA base from realistic national narratives will continue to play out in criminal plots, pizza obsessions and dangerously unhinged right-wing politics that enjoys the imprimatur of leading Republicans. The U.S. won’t return to anything like political health so long as tens of millions live in a dystopian triangle bounded by MAGA, Facebook and Fox. Experts call for more aggressive actions by the news media and social media companies to combat disinformation. Both have improved upon their abysmal 2016 performance, but it’s not enough. Even amid acute polarisation, the most effective alternative to mass disinformation may be the White House. Trump has deployed it to spread countless lies. But his success proves that no media source can compete with the White House in establishing the flow and parameters of information. Even those who recognise the Trump administration’s falsehoods and the damage they have done to government credibility still bend to its gravity. There are limits, of course. All sorts of calumny spread through right-wing media when Barack Obama was president. Moreover, there is little evidence that Republican politicians not named Mitt Romney will denounce propaganda — including Russian-sourced disinformation — if they think it provides a partisan advantage. Yet Obama largely refrained from directly attacking disinformation aimed at undermining his presidency. That may or may not have been a partisan mistake. But beyond partisan self-interest, the cost of his administration’s reticence was high. With a more concerted effort, the presidency has the power to yoke the misinformed more closely to fact, if only by degrees. No doubt the most unhinged, such as the Michigan conspirators, would be undeterred by pronouncements from a Biden White House. To the MAGA cohort, a Biden presidency would represent an alternate reality that bears no resemblance to the magic kingdom in which they prefer to reside. Still, the assault must be made. Breaking the hold of this collective delusion is a national imperative. If there is one thing America has learned in 2020, it is that defeating a virus — whether biological or informational — requires an honest and engaged president.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/joe-biden-s-first-war-would-have-to-be-against-propaganda-905888.html
23-10-2020||Opinion||Bihar a picture of change in Nitish Kumar’s last hurrah?||Whatever be the verdict, Bihar is poised at the threshold of change. Nitish Kumar may yet end up becoming the Chief Minister by leading his alliance for the fourth time. But, even in his possible last hurrah, the shadow of disappointment will sit heavily on his mind. Portents from one of India's most socially-fractured state suggest that history shall not remember him as the man who institutionalised incorruptible and efficient governance in the state to live up to his preferred moniker, Sushashan Babu. Rather he would be recalled as the man who facilitated the emergence of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as one of the two principal parties in a bipolar polity. The situation has undergone a sea-change from what appeared even days after the Election Commission of India called for the country's first poll in the Covid era, when it appeared that it would be a stroll through the park for the incumbent. The biggest change is, of course, fear doing the vanishing trick. From Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his party colleague downwards, every political leader of any worth has abandoned the path of caution and entered the poll fray as if the pandemic has been overcome. Instead of expectations that this would primarily be a virtual campaign, it has turned out to be as 'real' as it has always been – boisterous crowds rubbing shoulders with one another and the rush to get closer than others to the star campaigner. Modi had an opportunity to call for caution in his address to the nation on October 20, but limited himself to asking people to be careful during the festival season – there was no mention of preventing overcrowding during electioneering. One of the primary reasons why Nitish Kumar led Janata Dal (U) faced no rough weather in elections since 2005, was easy transfer of votes between the bases of the BJP and his party. Even in 2015, grassroots workers of JD(U) and Rashtriya Janata Dal overcame a decade of hostility in the face of common motivation to defeat BJP. The alliance between BJP and JD(U) this time however, is not so rock solid. Mutual suspicions have cracked the edifice and the undercurrent of strain has not been overcome, either at the level of leadership or among cadre. Yet, the alliance continues at the official level because of compulsions of realpolitik. But, while leaders present a picture of bonhomie, it is not so simple to forge unity on ground. Nitish Kumar appears likely to be the one who would pay a heavy price for this. This was indicated in a pre-poll survey conducted by the Centre for Studies in Developing Societies and the findings should worry the chief minister. The CSDS has claimed that 37 per cent BJP voters don’t want Nitish Kumar back as CM. Another 23 per cent of core BJP voters are expected to vote for candidates of 'others' – this includes Chirag Paswan-led Lok Janshakti Party and another 6 per cent may even vote for RJD-Congress-Left candidates. The sense among people that Paswan is propped up by BJP and the rising anti-incumbency against Nitish Kumar for deficient handling of the pandemic and its socio-economic impact may result in NDA collectively failing to hold on to their core vote bank. The deficiency may be as high as 30 per cent of its core vote because JD(U) workers voters too are unlikely to be very enthusiastic to ensure transfer of all their votes for the BJP. Nitish Kumar is not unaware of this. In an uncharacteristic response, he shouted back at the audience at an election rally in Parsa constituency in Saran district after some people in his audible range started chanting 'Lalu Yadav zindabad'. Losing one's cool on an occasion when political leaders put the foot of exemplary behaviour forward, is indication of panic setting in. Further worry for Nitish Kumar comes in the form of the CSDS findings on personal popularity which reiterates people's mood assessed previously by Prashnam, a start-up which conducts quick surveys using an AI-based feedback engine. The initiative of tech-entrepreneur Rajesh Jain, who pioneered BJP's Mission 272+ campaign in 2014, pegged Tejashwi Yadav's personal popularity higher than the chief minister’s. While CSDS put Nitish Kumar ahead in personal appeal, his lead is barely 4 per cent. The extent of crowds and these figures are indicative of Yadav Junior's emergence from his father's shadow. It demonstrates that Lalu Yadav is possibly not being 'missed' as much as anticipated and that Tejashwi is striking the right chord with job promises and constant undermining of the chief minister's performance. Modi's popularity however remains ahead of others but the worry for BJP would be that the gap between those satisfied with his performance and those not, has reduced substantially since the last measure in 2015. On its own the BJP has never secured a vote share that would enable it to form a government on its own. It's best bet for the future lies in its capacity to chip away from the JD(U)’s vote and Modi's personal draw. Nothing during elections, especially those in Bihar, can be taken at face value. Despite BJP stalwarts stating that LJP is not part of the NDA, Paswan's theatrical utterances, that Modi resides in his heart and he can rip open his chest, a la Lord Hanuman, to prove this, will only further confuse the BJP voter in constituencies where the JD(U) nominee is in the fray. It remains to be seen if Modi personally takes down Paswan on his claims in his speeches. His silences or utterances, as seen in the past, have the capacity to alter the course of the polls. But in his possible role as Nitish Kumar's saviour lies the downsizing of the chief minister, at least in times to come. The Mahagathbandhan too has its worries, the biggest being the split in the anti-incumbent vote. Asaduddin Owaisi has a past of splitting the anti-BJP vote and the presence of the coalition he heads cannot be ignored. But if political polarisation reaches the level of 2015, AIMIM's high-decibel campaign notwithstanding, it may again draw a blank. Expect nothing but for the political maze to get further complicated with parties and leaders striking beneath-the-table-deals. (Nilanjan Mukhopadhyay is a Delhi-based journalist and author. His latest book is RSS: Icons Of The Indian Right. He has also written Narendra Modi: The Man, The Times (2013)) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/bihar-a-picture-of-change-in-nitish-kumar-s-last-hurrah-905925.html
23-10-2020||Panorama||Big tech’s professional opponents strike at Google||Months before the Justice Department filed a landmark antitrust suit against Google this week, the internet company’s adversaries hustled behind the scenes to lay the groundwork for a case. Nonprofits critical of corporate power warned lawmakers that Google illegally boxed out rivals. With mounds of documents, economists and antitrust scholars detailed to regulators and state investigators how the company throttled competition. And former Silicon Valley insiders steered congressional investigators with firsthand evidence of industry wrongdoing. An unlikely collection of lawyers, activists, economists, academics and former corporate insiders are now fueling the backlash against the world’s largest technology companies. Bolstered by millions of dollars from high-profile sponsors like financier George Soros and Facebook co-founder Chris Hughes, they have coalesced to become a new class of professional tech skeptic. To rein in Google, Apple, Facebook and Amazon, the tech opponents have employed a wide set of tactics. They have lobbied regulators and lawmakers about anti-competitive business practices, filed legal complaints about privacy violations, organized boycotts and exposed the risks of disinformation and artificial intelligence. Their potency was cemented Tuesday when the Justice Department filed its suit accusing Google of maintaining an illegal monopoly over internet search and search advertising. After years of making the same argument, the opponents claimed the action as a victory. “It’s a moment of pride,” said Cristina Caffarra, a London-based economist who advised state attorneys general on their Google investigation and worked on an earlier probe of Google in Europe that the Justice Department’s case is similar to. “We did it.” Their rise underlines the growing sophistication of opponents to the more than $5 trillion technology industry. Even if the Justice Department’s suit against Google becomes mired in legal wrangling, their swelling numbers and activity suggests that the tech behemoths will face years of scrutiny and court battles ahead. That could eventually lead to new regulations and laws that reshape people’s digital experiences. “There is a counterweight growing in reaction to Big Tech similar to what we’ve seen in relation to Big Oil over these past decades,” said Martin Tisné, managing director of Luminate, a foundation that has provided $78.3 million since 2014 to civil society groups and law firms focused on tech-accountability issues. “I would hope the companies are concerned and watching.” Google declined to comment beyond its statements Tuesday that the Justice Department’s lawsuit was flawed and “would do nothing to help consumers.” Google, Amazon, Facebook and Apple have girded themselves for a long battle. Often outspending their critics, they have hired law firms, funded policy think tanks, built out their lobbying operations and started public relations campaigns. They have also argued that they behave responsibly and that consumers love their products. Carl Szabo, the vice president of NetChoice, a trade group that represents Google, Facebook and Amazon, dismissed the tech critics as “an industry for activists” and an opportunity for rivals to “put on the moniker of consumer protection.” The anti-tech professionals agree on many broad points: that the companies have too much power and have transformed commerce and communication. But they have sometimes found themselves at odds with one another and do not agree on the fixes. Some support using antitrust laws to take on the companies, potentially breaking them up. Others said tougher regulations were better to rein in the firms. Sarah Miller, executive director of American Economic Liberties Project, a group focused on corporate concentration, favors breaking up the companies. She said there was “jockeying” to put forward ideas, but that the movement was a “fairly aligned, functional ecosystem.” Many of the groups are increasingly well funded. Billionaires including Soros and Pierre Omidyar, the eBay co-founder who backs Luminate and other groups, have poured tens of millions of dollars into opposing the tech industry. Hughes, a co-founder of Facebook, is funding think tanks and activists who pressure the companies. Institutions like the Ford Foundation are also funding civil society groups and research efforts to study tech’s harms. And human rights groups such as Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch and the Anti-Defamation League have devoted more resources to tech-accountability issues. The anti-tech movement’s first signs of success came in the European Union about a decade ago when some of Google’s rivals banded together to persuade regulators to investigate the company for antitrust violations. The resulting cases cost Google more than $9 billion in fines. In 2016, the opponents scored another victory when the EU passed a landmark data privacy law, the General Data Protection Regulation, which many lawyers and activists now use against the tech companies. In the United States, few were alarmed by tech’s power until the 2016 presidential election, when Russia used social media to spread disinformation and sow political discord. In 2018, the Cambridge Analytica scandal exposed Facebook’s weak privacy safeguards and added to the momentum. Since then, the influence of industry critics has swelled. Antitrust lawyers and economists focused on tech accountability are in demand at law firms and think tanks. Civil society groups eager to investigate the industry are hiring data scientists and researchers. Universities are adding programs looking at tech’s harm. Bookstores are also stocking titles like “The Age of Surveillance Capitalism,” by Harvard professor Shoshana Zuboff, about how companies like Facebook and Google try to predict and control human behaviour. Netflix films like “The Social Dilemma,” which is critical of social media, have become surprise hits. Tristan Harris, a former Google design ethicist, said few shared his concerns about tech five years ago. Now he speaks with American and European authorities about regulating the tech giants as public utilities. Harris, who starred in “The Social Dilemma,” said he wanted to mobilize “a global movement of regulator people and citizens,” akin to what Al Gore did for the environment after releasing “The Inconvenient Truth.” “It took a long time to get here,” said Harris, who in 2018 also co-founded the Center for Humane Technology, a nonprofit that raises awareness about tech’s dangers. One clear impact of the anti-tech community was the 449-page report released on Oct. 6 by the House antitrust subcommittee, in one of Congress’ deepest looks at the industry in years. House lawmakers concluded that Amazon, Apple, Google and Facebook had abused their power to block competitors. Tech critics played a central role influencing the direction of the report. Lina Khan, an antitrust and competition law scholar, was a counsel for the committee that drafted the report. Fiona Scott Morton, a Yale economist, and Gene Kimmelman, a former Justice Department antitrust official, provided legal and economic background to investigators. Roger McNamee, an early Facebook investor who later turned against the social network, also met so regularly with congressional staff members that he thanked several of them in his 2019 book, “Zucked,” about the damage Facebook was doing to society. A similar coalition helped build momentum for the Justice Department and state attorneys general investigations of Google. Lawyers at the Justice Department built the case off theories developed by economists including Caffarra. There was a “consensus that enforcement has not delivered,” said Caffarra, who works at Charles River Associates, an economic consulting firm. “I’m in favour of really putting on pressure. Too little has happened.” But their criticism varies by company. While Caffarra and Scott Morton have raised alarms about Google and Facebook, they have also done work on behalf of Amazon. Gary Reback, an antitrust lawyer who has battled Microsoft and Google, said the political momentum could evaporate. Two decades ago, he said, the government filed a landmark antitrust case against Microsoft — but did not produce the safeguards to prevent misbehaviour later. “We should have had a seminal moment 20 years ago,” he said. “Something happened that caused the momentum to dissipate, and that’s the risk here.” For now, the mood is largely celebratory. After this month’s House report, Google’s critics in Washington passed around a version of a meme that featured dancing pallbearers holding a coffin, essentially jubilant over the misfortune of the coffin’s occupant. The pallbearers were Rep. David Cicilline, D-R.I., who chairs the House antitrust subcommittee, and Rep. Ken Buck, a Republican member of the panel who agreed with parts of the report. And the coffin? It bore Google’s logo.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/big-tech-s-professional-opponents-strike-at-google-905891.html
23-10-2020||South||Rahul's remarks on Covid-19 keeps Congress leadership in Kerala in tight spot||The Congress leadership in Kerala is in a tight spot over party national leader Rahul Gandhi hailing Kerala's Covid-19 care. It was during his three-day tour to Kerala from Monday to Wednesday that Rahul made the statement. Talking to reporters he flayed Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan's critical remarks about Covid-19 fight in Kerala. Rahul also said that he was satisfied over the steps being taken against coronavirus in his constituency Wayanad. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan welcomed Rahul's statement. Vijayan said that Rahul made a practical evaluation of Covid-19 fights by the states. Meanwhile, Congress leaders in the state were trying to clarify that Rahul's statement as a message against Centre-State involving in a blame-game over the pandemic. Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala invited further embarrassment as he was reported to have said that Rahul need not comment on local issues. Chennithala later issued a clarification that what he meant was that Rahul being a national leader would be commenting on issues from a national perspective and it need not be seen in a local perspective.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rahuls-remarks-on-covid-19-keeps-congress-leadership-in-kerala-in-tight-spot-905775.html
23-10-2020||South||First load of 27 tonnes onion procured by Kerala government arrives||With onion prices skyrocketing, the first load of about 27 tonnes procured from Nafed reached Kerala on Friday from Nasik in Maharashtra, as the Left government intervened to bring down the price of the kitchen staple during the festive season. While onions were being sold between Rs 90 and Rs 100 a kg last week, shallots were priced at Rs 120 a kg in many retail outlets in the southern state. It is due to this that the state government decided to procure about 100 tonnes of onions from NAFED (National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation)this month. The onions reached Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam and Kozhikode this morning from where it would be distributed to consumers through major outlets of Horticrop (Kerala Horticulture Products Development Corporation), Agriculture Minister V S Sunil Kumar said. The government was hopeful that through Hortcorp outlets the onions can be sold to customers between Rs 45 and Rs 50 a kg, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/first-load-of-27-tonnes-onion-procured-by-kerala-government-arrives-905976.html
23-10-2020||South||Tamil Nadu government urges Railway Ministry to resume suburban services in city||The Tamil Nadu government on Friday urged the Railway Ministry to resume suburban train services in the city, suspended since March in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, saying it will benefit the public, as well as aid economic revival. Chief Minister K Palaniswami wrote to Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, pointing out that inter and intra-state train services had already resumed in Tamil Nadu. Metro rail services here are also operational. The state government had already made a request on September 2 to resume Electric Multiple Unit (EMU) and suburban trains in and around Chennai for the general public, the Chief Minister said in the letter. "Resumption of EMU/suburban trains will greatly help the general public and facilitate in the quick revival of the economy." "Hence, I request you to give instructions to the Southern Railway to resume EMU/ suburban trains in and around Chennai, duly adopting Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for Covid-19," he added. The suburban EMU services connect the city to its southern and northern parts, including areas from nearby districts and are considered a lifeline for this metropolis. The services have remained suspended since March when a national lockdown was imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-government-urges-railway-ministry-to-resume-suburban-services-in-city-906000.html
23-10-2020||South||Tamil Nadu: Five die in blast in fireworks factory in Madurai district||Five women were charred to death on Friday after an explosion ripped through a fireworks' manufacturing unit at Murganeri village in Perayur taluk of Madurai district. The unit was involved in producing crackers to meet the Deepavali deadline when the explosion took place in the afternoon. The deceased were identified as Ayyammal, Suruliammal, Veluthai, Lakshmi, and Kaliswari. Officials said investigations have been launched to ascertain the cause of the explosion. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami deputed Revenue Minister R B Udhayakumar and Madurai District Collector T G Vinay to visit the spot and ensure that the injured receive proper treatment. While announcing a solatium of Rs 2 lakh each to the family of the deceased, Palaniswami also asked the manufacturers to ensure the safety of labourers while manufacturing crackers. He also directed officials to ensure the well-being of labourers. Fireworks factories work overtime from September till Deepavali to meet the demand. Mishaps at fireworks units near Madurai and in and around Sivakasi, the fireworks manufacturing hub of the country, are common due to the poor safety measures at these units. Sivakasi accounts for 90% of fireworks that are available in the Indian market.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-five-die-in-blast-in-fireworks-factory-in-madurai-district-906036.html
23-10-2020||South||Tamil Nadu CM Palaniswami lays foundation stone for 9 projects worth Rs 10,062 cr||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Friday laid the foundation stone for nine industrial projects worth Rs 10,062 crore, which will generate 8,666 new jobs. He also took part in the inauguration of seven companies which had already signed Memorandum of Understanding with the state government and commenced commercial production at its facilities today, an official release said. Both functions were done through video-conferencing. These companies had committed investments of Rs 1,298.20 crore, generating 7,879 new jobs and signed MoUs with the state government during the Global Investors Meet in 2019 and also during the Chief Minister's three-nation visit last year. Wheels India Ltd, Salcomp's electronic component manufacturing facility at Nokia SEZ, Sriperumbudur, Dindigul Renewable Energy Pvt Ltd, Power Gear's electric component production facility, Mudhra Fine Blanc auto-component facility were among those that commenced commercial production today. The projects for which Palaniswami took part in the foundation stone staying ceremony include Hyundai Motor India's new Rs 150 crore training centre at Irungattukottai, Vikram Solar's Rs 5,512 crore solar module production unit, Adani Gas's Rs 2,000 crore city-gas distribution project, Integrated Chennai Business Park's Rs 1,000 crore logistics park and Shreevari Energy Systems Rs 250 crore project. An official release said the state government signed MoUs with 304 companies which committed investments of Rs 3.50 lakh crore that would create 10.50 lakh jobs in the state during the Global Investors Meet in 2019. With the companies commencing commercial production today, 89.47 per cent of the 304 projects have gone on stream, the release said. Meanwhile, industries minister M C Sampath handed over the dividend cheque of Rs 14.66 crore of state-government owned Tamil Nadu Newsprint and Papers Ltd for 2019-20 fiscal to Palaniswami, the release said. On Friday, Palaniswami unveiled a short film on 'Guidance Tamil Nadu, commemorating its 28th anniversary. Guidance Tamil Nadu is a nodal investment promotion agency, facilitating investments and providing single window facilitation to companies which plan to set up manufacturing facility in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-palaniswami-lays-foundation-stone-for-9-projects-worth-rs-10062-cr-906054.html
23-10-2020||South||Probe launched into organ trade in Kerala||The Kerala Police have launched a probe into organ trade rackets thriving in the state after a preliminary investigation came across middlemen wooing people from weaker backgrounds to donate organs for cash. Based on a recommendation of the police crime branch, state police chief Loknath Behera ordered a detailed investigation. A case would be registered for violation of the Transplantation of Human Organs and Tissues Act. Following a tip-off, the Crime Branch initiated a preliminary probe into the organ trafficking. The rackets involving middlemen and hospitals were also suspected to have inter-state operations. Crime Branch Inspector General of Police S Sreejith said in a report submitted to the state police chief that a detailed investigation was required to crack the racket. Donors from weaker sections were suspected to be induced by middlemen for donating organs, mainly liver and kidney, to patients from well-to-do backgrounds by offering a price of up to Rs 10 lakh. However, the actual cash transaction involved in the trade could be manifold and a major chunk could be going to middlemen and hospitals involved in the racket. Some specific cases were examined during the preliminary inquiry and no relationship was found between the donor and recipient, said sources. Involvement of some government officials was suspected in the illegal organ trade flouting the norms of Kerala government defined by Kerala Network for Organ Sharing. The racket seemed to be thriving with the connivance of private hospitals. A senior police officer told DH that the racket could possibly involve inter-state operations. The long wait to get organs through a proper channel fuels the illegal trade, he added. In order to curb illegal organ transplant, Kerala government initiated Kerala's Deceased Donor Organ Transplantation Program in 2012. So far, 797 solid organs and 488 tissues have been transplanted through the programme.  Kidney tops the list of the organs transplanted so far, with 490 transplants. As of now, 1,852 persons are in the waiting list for a kidney transplant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/probe-launched-into-organ-trade-in-kerala-906078.html
23-10-2020||South||Part of the debris of AIE flight removed from accident site||Part of the debris of the Air India Express plane that crashed at nearby Karipur airport on August 7, killing 21 people, was on Friday shifted from the accident site for facilitating a thorough probe, airport authorities said. The airline's officials from Mumbai supervised the shifting of the cockpit portion of the aircraft to a nearby area, using a crane, they said. Twenty-one people, including the pilot and co-pilot, were killed when the AIE flight from Dubai with 190 people on board overshot the tabletop runway, fell into a 35-feet valley, and broke into two portions. "The rest of the debris will also be removed from the accident site to a nearby location and preserved there for further investigations," authorities said. The five-member panel appointed by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Board is yet to file its report on the circumstances that led to the crash. Meanwhile, the airline recently distributed interim compensation to passengers of the flight. The next of kin of those killed and aged above 15 were given Rs 10 lakh and Rs five lakh for those below the age of 15. The seriously injured were given an interim compensation of Rs two lakh, while those with minor injuries got Rs 50,000 each. The Director-General of Civil Aviation ban on operating wide-bodied aircraft from the airport as a follow-up measure post the accident is still in force.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/part-of-the-debris-of-aie-flight-removed-from-accident-site-906086.html
23-10-2020||South||Resume EMU operations in and around Chennai: CM to Railways||The Tamil Nadu government on Friday requested the Indian Railways to resume sub-urban trains in and around the state capital to facilitate the “quick revival” of the economy. While buses are plying across the state and the metro has resumed services in Chennai, sub-urban trains have not resumed operations causing inconvenience to thousands of people who commute from neighbouring districts. However, the Southern Railway has started running special trains on regular routes. In a letter to Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami reminded that the state government has already requested to resume Electric Multiple Unit (EMU) and sub-urban trains in and around Chennai. “Resumption of EMU/sub-urban trains will greatly help the general public and facilitate the quick revival of the economy. Hence, I request you to give instructions to the Southern Railway to resume Electric Multiple Unit (EMU)/sub-urban Trains in and around Chennai, duly adopting standard operating procedures (SOP) for Covid-19,” Palaniswami told Goyal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/resume-emu-operations-in-and-around-chennai-cm-to-railways-906095.html
23-10-2020||South||Allotted IRS despite being eligible for IAS: Visually-challenged UPSC rank holder||She secured 286th rank in the Civil Services exams, results of which were announced in August, braving all odds, but visually-challenged Puranasunthari feels she has not got her rightful due. The 25-year-old woman has been allotted Indian Revenue Service (IRS) despite being eligible for the coveted Indian Administrative Service (IAS) under the OBC and Persons with Disabilities (PWD) quota. Puranasunthari has challenged allotment of IRS to her with the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT), besides sending a representation to the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) under the Union Government. The CAT has issued notices to UPSC and the Centre.  In her petition, Puranasunthari, who prepared for the UPSC exams and interviews with the help of audiobooks, has sought setting aside the service order given to her on September 25, 2020. The woman contended that she was eligible for IAS under the OBC and PWD categories but was only allotted IRS. "I secured 286th rank in UPSC exams and since I am eligible for IAS under the OBC category, I was expecting for an appointment in the cadre. But I was only given IRS. I feel this is not right because 6 to 7 persons who had scored ranks lower than me have been allotted IAS cadre. I really do not know the reason but I have challenged the order in CAT because IAS has been my dream," Puranasunthari, who is currently in Mussoorie for a foundation course, told DH. Puranasunthari lost her vision when she was studying in Class I, but nothing stopped her from pursuing the dream of joining the Indian Administrative Service (IAS). She had written her exams in Tamil. In her petition, she said the total vacancies called for Indian Administrative Services (IAS) in CMI Services Examination 2019 is 180. "In which persons with benchmark disabilities under clause (a) Blindness and low vision are entitled to have one per cent reservation. It is a very well known fact that one per cent of 180 vacancies is 1.8 vacancies which needs to be filled up in a continuous roster. The impugned service allocation order has allotted only one vacancy for visually impaired candidates," she said. She also added that the order has arbitrarily reduced the statutory reservation of 1 per cent to 0.55 per cent and argued that the arbitrary reduction of the quantum of reservation has adversely affected her "fundamental rights" get IAS. "The service allocation list not providing the mandated reservation for the Persons with benchmark disabilities is against the legislative intention of the parliament which has enacted the beneficial legislation meant for the welfare of the persons with benchmark disabilities. Therefore the service allocation list of the 1st Respondent dated 25.09.2020 has to be set aside," Puranasunthari said in the petition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/allotted-irs-despite-being-eligible-for-ias-visually-challenged-upsc-rank-holder-906100.html
23-10-2020||South||Telangana govt planning to recruit 20,000 cops: Home Minister||The Telangana government planned to take up recruitment of 20,000 personnel in the Police department, state Home Minister Mohd Mahmood Ali said on Friday. Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao accorded importance to the maintenance of law and order and has allowed filling up of vacancies besides sanctioning funds for modernisation and purchase of vehicles for the police department, he said. Speaking at the passing out parade of 1,162 sub-inspectors at the Telangana Police Academy here, the Minister said 18,428 SIs and constables have already been appointed. In the coming days, the government was planning to recruit 20,000 more personnel of various ranks in the police department, an official release quoted him as having said. Telangana was a role model for others in law and order and the state government attached great importance to the safety of women, he said. The Home Minister appreciated the services of police during the Covid-19 pandemic and recent heavy rains. State Director General of Police M Mahendar Reddy and other senior officials were present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-govt-planning-to-recruit-20000-cops-home-minister-906109.html
23-10-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh claims highest Covid-19 recovery rate in the country||At 95.22 per cent, Andhra Pradesh claims to have achieved the highest Covid-19 recovery rate in the country, about six per cent above the national average of 89.53 per cent. The state which confirmed its first positive case on March 12 from Nellore – of an Italy-returned man, has crossed the eight lakh figure on Friday – October 23. However, in a cheerful news, the daily new cases have fallen drastically to between three and four thousand nowadays from around 10,500 cases a day reported previously. While the state took just 10-11 days for each of the second to sixth one lakh cases and 14 days for the seventh lakh, the time period stretched to 22 days for the eighth one lakh cases to pile. In Kurnool, which at one point became the epicentre of the Covid-19 spread, the daily new cases have fallen to two-digit numbers. On Friday, only 69 new cases were reported from Rayalaseema district.  A serosurvey carried out across the state in August projected Covid-19 prevalence in about 20 per cent of Andhra Pradesh's 5.34 crore population. “The survey was done when the total cases were around four lakhs, now when it has reached eight lakhs we can assume that about fifty per cent of the total population is exposed to the virus,” Dr K Rambabu, state's Covid-19 nodal officer, told DH. As cases reduce, the official said that the number of Covid-19 treatment hospitals has been reduced to 212 a fortnight back, from the 257 centres in September. “Not letting guard down, next two months critical” However, officials say they have not let the guard down. “Even now when the cases are observed as falling substantially, we are conducting about 80,000 tests daily,” Dr Rambabu says. “All of us need to be very careful now. Malls, parks and other public places have opened and the festival season is on. Beginning with this week's festivities till December-January is going to be the critical phase in our fight against Covid-19,” the general physician says. Andhra Pradesh with 8,00,684 cases as of Friday morning, is positioned second to Maharashtra which has double the number of cases. Karnataka is moving close to the eight lakh mark. AP which registered 6,544 Covid-19 related deaths till now has at present 31,721 active cases. The state's mortality rate is 0.82 per cent, compared to the national average of 1.51 per cent. With 1,39,101 samples tested per a million population, Andhra Pradesh is at the top among the states in the measure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-claims-highest-covid-19-recovery-rate-in-the-country-906129.html
23-10-2020||South||Kerala govt wants Centre to declare wild boar as vermin||The Kerala government will seek the Centre's permission to declare wild boars as vermin citing the rise in crop loss and man-animal conflict. Attempts by farmers to illegally kill wild boars using crude methods like explosives-packed food have led to incidents of wild elephants falling in the trap accidentally and getting killed. It has been a long pending demand of farmers across Kerala, especially those close to forest areas, to declare wild boars as vermin as they pose serious threats to the crops. The state government has already empowered forest officials to kill wild boars that cause damage to crops but the increasing population warranted the need to declare them as vermin so as to initiate culling. Kerala Forest Minister K Raju said the state would present the details of clusters where wild boar threat was alarming as the Centre is unlikely to declare the animal as vermin across the state. However, Kerala forest department sources said the Wildlife Institute of India, which had conducted a study on the wild boar menace in the state, did not recommend declaring the animal as vermin. Farmers said many people had to stop cultivation due the wild boar menace. Tapioca, sweet potato, pineapple and lemongrass are the crops that suffer a maximum loss due to wild boars. Apart from the crop loss, there several case of man-animal conflicts. The steeply increasing population was aggravating the issue. As per 2011 enumeration, the wild boar population in Kerala was 48,043, which has now increased manifold. Pineapple Growers Association of Keralam president Baby John said the Union government had already approved culling of wild animals like wild boar in states like Bihar by declaring them as vermin under the Wildlife Protection Act. Hence if Kerala effectively presents the sufferings of farmers before the central government, the Centre would allow the plea to declare wild boar as vermin in the state also. About five per cent of the pineapple grown in Kerala are lost due to wild boar menace. The farmers have to spend heavily on aspects like deploying watchmen and setting up fences to protect crops from wild animals. A study by the Kerala Forest Research Institute also mentioned that elephants and wild boars are responsible for maximum crop damage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-wants-centre-to-declare-wild-boar-as-vermin-906132.html
23-10-2020||South||Kerala CM's former secretary accused of misusing office||The Enforcement Directorate and Customs have strongly objected anticipatory bail to Kerala Chief Minister's former principal secretary M Sivasankar maintaining that he was strongly suspected to be involved in the smuggling activities and had misused his official position. The Kerala High Court restrained both the agencies from arresting the IAS officer, who is now under suspension, till October 28. The court would pronounce the judgment in the anticipatory bail applications of Sivasankar on that day. The ED, which submitted evidence against Sivasankar in a sealed cover to the court, said that he was even suspected to have controlled the smuggling racket. Sivasankar was also suspected to have contacted customs for releasing the baggage containing gold. Customs alleged that Sivasankar's hospitalisation was an attempt to evade arrest. Sivasankar's main contention was that he was cooperating with the investigation and he had no involvement in the illegal activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cms-former-secretary-accused-of-misusing-office-906141.html
23-10-2020||South||Case booked against Tamil Nadu MP for 'derogatory remarks' on women||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) President and Lok Sabha MP Thol. Thirumavalavan was on Friday booked under six sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for his alleged derogatory remarks on women while citing Manusmriti.  The cybercrime cell of the Central Crime Branch (CCB) filed a case against Thirumavalavan, a prominent Dalit leader in Tamil Nadu, based on a complaint filed by an individual. The case relates to "derogatory remarks" made by the Lok Sabha MP from Chidambaram constituency during a speech in which he speaks about how Manusmriti demeans women.  Sources in Chennai Police said a case has been slapped against him under sections 153 (Wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 153 A (1) (a) (dealing with attempts to promote ill-will between communities), 295 A (Deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs),  298 (Uttering, words, etc., with deliberate intent to wound the religious feelings of any person), 505 (1) 9B), and Section 505 (2) of the IPC. The old clip has now gone viral on the social media and the registration of a case comes on the eve of VCK's planned protest against Manusmriti on Saturday. The video clip triggered a major row with BJP demanding an apology from Thirumavalavan for his remarks. As the issue gained political attention, Thirumavalavan said he never made any derogatory comments against women but was only referring to how they were described in the Manusmriti.  "I said Manusmriti demeans women. But those with an eye on political mileage, a casteist-communal group is spreading falsehood against me and creating an impression as if I spoke against women. This is completely wrong. We are struggling for women's emancipation," Thirumavalavan said, in his reaction. Thirumavalavan's VCK is part of the DMK-led alliance in Tamil Nadu and the Dalit leader is one of the vehement critics of the BJP in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/case-booked-against-tamil-nadu-mp-for-derogatory-remarks-on-women-906183.html
23-10-2020||State||Karnataka HC reserves order on PIL over Gram Panchayat polls||The Karnataka High Court on Friday asked the State Election Commission (SEC) to take appropriate steps for conducting elections to 5,800 Gram Panchayats (GP) in Karnataka. The court made this observation after reserving orders on the PIL filed seeking directions to hold elections at the earliest. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka was hearing the PIL filed by Congress MLC K C Kondaiah and others. After hearing submissions made by Advocate General Prabhuling K Navadgi , SEC and the petitioners, the court orally said it will only lay down the law and hence SEC is at liberty to take appropriate steps in the matter. The Advocate General (AG) said that there was no political interest in requesting for the postponement of the elections. He said it was in view of the extraordinary situation created due to Covid-19 that the request was placed to the SEC to consult the state government. “We are only concerned with the health of the citizens. As of today we have been able to control the situation, however the winter season coupled with festivities are crucial” he said. The AG added that GP elections are fought fiercely and large congregations may deteriorate the situation. Senior counsel K N Phaneendra, appearing for the SEC, said the consultation was done in June. He pointed at the affidavit filed by the state government in which it said the elections can be held subsequent to the by-elections to Rajarajeshwarinagar and Sira constituencies. He said consulting the state government again would breach the independence of the commission. Senior counsel Prof Ravivarma Kumar, appearing for one of the petitioners, said that the state government was dragging its feet only on holding GP elections, while it had allowed opening of malls, religious places and even theatres. As per the constitutional provisions EC has to approach the Governor and not the government. He also said that as per law the tenure of the administrator, which is ending in December this year, cannot be extended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-hc-reserves-order-on-pil-over-gram-panchayat-polls-906177.html
23-10-2020||State||Covid-19 vaccine: Karnataka govt gears up to create health workers' database||The health department is gearing up to meet the October 31 deadline set by the Government of India to complete preliminary data collection of health workers, who will be the first to receive Covid vaccine, when it becomes available. Categories of healthcare workers who will be part of this list, include frontline health workers, auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs), accredited social health activists (ASHAs), anganwadi workers, staff nurses and supervisors, medical officers, AYUSH doctors, paramedical staff, scientists and research staff, medical, paramedical and nursing students, support staff, clerical and administrative staff, other health staff working in all government and private health facilities, including hospitals, colleges, clinics and laboratories. Public facilities include medical colleges, super-specialty hospitals, hospitals at all levels, community health centres, primary health centres, urban primary health centres, health and wellness centres, cancer institutes and hospitals, TB hospitals and clinics, dispensaries, tribal health facilities, AYUSH hospitals & dispensaries. Also included are hospitals/ health facilities under the municipalities, zilla panchayats and all private establishments, including those managed by NGOs.   All the health facilities registered through Karnataka Private Medical Establishments (KPME) Act are being informed through online portal and SMS messages for timely data collection.  A press note released by the health department said the existing cold chain system of routine immunisation under the Universal Immunisation Programme (UIP) will be utilised for Covid-19 vaccine introduction. “The cold chain preparedness and strengthening assessment is being done at state-level and in all the districts,” the note said.  “A state-level orientation was held for all DCs and DHOs and reproductive and child health officers (RCHO) on October 20,” it added. All districts have started district-level orientation for the government and private health facilities. Standard templates for collection of details of healthcare workers are being shared with all healthcare facilities. State is trying through various fora to reach health facilities in government and private sectors for timely data collection. All professional bodies, including the Indian Medical Association, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association, Indian Academy of Paediatrics, are being actively involved. Immunisation partners: UNDP, WHO and UNICEF would be providing technical support to the government in this initiative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-vaccine-karnataka-govt-gears-up-to-create-health-workers-database-906180.html
23-10-2020||State||Hundreds throng 'simple' Srirangapatna Dasara||Hundreds of people participated in the "simple" Srirangapatna Dasara celebrations and procession, in Srirangapatna of Mandya district on Friday.  Bannimantapa at Kiranguru Circle was decorated with colourful flowers and buntings and was illuminated for the occasion. Banni puja was performed and rituals were held.  The idol of goddess Chamundeshwari was taken out in a decorated chariot at 4.25 pm. Corona warriors from the taluks of Mandya district launched the procession. Several folk troupes participated in the procession Deputy Commissioner Dr M V Venkatesh, ZP CEO Zulfikar Ulla, and president Nagarathna Swamy participated. District in-charge Minister Narayna Gowda appealed people not to neglect Covid and to wear masks and maintain social distance.  However, most of the elected representatives at the event were seen without face masks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hundreds-throng-simple-srirangapatna-dasara-906184.html
23-10-2020||State||Refuse nod to re-promulgation of ordinances, Guv urged||Continuing their protest against the state government, the Federation of Farmers' Association in the state have now written to Governor Vajubhai Vala asking him not to give his nod to re-promulgation of ordinances pertaining to APMC Act, land reforms and labour laws. Earlier this month, the state Cabinet had decided to re-promulgate these ordinances, as the Bills were not cleared in the recent legislature session. Both APMC and Land Reforms Bills were not passed in the Legislative Council, even though it was passed in the Assembly. Taking objection to this, the farmers' federation cited a Supreme Court order in this regard, which prohibits such a re-promulgation. The farmers' association urged the governor not to consent to the government's move.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/refuse-nod-to-re-promulgation-of-ordinances-guv-urged-906185.html
23-10-2020||State||Karnataka looks at Sikkim to power up organic farming||Karnataka is considering making the backward Joida taluk in Uttara Kannada 100% organic with the state government having decided to double down on sustainable agriculture on the lines of Sikkim. The state government is studying Sikkim, which was declared as India’s first state to become 100% organic four years ago. As a part of this, authorities have decided to identify one hobli or taluk or district for organic farming. “The idea is to focus on small populations and Joida taluk has been tentatively selected,” Agriculture Commissioner Brijesh Kumar Dikshit told DH. “It’s one of the most backward taluks and there are people already practising organic farming, probably because many things aren’t accessible to them,” he said. Dikshit said some other regions were also discussed for converting into 100% organic. “I suggested the Biligiri Ranga Temple region where people use their fingers to make furrows to sow seeds. Also, we looked at some villages in Ankola that follow sustainable agricultural practices,” he said. Karnataka has been pushing for organic farming given that it is environment-friendly because of the absence of synthetic fertilizers and chemical pesticides. Organic food is also believed to be healthier. The government’s first organic farming policy came out in 2004 when the total certified organic farming area was 2,500 hectares. It is 1.41 lakh hectares today. “Sikkim has become totally 100%. But, of course, it’s a smaller state and not as diverse as Karnataka. So, we will have to modify their model to suit our needs,” Dikshit said. At present, the government provides 75% subsidy on vermicompost production units, construction of biodigester units, cattle flooring and so on to farmers willing to register their lands for organic certification. An additional 21,400 hectares are being brought under organic certification. Also, zero-budget natural farming trials are under progress. Farmers growing minor millet get Rs 10,000 per hectare as an incentive under the Raitha Siri scheme. Dikshit said the government was discussing new policy interventions - incentives, interest subventions and subsidies for farmers who are into organic farming. “A separate meeting involving other allied departments will be held soon to discuss this,” he said. The government is talking to banks to lend and encourage agriculturists involved in organic farming.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-looks-at-sikkim-to-power-up-organic-farming-906187.html
23-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to allow pooled testing of Covid-19 samples in districts with less than 5% weekly positivity rate||The State government will allow pooling of samples for Covid-19 testing in districts with less than 5% weekly positivity rate. A circular to this effect was issued late night on Thursday. In pooled sampling, five samples are pooled and tested in one go. Each sample will be individually tested again if the sample pool tests positive. The total number of RTPCR test targets given to each district, however, will remain unchanged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-allow-pooled-testing-of-covid-19-samples-in-districts-with-less-than-5-weekly-positivity-rate-905825.html
23-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||551 black spots on National Highways in Karnataka claim 279 lives between 2016-2018||With a total number of 551 black spots on national highways in Karnataka, the state stood third place in the country having maximum black spots where the highest number of road accidents took place between 2016-2018. In the state, a total of 279 people died due to road accidents on these black spots on National Highways (NHs) between 2016-2018, said the Union Ministry of Road Transport in its compilation of road accident data in India. The Union Road Transport and Highway Ministry identified the blackspot where maximum road accidents took place. Other major black spots where the maximum persons killed between 2016-2018 in the state: Agara Cross (NH- 209) in Kaggalipura Police Station limits in Ramanagara District is most dreaded as maximum 37 people died between 2016-2018. Devalapura Cross (NH-50) in Bagalkot Rural Police station limits in Bagalkot District also the next dreaded spot as 35 people died. Mayaganahalli (NH- 275) Ramnagar Traffic Police station limits in Ramnagar District took 30 lives. J G Halli (NH-4) in Hireyur Police Station in Chitradurga District where 28 died, Base Power to MPCL on NH-167 in Raichur Rural Police Station limits in Raichur District (29 killed), in front of East PS Cross on NH-275 in Mandya District (27 persons died), Santhekellur on NH-167 in Raichur District (24 killed), Singasandra Bus stop on NH-07 Hosur Road near Electronic City in Bengaluru City (23 killed), Laxmipura Temple on NH-209 under Kaggalipura Police Station in Ramnagar District (23 killed), Hebbagodi Bus Stop in Hebbagodi Police Station limits in Bengaluru District (23 killed). National Highways in the country: Of the total 5,583 black spots on National Highways in the country, Tamil Nadu has the highest with 748 followed by West Bengal 701. The bigger state - Maharashtra - has a lesser number of 25 black spots. "In 2019, the Ministry focused on the identification and rectification of black spots. As a short term measure to rectify the black spots, the government is taking steps to install rumble strips, lighting or signages. As a long term measure including road design/elevation, road widening, the building of boad overbridge, bypass, flyover, cattle underpass are also being implemented," said an official in the Ministry. As part of rectifying measures, the Ministry also sanctioned upto Rs 50 crore per black spot including land acquisition and widening works. The Ministry is monitoring at the highest level on the progress of rectifying black spots, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/551-black-spots-on-national-highways-in-karnataka-claim-279-lives-between-2016-2018-905833.html
23-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to reopen UG, PG colleges from November 17||Almost eight months after the Covid-19 pandemic shut them down, the colleges for various courses are set to open from November 17. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday. With this, classes for undergraduate, postgraduate and diploma courses in the state will commence with necessary restrictions. However, consent of parents will be mandatory for allowing students to attend classes. Following a report submitted by the department of collegiate education, the Chief Minister discussed the reopening of colleges with Higher Education minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan and other officials of the department. As per the decision taken, the colleges will reopen from November 17 in a phased manner. Wearing a mask is must for students and staff, and regular health check up is also mandatory. As explained by the officials, the classes for practical courses will begin first and the theory classes after a few days. However, officials said online options will continue to be available for students to attend classes as per their convenience.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-reopen-ug-pg-colleges-from-november-17-905963.html
23-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Has Karnataka achieved herd immunity? Simultaneous triple tests will give true picture||At least six international studies have reported T cell reactivity against SARS-CoV-2 in 20% to 50% of people with no known exposure to the virus. Experts suggest doing three tests simultaneously: RTPCR, antibody test, and a T-cell assay, which will give a picture to policymakers if the State or the country has achieved herd immunity against SARS-CoV-2. A type of white blood cell, T cells are part of the immune system and develop from stem cells in the bone marrow. They help protect the body from infection. Also called T lymphocyte and thymocyte. T-cell mediated immunity can be acquired due to previous exposure to other beta coronaviruses which cause the common cold. Knowing a threshold for herd immunity can allow the government to focus on that section of the population who do not have immunity. But they also caution that very few basic science labs in the country like NIMHANS, IISc, or the National Centre for Biological Sciences can do T cell assays in their labs as it is cumbersome and expensive. Assessing how much of the population has IgG (non-neutralising antibodies), the current active Covid case burden, and T-cell induced protection, simultaneously will give a clear picture of the health of the population, with respect to Covid-19. "Currently, we do not know when the pandemic will end. If we know how much of the population is immune, it is easier to decide how much of our resources should be allocated to fight Covid, the economy, etc. If done at the state or the sub-state level, we can understand which region needs more resources," said Dr Giridhar Babu, epidemiologist, and member of the State Covid-19 technical advisory committee (TAC).  In the serosurvey undertaken in Karnataka whose results are yet to be announced, with samples from all the eight zones of Bengaluru included, unlike the serosurveys of Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, and Punjab, Karnataka are supposed to have done all three: RTPCR, antibody, and antigen tests simultaneously in the statewide survey.  Dr V Ravi, Senior Professor and Head, Neurovirology, NIMHANS, and member of State Covid-19 TAC, told DH, "T cell response assay is very cumbersome and complicated to do. Peripheral blood has to be drawn, lymphocytes separated, culture them, stimulate them with antigens, and then take a readout. It is expensive and resource-intensive. Basic science institutes like IISc, NCBS, National Institute of Immunology, ISER, some of them may have the capacity for doing it, but not the medical college laboratories."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-has-karnataka-achieved-herd-immunity-simultaneous-triple-tests-will-give-true-picture-905995.html
23-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||5,356 fresh Covid-19 cases in Karnataka, 51 new deaths||Karnataka has reported 5,356 new cases of Covid-19 and 51 more deaths, taking the total number of infections to 7,93,907 and the toll to 10,821, the health department said on Friday. The day also saw 8,749 patients getting discharged after recovery. A total of over 71,68,545 samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,08,356 were tested on Friday alone, and 21,615 among them were rapid antigen tests. Out of 5,356 fresh cases reported today, 2,688 cases were from Bengaluru urban alone. As of October 23 evening, cumulatively 7,93,907 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 10,821 deaths and 6,93,584 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 89,483 active cases, 88,547 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and stable, while 936 are in ICU. According to the bulletin, 21 out of total 51 deaths reported on Friday are from Bengaluru urban, followed by Dakshina Kannada and Tumakuru (4), Mysuru (3), Ballari, Chikkaballapura, Dharwad, Hassan, Kolar and Shivamogga (2), and Bagalkote, bengaluru Rural, Chitradurga, Mandya, Raichur, Udupi and Vijayapura (1). Most of the dead are either with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounted for 2,688, Dakshina Kannada 329, Davangere 298, Mysuru 220, Mandya 168, Bengaluru Rural 152, Ballari 115, Uttara Kannada 113, Hassan 109, Chikkaballapura 108, followed by others. Bengaluru urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 3,21,054 infections, followed by Mysuru 46,392 and Ballari 36,554. Among discharges too Bengaluru urban tops the list with total 2,60,602 discharges, followed by Mysuru 42,132 and Ballari 34,175.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/5356-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-51-new-deaths-906084.html
23-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP's vaccine sop in Bihar: Patil seeks EC probe; C T Ravi defends it||Taking a dig at the BJP’s promise of providing free Covid vaccine for all in its manifesto in poll-bound Bihar, senior Congress legislator H K Patil said, the saffron party can stoop to any level to grab power. Covid vaccines should be made available to every citizen for free. There should not be any discrimination in immunisation against coronavirus. It is a shame that they are playing politics in such a sensitive issue, Patil charged. The Election Commission should take note of the free Covid vaccine as a poll promise and initiate a stringent action against the BJP, he urged. ‘Nothing wrong’  BJP national general secretary and District Minister C T Ravi on Friday defended his party’s poll sop ahead of the Assembly polls in  Bihar saying that there was nothing wrong in offering free Covid-19 vaccine as a poll promise, reports DHNS from Chikkamagaluru. Speaking to reporters, he said political parties had offered free rice and laptops as poll promise in the past. “Rice helps in overcoming hunger while vaccination helps in saving life. Is it not a notable service to offer free vaccination? Why is the BJP’s poll promise (of free Covid vaccine) being criticised, he asked. BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel’s statements on KPCC president D K Shivakumar and CLP leader Siddaramaiah should have been taken in a sportive spirit by the Congress, he said and added Kateel had not levelled any personal allegations against them. “If Kateel’s remarks have them, then what about the kind of language used by former CM Siddaramaiah on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “He (Siddaramaiah) had used uncultured language on Twitter, We are not enemies. We are only political opponents,” said C T Ravi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjps-vaccine-sop-in-bihar-patil-seeks-ec-probe-c-t-ravi-defends-it-906102.html
23-10-2020||West||Major fire breaks out in Mumbai mall; no casualty||A major fire broke out in a mall here on Thursday night, but no casualty was reported, according to a fire brigade official. He said the blaze erupted in the City Center Mall in Mumbai Central around 8.53 pm. Ten fire engines and seven jetty were engaged in the operation to douse the flames at the ground plus four-storey mall, the official said, adding there was no report of injury to anyone so far. "The fire is not yet under control," he said. According to fire brigade officials, the exact cause of the fire was not yet known. According to locals, the mall mainly houses shops selling mobile phone accessories. The fire was initially categorised as level 1 (minor) but it was upgraded to level-3 (major) at around 10.45pm when flames spread to other parts of the complex. This was the second fire in the city on Thursday. Earlier in the day, a fire had broken out in a garment factory at Kurla West. It was doused after more than two hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/major-fire-breaks-out-in-mumbai-mall-no-casualty-905763.html
23-10-2020||West||Fire erupts in vehicle showroom in Nashik; none hurt||A fire broke out in a vehicle showroom in the city on late Thursday evening, but no casualty was reported, a police official said. According to the official, the fire broke out in Jitendra Motors auto major Mahindra & Mahindra's showroom - in the Pathardi Phata area at around 7.30 pm. As per preliminary reports, the blaze started in the two-wheeler workshop which is located behind the showroom. The exact reason behind the fire was not yet known, he said. As many as seven fire tenders were pressed into service and the flames have been doused, the official said. No one was hurt, but the fire may have caused losses worth crores, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-erupts-in-vehicle-showroom-in-nashik-none-hurt-905784.html
23-10-2020||West||Passenger claims presence of 'terrorist' on Air India flight; held||A passenger created panic onboard Air India's Delhi-Goa flight when he claimed the presence of a "terrorist" in the aircraft on Thursday, leading the police to arrest him on landing, a senior officer said. The officer attached to the Dabolim Airport Police Station stated that the passenger, Zia Ul Haq (30), said to be mentally unsound, was arrested after the flight landed. The accused claimed himself to be an officer of "Special Cell" and informed passengers about the presence of a "terrorist" on-board, creating panic among travellers and giving some anxious moments to the in-flight AI staff, he said. The man was handed over to the airport police by the Central Industrial Security Force and the staff of Air India when the plane landed at the Dabolim airport, the officer said. The police stated that the passenger was mentally unsound and has a history of taking treatment at the Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences, New Delhi. He was medically examined at a state-run hospital and later admitted to the Institute of Psychology and Human Behaviour near Panaji after obtaining necessary orders from a local magistrate, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/passenger-claims-presence-of-terrorist-on-air-india-flight-held-905785.html
23-10-2020||West||Fire breaks out at Mumbai mall; over 3,500 evacuated||A major fire broke out at the City Central Mall in Nagpada off Mumbai Central. One fireman sustained burn injuries and has been admitted to the Sir JJ Hospital. More than 3,500 persons form the mall and neighbouring towers were moved to safety. The fire broke out around midnight. More details are awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-breaks-out-at-mumbai-mall-over-3500-evacuated-905847.html
23-10-2020||West||Post-Covid-19 recovery, Union minister Naik to resume Delhi office next week||Over a month after he recovered from Covid-19, Union minister Shripad Naik on Friday said he would resume his office in New Delhi from next week. Naik, who hails from Goa, has been working from his private residence-cum-office near Panaji ever since he got discharged from a private hospital on September 12 after undergoing treatment for a month. The Union Minister of State for AYUSH (independent charge) and Defence had undergone treatment at Manipal Hospital with the assistance of the teams from the state-run Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). "I am resuming my work in New Delhi offices of Defence and AYUSH ministries from coming Monday (October 26). The doctors, who were treating me, have certified that I am fit to travel to Delhi," Naik told PTI. He said he would be working half day in each of the offices (Defence and AYUSH) in New Delhi as there are "some important files to be cleared". When asked whether he would join the campaign for the upcoming elections in Bihar, Naik said the party leadership is yet to tell him about it. "Whether I am part of the campaign will be known once I reach Delhi," he said. The minister, who suffered lung infection due to Covid-19, said that after one month, he would be able to travel everywhere, including the high altitude areas. "I am taking all the post-Covid medicines and doing exercises regularly. It is important that we don't give up after testing positive," he said. Responding to a query that he got infected despite taking preventive Ayurvedic medicines, Naik said that during the pandemic, he was reaching out to people to help them, due to which he contracted the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/post-covid-19-recovery-union-minister-naik-to-resume-delhi-office-next-week-905904.html
23-10-2020||West||Covid-19 pandemic forces Shiv Sena to hold Dasara rally virtually||Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray would address the annual mega event for the first time since he assumed the top post after breaking ranks with BJP, an ally of three decades, and joined hands with the Congress-NCP alliance. The rally would not be held at the Shivaji Park and instead at the Swatantryaveer Savarkar Rashtriya Smarak – just across the road. A small stage would be created from where Thackeray (60) would address the annual rally – a tradition that his late father and Shiv Sena founder Balasaheb Thackeray had started. Thackeray’s close aide and Shiv Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut confirmed that it would be a virtual annual Dasara rally. “The rally would be webcast on various social media platforms,” he said. Since the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic, tech-savvy Thackeray, who heads the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, had been using social media platforms to address people of the state and video-conference to address meetings, reviews and events. During the annual rally, Thackeray will spell out plans of the Shiv Sena and speak about the road ahead. Balasaheb had addressed the first Dasara rally in 1966 and since then it has been an unbroken tradition – except for two occasions – in 2006 when because of heavy rains it was not possible and in 2009 because of Vidhan Sabha polls. “The 'Dasara melava'  at the historic Shivaji Park is a sort of annual pilgrimage for lakhs of Shiv Sainiks who throng the ground, often known as ‘Shiv teerth’. The last rites of Balasaheb were conducted at Shivaji Park. The Shiv Sena’s headquarters Shiv Sena Bhavan is located a stone's throw distance away from the ground,” said veteran journalist and author Prakash Akolkar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-pandemic-forces-shiv-sena-to-hold-dasara-rally-virtually-905905.html
23-10-2020||West||Fake Aadhaar, ration cards found in Bhiwandi AIMIM chief's office||Police have recovered fake Aadhaar and ration cards from the private office of Bhiwandi unit chief of AIMIM Khalid Guddu and his brother, who are currently in judicial custody in extortion and other cases, an official said on Friday. Police had last month arrested Guddu, his brother Bablu and their aides for the offences registered against them under various IPC sections, including 364A (kidnapping for ransom) and 384 (extortion), besides the Arms Act, the official said. "During the investigation against them, the police recovered 38 blank ration cards with rubber stamps marked on them, and 30 Aadhaar cards from their private office in Bhiwandi," DCP Zone-II Rajkumar Shinde said. "When the blank ration cards were sent to the authorities for verification, it was told that they were not issued by the office and the seal on them did not belong to it," he added. "When the 30 Aadhaar cards were verified, it was found that four of them were fake. When two persons, whose names were found on the cards, were called for questioning, it came to light that the names, addresses and photos were fake," he said. During the interrogation, Guddu told the police that these cards were made for election purposes, Shinde said. Following this, the police registered an offence under IPC sections 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc), 472 (making or possessing counterfeit seal), 420 (cheating) and others against Guddu and his brother, he added. Half a dozen cases of extortion have been registered against the duo and their associates, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fake-aadhaar-ration-cards-found-in-bhiwandi-aimim-chiefs-office-905951.html
23-10-2020||West||Covid-19 insurance to be provided to puja pandal labourers, electricians||As the crisis caused by the pandemic continues to grow in West Bengal, several Durga puja committees in the metropolis have decided to provide Covid insurance to electricians and labourers, who have been engaged in setting up pandals and later dismantling them. According to the city's to puja organisers, including Badamtala Asahar Sangha, 66 Pally, Dum Dum Sarbojanin, the labourers, many of the residents of faraway districts, toil hard for three months to give set up the pandals, bedeck it with decor and lights, with the committees making arrangements for their accommodation somewhere nearby. "All puja plans have gone haywire amid the pandemic. In September, when it was decided that puja will be organised on a low scale, we initially had problems hiring labourers, as most of them had either left for their hometown or were unwilling to work due to the pandemic. "That is when this idea of providing Covid insurance to labourers first struck... Most organisers in the city have provided insurance to the labourers," said Kajal Sarkar, the president of Forum for Durgostav -- an umbrella organisation representing the city's prominent pandals -- said. Sandip Chakraborty of Badamtala Ashar Sangha in south Kolkata said the labourers, after dismantling the pandals, will have to undergo Covid-19 tests. "If they test negative for the disease, they will be sent home. If any of them is found to have contacted the disease, the insurance will come handy," he maintained. According to the organisers at Dum Dum Sarbajanin, the insurance has been extended to several labourers and four electricians at their marquee. "We had initially thought of providing insurance only to the labourers. Later, we decided to extend the facility to four electricians who have been working at our pandal," one of the organisers said. Low-key celebrations will mark Durga puja this year, with the Calcutta High Court has declared all pandals no-entry zones for visitors, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Bengal has more than 37,000 Durga Puja committees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-insurance-to-be-provided-to-puja-pandal-labourers-electricians-906017.html
23-10-2020||West||Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami can use tagline ‘Nation Wants To Know’ as part of speech: Delhi High Court||The Delhi High Court Friday said Republic TV’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami can use the tagline ‘NATION WANTS TO KNOW’ as part of his speech or presentation. The high court noted in its order that Bennett Coleman and Co. Ltd, which has filed a suit against Goswami or ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd, which owns Republic TV, has submitted that the journalist is free to use the same as part of his speech/presentation of any news channel. However, if Goswami or ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd choose to use ‘NATION WANTS TO KNOW’ as a trademark regarding any of their goods/ services, they will have to maintain accounts for such usage and the accounts shall be filed in court regularly, it said. “Regarding the tagline NATION WANTS TO KNOW, no interim order is passed at this stage in favour of the plaintiff (Bennett Coleman). As submitted by the learned counsel for the plaintiff, defendant No. 2 (Goswami) is free to use the same as part of his speech/presentation of any news channel, etc,” Justice Jayant Nath said. Meanwhile, the court allowed an interim application of Bennett Coleman group and passed an interim injunction in its favour and against the defendants restraining them from using the trademark ‘NEWSHOUR’ or any other mark which is deceptively similar to the trademark ‘NEWSHOUR’ of the Bennett Coleman. The plaintiff has filed the suit seeking to restrain Goswami or ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd from using the trademark or title or tagline ‘NEWSHOUR’ and ‘NATION WANTS TO KNOW’ as it infringes its registered mark. The plaintiff said ‘Times Now’ is a news channel operated by the plaintiff having several segments of programmes, one of which was launched in 2006 titled ‘THE NEWSHOUR’ pertained to discussions, panel discussions and debates on current topics. It said Goswami, who was earlier associated with Times Now and resigned in 2016, launched his channel ‘Republic TV’ and website www.republicworld.com and they also filed trademark applications for registration of the mark ‘NATION WANTS TO KNOW’, ‘ARNAB GOSWAMI NEWSHOUR’ and ‘GOSWAMI NEWSHOUR SUNDAY’ claiming proprietary rights. The journalist told the high court that viewers of the two news channels are well informed, literate and can never associate or confuse between the shows or programmes aired on the respective news channels. He claimed that the Bennett Coleman's animosity with the Republic TV is well known and publicised and hence, there is no question of any passing off in such circumstances and alleged that the proceedings have been initiated in the form of vendetta litigation and merely in a purported attempt to harass and arm-twist the defendants. The high court said it was of the opinion that “it is only after evidence has been led that it can be ascertained as to whether the plaintiff was using the aforesaid mark as a trademark or it was merely being used as a form of speech in the course of conducting the news channel or in the course of carrying on interviews/presentations by defendant No. 2 (Goswami). These are aspects on which, prima facie, no view can be made at this stage based on the documents placed on record, namely, screen shots of various sites of Twitter, Facebook, etc.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/republic-tv-s-arnab-goswami-can-use-tagline-nation-wants-to-know-as-part-of-speech-delhi-high-court-906019.html
23-10-2020||West||MVA does a balancing act as Eknath Khadse joins NCP||The 11-month-old Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra has launched a major balancing act as veteran politician Eknath Khadse joined the NCP giving a major blow to BJP, a party he was associated with for 40 years. As of now, NCP supremo and Sharad Pawar, however, had ruled out any immediate Cabinet reshuffle to accommodate the firebrand leader of North Maharashtra. Thackeray, too, on his party has refused to speak out on the future political situation. “Whatever I have to say, I would speak during the Dussehra rally,” said Thackeray. Accommodating 68-year-old Khadse, a former Leader of Opposition is a major challenge for the Trimurti alliance government comprising Shiv Sena, NCP, and Congress which also include smaller parties and Independents. Over the last two years, there were reports that Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar was unhappy. “Why should he be unhappy…there is no reason,” Pawar said, adding that because of Covid-19 one has to take precautions. The junior Pawar is in self-quarantine in his Pune home as he was not keeping well, however, his Covid-19 test report is negative. Pawar also counted the names of ministers who had tested positive including Housing Minister Jitendra Ahwad. Before Khadse’s induction ceremony, Ahwad and Pawar had a one-on-one meeting triggering speculations that the former may resign from ministry to accommodate the veteran.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mva-does-a-balancing-act-as-eknath-khadse-joins-ncp-906067.html
23-10-2020||West||If you have ED, I have CD: Eknath Khadse||In what rings alarm bells for BJP, a veteran politician and NCP leader Eknath Khadse said that he would not be cowed down by threats of investigative agencies like the Enforcement Directorate. “If you have ED, I have the CD,” said Khadse with his unique sense of humour. His comments came as he joined the NCP in presence of its supremo Sharad Pawar. Without naming former Chief Minister and now Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, he said that for the last four years he has been completely sidelined and false cases were mounted on him including that of land-grabbing and molestation. “I will show now who has grabbed how much land,” he said.  “Income Tax department probed against me…there were two Anti-Corruption Bureau inquiries against me, one in Nashik and another in Pune…but nothing came out, and then there was a case of molestation,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/if-you-have-ed-i-have-cd-eknath-khadse-906068.html
23-10-2020||West||Elgar Parishad: Notice taken of supplementary charge sheet||A Mumbai court on Friday took cognizance of the supplementary charge sheet filed against activist Anand Teltumbde and seven others in connection with the Elgar Parishad case. After going through the charge sheet, Special NIA Judge DE Kothalikar said there was prima facie material against the accused of taking cognisance. The NIA, earlier this month, submitted a supplementary charge sheet against eight activists, including Gautam Navlakha and Hany Babu in the Elgar Parishad case. As many as 16 activists has been arrested until now under IPC and the stringent UAPA Act. Violence had erupted in the vicinity of a war memorial in Koregaon Bhima near Pune on January 1, 2018, allegedly after provocative speeches were made during the Elgar Parishad conclave held a day earlier at Shaniwarwada in Pune city. In January this year, the Centre had transferred the probe into the Elgar Parishad case from Pune police to NIA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/elgar-parishad-notice-taken-of-supplementary-charge-sheet-906073.html
23-10-2020||West||FIR against Republic TV staff for `incitement to disaffection' among police||An FIR was registered against four journalists of the news channel Republic TV here on Friday for allegedly defaming the Mumbai police and trying to cause "disaffection" among members of the police force. Republic TV termed it as an "assault on media rights" and said it will fight every "strongarm tactic". The FIR, registered at N M Joshi Marg Police Station in the city, pertained to a report run by the channel about a `revolt' against the city police commissioner by senior officers, an official said. The first information report was filed under section 3(1) of the Police (Incitement to Disaffection) Act, 1922, along with IPC section 500 (defamation) on a complaint by sub-inspector Shashikant Pawar of the Special Branch, he said. It named anchor and deputy news editor Shivani Gupta, anchor, and senior associate editor Sagarika Mitra, deputy editor Shawan Sen and executive editor Niranjan Narayanswami. The accused aired a report on Thursday between 7.00 pm to 7.10 pm about a `revolt' against Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh by senior police officers, the FIR said, claiming that this amounted to incitement to disaffection among members of the police force and deformation of the force. In its reaction, the news channel said the FIR was a "shocking assault on media rights". "This is happening for the first time in the world, the Mumbai Police Commissioner is not above the Constitution and the law," it tweeted. "In a brazen, blatant and shocking attack on press freedom by Mumbai Police, Republic Media Network has been issued notice to submit details of every transaction since inception and list every single journalist and employee. We will fight each and every strong arm tactic," the channel said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fir-against-republic-tv-staff-for-incitement-to-disaffection-among-police-906075.html
23-10-2020||West||Mumbai Police arrest one more person in TRP rigging case||Mumbai Police has made a ninth arrest in the Television Rating Points (TRP) rigging case, an official said on Friday. Harish Kamlakar Patil (45), a resident of suburban Chandivali, was arrested by the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the crime branch which is probing the case. Patil was apprehended on Thursday evening after his name cropped up during the interrogation of Ramji Sharma and Dinesh Vishwakarma, former employees of Hansa research agency, he said. It was suspected that Patil took money from some TV channels to fraudulently ramp up TRP, he said. Investigation revealed that there were some financial transactions between Patil and absconding accused Abhishek Kothawale who runs a company named Max Media. Patil allegedly helped Kothawale to flee from the city after the probe began, he said. The alleged fake TRP scam came to light when ratings agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint with the police through Hansa Research Group, alleging that certain channels were rigging TRP numbers to lure advertisers. It was alleged that some families at whose houses meters for collecting data of viewership were installed were being bribed to tune into a particular channel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-arrest-one-more-person-in-trp-rigging-case-906127.html
