24-10-2020||First Edit||Coronavirus vaccine for votes? BJP stoops low||While ‘cash for votes’ is all too familiar in the country, the BJP has introduced a new inducement -- ‘vaccine for votes’ -- in the Bihar elections in an obvious attempt to exploit the electorate’s fear over a pandemic that has cumulatively affected over 7.5 million people in the country and taken over 117,000 lives so far. Releasing the party’s poll manifesto, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced that the people of Bihar would be provided Covid-19 vaccination free of cost. While the rest of the country, especially states that are worse affected than Bihar, have a right to be outraged over this partiality, Sitharaman’s statement has raised the question whether the Centre’s policy on vaccine distribution will be based on whether a state is going to elections or not, ignoring other parameters, so that the BJP can make electoral gains? At a time when panic has gripped the country over Covid-19, the finance minister, instead of pandering to the voters of one state, should have donned the role of a statesman and instilled confidence in the people at large by announcing a pan-India plan, if the Centre indeed has one. Now, with criticism pouring in from various quarters, the BJP has changed tack by claiming that the Centre would provide vaccines at concessional rates to all states, and health being a state subject, the latter would decide whether or not to make it free of cost for their people. In Bihar, the state government would provide the vaccine free if the BJP-JD(U) alliance were voted back to power. Firstly, the BJP is dangling before the Bihar voter a vaccine that is not yet available and may not be for months to come. Secondly, what if the people of Bihar reject the BJP-JD(U) combine and vote in the rival RJD-Congress government, instead? Will the BJP still ensure free vaccination for the people of Bihar?   Not surprisingly, therefore, the minister’s statement has been called out by the Opposition as another ‘jumla’ or gimmick, similar to the 2014 election promise of crediting Rs 15 lakh into every Indian’s account or the promise of confiscating all the black money in the country and abroad with demonetisation in November 2016, ahead of the Uttar Pradesh election. It is unfortunate that the BJP has made a campaign tool out of a pandemic which has caused much suffering across the country. Every citizen has a right to public health services and it is the duty of the Centre to ensure fair and equitable distribution of all resources, especially vaccines. Playing politics over a pandemic for the sake of votes is despicable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/coronavirus-vaccine-for-votes-bjp-stoops-low-906277.html
24-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Rowdy sheeter hacked to death in Bantwal||A rowdy-sheeter was hacked to death at Bogodi near Melkar in Bantwal on Friday. The deceased is Umar Farooq alias Chenna Farooq (26). Miscreants attacked him when he was travelling on his bike. Though locals rushed him to hospital, he breathed his last on the way. There are several cases registered against him in Bantwal Town Police station and other stations in the district. SP B M Laxmi Prasad, DySP Valentine D'Souza and others visited the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rowdy-sheeter-hacked-to-death-in-bantwal-906329.html
24-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Gold worth Rs 27 lakh seized at Mangalore International Airport||The Customs officers have arrested a passenger and seized 531 grams of gold, at Mangalore International Airport. According to officials, the passenger had arrived from Dubai by Air India Express flight No IX 1384. He had smuggled gold in powder form. Gold of 24 carat purity of 531.390 grams valued at Rs 27,36,659 has been seized.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gold-worth-rs-27-lakh-seized-at-mangalore-international-airport-906330.html
24-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||MCC proposes biomining to clear slid garbage at Pacchanady||The Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) is waiting for approval from a technical advisory committee of the Directorate of Municipal Administration to use the biomining technique to clean the garbage that had slid during the last monsoon at its landfill site at Pacchanady. The garbage slide had affected 24 families which are currently provided shelter at a KHB apartment near Kudupu. The garbage slide had covered 13.5 acres of horticultural and private land apart from revenue land. The MCC has sent the detailed project report to the Directorate of Municipal Administration. The biomining technique will be used as per the guidelines of legacy waste management prepared by the Central Pollution Control Board. The Directorate of Municipal Administration will place MCC’s proposal before a high-powered body set up by the state government. The sliding has shifted around six lakh tonnes of garbage on to 25 acres of land which includes 13.5 acres of private land and rest on revenue land. Environment engineer Madhu Manohar said, “According to the primary report, Rs 16.20 crore is required to clear the garbage using the biomining technique. Once the proposal gets approved by the technical committee, it will be placed before the MCC council for approval.”  After getting approval from the Directorate of Municipal Administration, it will be sent to the government seeking funds for the project. Following the garbage sliding, 24 houses, crops, like arecanut, coconut, a nine-acre land and two small places of worship were damaged. Rs 14 crore released as compensation The government has released Rs 14 crore to compensate families that lost their properties and crops in the sliding of garbage at Pacchanady, the landfill site of Mangaluru City Corporation. Mangaluru City South MLA D Vedavyas Kamath said the Urban Development Department has released the funds to the MCC. MLAs and MP Nalin Kumar Kateel had submitted a memorandum to the government seeking compensation to the tune of Rs 20 crore to compensate families that lost houses in the garbage sliding tragedy. Accordingly, the government has released Rs 14 crore through a special sanction under the SFC grants of 2019-20. The government has already released Rs 8 crore for the purpose in the past, he said. The MCC had sent a proposal seeking Rs 22 crore in November 2019 to compensate the affected families. Of the Rs 8 crore released in the past, Rs 4 crore was used for constructing a retaining wall, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mcc-proposes-biomining-to-clear-slid-garbage-at-pacchanady-906333.html
24-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Temple's initiative persuades people to wear clothes 'suitable' for Indian culture||An initiative to persuade people to wear dresses, suitable for Indian culture, has been initiated during Navarathri at Bhagavathi Temple in Sasihithlu, on the outskirts of Mangaluru. A board at the entrance of the temple says it is better if men wear 'panche', pants, shirt, and women wear saree and chudidar. It is not suitable to enter the temple wearing a Western outfit, the board reads. “We will not send those who fail to follow the dress code back. Instead, arrangements will be made to give them an alternative dress to wear. We will not exert pressure on the devotees. But we persuade them to wear Indian outfits,” said the temple committee leaders. The temple committee president Vaman Idya said, “Our dress projects our culture. Our initiative may be opposed by people. We are not mounting pressure on anyone. We are only trying to persuade people. Already, such dress codes are prevalent in Kerala,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/temples-initiative-persuades-people-to-wear-clothes-suitable-for-indian-culture-906334.html
24-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Murder accused shot in leg, arrested||In a morning operation, the police arrested a murder accused by opening fire at him when he tried to escape after assaulting a police officer at Gundya on Saturday. The arrested Khalil of Kalladka had allegedly murdered a rowdy sheeter at Bogodi in Melkar of Bantwal on Friday evening. In the operation, Bantwal Rural Inspector Prasanna has suffered injuries. A team led by Khalil had murdered rowdy sheeter, Umar Farooq, at Melkar. Acting on a tip-off that the accused are fleeing to Bengaluru in a car, the police waylaid the car at Gundya. Khalil assaulted the police with weapons and Inspector Prasanna suffered injuries. Bantwal Town Police SI Avinash fired at Khalil on his leg, and arrested him. Two others have fled the spot. The injured are undergoing treatment at Bantwal Government Hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/murder-accused-shot-in-leg-arrested-906338.html
24-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Actor Dhanveer Gowda appears for inquiry in connection with night safari case||Sandalwood actor Dhanveer Gowda appeared before the Forest department officials for inquiry in connecting with an alleged night safari at Bandipur Tiger Reserve. Range Forest Officer Naveen Kumar inquired and recorded his statements. Bandipur Tiger Reserve Director T Balachandra ordered an inquiry against the actor after a video clipping, said to be of actor Dhanveer Gowda and his friends on night safari, had gone viral. The actor allegedly violated the rule as night safari is banned. The safari timings at Bandipur is from 6.30 am to 8.30 am and from 3 pm to 5.30 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/actor-dhanveer-gowda-appears-for-inquiry-in-connection-with-night-safari-case-906390.html
24-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Murder convict ends life in central prison||A 35-year old murder convict allegedly ended his life by hanging himself from a window of toilet in Central prison at Sogane on the outskirts of Shivamogga on Friday evening. The incident came to light on Saturday. According to the authorities of Central Prison, Manjunath, native of SS Nagar, Sagar, town, hanged himself from the window of the toilet using a lungi. He was taken to McGgann hospital in Shivamogga immediately where he was declared brought dead. The post-mortem was videographed in the presence of Judicial Magistrate First Class Court Judge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/murder-convict-ends-life-in-central-prison-906396.html
24-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Rangayana resumes weekend plays with Covid-19 guidelines in place||Mysuru-based Rangayana repertory is resuming weekend plays after a long break taken from October 25 due to the Covid-19 crisis. The last physical play at Rangayana was staged on March 5. For a change, technicians of the repertory are acting in the play. There will be only two technicians -- music assistant R C Dhananjaya and light designer Mahesh Kalletti -- in the play. Exploration Rangayana Director Addanda C Cariyappa said the play will be staged on the last day of 'Navaratri', that is Ayudha Puja, on October 25 at Bhoomigeetha Auditorium. “There is a potential among all artistes and technicians of Rangayana. We are exploring new possibilities for the artistic expression of theatre. The play is being staged with the support of senior Rangayana artistes and is directed by R C Dhananjaya. He himself has scored the music. Penned by Kavya Nagara Nagarakatte, the plot is a conversation between Krishna and Arjuna for a better understanding of man and woman,” he said. Cariyappa said that weekend plays will continue regularly from October 25 by following Covid-19 protocols and guidelines. “As we have to learn to live with Covid, even during the last eight months, Rangayana was active. Online ‘Vachakabhinaya’ of two works were held. Bharatiya Theatre Music Day was held to mark the birth anniversary of B V Karanth, two theatre training courses have been started. Preparations and rehearsals are on to adopt S L Bhyrappa’s ‘Parva’,” he said. Guidelines “All audience will be screened thermally. They will be provided hand sanitisers and wearing of masks is mandatory. Seating will be arranged to ensure social distancing. Plays will also be in line with Covid guidelines. Efforts will be made to ensure that minimum number of artistes will be on the stage,” Cariyappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rangayana-resumes-weekend-plays-with-covid-19-guidelines-in-place-906408.html
24-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Captive elephants losing lives to wild tuskers||The death of a 35-year-old male captive elephant 'Ranga' after being attacked by three wild elephants in a forest area near Sakrebailu elephant camp on Thirthahalli road has exposed the apathy of the officials of the forest department. It has been known that three captive elephants died in an attack by rogue elephants of the region in the last five years. The elephants 'Rajendra' and 'New Tusker' had died after being attacked by wild elephants. This is the third such instance in which a captive elephant died. Ranga was born to female elephant Geetha in the camp and it was known for its strong and healthy body. Sources in Sakrebailu elephants camp stated that three wild elephants must have attacked Ranga, the most active and strong tusker in the camp when it was left for grazing in the forest. The rectum part of Ranga was pierced and inner thighs were severely injured in the attack. It seems the rogue elephants might have pushed Ranga from 20 metre height to the ground.  Local people have alleged that Ranga would have survived if the legs were not tied with a chain. The officials concerned have failed to take suitable steps towards capturing wild elephants which have been killing captive elephants for the past several years.   Speaking to DH, Range Forest Officer Shivaraj Mathad said the deaths of elephants in infighting are quite common. But there is a need to put an end to the death of captive elephants by wild elephants. A separate barricade has to be set up in the forest area to ensure that wild elephants don't attack captive elephants. If not, captive elephants must not be sent to forest for grazing under any circumstance. The higher officials of the department must take suitable steps in this regard, he appealed.  Karnataka Bio-Diversity Board Chairman Ananth Hegde Ashisara told DH that the issue would be considered seriously. The board would take suitable measures to prevent such deaths in the future after hold talks with local people and officials of the forest department. He also promised that the issue would be brought to the notice of the forest minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/captive-elephants-losing-lives-to-wild-tuskers-906514.html
24-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Zebra gives birth to foal at Mysuru Zoo||A zebra gave birth to a foal at Sri Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens – popularly known as the Mysore Zoo and the foal is the third to be born in the history of 128-year-old zoo. The female foal was born to ‘Prachi’ and ‘Rishi’.  With new foal, the zoo has a total of seven zebras, three male and four female. Though the zoo housed zebras since 1990, the first foal was born in 2016 to ‘Riddhi’ and ‘Sudhir’, according to the authorities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/zebra-gives-birth-to-foal-at-mysuru-zoo-906552.html
24-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Rangayana to resume weekend plays from tomorrow||Mysuru-based Rangayana repertory is resuming weekend plays, after a long break taken due to the Covid-19 crisis, from October 25. The last physical play at Rangayana was staged on March 5. For a change, technicians of the repertory are acting in the play. Further, only two technicians -- music assistant R C Dhananjaya and light designer Mahesh Kalletti -- are enacting the play. Rangayana Director Addanda C Cariyappa said, “The play will be staged on the last day of Navaratri, i.e., Ayudha Puja on October 25, Sunday at Bhoomigeetha auditorium, at 6.30 pm. There is a potential among all the artistes and technicians of Rangayana.” “We are exploring new possibilities for the artistic expression of theatre. The play is being staged with the support of senior Rangayana artistes and is directed by R C Dhananjaya. He himself has scored the music. Penned by Kavya Nagara Nagarakatte, the plot is a conversation between Krishna and Arjuna for a better understanding of man and woman,” he said. Cariyappa said that weekend plays will continue regularly, from October 25, by following Covid protocols and guidelines. “We have to learn to live with Covid. Thus, even during the last eight months, Rangayana was active and organised a few events. Online ‘Vachakabhinaya’ (recitation of the plays by characters) of two works were held. Bharatiya Theatre Music Day was held to mark the birth anniversary of B V Karanth, two theatre training courses have been started. Preparations and rehearsals are on to adopt S L Bhyrappa’s ‘Parva’ novel on the stage,” he said. “All audience will be screened thermally. They will be provided hand sanitisers and wearing of masks is mandatory. Seating will be arranged to ensure social distancing. Plays will also be in line with Covid guidelines. Efforts will be made to ensure that minimum number of artistes will be on the stage,” Cariyappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rangayana-to-resume-weekend-plays-from-tomorrow-906553.html
24-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Techie turns into a successful foodpreneur||Ordering food online has become common now, thanks to the Covid-19 crisis. A techie-turned foodpreneur, who had introduced this online concept in Mysuru, around five years ago, has been supplying authentic home-cooked food, at affordable price, to thousands of registered users. Murali Gundanna, a software engineer, who quit his lucrative job around five years ago, to become an entrepreneur, entered the food business in 2015. He was the first online supplier of food in Mysuru. He set up ‘Food Box’ outlet at Chamundipuram in 2019. Murali recalls the support of his late grandmother, in sharing authentic recipes and his aunts Usha and Sandhya, who helped him script the success story, turning a role model for many youths. However, he was ridiculed for quitting his job. “I was hesitant and informed about my business plans to my parents only after three months,” he said. He is the son of U Sudha and G S Gundanna, residents of Mysuru.  Sharing his experiences with DH, Murali said, “I felt something lacking in life, although I had a well-paid job. Then, I decided to quit the job and started food business. I started off my experiment at a garage, with two stoves of my grandfather, ably supported by my aunts with their culinary skills and managerial capability.” “A couple of my friends joined hands and started publicising through word of mouth, by visiting friends and requesting them to spread the word to their contacts about the food orders. It was home-made food, with a fixed menu, unlike restaurants. Our objective was to provide tasty food at affordable price. Now, we supply around 2,000 to 3,000 boxes every week.” Murali said that he caters to a variety of clients, including techies, doctors, students and senior citizens. “As senior citizens find it difficult, to order online, on a website, we attend to the orders on WhatsApp. Just send ‘hi’ to the Food Box number, and send address and landmark to get registered. We send the menu one day in advance, to help them to order comfortably. The breakfast order is accepted before 7.45 am, lunch by 12.30 pm and dinner before 7.30 pm. The price is also fixed as the menu. Breakfast is available at Rs 50, lunch at Rs 90 and dinner at Rs 80,” he said. Murali explains about the support of his friends Aalaap and Yathiraj. “There is a team of around 25 people in the business, right from procuring groceries to supply. We supplied food even during the Covid lockdown, although the outlet at Chamundipuram was closed. Online sales picked up by 25% during the period. We supplied food packets to the needy during Kodagu floods last year and also during Bandipur fire,” he said. Murali recalled that Infosys founder N R Narayana Murthy encouraged them after tasting food at an event at NIE-IT. After venturing into business, I had supplied food to him a number of times, whenever he was in the city, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/techie-turns-into-a-successful-foodpreneur-906555.html
24-10-2020||Karnataka Politics||Cong chases influencers after survey points to tough fight||In a last-ditch effort of sorts, the Congress has identified more than 9,000 influencers on whom it is banking to swing the November 3 Rajarajeshwarinagar bypoll after an internal survey revealed that the election could go either way.  The Congress has fielded debutant Kusuma Hanumantharayappa to go up against the BJP’s Munirathna, a disqualified legislator who was earlier with the grand old party. The JD(S) has fielded local clansman Krishnamurthy V. The poll fight has intensified with the Congress and BJP running high-decibel campaigns.  “For the first time, we’re trying to map voters to our workers. For example, one worker will be assigned to one household to drum up support for the party. We’ve also done a ward-wise list of influencers. Each influencer can get us anywhere between 25 and 2,000 votes. We’ve identified 9,582 influencers,” a senior Congress leader involved in the party’s campaign said.  According to sources, a sentiment survey has shown a split in the Vokkaliga community, which could work against the Congress. Kusuma and Krishnamurthy are Vokkaligas, whereas Munirathna is a Naidu (OBC). “There’s also a split in the OBCs. During the Covid-19 lockdown, Munirathna appears to have helped a lot of people, which is keeping him afloat among the backward classes,” the source said. “Also, we found that Munirathna has a good hold over Tamil SCs, especially in slum areas.” The Congress survey also found that the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the BJP’s ideological parent, has not played an active role in the bypoll. “But, the BJP’s 2018 defeated candidate Tulsi Muniraju Gowda, who had an axe to grind against Munirathna, has given the message that they’re on the same page now,” the source said.  The survey covered 2% of the total Rajarajeshwarinagar electorate, which is 4.60 lakh. The parties are worried about how the voter turnout might impact the outcome of the bypoll. The Congress believes that a higher turnout will be more favourable to its candidate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cong-chases-influencers-after-survey-points-to-tough-fight-906562.html
24-10-2020||Karnataka Politics||The can of worms called caste census ||The Kuruba community has intensified its demand to be categorised under Scheduled Tribes (ST), the Valmikis want a higher share in reservation for STs and Brahmins are persuading the government to ensure the 10% Economically Weaker Section (EWS) quota.  Amid all this, the government is now confronted with the controversial issue of the caste census. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah has threatened to launch a statewide agitation in coordination with Karnataka State Backward Castes Federation if the ruling BJP failed to make the caste census data public.  The caste census, officially the Social and Educational Survey 2015, was commissioned by the then Siddaramaiah-led Congress government. The census, on which the state government has spent about Rs 167 crore, was the first since 1931. The report is ready and is currently with the Karnataka State Backward Classes Commission. Siddaramaiah’s current demand has found support in his political arch-rival, BJP’s K S Eshwarappa. “The census covers all communities and religions. It will give us an understanding of the social status of all communities. Hence, it is important to make it public,” Eshwarappa, the rural development & panchayat raj minister told DH. Both Siddaramaiah and Eshwarappa are Kurubas.  However, Eshwarappa was quick to point out: “The report was ready during Siddaramaiah’s tenure. Later, the JD(S)-Congress coalition government did not act on it. It is interesting that Siddaramaiah is blaming BJP for not making the findings of the report public.” Ahead of the 2018 Assembly elections, a part of the report was “leaked”. The alleged findings threatened to overthrow the traditional perception of numerical strength of various castes especially, among Lingayat, Vokkaliga and Kuruba communities.  It is said that the Congress government did not want to risk publicising the findings ahead of the polls. Later, the JD(S)-Congress coalition government also did not pursue it.  Political analyst D Umapathy said suppression of the caste census only showed the insecurities of upper caste politics. “Publishing the report doesn’t suit the political strategy of any ruling party. Siddaramaiah himself had an opportunity to publish it during his tenure, but didn’t do so,” he said. In a similar line of thought, former chairperson of Karnataka Backward Classes Commission C S Dwarakanath pointed out the need for the data to be made public in order to do justice to vulnerable communities. “It has to be published and we need to discuss it in detail. Only then will vulnerable communities get justice. Otherwise, the narrative will be limited to dominant communities,” he said.   Meanwhile, Eshwarappa might have recently announced in a public event that the government was keen on making the data public, but there has been no explicit commitment to it by the ruling party. In December 2019, the Planning and Statistics Department petitioned the government to grant access to ‘some information’ collected in the census “for the purpose of Sustainable Development Goal indicators”. However, the Cabinet denied access to the census findings.  The government is yet to even reconstitute the Karnataka Backward Classes Commission, after the tenure of its previous members came to an end. Until this is done, the report will stay with the Commission, without reaching the government for further action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/the-can-of-worms-called-caste-census-906563.html
24-10-2020||Mysuru||All set for tomorrow’s toned-down Jamboo Savari||Howdah elephant Abhimanyu and other jumbos successfully completed the final and full-fledged rehearsal of the Dasara Jamboo Savari on the Mysuru Palace premises on Saturday.  Dasara is a simple affair this year due to the outbreak of Covid-19. The Jamboo Savari, scheduled for Monday, is limited to the Mysuru Palace premises and only 300 people, including artistes, security personnel and dignitaries, are allowed to participate. The district administration has made all arrangements for the live telecast of the event. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will perform puja to Nandi Dhwaja near the Balarama Gate of the Palace, during Makara lagna, between 2.59 pm and 3.20 pm. The CM will perform pushparchane (offering of flower petals) to the idol of Chamundeshwari Devi, placed in the golden howdah, during Kumbha lagna between 3.40 pm and 4.15 pm.   During the rehearsal, Abhimanyu was accompanied by Kumki elephants Vijaya and Kaveri. Vikrama and Gopi were the Nishane and Naufat elephants. The mounted police, artistes performing nadaswara, veeragase, kilu gombe, mara gaalu, chande and tamate moved along in the procession. A tableau was also part of the procession.    City Police Commissioner Chandragupta performed pushparchane to the howdah during the rehearsal. The Police Band played the national anthem and the personnel attached to the City Armed Reserve fired 21 rounds from the seven cannons. Horses attached to the mounted company, artistes and the Police Band too were part of the procession. Chandragupta said the rehearsal was successful and all arrangements were in place on the Palace premises. “As per the recommendation of the Covid technical advisory committee, only 300 persons will be allowed. Only a few cultural troupes are allowed to perform during the procession this year,” he said. M G Alexander, Deputy Conservator of Forests, said the performance of all the elephants and horses was good.  “The elephants are healthy and fit. Abhimanyu will carry the golden howdah,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/all-set-for-tomorrow-s-toned-down-jamboo-savari-906565.html
24-10-2020||National||Arnab Goswami can use tagline 'Nation Wants To Know', not trademark Newshour: HC||Republic TV's editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami can use the tagline 'Nation Wants To Know' as part of his speech or presentation as of now, the Delhi High Court said on Friday while restraining it from using the trademark 'Newshour' of Times Now. The high court noted in its order that Bennett Coleman and Co. Ltd, which has filed a suit against Arnab Goswami or ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd, which owns Republic TV, has submitted that the journalist is free to use the same as part of his speech/presentation of any news channel. However, if Goswami, the editor-in-chief of Republic TV, or ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd choose to use 'Nation Wants To Know' as a trademark regarding any of their goods/ services, they will have to maintain accounts for such usage and the accounts shall be filed in court regularly, it said. "Regarding the tagline Nation Wants To Know, no interim order is passed at this stage in favour of the plaintiff (Bennett Coleman). As submitted by the learned counsel for the plaintiff, defendant No. 2 (Goswami) is free to use the same as part of his speech/presentation of any news channel, etc," Justice Jayant Nath said. Meanwhile, the court allowed an interim application of Bennett Coleman group and restrained the defendants from using the trademark 'Newshour' or any other mark which is deceptively similar to the trademark 'Newshour' of the plaintiff. The plaintiff has filed the suit seeking to restrain Goswami or ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd from using the trademark or title or tagline 'Newshour' and 'Nation Wants To Know' as it infringes its registered mark. The plaintiff said 'Times Now' is a news channel operated by the plaintiff having several segments of programmes, one of which was launched in 2006 titled 'THE Newshour' and pertained to discussions, panel discussions and debates on current topics.  It said Goswami, who was earlier associated with Times Now and resigned in 2016, launched his channel 'Republic TV' and website www.republicworld.com and they also filed trade mark applications for registration of the mark 'Nation Wants To Know', 'Arnab Goswami Newshour' and 'Goswami Newshour Sunday' claiming proprietary rights. The journalist told the high court that viewers of the two news channels are well informed, literate and can never associate or confuse between the shows or programmes aired on the respective news channels. He claimed that the plaintiff's animosity with the defendants is well known and publicised and hence, there is no question of any passing off in such circumstances and alleged that the proceedings have been initiated in the form of vendetta litigation and merely in a purported attempt to harass and arm-twist the defendants. The high court said it was of the opinion that "it is only after evidence has been led that it can be ascertained as to whether the plaintiff was using the aforesaid mark as a trade mark or it was merely being used as a form of speech in the course of conducting the news channel or in the course of carrying on interviews/presentations by defendant No. 2 (Goswami). "These are aspects on which, prima facie, no view can be made at this stage based on the documents placed on record, namely, screen shots of various sites of Twitter, Facebook, etc," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arnab-goswami-can-use-tagline-nation-wants-to-know-not-trademark-newshour-hc-906242.html
24-10-2020||National||Maharashtra govt publishes list of medical stores selling Remdesivir||The Maharashtra government on Friday came out with a list of 59 pharmacists in the state where Remdesivir, a drug used for Covid-19 treatment, will be available at Rs 2,360 per unit. Principal secretary of the public health department Dr Pradeep Vyas informed district collectors and municipal commissioners about the decision in a letter. "The medicine is administered free of cost at state- run hospitals, however, there was no cap on its price at private hospitals. "(Now) The pharmaceutical shops in every district and city are designated for its supply, which will ensure smooth supply of the medicine to every patient," Vyas said in the letter. "The Food and Drug Administration has shortlisted the pharmaceutical outlets in the state. There are five outlets in Mumbai division, 13 in Pune division, nine in Nashik, 11 in Aurangabad, 10 in Konkan, six in Nagpur and five in Amravati," the letter said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-govt-publishes-list-of-medical-stores-selling-remdesivir-906253.html
24-10-2020||National||It is in keeping with times: S Jaishankar on Quad||The coming together of India, Japan, the US and Australia under the "Quad" or Quadrilateral coalition was very much in keeping with changing times, and a reflection of the evolving landscape of a multipolar world, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Friday. Asked at an online conference what would be India's message to the world as it approaches the 75th anniversary of its independence in 2022, Jaishankar said the broader essence should be that its rise is good for the globe and it moves forward with a cooperative approach.  "We also need to send out a message that India will never have an 'us versus the world' mentality and that the rise of India is good for the world," he said. Referring to global geo-political changes, Jaishankar said every landscape and phase in balance of power produces its own thinking and strategy, and an independent India will express itself differently to different situations while maintaining its consistency in overall approach. "It is very much in keeping with times, and we will find increasingly in a multipolar world, and a more fractured world I would say, these ad hoc combinations of countries who will work together," he said replying to questions on 'Quad' online conference organised by Public Affairs Forum of India (PAFI). Touching upon India's growing global stature, Jaishankar said the world trusts India and respects its democratic values. "We are well regarded today as a democracy built under the most challenging conditions. I think people trust us. In a post-Covid world, trust, resilience and dependability are going to be very important. I think a strong democracy at home is definitely going to be an asset for the foreign policy," he said. Talking about changing dynamics in the global power equation in the last few decades, including the Cold War period as well as the phase of Western dominance, Jaishankar called the rise of China as the big geo-political event. "The world is moving towards a more multipolar world. It means there are many more countries which have the ability to influence and shape outcomes and part of it is that there has been a relative change in the position and power of the United States. The rise of China is the big geo-political event of our lifetimes," he said. The external affairs minister said a multi-polar world would create its own logic. "The underlying idea is a consistent India. Independent India will express itself very differently and that is today in an example like Quad. Quad is not the only example where four countries have found it useful to consult on issues which are in the common interests," the Jaishankar said. In November 2017, India, Japan, the US and Australia gave shape to the long-pending proposal of setting up the "Quad" to develop a new strategy to keep the critical sea routes in the Indo-Pacific free of any influence. In the midst of growing global concern over China's expansionist behaviour, the foreign ministers of the Quad member nations met in Tokyo on October 6 and reaffirmed their collective vision for a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific. The foreign minister of the four countries held their first meeting under the 'Quad' framework in New York in September 2019. The evolving situation in the Indo-Pacific region in the wake of China's increasing military muscle-flexing has become a major talking point among leading global powers. The US has been favouring making Quad a security architecture to check China's growing assertiveness. In his address, Jaishankar also suggested that as India grows, it may have similar arrangements with other countries as well. "Since we have so many agendas as we become bigger, we will have areas where we will work with other countries. If you look 20 years ago, this was a time when the West was very, very dominant," he said. "You had three countries who felt they had a common interest in working together to strengthen their hand vis-a-vis the west. The three countries were Russia, India and China. So before there was a quad, there was a triangle," he said referring to the grouping of Russia-India-China (RIC).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/it-is-in-keeping-with-times-s-jaishankar-on-quad-906279.html
24-10-2020||National||DH Toon | We're making headlines, this time in Bihar: J&K||With just five days left for the first phase of polls in Bihar, BJP has brought in the issue of abrogation of Article 370 that granted special status to Jammu and Kashmir in the poll discourse, putting the Opposition in a quandary on how to react on this issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-were-making-headlines-this-time-in-bihar-jk-906288.html
24-10-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on October 24||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 78 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:   Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  78,61,424 as of October 24   States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  1,18,464  
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> No. of people discharged: 70,16,046      Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-october-24-906289.html
24-10-2020||National||No more imported scotch? Foreign goods may soon be off shelves of military shops||India has ordered its 4,000 military shops to stop buying imported goods, according to a document reviewed by Reuters, a move that could send an unwelcome signal to foreign liquor firms such as Diageo and Pernod Ricard. India's defence canteens sell liquor, electronics and other goods at discounted prices to soldiers, ex-servicemen and their families. With annual sales of over $2 billion, they make up one of the largest retail chains in India. The October 19 internal order from the defence ministry, reviewed by Reuters, said that in future, "procurement of direct imported items shall not be undertaken." The order said the issue had been discussed with the army, air force and navy in May and July, and was aimed at supporting Prime Minister Narendra Modi's campaign to promote domestic goods. A defence ministry spokesman declined to comment. The order did not specify which products would be targeted. However, industry sources said they believed imported liquor could be on the list. Imports make up around 6-7% of total sales value in the defence shops, according to an August research column of the government-funded Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses (IDSA). Chinese products such as diapers, vacuum cleaners, handbags and laptops, account for the bulk of it, it said. Reuters reported in June that Pernod and Diageo had briefly stopped receiving orders for their imported brands from such government stores. Diageo did not respond to a request for comment, while a Pernod spokesman declined comment. While imported liquor sales at defence stores generate only about $17 million in annual sales, the order would send a negative signal, said an executive whose company sells products at defence stores. "The (foreign liquor) sales are small -- but why would a government which is wanting to attract foreign investments do this? It's a confusing, conflicting signal," said the executive. India has in recent months taken steps to curb Chinese businesses and investments following a border clash in June that killed 20 Indian soldiers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-more-imported-scotch-foreign-goods-may-soon-be-off-shelves-of-military-shops-906312.html
24-10-2020||National||'Howdy, Modi!' trends on Twitter after Trump's 'filthy India' remark||Taking a swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, several including senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal took to Twitter to sarcastically question the PM’s ‘friendship’ with US President Donald Trump after the latter’s remark that 'India sent out filthy air’. "Look at China, how filthy it is. Look at Russia. Look at India, it's filthy. The air is filthy," Trump said during the final presidential debate with his Democratic challenger Joe Biden in Nashville, Tennessee on Thursday night. Prior to this, Trump had also alleged during his first debate that the Modi government was not making the actual number of Covid-19 deaths public. Following which, “#FilthyIndia" and "Howdy, Modi" started trending on Twitter with many raising concerns over India’s pollution levels. Questioning the “fruits” of Trump and PM Modi’s “friendship”, Kapil Sibal tweeted:  Trump : Fruits of Friendship 1) Questions India’s COVID death toll 2) Says India sends dirt up into the airIndia “ air is filthy “ 3) Called India “ tariff king “ The result of “Howdy Modi “ ! In an effort to win support from Indian-American voters, a year ago, Donald Trump hosted a 50,000-person "Howdy Modi" rally in Texas with Narendra Modi last year. Modi had returned the favour in February, organising a 1,10,000-attendee rally for Trump in India. Another Congress party leader, Srivatsa, wrote, "Modi had spent ₹3.7 crores on flowers & covered up the slums to beautify Trump's route for the 'Namaste Trump' rally in Ahmedabad. But Trump called India 'filthy' in the Presidential debate today! Will Modi respond?" Modi had spent ₹3.7 crores on flowers & covered up the slums to beautify Trump's route for the 'Namaste Trump' rally in Ahmedabad. But Trump called India 'filthy' in the Presidential debate today! Will Modi respond? Be rest assured, Modi won't say a word against his BFF Doland During the debate, Trump accused China, India and Russia of not taking care of their "filthy air" as he justified the US withdrawal from the "unfair" Paris climate agreement.  Our best friend Dolaan has spoken. Another Twitter user sharing pictures of polluted cities asked if Trump said anything wrong. Columnist Michael Kugelman wrote, "After Trump's multiple unflattering references to India in these debates, will Narendra Modi reconsider the endorsement he appeared to offer to candidate Trump at the "Howdy Modi" shindig some time back?" After Trump's multiple unflattering references to India in these debates, will Narendra Modi reconsider the endorsement he appeared to offer to candidate Trump at the "Howdy Modi" shindig some time back? Nearly 21 million Americans have already cast ballots in the 2020 election with less than a fortnight to go for the November 3 presidential election. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/howdy-modi-trends-on-twitter-after-trumps-filthy-india-remark-906343.html
24-10-2020||National||53,370 fresh cases take India's Covid-19 tally over 78 lakh||India's Covid-19 tally climbed to 78.14 lakh with 53,370 fresh cases in a day, while 70,16,046 people have so far recuperated pushing the national recovery rate to 89.78 per cent on Saturday, the Union health ministry said. The total number of coronavirus cases mounted to 78,14,682 and the death toll to 1,17,956, with the novel coronavirus virus claiming 650 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the ministry data updated at 8 am on Saturday showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate has further declined to 1.51 per cent. There are 6,80,680 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 8.71 per cent of the total caseload, the ministry data said. According to ICMR, a cumulative total of 10,13,82,564 samples have been tested up to October 23, with 12,69,479 samples tested on Friday. The country's infection tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past the 50 lakh-mark on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28 and crossed 70 lakh on October 11. The 650 latest fatalities include 184 from Maharashtra, 60 from West Bengal, 58 from Chhattisgarh, 51 from Karnataka, 40 from Uttar Pradesh,  33 from Tamil Nadu and 26 each from Delhi and Kerala. The total 1,17,956 deaths reported so far in the country include 43,015 from Maharashtra followed by 10,858 from Tamil Nadu, 10,821 from Karnataka, 6,830 from Uttar Pradesh, 6,544 from Andhra Pradesh, 6,368 from West Bengal, 6,189 from Delhi, 4,095 from Punjab and 3,673 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/53370-fresh-cases-take-indias-covid-19-tally-over-78-lakh-906347.html
24-10-2020||National||PM Modi inaugurates three projects for Gujarat farmers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated three projects in Gujarat  -- related to farmers' welfare, healthcare and tourism development -- via video link from New Delhi on Saturday. Modi launched 'Kisan Suryodaya Yojana' aimed at providing day-time electricity to the farmers in the state for irrigation and farming purposes. He also inaugurated Paediatric Heart Hospital at the U N Mehta Institute of Cardiology and Research Centre in Ahmedabad, developed at an investment of Rs 470 crore by the state's health and family welfare department. Besides, he launched a 2.3 km-long ropeway project on Mount Girnar near Junagadh city a major pilgrimage site here. It is being touted as the longest temple ropeway in Asia. During his address, Modi slammed the opposition over the delay in completion of the ropeway project. "Had they not created hurdles in Girnar ropeway, it would not have got stalled for so many years. People and tourists should have got the benefit a long back," he said. "As a country, we should think of the loss to the people of the nation when such projects (Girnar ropeway) of public importance are stalled for a long time," he added. On the Kisan Suryodaya scheme, Modi said, "Farmers should save water and adopt the mantra 'per drop, more crop'. "Now as farmers will get electricity during the day, they should also emphasise on saving more water," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-inaugurates-three-projects-for-gujarat-farmers-906361.html
24-10-2020||National||ITBP broke myth that some countries have strong armies: MoS G Kishan Reddy aims at China||The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), in developments that took place in the last few months, has broken the myth of some countries that they have a powerful army, Union minister G Kishan Reddy said on Saturday, in an indirect reference to the ongoing standoff between India and China in Ladakh. The minister of state for home was addressing the troops of the mountain warfare-trained border force on the occasion of its 59th raising day here. He did not take names but said while India believes in the philosophy of "vasudhaiva kutumbakam" or the world is one family, the culture of the country teaches it to worship both "shastra and astra" or sacred scriptures and weapons at the same time. "This has taught us that the enemy can raise its head anytime, anywhere and we should be fully prepared to face any possibility. The ITBP is an important pillar of that preparedness of the country," Reddy said. "The armies of some countries had a myth that they were among the powerful armies of the world, but during the developments in the past few months, the ITBP has broken that myth," he added. The country and its citizens are proud of the ITBP's valour and dedication, the minister said. The ITBP is the designated force to guard the 3,488-km-long Sino-India Line of Actual Control (LAC) that runs from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh in the northeastern flank of the country. The Army and the border-guarding force are engaged in a military standoff in the Ladakh region for the past few months. The ITBP had sometime ago said it "fought the whole night" and gave a befitting reply to the Chinese PLA troops during a violent clash between the two sides on June 15-16. Reddy said the force not only mans the borders and ensures the internal security of the country, but also protects its economic interests. "India is surrounded by a hostile neighbourhood and our enemy, time and again, puts obstacles to stop our economic development. When you defeat these designs of the enemy, you ensure the country's economic development," he said. Reddy said the Narendra Modi government is "determined" to strengthen and "modernise" the force, and informed about certain sanctions given to it in the recent past. "I am happy to inform that the ITBP has been given the approval by the Ministry of Home Affairs to establish 47 border posts, uniform special clothing and mountaineering equipment for high-altitude locations, latest weapons are being provided and work is on to prepare priority border roads for the force," he said. The minister said the Centre had approved a budget of Rs 7,223 crore for the force for financial year 2019-20. "I assure you that there will be no dearth of funds for the ITBP," Reddy added. ITBP Director General (DG) Surjeet Singh Deswal also spoke at the event as he lauded the bravery displayed by the troops recently in Ladakh under "very challenging circumstances". Deswal said he toured the Ladakh border front recently and himself honoured the gallant personnel, while adding that recommendations have been sent to the government for awarding gallantry medals to some of them who fought against the Chinese troops. The force has left no stone unturned to guard this border, faced with challenges of weather, low temperatures and oxygen levels and a difficult terrain, he said. Deswal said the force has finalised and sent to the home ministry a proposal for constructing "phase-2 of India-China border roads". "A proposal has also been sent to the high-level empowered committee for the creation of 18 foot-tracks in Arunachal Pradesh. We hope that the work on this will begin soon," the ITBP chief said. He added that the force is providing better vehicles, bullet-proof jackets and helmets, clothing and ration to its troops on the border. New systems for better communication have been installed, Deswal said. The ITBP was raised in the aftermath of the 1962 Chinese aggression and it has a strength of about 90,000 personnel with 60 battalions on the ground.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/itbp-broke-myth-that-some-countries-have-strong-armies-mos-g-kishan-reddy-aims-at-china-906370.html
24-10-2020||National||Coronavirus shadows darken Dussehra, leaves Ravana effigy business on last legs||It’s a day before Dussehra and Karan ‘Ravan Wala’ looks disconsolately at the empty stretch of pavement, the handful of in-the-works effigies underscoring the despair of a festive season that is like no other he remembers. “You couldn’t set foot on the sidewalk, there used to be so many of us over this one kilometre stretch,” Karan said on Saturday, looking at the cars crossing by without a second glance as his hands expertly give shape to long sticks of bamboo. Hundreds of artisans like Karan who made effigies of demon king Ravan, his brother Kumbhkaran and son Meghnad every Dussehra would earn enough this season to see them through the entire year. Not this time though, with Covid-19 continuing its spread and fear of contracting the disease keeping most people away from festivities. The stretch of Najafgarh Road near the Tagore Garden metro station in west Delhi would buzz with activity at this time of the year with sellers making last-minute touches to the bamboo mannequins and buyers lining up to pick up their orders. Now, only three or four effigy makers work on a few under-construction puppets. The colourful bamboo and paper effigies are sold to Ramlila organisers across the city for prices ranging from Rs 1,000 to Rs 30,000. However, most organisers decided to not celebrate Dussehra this year, knowing the crowds would not come and also because of strict government rules. It’s about the pandemic but also about stricter rules for pavement hawkers and the ban on the use of firecrackers – the effigies go up in a blaze to signify the age-old battle of good vs evil; the demons are vanquished by Lord Ram who traditionally fires an arrow at the puppets. This year, that tableaux played out in parks and grounds across north India will happen in just a few places. “In the last two-three years they have entirely killed our work. First they denied us a place to make and sell effigies, then they put a ban on firecrackers, and now this disease,” said 52-year-old Karan who works as an electrician at other times of the year. Sitting amid coloured papers, oil paint, long metal wires and thin stripes of bamboo, 34-year-old Shammi Painter echoed Karan’s despondency. Shammi said he left it all to fate when he decided to take the risk of making effigies this year. “The market is dead. We are getting only 10 per cent business of what we used to make two-three years back. This year, I have orders for 10 big and 10 small Ravans and that’s it,” he said, as he gave finishing touches to the long black moustache of a bright pink Ravan. The painter said proudly that he would get orders from Ayodhya till a few years ago. Now he focuses more on making wall paintings in schools, gyms and houses. “Those were different days when we could survive the year solely on Dussehra earnings. Now I cannot sit idle a month later,” he said. Anil Pandey, 42, who has been making the bamboo mannequins for over 30 years, said he is better off even if only a bit. Working laboriously on finishing the only effigy order he has received, Pandey is more enthusiastic than his other colleagues on the pavement. The father of two supplies biers and shrouds for last rites throughout the year. “I will be able to make a profit this year, that’s more than I could ask in such times,” said the proud owner of a two-storey house in Rajouri Garden. Talk about involving the future generation and pat comes his reply. “Not a chance.” “This is a once-a-year thing. What will they do for the rest of the year? I want them to study and become officers. They take interest in this work but I don’t want them to come near it,” he added. Leading out of Najafgarh Road on a narrow road lined by makeshift offices of marriage music bands, on a narrow road are houses where the effigy makers stay. A bright blue three-feet Ravan occupies pride of place outside a house, but that is only a sample of what is inside. The house, which also doubles up as a workshop, belongs to New India Ravan Wale and has seen artisans painstakingly make thousands of effigies over the last 80 years. Not so long ago, their effigies even found takers in Canada and Australia. “Now we are doing it it because there is nothing else we can do,” said 45-year-old Ajay Saraswat Saraswat’s grandfather had learned the craft from ‘Ravan wale baba’, reportedly the first one who established the area as an effigy market. From the ground to the top floor, the space is cluttered with large and tiny pieces of bamboo sticks, bowls filled with homemade glue, long wires to tie the parts together and stacks of paper to make the outer structure. The work, indeed craft of making the mannequins only to have them go up in flames, gave livelihood to four generations of his family but the business may not last another generation, said Ajay’s nephew Amit Saraswat. “This is all we know, I don’t want my children to take up this work,” Amit said. Deepa, Ajay’s wife, concurred. “It is up to him what he wants to do. He loves to sing so if he wants to become a singer we will support him,” she said pointing to their six-year-old son busy watching a music video on a smartphone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-shadows-darken-dussehra-leaves-ravana-effigy-business-on-last-legs-906399.html
24-10-2020||National||Govt taking steps to strengthen agriculture sector: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that his government was taking initiatives to strengthen the agriculture sector in the country so that farmers do not have to face any trouble. His statement comes amid opposition to the new farm laws by farmers' groups and political parties. Modi was speaking after inaugurating three projects in Gujarat- one each related to agriculture, healthcare, and tourism development- via video conference from New Delhi. "In order to double the farmers' income and to reduce the production cost and their troubles, we will have to increase our efforts with the changing times," he said. "Whether granting freedom to farmers to sell their products anywhere in the country or creating thousands of farmer producer organisations, whether completing stalled irrigation projects or improving crop insurance scheme or 100 per cent neem-coating of urea or soil health card...the aim is to strengthen the agriculture sector so that farmers do not have trouble in farming. Initiatives like these are being taken continuously for it," he said. He launched the state government's Kisan Suryoday Yojana (KSY) aimed at providing day-time electricity to the farmers in the state for irrigation and farming purposes. The PM also inaugurated Paediatric Heart Hospital at the U N Mehta Institute of Cardiology and Research Centre in Ahmedabad, developed at a cost of Rs 470 crore by the state's health and family welfare department. Besides, he launched the recently-completed ropeway project on Mount Girnar, a major tourist and pilgrim site near Junagadh city in the state. The 2.3-km long ropeway is being touted as the longest temple ropeway in Asia. Modi held the opposition responsible for the delay in the completion of the Girnar ropeway project. The project was proposed in 1983 and was delayed due to various reasons, most importantly due to the environmental concerns, before the UPA government granted it conditional approval in 2011. "Had they not created hurdles in the Girnar ropeway project, it would not have got stalled for so many years. People and tourists should have got its benefit a long back," he said. "As a nation, we all should think of the loss caused to the people and the country when such projects (Girnar ropeway) of public importance are stalled for a long time," he said, adding that the new project will facilitate the pilgrims and tourists, and create job opportunities for the locals. "More people will visit (a place) only when modern facilities are provided to tourists. Tourists want ease of living, ease of travelling," he said. Modi said the world's tallest Statue of Unity attracted more than 45 lakh tourists before the pandemic. "Look at the Statue of Unity dedicated to Sardar Saheb (Vallabhbhai Patel). The world's tallest statue is becoming a huge tourist attraction. Before the coronavirus outbreak, over 45 lakh people had visited it. It is a big achievement in such a short time. It has been reopened (recently), and the number (of tourists) is increasing fast," he said. The Statue of Unity was inaugurated in October 2018. Lauding the state government over the Kisan Suryoday Yojana (KSY), Modi said India has become a leading country in both solar production and consumption. "Gujarat was the first state in the country that framed a detailed policy for solar energy a decade ago. In 2010, when a solar power plant was inaugurated in Patan, nobody had imagined that one day India will show the way to the world for 'One Sun, One World, One Grid'," he said. "Today, India is a leading country in both solar production and its use. In the last six years, the country has become the fifth-ranking nation in the world in solar energy production," the PM added. He said the KSY will change the lives of lakhs of farmers in a few years by providing them electricity for irrigation from dawn to 9.30 pm. He also talked about 'Kusum Yojana' that aims to help farmers, cooperatives and panchayats in setting up small solar plants on barren lands, and link solar pumps to the grid, he said. Modi lauded the state's initiative in taking water to households under the 'Nal Se Jal' scheme. Urging the farmers to save water, he said, "As the KSY has been launched, all have to repeat the mantra- 'Per drop, more crop'." "As farmers will get electricity during the day, they should also focus in saving more water," he said, adding that day-time power supply will make things easier for farmers to set up micro-irrigation. Changing lifestyle is increasing heart complications, Modi said, adding that the heart hospital will provide facilities to the people of Gujarat and others. In his address, Chief Minister Rupani targeted the "anti-Gujarat people" for stalling the Girnar ropeway and the Sardar Sarovar project. "We all know that in the past, anti-Gujarat people tried to create hurdles in many projectslike Narmada and Girnar ropeway so that Gujarat, Modi and BJP do not get the credit. But luckily for us, when Modi became the PM, both the projects were realised," he said. In the first phase of the KSY, which was recently announced by Rupani, farmers in Dahod, Junagadh and Gir- Somnath districts of the state will be covered, the government said in a statement. On the occasion, Modi also inaugurated a mobile app for tele-cardiology at the Ahmedabad civil hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-taking-steps-to-strengthen-agriculture-sector-pm-narendra-modi-906423.html
24-10-2020||National||Durga Puja in 1930s: When theatre, music, chess contest played out in Patna||From dramatic performances near the iconic Golghar to a chess competition at a city school, Durga Puja in 1930-era Patna was a cultural affair to romance, far different from the social milieu that exists today in the Bihar capital. While many old-timers still recall the musical soirees that played out from dusk to dawn in the streets in the 60s and early 70s, the memories of colonial-era puja festivities have practically faded. However, rare personal archives associated with the legendary Quila House of Patna city, are helping give a peek into the Puja festivities of the pre-Independence era. Aditya Jalan, 43, the current scion of the Jalan family has chanced upon boxes of letters and festive greetings cards that were sent to his great grandfather Radha Krishna Jalan, a businessman and a well-known personality of his period. "We have found some of the very rare Durga Puja greetings of 1936 sent by the then zamindar families of Ammawan and Ranka (now in Jharkhand's Palamu district), and also from Maharaja Sir Mohan Shamsher Jang Bahadur Rana, who was the prime minister of Nepal from 1948-51. The interesting part is all three cards have a similar look, feel and design," he told PTI. The Ammawan family card, which carries the Ammawan Raj (in Gaya district) crest on the front cover, was printed by Thacker, Spink, and Company of Calcutta. "All three cards have a beautiful image of Maa Durga slaying the demon Mahisasur, and of other deities, as one would see in a pandal, with a Durga Stuti printed below it. The Raja of Ranka card also has an image of Ram-Sita Durbar. All three cards bear 'Shubh Vijaya' Dusshera greetings on the cover in a very aesthetic font. This is priceless, and tell us how people celebrated in that era," said Jalan, the proud possessor of the collection. He said there are a few cards from the famous Darbhanga Raj family too, and one from the 1930s even has a photograph of the iconic Vishwavilas Palace, popularly known as Bela Palace which presently houses the Postal Training Centre in Darbhanga, printed inside. Dusshera greetings are printed in English on the right face of the card inside. Patna-born Jalan, an avid archivist too, recalls Puja during his childhood days when the sprawling campus of the over a century-old iconic Quila House was let out by his family to various committees for cultural events. "But, look at how people celebrated Puja in the 1930s and perhaps in the decades nearing it. There were theatre performances and sports and music events and these documents sort of help us imagine Patna of that era too, as not much visual documentation of the city is publicly available," he said. An October 1936 invitation card issued by The Friends' Dramatic Association, Bankipur, mentions: "the dramatic performances to be staged on the occasion of Sri Durga Puja at 9:30 pm, Near Golghar (Maidan)". The three plays are -- "Mashraqi Hur (Oct 4), Asir-e-Hirs (Oct 5) and Swami Bhakt (Oct 6)," the card says. Another 1936 Puja invitation card sent to Radha Krishna Jalan, addressing him as Rai Bahadur, by the Patna Blind School's Head Master, mentions a four-day programme list, which includes a chess contest, Gita competition, an 'arati' and a music competition. An interesting coincidence is that Dusshera in 1936 had also fallen on October 25, the same date as for 2020, which is seeing subdued festivities due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Aditya said that he also has in his possession an invitation card of October 1936, sent to his great grandfather, for the opening of the Bharat Mata Mandir in Varanasi on Vijaya Dashmi day (October 25). It was inaugurated by Mahatma Gandhi in the campus of the Kashi Vidyapith. The city of Patna had a tryst with cultural affairs during Durga Puja in 60s too, when music legends like shehnai player Ustad Bismillah Khan, sitar player Ustad Vilayat Khan, violinist V G Jog, danseuse Sitara Devi, and a constellation of great singers from the film industry, such as Mohammed Rafi, Talat Mahmood, and Manna Dey, regaled the crowd, year after year. Kolkata-based Rajiv Soni, 67, who grew up in Patna, recalled how the Bihar capital was a "hub of culture" that attracted big stars and "patronised them while celebrating culture". "In the 60s, as a kid, I used to go with my parents in our Ambassador car to some of the famous musical gatherings which were hosted across the city, from Langertoli to Gardanibagh and Machchuatoli to Lodipur," he told PTI. Soni, taking a trip down memory lane, said, people watched and listened to them in rapt attention, as "they were spellbound" by the performances that went from late evening to the crack of dawn. "Such was the charm and allure of Patna, now it's all gone, decades of cultural decay in the city," he rued. His friend and a native of Patna, Kamal Sahi, 68, recalls the Qawwali performances that were hosted in Musallahpur Hat area, and the evening soirees at Langertoli and area opposite Biscomaun Bhawan, the whole night. Patna resident Asha Prasad, 68, who once went to an event as a child, said, "Huge banners would be put up in the city, venues were well-decorated and no one whistled or ill-behaved".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/durga-puja-in-1930s-when-theatre-music-chess-contest-played-out-in-patna-906438.html
24-10-2020||National||Woman dies by suicide after husband succumbs to Covid-19||A woman here allegedly died by suicide soon after her husband succumbed to Covid-19, police said on Saturday. The 58-year-old man was in home isolation after testing positive for the coronavirus and he died on Thursday, they said. Unable to bear the loss of her husband, the woman (55) jumped to death from the penthouse of the building where they lived, they said. The couple was issueless. A case was registered, the police said. The woman's body was handed over to a relative to perform the funeral, they said. The funeral of the man was performed by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) on Friday as per Covid-19 protocol, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/woman-dies-by-suicide-after-husband-succumbs-to-covid-19-906442.html
24-10-2020||National||Russia's Sberbank to host 2020 AI contest in December; expects large-scale Indian participation||Russia's largest lender Sberbank will hold its next Artificial Intelligence Journey, an annual global conference of AI and data science, in December and expects large-scale Indian participation including for an online AI contest for students and others. The event, which was previously scheduled for November, will now be held from December 3-5, 2020, Sberbank said in a statement. Officials said the bank is expecting large-scale participation from India for the contest as well as for the conference. The bank has billed AI Journey as the largest platform about artificial intelligence and its application in Russia and abroad and the event is being organised in cooperation with leading Russian and foreign technology companies. In 2019, AI Journey was held offline and attracted more than 150 leading industry experts as speakers. This year, about 200 leading Russian and international experts are expected as speakers. Sberbank said the 2020 event will consist of an online AI contest -- AI Journey Junior, an online conference for middle and high school students who are interested in AI and DS; and a three-day online conference on solutions in machine learning, computer vision, natural language processing, neuromorphic and heterogeneous computing, to name a few. AI online contest winners will split the prize pool of RUB 6.8 million (about Rs 66 lakh). The first prize for adults and schoolchildren is RUB one million (about Rs 10 lakh). Creators of the best solutions will be awarded during the Artificial Intelligence Journey conference (AI Journey). The 179-year-old bank, which commands a market valuation of $67 billion and is majority-owned by the Russian government, is present in 17 other countries, including in India through branches, subsidiary banks and representative offices. Recently, it announced a major makeover to transform itself into a technology giant with the launch of a host of products and services in the digital space which will be first rolled out in its home market and taken abroad later, including to India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/russias-sberbank-to-host-2020-ai-contest-in-december-expects-large-scale-indian-participation-906447.html
24-10-2020||National||J&K Congress asks Mehbooba Mufti to desist from making 'provocative', 'irresponsible' remarks on national flag||Asking former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti to desist from making highly provocative and irresponsible remarks on the national flag, the Congress unit in the Union Territory on Saturday strongly condemned the PDP chief's statement on the tricolour. Reacting to Mufti's statement on the national flag, Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee (JKPCC) chief spokesperson Ravinder Sharma said it is highly provocative and irresponsible, and she has hurt the patriotic sentiments of people. "Such statements are intolerable and unacceptable in any society," he said. Sharma said the national flag is the symbol of the honour and dignity of the country and reminds people of the sacrifices of crores of Indians to achieve freedom and protect the country's dignity, honour and territorial integrity. "She should desist from making such outrageous utterances to hurt the sentiments of every Indian," the Congress leader said. In her first media interaction after her release from 14 months of detention, Mufti on Friday said she would hold the tricolour only when the separate flag of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir would be restored. "As far as I am concerned, I have no interest in elections. Till the time the Constitution under which I used to contest elections is returned to us, Mehbooba Mufti has got nothing to do with elections, let me tell you that," she said. In an act seen as defiance, the flag of the erstwhile state was prominently placed on a table in front of the PDP president, along with the flag of her party, during the press conference. It was for the first time that the PDP displayed the flag of the erstwhile state at a party function or a presser. "This is my flag," Mufti said, pointing to the flag of the erstwhile state, when a reporter asked her about her statement that if Article 370 of the Constitution was revoked, there will be no one left to hold India's flag. "When this flag of ours is restored, we will hold that flag (tricolour) also. But we will not hold any other flag till the time our flag, which was robbed from us, comes into our hold," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-congress-asks-mehbooba-mufti-to-desist-from-making-provocative-irresponsible-remarks-on-national-flag-906449.html
24-10-2020||National||Congress objects to Rupani's voice message about Covid-19, writes to ECI||Congress has complained to the Election Commission of India alleging that a caller tune message by Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani about precautions to avoid coronavirus is a breach of the Model Code of Conduct. The state would be having byelections to eight assembly constituencies on November 3. Rupani rubbished the Congress' allegation and said the message was only part of efforts to educate people to be safe during the festive season. In a letter to the ECI and Chief Electoral Officer of Gujarat, state Congress leader Nishit Vyas sought action against Rupani and the ruling BJP. Rupani has "affirmatively committed an act of undue influence on the voters in the name of religion by displaying and publishing his speech as a caller tune prior to ringing of the mobile phone of all mobile telephone operators," said the complaint, dated Friday. In the message, Rupani advises people to celebrate the Navratri festival with restraint by ensuring social distance and using masks and sanitizers. The Congress claimed that his message as a caller tune was introduced after the code of conduct came into force. "(Rupani) is influencing the voters and public in the name of religion and depicting himself as one of the messiahs and protectors of Hindu religion....this is a clear misconduct and, therefore, he is required to be prosecuted for election offence either under the provisions of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 or the Representation of People's Act, 1951," the complaint said. The opposition party also accused the BJP and its candidates of hiding the details of expenditure incurred on the caller tunes by paying telecom operators. The ECI should prohibit mobile phone operators from using Rupani's voice message and take action against the BJP and its candidates for non-disclosure of election expenses, the Congress said. Reacting to the allegations, Rupani said the caller tune did not have any poll-related appeal. "The Congress has accepted defeat in the by-elections. It is left with no issues. There is no campaigning in the caller tune. It only has my voice and not even my name," he said. "It is meant only to advise the public to take certain precautionary measures during the festivals. But it has been the Congress' strategy to raise false disputes," he told reporters in Junagadh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-objects-to-rupanis-voice-message-about-covid-19-writes-to-eci-906470.html
24-10-2020||National||Man poses as woman on FB, cons Rs 23 lakh from 'suitor'||Busting an online impersonation fraud, one person from Davangere town in Karnataka was arrested by the Goa Police Cyber Cell for posing as a woman on Facebook and duping a Goa resident of Rs 23.21 lakh by promising marriage, police said on Saturday. The accused Swapnil Naik was arrested from Davangere by a Cyber Cell team on Saturday, after tracking down his location via mobile phone, with the help of the Karnataka Police.  "On interrogation, the accused revealed that he used to pose as a female on a social media app and trap innocent persons for financial gain. He would present a sorry figure of himself and convince the victims to transfer money to him," a statement issued by the Goa Police Cyber Cell said.  The scam was carried out over a period of four months from June to September this year.  "He would also blackmail his victims, once they shared their personal details with the accused and then trap them further," the statement also said. The accused Naik also has several cheating offences registered against him, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-poses-as-woman-on-fb-cons-rs-23-lakh-from-suitor-906473.html
24-10-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Nirmala Sitharaman defends free Covid-19 vaccine promise; deadline to file tax returns extended||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom,  Nirmala Sitharaman defends free Covid-19 vaccine announcement; A 16-year old girl was shot dead in UP after she protested against 'molestation'; the deadline to file tax returns for individual taxpayers has been extended; Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa announces a compensation of Rs 25,000 for every family affected by floods in Bengaluru and auto-rickshaw and taxi drivers join Congress in Karnataka.  Here are the top news of October 24, 2020: Amid the opposition's criticism of the BJP's Bihar poll promise of free Covid-19 vaccines, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman asserted on Saturday that the announcement was perfectly in order and a party can announce what it wants to do when it comes to power. Sitharaman had released the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) manifesto for the Bihar polls on Thursday. A highlight of the promises made in the document was free Covid-19 vaccines for the state's people if the saffron party comes back to power.   Notwithstanding the claims by the state government, the crimes against the women in Uttar Pradesh show no signs of abating. A 16-year old girl was shot dead in UP's Firozabad district allegedly after she protested against her 'molestation' by three youths.   The deadline for filing returns by individual taxpayers for FY 2019-20 has been extended by a month till December 31, the finance ministry said on Saturday. For those taxpayers whose accounts need to be audited, the Income-Tax Return filing deadline has been extended by two months till January 31, 2021. The government had in May extended the date for filing ITR for FY2019-20 from July 31 to November 30, to give compliance relief to taxpayers.    Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday announced a compensation of Rs 25,000 for every family affected by floods in Bengaluru even as heavy rain pounded the city leaving homes marooned. The decision was taken after Yediyurappa held an emergency meeting with Revenue Minister R Ashoka, BBMP administrator Gaurav Gupta, BBMP Commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad, and Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant.   Scores of auto-rickshaw and taxi drivers joined the DK Shivakumar-led Congress on Saturday, through which the party hopes to make electoral gains. Tanveer Pasha, the president of the Ola Uber Drivers’ & Owners’ Association as well as the Karnataka State Auto & Taxi Federation was inducted into the party by Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar. Jai Bharat Auto Drivers’ Association president Chandra also joined the Congress. This is yet another blow to the JD(S) as Pasha headed the regional party’s transport unit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-nirmala-sitharaman-defends-free-covid-19-vaccine-promise-deadline-to-file-tax-returns-extended-906478.html
24-10-2020||National||ICICI Bank shuts down operations in Sri Lanka||ICICI Bank on Saturday said it has shut down operations in Sri Lanka after getting approval from the Sri Lankan monetary authority. The Monetary Board of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka, having considered the request made by ICICI Bank, has granted approval to close down business operation of the bank in Sri Lanka and cancel the licence issued to it, ICICI Bank said in a regulatory filing. "The Director of Bank Supervision being satisfied with the bank complying with the terms and conditions imposed by the Monetary Board, the licence issued to the bank to carry on banking business in Sri Lanka is cancelled with effect from October 23, 2020," the private sector lender said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icici-bank-shuts-down-operations-in-sri-lanka-906486.html
24-10-2020||National||VHP seeks reopening of temples in Maharashtra||The Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) on Saturday staged protests across Maharashtra demanding that temples be reopened. In Nagpur, VHP workers staged demonstrations outside 11 temples, said Govind Shende, an officer bearer of the organization. "You have opened malls, markets and even liquor shops. What is the problem with temples?" he asked. The Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government has said that places of worship would not be reopened at present in view of the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vhp-seeks-reopening-of-temples-in-maharashtra-906488.html
24-10-2020||National||Chhattisgarh: Woman raped, attacked in Raigarh; two detained||A 22-year-old man and his minor relative have been detained for allegedly raping a woman and attempting to kill her in Chhattisgarh's Raigarh district, police said on Saturday. The accused identified as Santosh Yadav and his teenaged relative were apprehended by the police on Friday, Raigarh additional superintendent of police (ASP) Abhishek Verma said. The 40-year-old victim, who works with Chhattisgarh State Rural Livelihood Mission 'Bihan', was found unconscious with grievous injuries on her face, near Khalakhiya village in the Lailunga area on October 18, he said. The woman was admitted to Raigarh district hospital and a case of attempt to murder was registered against unidentified persons, the official said. Investigations revealed that on the night of October 17, the woman had taken a lift from the accused on their motorcycle while returning home from Pathalgaon in neighbouring Jashpur district, he said. The duo took her to a secluded place where Yadav allegedly sexually assaulted her, while the minor after failing to rape her, repeatedly hit her on the face with his 'kara' (a heavy steel bracelet), rendering her unconscious, he said. Following the probe, section 376 (rape) was added in the case, the ASP said. Nearly a week after the incident, the victim regained consciousness on Saturday morning at a hospital in Raipur, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-woman-raped-attacked-in-raigarh-two-detained-906512.html
24-10-2020||National||India's famed miniature paintings on smartphones||Miniature paintings dating back to the 9th Century are now accessible at just a tap on your smartphone. The National Museum has joined hands with Google to make available nearly 1200 miniature paintings in its collection for the virtual gallery. Be it the wooden covers of different Buddhist texts dating back to the 9th century or the marriage ceremony of Rama and Sita dating from the 18th century, the miniature paintings have been digitised using high definition robotic cameras. The robotic cameras with a resolution of billions of pixels enable the viewers to appreciate the miniature paintings in greater detail by zooming on to a specific part. The paintings can be viewed using the Google Arts and Culture app where users can experience a walk around through the Augmented Reality-powered art gallery, Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel said. “This is quite unique … very easily with your phone, you will be able to project in your room a building that we have actually designed from a scratch … that will allow you to walk around miniatures and their large scale reproductions,” Amit Sood, Director, Google Arts and Culture, said. The artworks showcased are presented along with five universal themes of the human relationship with nature, love, celebration, faith and power and depicting scenes that include legendary marriage processions, the joy of being among nature, or epic battles. More than 75 ‘in-painting tours’ also allow viewers to appreciate details like wisps of smoke from firecrackers, or the finesse and variety of every person’s attire in this royal procession – flourishes that could be missed with the naked eye. Another feature in the app also allows viewers to paint their own miniatures using an interactive colouring book. “We will give you the lines and you can fill in the colours and make your very own miniature paintings,” said Tuhina Joshi, Policy Analyst, Google India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-famed-miniature-paintings-on-smartphones-906521.html
24-10-2020||National||Soon, Indian Railways to deliver passengers' baggage home||Indian Railways will soon launch the 'Bags on Wheels' scheme, where it will deliver passengers' baggage from the railway station to their homes and vice versa. The scheme will be first launched in the Delhi Division of Northern Railway at Delhi Junction, New Delhi, Hazrat Nizamuddin, Delhi Cantt, Delhi Sarai Rohilla, Ghaziabad and Gurgaon stations. A nominal fee, depending on the distance and weight, will be charged for the service, which will be app-based. "Using the BOW app (to be available for Android & iPhone users), passengers can raise their demand for carrying their luggage to the railway station or to their home. The luggage will be picked up by the contractor in a secured manner and delivered to the coach/home,” Rajiv Chaudhry, general manager Northern, and North Central Railways said. The railways have awarded the contract to a firm for the service which is expected to start it soon, said an official. The firm will provide door-to-door service to railway passengers on a nominal fee for hassle-free and smooth handling and transportation of luggage from the passenger’s home to the passenger’s coach and vice-versa, said the official. The scheme would be useful to passengers, especially senior citizens, divyangjan, and women travelling alone, Chaudhry said. "The delivery of the luggage would be ensured prior to departure of the train to provide ease of travelling experience to passengers," he said. Upon the success of Delhi the division experiment, the railways wants to extend the scheme to other areas also, said an official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/soon-indian-railways-to-deliver-passengers-baggage-home-906523.html
24-10-2020||National||Jagan Reddy: Taking political rivalry to new heights||Former Andhra Pradesh (AP) chief minister Chandrababu Naidu uses various synonyms of the word ‘destructive’ to describe his main political opponent and current CM, Jagan Mohan Reddy. Perhaps the more appropriate word is ‘disruptive’. The 70-year-old Naidu has his own reasons to complain about the 47-year-old son of his former bete noire, YSR Reddy, given their political rivalry. But Jagan, for his part, has gone about changing how politics is conducted in the state by taking the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP)-Telugu Desam Party (TDP) political battle to new heights through administrative decisions and actions. To begin with, he has reversed several of the TDP supremo’s policies and grand plans for the new state formed in 2014 after the bifurcation of a united AP. Foremost of these was the move to go back on the plan to develop a "world-class, people's capital" in Amaravati, a project closely identified with Naidu. The 35,000-acre expanse near Vijayawada, conceived in partnership with a Singapore consortium, was buzzing with construction activity till mid-2019. The spot where Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation five years ago on October 22 is now covered with shrubs. On Thursday, it hosted the locals who protested Jagan’s decision to strip their area of its status as the sole, ‘mega Capital’ of AP. Jagan’s term is proving to be a roller-coaster of outlandish or unconventional decisions, depending on how one looks at it—whether this concerns his plan to have three capitals (executive at Visakhapatnam, legislative in Amaravati and judiciary at Kurnool) or his recent allegations of impropriety against a sitting judge of the Supreme Court, who is next in line to succeed the current Chief Justice of India, S A Bobde. Ever since his government assumed power in 2019 it has been perceived to be in constant confrontation with the judiciary. Numerous rulings of the Andhra Pradesh High Court have either nullified administrative orders due to their controversial content or reprimanded the state government for its contentious moves. These include the judiciary ordering the removal of YSRCP colours from Panchayat buildings, its reinstatement of the state Election Commissioner, striking down of the order to have compulsory English medium in government schools and the staying of a further probe into an alleged land deal among others.  The HC had earlier this month ordered a CBI probe into abusive social media posts on the judiciary allegedly made by YSRCP supporters. It also expressed its displeasure over remarks passed on the functioning of the judiciary by prominent YSRCP leaders like Andhra Pradesh Assembly speaker Tammineni Sitaram, Deputy CM Narayana Swamy, YSRCP Parliamentary Party leader Vijayasai Reddy. Far from reprimanding his colleagues, Jagan seems to have taken the conflict to an unprecedented level by writing to the CJI alleging that the sitting SC judge has been “influencing the sittings of the [Andhra Pradesh] High Court”. Jagan's letter to CJI Bobde makes serious allegations mentioning “proximity” between Justice N V Ramana and Chandrababu Naidu.  Rubbishing the sweeping accusations, the TDP has invoked the disproportionate assets cases against Jagan being heard in a special CBI Court in Hyderabad. Jagan has been unfazed about the political crossfire. Political watchers believe he is eyeing a role for his party at the Centre as part of the ruling coalition, a move that will also preempt TDP's return to the NDA. He recently had a 40-minute closed-door meeting with PM Modi in New Delhi. With the YSRCP consistently supporting Central legislations ranging from the contentious Citizenship Amendment Act to the recent agricultural reforms, the prospect of the regional party, with 22 Lok Sabha and six Rajya Sabha MPs, joining the NDA government looks fairly strong, analysts say. The young CM enjoys wide popularity in the state, thanks to a slew of welfare schemes aimed at every section of voters. While this is the old template perfected by his father, what Jagan brings to the table is audacity in taking on political rivals that old-school politicians might have thought twice about. Whether this is brave or foolhardy, only time will tell.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jagan-reddy-taking-political-rivalry-to-new-heights-906524.html
24-10-2020||National||Delhi Congress workers stage protest against spiralling prices of onion||Delhi Congress leaders and workers on Saturday staged a protest at the Jantar Mantar against spiralling prices of onion and other essential commodities in the city. Delhi Congress president Anil Chaudhary, who was leading the protest, alleged that the Arvind Kejriwal government in the national capital and the BJP at the Centre have been unable to check the activities of hoarders and black marketeers. The Delhi government should give an immediate cash relief of Rs 10000 to each of the 72 lakh ration cardholders in the city to meet festival expenses, Chaudhary demanded. A number of women workers of the party, including Mahila Congress president Amrita Dhawan, wore garlands of onion, tomatoes, and other vegetables and raised slogans against the BJP and the AAP governments. Chaudhary claimed that when the Modi government amended the Essential Commodities Act in Parliament, profiteers took advantage of it and prices of all items started going up. It is shocking that the Delhi government has been silent when the prices of onions are soaring higher and higher, instead of ensuring that enough supply of the vegetable is made available in the market to tide over the crisis, he said. He demanded the Modi government immediately apply the Essential Commodities Act to stop the price rise and create a buffer stock of onions through NAFED (National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation) so that people do not face hardships.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-congress-workers-stage-protest-against-spiralling-prices-of-onion-906564.html
24-10-2020||National||Ayodhya Ramlila: Organisers claim over 10 crore viewers||Organisers of the Ayodhya Ramlila being shown on different media platforms claimed that the number of their viewers has crossed the 10-crore mark. The nine-day Ramlila is being telecast from the Laxman Qila, a temple situated on the banks of the Saryu river here. It is being performed by Bollywood stars and actor-turned politicians. It is being shown in 14 languages, including Urdu. Subhash Malik, director of the Ram Lila, said Ayodhya has now another record in its name as the viewership of the Ramlila being shown on Doordarshan, YouTube and other social media platforms has crossed 10 crore. "We hope that it will double up by the time we finish the telecast," he added. Due to the coronavirus protocol, people are not allowed to watch the performance at the venue. LED screens have been installed at different places and mobile vans have been sent to remote areas in villages to make watch the enactment of the epic. Around 120 crew members from Mumbai and 85 artistes are involved in the enactment with a 55-member Doordarshan team filming it from nine different angles. This Ramlila had started on October 17 and will finish on October 25 with the “Ravana dahan”. “For this, a 100-ft-tall effigy of Ravana is being prepared," Subhash Malik said. "We have sent an invitation to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to be the chief guest on this occasion,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ayodhya-ramlila-organisers-claim-over-10-crore-viewers-906568.html
24-10-2020||National||As India sees dip in Covid-19 cases, infections in US, Europe rise||Europe and the US reported a sharp surge in Covid-19 cases, prompting authorities to issue fresh appeals for maintaining social distancing even as new infections witnessed a steady decline in India with active cases remaining below 7 lakh for the second consecutive day. The US reported a single-day increase of 82,154 cases, the steep rise since mid-July, while 53 European nations added a million Covid-19 patients in ten days, forcing the government to announce new restrictions and shutdowns. The sudden rise in Covid-19 cases in the US and Europe has been attributed to lapses in maintaining social distancing and reluctance to wear masks while being outdoors. In India, 53,370 new infections were reported on Saturday, in line with the declining trend of fresh cases even as election rallies drew huge crowds in complete disregard of social distancing norms in Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, and elsewhere. The ongoing festive season had prompted Prime Minister Narendra Modi to caution the people that the pandemic was not over yet and they needed to follow social distancing norms as they go about their daily lives. “The active cases are less than 7 lakh for the second consecutive day and stand at 6,80,680. The active cases now comprise only 8.71% of the total positive cases of the country,” a Health Ministry official said. The total recovered cases have crossed the 70 lakh-mark taking the national recovery rate to 89.78%. The number of new deaths reported in a day has also seen a sharp decline, from about 1,000 new deaths in a day about a month ago to 605 reported on Saturday. Covid-19 has so far claimed 1,17,946 lives across the country. Citing reports of a sharp increase in Covid-19 cases in Europe, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot urged caution. “We have constantly seen that the corona situation has deteriorated in countries which have been negligent about the disease. The death rate has remained low in places where it was dealt with by being vigilant,” Gehlot said. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had said that the next three months were going to be decisive in determining the Covid situation in the country and urged people to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour during the coming festival and winter season.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-india-sees-dip-in-covid-19-cases-infections-in-us-europe-rise-906579.html
24-10-2020||National||Man beheads mother after denied money for liquor||A man allegedly beheaded his 65-year-old mother and ran away with the severed head after she refused to give him money to buy liquor, police said on Saturday. The incident was reported from a village in Nagarkurnool district of Telangana in the wee hours of the day, the police said. The 45-year-old man was caught near a tank in the afternoon with the chopped-off head found hurled into bushes, they said. A case has been registered and a complaint lodged by the man's older brother, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-beheads-mother-after-denied-money-for-liquor-906586.html
24-10-2020||National Politics||BJP attacks Congress over 'rape-and-murder' of six-year-old girl in Punjab||The BJP hit out at the Congress on Saturday over a case of alleged rape and killing of a six-year-old girl belonging to a migrant family from Bihar in Punjab, as it asked opposition party leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra why had they not paid a visit to the family of the victim yet. Union minister and BJP leader Prakash Javadekar accused Rahul Gandhi and his sister Priyanka Gandhi of going on a "political tour" to Hathras in Uttar Pradesh, where a Dalit girl was allegedly gang-raped and who died later, as he questioned the lack of a similar reaction from the two leaders to ghastly crimes against women in Punjab and Rajasthan, which are ruled by the Congress. They go to these places for "photo-op", Javadekar said, referring to the Congress leaders' visit to Hathras in the BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh. "A six-year-old girl coming from a Dalit migrant family from Bihar was raped and murdered in Punjab's Tanda. Former Union minister Vijay Sampla from our party met the family. Nobody from the Congress met them. They (the Gandhis) cannot see atrocities against women in the states where it (Congress) is in power. Neither Rahul Gandhi nor Priyanka went there and nor was there any comment from its president, Sonia Gandhi," Javadekar told reporters here. He also took a swipe at Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav, saying he is campaigning for the upcoming Bihar polls with those who are keeping "mum" on the atrocity against a daughter from the state. Javadekar also claimed that the culprits in the rape-and-murder case in Tanda have not been arrested yet and demanded stringent action against them. In a horrifying incident, a six-year-old girl was allegedly raped, killed and then set on fire, with her half-burnt body found at a home in Tanda's Jalalpur village, police said on Thursday. The accused -- Gurpreet Singh and his grandfather Surjit Singh -- have been arrested on the charges of murder, rape and under other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-attacks-congress-over-rape-and-murder-of-six-year-old-girl-in-punjab-906359.html
24-10-2020||National Politics||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal pitches for free Covid-19 vaccine throughout India||With BJP's poll promise of free Covid-19 vaccine in Bihar triggering a controversy, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said that the vaccine should be made available throughout the country for free. Emphasising that all people are troubled by the virus, he said that it is the right of the citizens of the country that they get proper treatment. "The whole country should get a free Covid-19 vaccine. It is the right of the entire country. All the people are troubled by the coronavirus, so the vaccine should be free for the country," Kejriwal said. Soon after BJP's poll promise, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh said that it would provide the vaccine for free in its state. Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan also hinted that the state may provide the Covid-19 vaccine when it is made available. The Opposition parties and a section of health experts had questioned the BJP's move saying politicisation of vaccination would be detrimental to the system. The BJP had responded saying the Centre would be providing the vaccine to states at a nominal rate and the states could decide to make it available free for its residents. The Centre's plan is to procure the doses directly and make it available for priority groups initially.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-pitches-for-free-covid-19-vaccine-throughout-india-906421.html
24-10-2020||National Politics||Over 100-year-old Durga at Pranab Mukherjee's ancestral house||The over 100-year-old Durga Puja at the ancestral house of former President Pranab Mukherjee in West Bengal's Birbhum district is being organised as usual but for every single moment misses the presence of patriarch, who died in August this year. From chanting Chandi slokas to supervising every single ritual since the day of 'Bodhan' till 'Bisorjon' and guiding the priests, Mukherjee was an integral part of this 126-year-old puja which hogged attention of the national and international media. He would make it a point to come to the village, around 250-km from Kolkata, during the puja days every year amid his hectic schedule as Union minister or President. He could not visit only during 2015 after his wife's death. Head Priest Rabi Chattoraj said "we are missing his physical presence while conducting rituals. As we were performing Mahasaptami and Mahastami puja we missed the guidance of Pranab da. But somehow I feel he is with us and helping us to conduct every ritual smoothly." Chattoraj recalls how Mukherjee would memorise the entire scripture and did not have to look at the pages for once. "He had told us he had been reciting some of the shlokas every day from a young age and knew every step of the puja like the back of his hand. He had a razor sharp memory," Chattoraj said. "Every year there would be phone call from him days before the puja from Delhi enquiring about minutest details. No such call came this year," Chattoraj said. Mukherjee's son Abhijit Mukherjee, who is present at the family puja along with other family members, said "we are following every single ritual as enunciated by father, who had supervised every ritual and was present throughout before the deity even last year. It is hard to believe he is no more around us." There is not much media presence this year around this time as Miriti has lost its famous son and the goddess looks sad perhaps.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/over-100-year-old-durga-at-pranab-mukherjees-ancestral-house-906451.html
24-10-2020||National Politics||Madhya Pradesh bypolls: Sachin Pilot to campaign for Congress candidates||Congress leader and former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot will be campaigning for the party candidates in the Assembly bypolls in Madhya Pradesh. Pilot will campaign for the Congress candidates in Bhind, Morena and Shivpuri, according to a statement issued by the party here on Saturday.  He will hold a two-day poll campaign in Narwar-Shivpuri, Shaitanbada, Jora, Sumavali, Noorabad, Manbasai, Gormi and Gohad on October 27 and 28. Pilot is scheduled to address a press conference in Gwalior on October 28. Voting will be held on November 3 for the bypolls on 28 Assembly seats of Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/madhya-pradesh-bypolls-sachin-pilot-to-campaign-for-congress-candidates-906452.html
24-10-2020||National Politics||Parties indulging in politics of caste, religion spoil Uttar Pradesh atmosphere: State BJP chief||Uttar Pradesh BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh on Saturday said the parties indulging in politics of caste and religion are trying to spoil the atmosphere of the state. He claimed that political parties like the Congress, Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party never cared about the interest of farmers. Singh made the remarks at a chaupal in Jaunpur's Malhani constituency, where bypoll will be held on November 3. "Political parties which have been indulging in politics of caste and religion to serve their motives are not liking the good governance of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and are therefore encouraging violence and anarchy to damage the atmosphere of the state," the state BJP chief said. Talking about an alliance formed in Jammu and Kashmir for the restoration of the special status of the erstwhile state, he said, "Some parties are saying that they will restore Article 370 and 35A in J-K on coming to power but people of the UT will never allow this."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/parties-indulging-in-politics-of-caste-religion-spoil-uttar-pradesh-atmosphere-state-bjp-chief-906506.html
24-10-2020||National Politics||Mehbooba Mufti disrespecting Indian flag; Article 370 won't be restored: Ravi Shankar Prasad||The BJP on Saturday accused PDP president Mehbooba Mufti of "disrespecting" the Indian flag and asserted that the revocation of Article 370 was done constitutionally and that it will not be restored. Her comments that she will not hold the tricolour till the Kashmiri flag is restored is "downright denunciation" of the national flag's sanctity, senior BJP leader and Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said. The former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister had on Friday said that she was not interested in contesting elections or holding the tricolour, the national flag, till the constitutional changes enforced on August 5 last year were rolled back. She said she would hold the tricolour only when the separate flag of the erstwhile state is restored. Prasad asserted that Article 370, which gave the erstwhile state a special status and was revoked last year, will not be restored. It was removed following a proper constitutional process and both Houses of Parliament approved it with overwhelming numbers, he said. Revoking it was our commitment to the nation and people have appreciated it, he said. In many ways, Mufti has shown serious disrespect to the very image of India which the tricolour represents, he added. The minister also hit out at other opposition parties, saying they have maintained a stony silence at her remarks showing serious disrespect to the national flag, even as they criticise the saffron party at the "slightest of issues". "This is hypocrisy and double standard," Prasad said. He claimed that the revocation of the Article 370 has led to increased development in the union territory with the weaker sections of society, like SCs, STs, OBCs and women, enjoying the same rights that they do in the rest of the country. People participated in local polls in Jammu and Kashmir with joy and happiness, he said. "Some people and families who used to rule with impunity and without accountability are going to have problems," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mehbooba-mufti-disrespecting-indian-flag-article-370-wont-be-restored-ravi-shankar-prasad-906516.html
24-10-2020||National Politics||BJP politicising Punjab rape due to Bihar polls: Congress||The Congress on Saturday accused the BJP of showing insensitivity towards the Hoshiarpur rape victim and said the ruling party was politicising the issue due to Bihar elections. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said that unlike the Uttar Pradesh government, the Punjab government was not denying that the girl was raped and it was not blocking justice. He said if they did, he would go there and fight for justice too. "Unlike in UP, the governments of Punjab and Rajasthan are not denying that the girl was raped, threatening her family and blocking the course of justice. If they do, I will go there to fight for justice," he tweeted. Asking top BJP ministers Nirmala Sitharaman, Prakash Javadekar and Harsh Vardhan where they were during the Hathras incident, Mahila Congress chief Sushmita Dev said they were only raking up the Punjab rape case for political gains in Bihar. "I hope that Nirmala Sithraman ji will stop displaying insensitivity towards a sensitive issue like this. Don't politicise it. The nation understands that you have suddenly woken up from your deep sleep because Bihar is in election mode. "Your party, your leaders, your prime minister do not see beyond elections and that's why, all of a sudden, you have decided to make Hoshiarpur an issue," she told reporters. Drawing a distinction between Hathras and Hoshiarpur rape cases, she said while the opposition parties felt the need to visit the Hathras victim's family due to the insensitivity of the Uttar Pradesh government, "they may not feel the same need in the case of Punjab". She claimed that the chief minister and the DGP of Punjab are personally looking into the matter and have already invoked sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offenses Act (POCSO), besides standing with the victim's family. She said the chief minister has insisted on exemplary punishment. The Punjab State Women's Commission and the SC Commission have taken cognisance and asked for a report from the SSP in the case, she said, claiming that the UP government did not even register an FIR for the offence of rape and intimidated the victim's family in the Hathras case. Speaking after the BJP attacked the Congress asking why Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had not visited Hoshiarpur like they had Hathras, Dev asked if anyone can accuse the Punjab government of threatening the victim's family-like UP government did. "Another reason why opposition leaders felt the need to visit Hathras and not Punjab is that the additional director general of UP said there is no rape in the Hathras case. Can anybody say that the Punjab Police or any police officer in Punjab is denying rape? In fact, POCSO has been invoked," she said. The Mahila Congress chief said while Uttar Pradesh beat up media people, Punjab has not tried to hush up this case. "Where were you Nirmala Sitharaman ji, when BJP leaders in Hathras were rallying with the accused and victim-shaming Hathras' daughter who was killed so brutally? Where were you, why were you silent," she asked, asserting that she was "appalled, disgusted and disheartened to see the finance minister spend a lot of time to raise the issue. Separately, Rahul Gandhi attacked the government on economic issues and tweeted, "Our PM teaches India how to run from the truth. Millions of people have lost their dignity and livelihoods as a result." He cited media reports quoting the RBI Monetary Policy Committee meeting saying that it may take years to regain the lost GDP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-politicising-punjab-rape-due-to-bihar-polls-congress-906525.html
24-10-2020||National Politics||Uttarakhand BJP sends five names to leadership for Rajya Sabha seat||The Uttarakhand BJP has sent a list of five names to the central leadership to finalise the party's candidate for the forthcoming election to one Rajya Sabha seat from the state. The list includes the names of former chief minister Vijay Bahuguna, BJP's national office secretary Mahendra Pandey, former MP Balraj Pasi, Pradesh BJP vice president Anil Goyal and senior party leader Naresh Bansal, state BJP sources said. Election to the Rajya Sabha seat held by Raj Babbar is scheduled to take place on November 9. Raj Babbar's term concludes on November 25. The last date for filing nominations for the seat is October 27 which means the party may announce its candidate for the seat in a day or two. Victory of the BJP candidate from the seat is a foregone conclusion with the party having 57 out of the assembly's 70 seats in its kitty. Bahuguna's candidature is a strong possibility considering his stature as a former chief minister. Desertion by many leaders, including heavyweights like Bahuguna, ahead of the 2017 assembly polls had harmed the Congress's prospects. Political observers here feel Bahuguna may be rewarded by the BJP with a nomination to the Upper House.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uttarakhand-bjp-sends-five-names-to-leadership-for-rajya-sabha-seat-906545.html
24-10-2020||National Politics||RJDs predisposition towards anarchy drove Nitish Kumar away: J P Nadda||The Rashtriya Janata Dal is "predisposed towards anarchy" and the realisation had led Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar to snap ties with the party and return to the NDA, BJP national president Jagat Prakash Nadda asserted on Saturday. Nadda, formerly the Union Health Minister, also alleged that the state had remained deprived of many medical facilities during the period the RJD shared power with Kumar on account of the "indolence" of Tej Pratap Yadav, elder son of party supremo Lalu Prasad, who then held the health portfolio in Bihar. "The RJD is predisposed towards anarchy and lawlessness. And they remain unrepentant. It is the very reason why Nitish Kumar had to dump them and return to the BJP after which the state resumed its march towards progress", the BJP chief told an election rally in Lakhisarai district. Kumar, the JD(U) president, had resigned in July 2017 after his then-deputy and Prasad's younger son Tejashwi Yadav's name cropped up in a money laundering case and the RJD stubbornly refused to heed demands for the resignation of the 27 years old. The JD(U) chief received an unconditional offer of support from the BJP, his old ally which was dumped by him in 2013, and a new government was installed the very next day with Kumar as the Chief Minister and Tejashwi Yadav's predecessor Sushil Kumar Modi as the Deputy CM. "I remember while I was handling health at the Centre, I would be frustrated over getting no response from the state regarding proposals for setting up of new hospitals, medical research institutes etc", said Nadda, who held the portfolio until May 2019, when he took up the top party post. "Tej Pratap Yadav seemed to be riding a horse which he never wanted to dismount from. Whenever PM Modi used to ask me, what was the progress in Bihar, I would wring my hands in frustration and tell him there is nobody to take care of administrative matters", he alleged. The BJP joined the government in the state (in 2017) and the party leader Mangal Pandey replaced Tej Pratap. And things began to look up dramatically, he said, adding many medical colleges and medical institutes have come up since then and the state which had an AIIMS at Patna, is all set to have another facility in Darbhanga. Earlier, addressing a rally in Bihar Sharif, the district headquarters of Nalanda, to which Chief Minister Nitish Kumar belongs, Nadda said "every vote, be it for the BJP or any of our allies JD(U), HAM and VIP counts. The people of the state voted for us decisively in Lok Sabha and the NDA won a huge majority. "The BJP on its own crossed the 300-mark and were able to fulfil our promises". The BJP president also lambasted the Congress-led opposition in the country for showing "disrespect to the popular sentiment" by opposing scrapping of Article 370, making triple talaq a punishable offence and construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rjds-predisposition-towards-anarchy-drove-nitish-kumar-away-j-p-nadda-906547.html
24-10-2020||National Politics||Rajnath Singh reviews LAC situation in eastern sector at Army's Trishakti Corps in Sukna||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday reviewed the combat preparedness of the Indian Army at the Sukna-based headquarters of its 33 Corps which is responsible for guarding the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China in the Sikkim sector, officials said. The defence minister arrived at the key military base, popularly known as 'Trishakti' Corps, in Darjeeling district in late afternoon as part of his two-day visit to West Bengal and Sikkim to review the military preparedness in view of the border row with China in eastern Ladakh as well as to celebrate Dussehra with soldiers. Singh is accompanied by Chief of the Army Staff General Manoj Mukund Naravane. The Army has significantly bolstered deployment of troops and weaponry along the nearly 3,500 km-long LAC including in the Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh sectors. The officials said top commanders of the 33 Corps gave detailed briefing to the defence minister and Gen Naravane on the situation along the LAC in Sikkim sector as well as about deployment of troops and weapons. In an interaction with a group of Army personnel, the defence minister conveyed his wishes to them on the occasion of Vijayadashami and hailed their dedication in securing the nation's borders. "Due to brave soldiers like you, the borders of this country are protected. The whole country is proud of you," he said. The defence minister also talked about the rich history of the Trishakti Corps. "The Trishakti Corps has a great golden history. Especially in 1962, 1967, 1971 and 1975, this Corps demonstrated examples of valour. It has been excellent," he said. "I extend my best wishes to all of you and your family for the festival of Vijayadashami," the defence minister's office tweeted quoting him as saying. Officials said Singh will perform 'Shastra puja'(worship of weapons) at Sherathang area in Sikkim on Sunday morning on the occasion of Dussehra. The defence minister had performed ‘Shastra Puja’ in the French port city of Bordeaux during Dussehra last year as he was on a bilateral visit to the country then. Singh has been performing ‘Shastra Puja’ during Dussehra for the last several years including during his tenure as the Union Home Minister in the previous NDA government. Almost all formations of the Indian Army along the LAC are on a very high-level of alert in view of the border row with China in eastern Ladakh. India and China are locked in an over five-month-long bitter border standoff in eastern Ladakh that has significantly strained their ties. Both sides held a series of diplomatic and military talks to resolve the row. However, no breakthrough has been achieved to end the standoff.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajnath-singh-reviews-lac-situation-in-eastern-sector-at-armys-trishakti-corps-in-sukna-906549.html
24-10-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan: Zila Parishad, Panchayat Samiti polls to be held in four phases from November 23||Voting for Zila Parishad and Panchayat Samiti elections will be held in 21 districts of Rajasthan in four phases from November 23 to December 5, the State Election Commission announced on Saturday. The counting of votes will be taken up on December 8, it said. State Election Commissioner P S Mehra said the first phase of voting for Zila Parishad and Panchayat Samiti elections will be held in 21 districts on November 23, second on November 27, third on December 1 and fourth on December 5. The elections will be held in Ajmer, Churu, Nagaur, Banswara, Dungarpur, Pali, Barmer, Hanumangarh, Pratapgarh, Bhilwara, Jaisalmer, Rajsamand, Bikaner, Jalore, Sikar, Bundi, Jhalawar, Tonk, Chittorgarh, Jhunjhunu and Udaipur, he said. The elections are not being held in the remaining 12 districts of the state as the delimitation of municipalities is pending before court, he added. There are over 21.41 crore voters in these 21 districts. A total of 636 Zila Parishad members and 4,371 Panchayat Samiti members will be elected, Mehra said. He said the election notification will be issued on November 4. With this, the process of filing nomination papers will begin. Candidates can file nominations till 3 pm on November 9. Scrutiny of nomination papers will be taken up on November 10, while names can be withdrawn till November 11. After the withdrawal of nominations, the allocation of election symbols and the list of candidates will be published, he added. With the announcement of the election schedule, the model code of conduct comes into immediate effect in the concerned constituencies and will remain in force till the end of the election process, the commission said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-zila-parishad-panchayat-samiti-polls-to-be-held-in-four-phases-from-november-23-906551.html
24-10-2020||National Politics||'Selective outrage': BJP and Congress spar over Punjab rape case||The BJP on Saturday accused the Congress of displaying "selective outrage" in incidents of crime against women and questioned the silence of Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra over the alleged rape of a six-year-old girl in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur district. Singed by the Uttar Pradesh government’s handling of the Hathras gang-rape incident, the BJP fielded Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to target the Congress. "The tweet-friendly Rahul Gandhi has not tweeted on the Hoshiarpur incident. There has been no outrage. And no picnic either," Sitharaman told reporters here, referring to the visit to Hathras by Rahul and Priyanka. The Congress hit back, accusing the BJP of politicising the issue due to Bihar polls. "Unlike in UP, the governments of Punjab and Rajasthan are NOT denying that the girl was raped, threatening her family and blocking the course of justice. If they do, I will go there to fight for justice," Rahul said. Unlike in UP, the governments of Punjab and Rajasthan are NOT denying that the girl was raped, threatening her family and blocking the course of justice. The party issued a "fact sheet", saying that CM Amarinder Singh and the DGP were personally monitoring the probe in the Punjab case. The police have already invoked Sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) and the chief minister has insisted on exemplary punishment for those guilty of the crime, Mahila Congress President Sushmita Dev said. Dev said that the UP government had not bothered to register an FIR for the offence of rape and instead intimidated the victim’s family in the Hathras incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/selective-outrage-bjp-and-congress-spar-over-punjab-rape-case-906573.html
24-10-2020||North and Central||Pakistan army shells forwards areas along LoC in J&K's Poonch||The Pakistan army opened heavy fire and shelled forward areas and posts in three sectors along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir on Friday, officials said. The Indian Army retaliated effectively, they said. "At about 1800 hours today, the Pakistan army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and shelling with mortars along LoC in Kirni, Qasba and Malti sectors in district Poonch," defence spokesperson said. He said the Indian Army retaliated befittingly. According to official sources, 3,589 ceasefire violations by Pakistan were reported along the LoC and the International Border till October 6 this year as against a total of 3,168 in 2019. The highest 427 ceasefire violations took place in September, followed by 411 in March and 408 in August. July recorded 398 ceasefire violations, June and April 387 each, May 382, January 367 and February 366, the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-army-shells-forwards-areas-along-loc-in-jks-poonch-906247.html
24-10-2020||North and Central||BJP demands arrest of Mehbooba Mufti for 'seditious' remarks||The Jammu and Kashmir BJP on Friday demanded the arrest of PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti for her "seditious remarks" wherein she said she would only hold the national tricolour when the flag of the erstwhile state is restored. The BJP said "no power on earth" can either hoist the state flag again or restore Article 370, which granted special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. Addressing reporters for the first time since her release from 14-month detention following the abrogation of Article 370 in August last year, Mehbooba said she will only hold the national tricolour after the flag of Jammu and Kashmir is restored. In an act seen as defiance, the flag of the erstwhile state was prominently placed on a table in front of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president along with that of her party during the presser. "I request Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha to take cognisance of seditious remarks of Mehbooba Mufti, book her for the seditious act and put her behind bars," Jammu and Kashmir BJP president Ravinder Raina told reporters. "We will sacrifice every drop of our blood for our flag, country and motherland. J-K is an integral part of our country, so only one flag can be hoisted in J-K and that is the national flag," he said. Raina said the party will not tolerate such "nefarious designs" aimed at instigating the people of Kashmir. "I warn leaders like Mehbooba Mufti not to instigate the people of Kashmir. We will not allow anyone to disturb peace, normalcy and brotherhood. In case anything wrong happens, she will have to face the consequences," he said. If Kashmiri leaders are feeling insecure in India, they can go to Pakistan and China, he added. "We had acceded to a liberal, democratic, secular India. Let me tell them we are not comfortable, we are incompatible with today's India where minorities and Dalits are not safe and where they tried to disrespect us by looting our dignity," she said. Referring to the Centre's move to abrogate Article 370 on August 5 last year, Raina said no decision taken by the government can be reversed. He said Article 370 gave rise to separatism, terrorism and was instrumental in killings of thousands of people. "As the government has permanently scrapped Article 370, no power on earth can restore it. No power on earth can hoist any flag other than the national flag in J-K," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-demands-arrest-of-mehbooba-mufti-for-seditious-remarks-906283.html
24-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi's air quality continues to be 'very poor', expected to get worse||Delhi's air quality remained in the "very poor" category on Saturday with the Air Quality Index (AQI) recorded at 346. Government agencies said the air quality will deteriorate further in the evening and on Sunday. Areas like Mundka, Wazirpur and Alipur recorded "severe" levels of air pollution, authorities said. Government agencies have forecast that the air quality will deteriorate further in the next two days. The AQI was recorded at 366 on Friday while it was 302 the previous day.  An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". The Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) said a significant increase in the stubble-fire count was observed around Haryana, Punjab and other neighbouring regions of the national capital, which stood at 1,213 on Thursday. Ten monitoring stations in Delhi entered the "severe" zone on Friday, according to the AQI-monitoring mobile application SAMEER, developed by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). According to SAFAR, extremely calm surface wind conditions prevail over the Delhi region and are forecast to continue for two days. "This will lead to low ventilation conditions for an extended period and accumulation of pollutants near the surface. Further deterioration of AQI is expected for two days," it said. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the air quality will deteriorate further with pollutants PM10 (particles with a less-than-10-micrometre diameter) and PM2.5 increasing. PM2.5 are tiny particulate matter less than 2.5 microns in diameter and can enter deep into the lungs and even the bloodstream. The 24-hour average AQI of Delhi was recorded at 256 on Wednesday, 223 on Tuesday and 244 the day before. The figures are based on data collected from 36 monitoring stations in the city. The Delhi government has kick-started its "Red Light On, Gaadi Off" anti-pollution campaign for which it has deployed 2,500 environment marshals at 100 traffic signals across the city to generate awareness and curb vehicular pollution. The drive will be carried out in all 70 Assembly constituencies of the national capital from October 26 to November 15 from 8 am to 8 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-air-quality-continues-to-be-very-poor-expected-to-get-worse-906346.html
24-10-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir LG extends Mahanavami, Dussehra greetings; prays for peace, prosperity and development||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor (LG) Manoj Sinha extended his warm greetings on the occasion of Mahanavami and Dussehra festivals to the people of the Union Territory on Saturday. In his message, Sinha prayed for peace, prosperity and development in Jammu and Kashmir. "Mahanavami marks the end of the nine-day Navratri festival and the devotees are filled with renewed energy and enthusiasm in their lives. I pray that with the divine blessings, may we all steer ahead the task of overhauling Jammu and Kashmir for our future generations," the LG said. Highlighting the significance of Dussehra, he said it marks the victory of good over evil. "The day gives us hope that the most powerful woes could be defeated with determination and a positive outlook. May we all achieve victory over evils, both internal as well as worldly, and move towards a better world," Sinha said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-lg-extends-mahanavami-dussehra-greetings-prays-for-peace-prosperity-and-development-906351.html
24-10-2020||North and Central||Surveillance drone shot down by Army along LoC in north Kashmir||A surveillance drone of Chinese make was on Saturday shot down by Army troops shortly after it crossed into this side of the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's Kupwara district, officials said. The DJI Mavic 2 Pro drone, fitted with cameras, was spotted hovering in air by the alert troops in Keran sector and subsequently shot down, the officials said. They said the drone was seized and further investigation is on. There has been a spurt in the use of drones from Pakistani side over the past few months to smuggle arms and narcotics. Earlier in June, an attempt to drop weapons through drone was scuttled by BSF personnel when they shot down a Hexa-copter with a payload of five-and-a-half kgs including a sophisticated US-made M4 semi-automatic carbine and seven Chinese grenades along the International border in Kathua district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/surveillance-drone-shot-down-by-army-along-loc-in-north-kashmir-906368.html
24-10-2020||North and Central||Gangsters Act invoked against 30 arrested aides of Vikas Dubey||More than three months since the Bikru village ambush, in which eight policemen including a deputy SP were killed, the Kanpur police has invoked the Gangsters Act against 30 of slain gangster Vikas Dubey's aides arrested in connection with the case. Kanpur's Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Police Preetinder Singh said on Saturday that the Gangsters Act has been slapped against the 30 accused. A separate FIR under the relevant sections of the Gangsters Act has been lodged against the jailed accused, the DIG added. The investigation has been handed over to Station House Officer (Billhaur) PN Bajpai, who has been asked to probe the case properly. Earlier this month, a chargesheet in the Bikru ambush case was submitted in the court concerned. Eight policemen, including Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Devendra Mishra, were ambushed in Bikru when they were going to arrest Dubey, a dreaded gangster, and fell to bullets fired from rooftops shortly after midnight on July 3. Under the Gangsters Act, a district magistrate can order attachment of a property, whether movable or immovable, if there is a reason to believe that it was acquired by a gangster as commission for an offence triable under the Act, the DIG said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gangsters-act-invoked-against-30-arrested-aides-of-vikas-dubey-906394.html
24-10-2020||North and Central||Ballia firing: FIR lodged against other faction, deceased's name also included||Acting on court directives, an FIR was lodged on Saturday against the other faction involved in the firing incident during allotment of ration shops in Durjanpur village here, police said. The FIR was registered against 21 named people and 30 others on a complaint filed by Asha Pratap, sister-in-law of the main accused Dhirendra Pratap Singh, they said. BJP leader Dhirendra Pratap Singh was arrested for allegedly shooting dead Jai Prakash Pal Gama (46) following a quarrel over the allotment of ration shops at Durjanpur village in Ballia's Reoti area on October 15. Senior administration and police officials were also present at the meeting when the incident took place. A court in Ballia had on Friday ordered registration of an FIR against the other side involved in the clash. "Acting on the court orders, an FIR was registered against the other side involved in the incident. The name of the deceased Jai Prakash Pal also figures in the FIR," a police official said. Pravin Singh, SHO, Reoti said after hearing the plea of Asha Pratap Singh, Additional Civil Judge Avinash Kumar Singh had on Friday ordered lodging of the 0FIR. Asha Pratap Singh had alleged that after "cancellation of the meeting" on October 15, a group of people attacked villagers, in which Dhirendra Pratap Singh and seven others were injured. She had accused 21 (identified) people, including Jai Prakash Pal who died in the firing, and 25-30 unidentified people for their involvement in the clash. "The FIR has been lodged under IPC sections 147 (Punishment for rioting), 148 (Rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 307 (attempt to murder), 308 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) and the Criminal Law Amendment Act among others," the SHO said. The police had recovered the weapon used in the crime on Friday and said the accused BJP leader revealed during investigation that he had hid it under a tree near his house after the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ballia-firing-fir-lodged-against-other-faction-deceaseds-name-also-included-906397.html
24-10-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: DRG jawan killed, another hurt in face-off with Naxals||A District Reserve Guard (DRG) jawan was killed and another injured in a gunfight with Naxals in Chhattisgarh's Narayanpur district on Saturday, police said. The skirmish took place around 10 am near Tadur village under Orchha police station limits, where a team from the DRG was out on a counter-insurgency operation, Narayanpur Superintendent of Police Mohit Garg said. A group of ultras ambushed the patrolling team when it was on its way back after the operation, which led to the gun-battle between the two sides, he said. As the security personnel started zeroing on them, the ultras escaped from the scene, he said. "DRG personnel Santu Vadde was killed in the gunfight, while constable Bajju Ram Kachlam sustained minor injuries," Garg said. The deceased jawan and the injured personnel were evacuated to Narayanpur and shifted to a hospital there, he said. "Bloodstains at the spot indicate that some Naxals were also injured in the face-off," the SP said, adding that search operation was still underway in the area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-drg-jawan-killed-another-hurt-in-face-off-with-naxals-906400.html
24-10-2020||North and Central||16-year-old girl objects to harassment, shot dead in Uttar Pradesh||Notwithstanding the claims by the state government, crimes against women in Uttar Pradesh show no signs of abating. A 16-year old girl was shot dead in UP's Firozabad district allegedly after she protested against her 'molestation' by three youths. According to the police sources here, the youths barged into the house of the victim, who studied in 12th standard at a local school, in Prem Nagar area in the district late on Friday night and shot her dead. ''One of the youths, who carried a pistol, shot my daughter in the head killing her on the spot,'' the father of the victim said. He said that her daughter had protested and threatened to lodge a complaint to the police, when the youths, who also hailed from the same locality, passed lewd comments on her while she was on her way back home from her school on Friday. A named FIR was registered against the three youths and a hunt was launched to nab them, police said. ''We have formed three teams to nab the accused persons,'' said a senior police official in Firozabad. The incidence of crimes against women has risen sharply in the state in the past few months triggering widespread outrage of criticism of the BJP government. The incident comes close on the heels of alleged 'gangrape' and brutal murder of a woman in Hathras.  The opposition parties slammed the BJP government in the state and said that the law and order situation had turned for the worse and that 'jungle raj' prevailed in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/16-year-old-girl-objects-to-harassment-shot-dead-in-uttar-pradesh-906412.html
24-10-2020||North and Central||2 get life term for firing at police team during raid in Uttar Pradesh||A court here sent two men to seven years' imprisonment for opening fire at a police team during a raid at an illegal arms manufacturing unit two years ago. Additional District Sessions judge Radhey Shyam Yadav also imposed a fine of Rs 20,000 each on Ustakeem and Rahisuddin. According to prosecution, the convicts opened fire at a police team during a raid in an illegal arms manufacturing unit here in 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-get-life-term-for-firing-at-police-team-during-raid-in-uttar-pradesh-906415.html
24-10-2020||North and Central||Caught on camera: UP BJP chief showers flower petals on Bairia MLA||Uttar Pradesh BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh has been caught on camera showering flower petals on the party's Bairia MLA Surendra Singh, days after serving him a notice for his statements supporting the main accused in the firing incident at Durjanpur village here. The video which went viral on Saturday shows Swatantra Dev Singh participating in a 'bhumi pujan' programme of a Krishna temple at Kathauda village in Sikanderpur area. Both the leaders are seen sitting side by side in the footage. The state BJP chief is seen showering flower petals on Surendra Singh, who acknowledges it with folded hands. On being asked about the video, BJP's Salempur MP Ravindra Kushwaha, who was also present at the event on Friday, told reporters that only Swatantra Dev Singh can elaborate on his actions. Earlier this week, the state unit of the BJP had issued a show-cause notice to MLA Surendra Singh for issuing statements in support of Dhirendra Pratap Singh, a local party leader who has been arrested for allegedly killing a man. The legislator was given a week's time to respond to the notice. Surendra Singh had come out in open support of Dhirendra Pratap Singh, who allegedly shot dead a 46-year-old man in Ballia's Durjanpur village following a quarrel over the allotment of ration shops on October 15. The Bairia MLA had defended the accused, saying that the latter “opened fire in self-defence” as “it was a do-or-die situation for him”. He had also accused the administration of bias and demanded that action be taken against the other side. Meanwhile, Swatantra Dev had said that BJP national president J P Nadda had sought information about the matter. Despite being served a notice, the Bairia MLA continued to extend his support to Dhirendra Singh, who is said to be the district unit president of the BJP ex-servicemen cell. The MLA had also recently claimed that he met senior BJP leaders in the past few days and that everyone backed him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/caught-on-camera-up-bjp-chief-showers-flower-petals-on-bairia-mla-906426.html
24-10-2020||North and Central||NEET result: Student kills self after getting 6 marks; OMR sheet later shows she scored 590||An 18-year-old student in Chhindwara, Madhya Pradesh, committed suicide after her NEET results showed that she had scored merely six marks. However, her OMR sheet later reportedly revealed that she had scored 590 marks. The student's body was sent for post-mortem and later a funeral was organised. According to reports, Suryavanshi wanted to study medicine and become a doctor. She had also studied hard during the coroanvirus lockdown aiming for a good score in the competitive exam.  The results of medical entrance exam NEET were released last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/neet-result-student-kills-self-after-getting-6-marks-omr-sheet-later-shows-she-scored-590-906435.html
24-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal inaugurates Seelampur, Shastri Park flyovers||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal threw open the much-awaited flyovers at Seelampur and Shastri Park for the public in northeast Delhi on Saturday and said the AAP government is ensuring the best facilities for the people of the city by saving money in every project. He said the distance between ISBT and UP border can now be covered in 10 minutes. Addressing a gathering at an event here, Kejriwal said his government has saved Rs 53 crore on the project by building the two flyovers at a cost of Rs 250 crore against the sanctioned amount of Rs 303 crore. The chief minister claimed that when a hospital is built in any part of the country, there is an expenditure of Rs 1.5 crore per bed but the AAP government has been saving money in every project. "In Delhi, we built an air-conditioned hospital having all facilities with an expenditure of only Rs 30 lakh per bed... Since the AAP has come to power, we have been saving money in every project. "Through the saved money, we have made medicines, water and electricity free, and are also building the best schools. We are providing facilities to the people of Delhi by saving money in projects," he said. The chief minister said the people living in the area will benefit from the new flyovers. No previous governments or any former chief ministers paid heed to the issues of the people of East Delhi and they were given "stepmotherly treatment", Kejriwal alleged. PWD Minister Satyendar Jain said the government will construct children's parks under the flyovers. The government said that Shastri Park flyover has six lanes. The construction of the new flyover will bring relief to around 1.5 lakh vehicles which seem to travel through the route daily, a statement stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-chief-minister-arvind-kejriwal-inaugurates-seelampur-shastri-park-flyovers-906444.html
24-10-2020||North and Central||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh launches phase 2 of Urban Environment Improvement Programme||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday virtually launched phase two of the Rs 11,000 crore Urban Environment Improvement Programme (UEIP). Singh expressed confidence that the UEIP scheme, of which Rs 3,000 crore worth had been completed in the first phase, would help the state make significant improvement in the infrastructure of the cities and lives of people. The programme would enable the development of state-of-the-art urban infrastructure and efficient service delivery systems to the urban population of Punjab, thus making urbanisation impactful, he said in a statement here. Connected digitally to over 45,000 people at 940 locations, the chief minister pointed out that the state government had succeeded in securing finances for these projects, amid the Covid-19 pandemic, despite the acute financial crunch. Among the key projects, the CM cited canal-based water supply in the four big cities of Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Patiala, with work in Jalandhar being launched on Saturday and the foundation stone for Patiala to be laid on Sunday. The government was also close to allocating work for cleaning of 'Budha Nullah' in Ludhiana, with the operations expected to commence in a month's time, he added. Noting that around 40 per cent of Punjab's population lives in cities, which are generally regarded as engines of growth, Singh said the projects were in line with the various steps being taken by his government for the welfare of people residing in the cities. Pointing out that water supply and sewerage works are already in progress, at a total cost of Rs 4,000 crore, in many towns of Punjab, he said that of 103 towns, water supply works had been completed in 49 towns and works in remaining towns would be completed by next year. For sewerage facilities, of 116 towns, works had been completed in 51 towns, and would be completed next year in the remaining. The chief minister also announced a one-time settlement (OTS) scheme for pending VAT (value added tax) assessments to promote economic activity in urban areas. He said the department of excise and taxation would soon notify the scheme, which his government had decided to initiate in view of the concern of businesses that issues related to their VAT assessments and grievances had not been redressed speedily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-launches-phase-2-of-urban-environment-improvement-programme-906445.html
24-10-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh High Court seeks list of pending cases against former, sitting MPs, MLAs||The Madhya Pradesh High Court here has directed its registry to furnish a list of pending criminal cases against former and sitting MPs and MLAs in the state within two weeks. A division bench of acting Chief Justice Sanjay Yadav and Justice Sujoy Paul gave this direction on Friday. Assistant Solicitor General J K Jain said the HC asked its registry provide within two weeks a list of pending criminal cases of MPs/MLAs, particularly those in which a stay was granted. The direction was issued during the hearing of a suo motu petition registered in compliance with the Supreme Court order of September 16, he said. The apex court had asked the states to monitor the progress of trials of pending criminal cases against former and sitting MPs and MLAs. The Supreme Court's direction has come on a petition of Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay and others vs Union of India and others, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-high-court-seeks-list-of-pending-cases-against-former-sitting-mps-mlas-906454.html
24-10-2020||North and Central||Conspiracies of 'Gupkar Gang' will not be tolerated: J&K BJP chief||Jammu and Kashmir BJP chief Ravinder Raina on Saturday said "conspiracies of the Gupkar Gang" would not be tolerated and anyone challenging the unity and integrity of the country would be jailed. He also announced to celebrate October 26 as 'accession day' to send a clear message that Jammu and Kashmir is an integral part of India. Hitting out at PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, the BJP leader said those feeling troubled and insecure in India should go to Pakistan as J&K is not their fiefdom, while asserting that no power on earth can restore Article 370 and the flag of the erstwhile state. “This time we have Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah and those conspiring against the country will not be forgiven. We will give our blood and our lives for our motherland and the tricolour,” Raina, holding the national flag in his hand, told reporters here. Responding to the PDP chief's statement that she would only hold the tricolour when the flag of the erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir is restored, the BJP leader said only the national flag will flutter in the Union territory. Referring to the National Conference and PDP leaders, he claimed that when they are in power, they praise India, but when out of power, they remember Pakistan and China. “They will not be allowed to take forward an anti-India agenda. Let them try, this Gupkar Gang is getting strengthened from six parties to 600, we will not allow them to fulfil their dreams. They are a bunch of power hungry people and the people of Jammu and Kashmir know them very well...," Raina alleged. "What if Mehbooba does not hold the tricolour in her hand, there are crores of people in Jammu and Kashmir who love and respect the national flag from the core of their hearts," he said, adding that his party will celebrate the 'accession day' on October 26 by hoisting tricolour and taking out rallies to send a strong message. “We will celebrate October 26, the day when Maharaja Hari Singh signed the instrument of accession, as 'Villai Diwas' like Diwali and freedom celebration," the BJP leader asserted. “... any leader who is found conspiring against the country will pay a heavy price. They cannot save themselves and Tihar jail is waiting for them," he added. Hardening her stand on the restoration of special status for Jammu and Kashmir, Mehbooba Mufti had on Friday said she was not interested in contesting elections or holding the national tricolour till the constitutional changes enforced on August 5 last year were rolled back. In her first media interaction after her release from 14-month detention, the PDP president said she would hold the tricolour only when the separate flag of the erstwhile state would be restored. Mainstream political parties in Kashmir, including NC and PDP, had formed the People's alliance for the Gupkar Declaration this month for restoration of the special status of the erstwhile state as it existed before August 5 last year and also to initiate a dialogue between all stakeholders on the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/conspiracies-of-gupkar-gang-will-not-be-tolerated-jk-bjp-chief-906460.html
24-10-2020||North and Central||We are anti-BJP, we are not anti-national, says NC President Farooq Abdullah after PAGD meet||National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah on Saturday said the Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), which is fighting for restoration of special status to Jammu and Kashmir, is an anti-BJP platform but not an anti-national amalgam. "I want to tell you that this false propaganda by the BJP that the PAGD is anti-national. I want to tell them that this is not true. There is no doubt that it is anti-BJP but it is not anti-national," he told reporters here. The Lok Sabha member from Srinagar was elected chairman of the PAGD after the first meeting of the amalgam at the residence of PDP president Mehbooba Mufti. Abdullah said the BJP has tried to break the federal structure through acts like the abrogation of Article 370 and dividing Jammu and Kashmir into two union territories. "They have tried to destroy the constitution of the country, they have tried to divide the nation, to break the federal structure which we saw what they did on August 5 last year,” the NC president said. "I want to tell them that this (PAGD) is not an anti-national jamaat. Our aim is that people of Jammu Kashmir, and Ladakh should get their rights back. That's where our battle is, our battle is not for more than that," he said. Abdullah said the BJP was doing propaganda against the constituents of the PAGD in Jammu and elsewhere in the country. "They are trying to divide us (people of Jammu Kashmir and Ladakh) in the name of religion. This attempt will not succeed. This is not a religious battle, this is a fight for our identity and for that identity, we are standing together," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/we-are-anti-bjp-we-are-not-anti-national-says-nc-president-farooq-abdullah-after-pagd-meet-906463.html
24-10-2020||North and Central||Farooq Abdullah president, Mehbooba Mufti vice-president of People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration||Regional National Conference (NC) patron and former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir Farooq Abdullah was Saturday named as president of the recently-floated Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), formed to restore the special status of the erstwhile state. The decision was taken after a two-hour-long meeting of top leaders of the alliance held at PDP president Mehbooba Mufti’s Gupkar residence. Mehbooba was elected as the vice-chairperson, while CPI (M) leader Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami was elected as Convenor of the PAGD. Sajjad Lone of People’s Conference would be the spokesman for the amalgam. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Abdullah, who turned 84 earlier this week, said the alliance is an “anti-BJP platform” and not an anti-national amalgam. “The BJP has tried to divide people and are making attempts to break the federal structure of the country, but it won’t succeed. It is not a religious fight but the fight for the identity of the nation,” he said. Abdullah, who represents Srinagar Lok Sabha seat in the Parliament, said the PAGD is not an anti-national jamaat (organization). “Our aim is that the people of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh should get their rights back. That’s where our battle is. Our battle is not for more than that,” he said. Talking to the media persons, Sajad Lone said that during the meeting, it was decided the flag of erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir state will be the symbol of the group. “The next meeting of the group will be held in Jammu within two weeks,” he said. “The group has decided to come up with a document on lies being spread against people of Jammu and Kashmir. The white paper will be the tribute to the people of Jammu and Kashmir. It will compare the reality and false propaganda on the ground,” Lone added. He also announced that the group is going to hold a convention on November 17. Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee (JKPCC), which was earlier attending the meetings of the group, has quietly distanced itself from the alliance in the recent days. JKPCC president Ghulam Ahmad Mir, who was part of the meetings that took place before the formalisation of PAGD earlier this month, has skipped the last two meetings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farooq-abdullah-president-mehbooba-mufti-vice-president-of-people-s-alliance-for-gupkar-declaration-906464.html
24-10-2020||North and Central||Number of MBBS seats increases from 500 to 1,100 in GMCs of J&K||The number of MBBS seats in government medical colleges (GMCs) in Jammu and Kashmir has increased from 500 in 2018-19 to 1,100 seats for the current academic session 2020-21, an official spokesman said. In this regard, the health and medical education department has got a letter of permission (LoP) from the National Medical Commission (NMC) for the GMC Doda to admit 100 MBBS students for this academic session. GMCs in Anantnag and Baramulla have also got permission to admit their second batch of 100 students, he said. "It will produce an increased number of doctors to strengthen the healthcare setup in Jammu and Kashmir", Financial Commissioner, Health and Medical Education, Atal Dulloo said. The GMCs at Rajouri and Kathua have got permission for the second batch with an intake of 115 and 100 seats respectively. The total MBBS seats in J&K have now been enhanced from 500 (2018-19) to 1100 (2020-21) seats during the current academic session 2020-21, the spokesman said. The make-shift arrangement for admission of MBBS students in GMC Doda to accommodate the lecturer theatres, labs, dissection hall, library, museum, faculty rooms, administrative block have been completed and is fully equipped and furnished to start MBBS classes in the current academic year, he said. The main buildings of all the new GMCs are in various stages of completion and are expected to be ready for use in the next few months, he said. Pertinently, the addition of 115 MBBS students this year will make 1100 MBBS seats available in Medical Colleges of the Union Territory of Jammu & Kashmir for the aspirants of MBBS Course, which is a great achievement of the UT Government. He said that 50 per cent of these seats shall be made available to female aspirants as per the MBBS Admission Policy of the UT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/number-of-mbbs-seats-increases-from-500-to-1100-in-gmcs-of-jk-906465.html
24-10-2020||North and Central||J&K plans to provide 100% tap water connections to rural households under JJM by Dec 2022||Jammu and Kashmir is planning to achieve 100 per cent coverage of tap water connection to rural households by December 2022 under the Jal Jeevan Mission, the Jal Shakti Ministry said on Saturday. The Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir has 18.17 lakh households, out of which 8.38 lakhs (46 per cent) are already provided with tap water connections. The UT is allocated Rs 681.77 crore as central share under the JJM for this financial year, the ministry said. The UT is eligible for additional allocation based on physical and financial performance. "UT (of J&K) is planning 100 per cent coverage by December 2022 ahead of the national goal of 2023-24. By doing so, J&K will be a leading example to accomplish the ambitious target of providing tap connection to every rural home," the ministry said in a statement. A mid-year review of all states and UTs is being undertaken by the National Jal Jeevan Mission team, Ministry of Jal Shakti through video conferencing where states/UTs are presenting the status of the provision of tap water connection to rural households as well as the institutional mechanisms in place and the way forward to ensure universal coverage. Jammu and Kashmir also presented its progress on implementation of the JJM programme which aims to provide tap water connections to all rural households by 2024. Jammu and Kashmir has finalised the Village Action Plan (VAP) in respect of 4,038 villages. VAP comprises components such as source strengthening, water supply, grey water management and operation and maintenance. Stress was given on the constitution of Village Water and Sanitation Committees so that the local village community or gram panchayats or its sub-committee/ user groups be involved in planning, implementation, management, operation and maintenance of water supply systems in villages to ensure long-term sustainability of water supply systems to achieve drinking water security in rural areas, the statement said. The UT was asked to organise training for capacity building of gram panchayat functionaries as well as other stakeholders and also to focus on skill development training in villages to create a pool of trained human resources at village level, which will be helpful in implementation as well O&M of water supply systems, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-plans-to-provide-100-tap-water-connections-to-rural-households-under-jjm-by-dec-2022-906476.html
24-10-2020||North and Central||Guinea's Alpha Conde wins presidency with 59.5% of vote||Guinea's President Alpha Conde won the October 18 election with 59.5 per cent of the vote, according to a full preliminary tally from the election commission on Saturday. The victory, which requires confirmation by the Constitutional Court, gives a third term in office to the 82-year-old Conde after a bitterly fought election in which the opposition said he had no right to participate. Conde says a constitutional referendum in March reset his two-term limit, but opponents say he is breaking the law by holding onto power. Results were announced in batches in recent days, and already showed Conde with an unassailable lead, sparking street protests in opposition strongholds in which at least 17 died. Opposition candidate Cellou Dalein Diallo, Conde's nearest rival with 33.5 per cent of the vote, said he has evidence of fraud and plans to file a complaint with the constitutional court. Under the law, complaints must be filed within eight days of the preliminary results. Conde, a former opposition leader who was sentenced to death in 1970 by Marxist President Sekou Toure, finally won the top job in 2010. His election raised hopes for democratic progress but critics say he has stifled dissent. Diallo, 68, is a former prime minister who also finished runner-up to Conde in the 2010 and 2015 elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/guineas-alpha-conde-wins-presidency-with-595-of-vote-906479.html
24-10-2020||North and Central||Man rapes three-year-old neighbour in Madhya Pradesh's Gwalior||A three-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her neighbour in Madhya Pradesh's Gwalior city, police said on Saturday. The minor was playing at a Durga pandal in Sewa Nagar locality on Friday night, when the accused, an autorickshaw driver, lured her by offering her a ride, city superintendent of police (CSP) Nagendra Singh Sikarwar said. The accused allegedly raped the minor in his autorickshaw and later left her at the pandal and fled, the official said. When the victim subsequently reached home, her family saw her condition and informed the police, Sikarwar said, adding that the girl was taken to a hospital, where doctors confirmed the assault. Following the incident, security has been beefed up in the area and a hunt has been launched for the absconding accused, who already has two criminal cases to his name, the CSP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-rapes-three-year-old-neighbour-in-madhya-pradeshs-gwalior-906485.html
24-10-2020||North and Central||Delhi's air quality continues to be 'very poor', likely to improve on October 26||Delhi's air quality remained in the 'very poor' category on Saturday with the Air Quality Index (AQI) recorded at 347. The Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), said that some locations entered 'severe' zone but that will be short lived as winds are expected to increase slightly. Some areas like Mundka, Wazirpur and Alipur recorded 'severe' levels of air pollution, authorities said. It said the air quality could improve on October 26. "The overall Delhi's Air Quality Index (AQI) is in the very poor category with few Delhi locations entering at higher zone but that will be short lived. This is mainly because the extremely calm local surface winds which were prevailing yesterday are likely to increase slightly and may further pick-up by Oct 26," SAFAR said. It also said the AQI is predicted to continue to remain in 'very poor' category but without further deterioration.  "Slow improvement in the current condition is expected by October 26 leading to a middle range of very poor," it said. SAFAR synergized stubble fire counts stood at 1,292 on Friday and its share in Delhi's pollution was nine per cent.  "The boundary layer wind direction is westerly and wind speed is low. Hence, pollutant transport towards the Delhi region will remain low. The SAFAR model estimate of stubble burning share in PM2.5 is 9 per cent for today," it said.  The air quality index (AQI) on Friday was recorded 366 while it was 302 on the previous day.  An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. A significant increase in stubble fire count was observed around Haryana, Punjab, and neighbouring regions on Thursday which stood at 1,213. Ten monitoring stations in Delhi entered the 'severe' zone on Friday according to the AQI monitoring mobile application SAMEER, developed by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).      PM 2.5 are tiny particulate matter less than 2.5 microns in diameter and can enter deep into the lungs and even the bloodstream. The stubble fire count for Wednesday was 1,428. The 24-hour average Delhi's AQI was recorded at 256 on Wednesday, 223 on Tuesday and 244 the day before. The figures are based on data collected from 36 monitoring stations in the city. The Delhi government has kick-started its 'Red Light On, Gaadi Off' anti-pollution campaign for which it has deployed 2,500 environment marshals at 100 traffic signals across the city to generate awareness and curb vehicular pollution. The drive will be implemented in all 70 assembly constituencies from October 26 and will go on till November 15 from 8 am to 8 pm. It is an awareness drive by the Delhi government and no person will be issued challans, the government has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-air-quality-continues-to-be-very-poor-likely-to-improve-on-october-26-906494.html
24-10-2020||North and Central||Schools not opening for now in Delhi: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday ruled out reopening of schools in the national capital for now. "Schools are not reopening for now," Kejriwal told reporters on sidelines of an event. The government had earlier announced that schools will continue to remain closed till October 31 in view of Covid-19 pandemic. Universities and schools across the country have been closed since March 16, when the Centre announced a countrywide classroom shutdown as part of the measures to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. A nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25.  While several restrictions have been eased in different phases of "unlock", educational institutions continue to remain closed. However, as per "unlock" phase guidelines, states can take a call about reopening schools in phases. Earlier, schools were allowed to call students from class 9 to 12 to school on voluntary basis from September 21. However, the Delhi government decided against it. Talking about AAP government's decision to not pay for CBSE examination fees this year, Kejriwal cited fund crunch due to the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/schools-not-opening-for-now-in-delhi-arvind-kejriwal-906495.html
24-10-2020||North and Central||Hathras case: Wife of Uttar Pradesh police officer, part of SIT probe, dies of suicide||The wife of a senior Uttar Pradesh police officer, who was part of the SIT set up by the state government to probe the Hathras murder-gangrape case, allegedly committed suicide at their home here on Saturday, police said. Pushpa Devi (36) was found hanging from a ceiling fan at her home. She is the wife of Chandra Prakash, DIG of Police Training Centre, Unnao, they said. Prakash was part of the three-member Special Investigation Team (SIT) set up to probe the murder and alleged gang-rape of a 19-year-old woman in Hathras last month. Pushpa Devi, wife of DIG Chandra Prakash, died by suicide, at their residence in Sushant Golf City in Lucknow, Joint Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Naveen Arora said. No suicide note has been found and an investigation is underway, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hathras-case-wife-of-uttar-pradesh-police-officer-part-of-sit-probe-dies-of-suicide-906503.html
24-10-2020||North and Central||Farooq Abdullah president, Mehbooba VP of People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration||Regional National Conference (NC) patron and former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir Farooq Abdullah was on Saturday named as the president of the recently-floated Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), formed to restore the special status of the erstwhile state. The decision was taken after a two-hour-long meeting of top leaders of the alliance held at PDP president Mehbooba Mufti’s Gupkar residence. Mehbooba was elected as the vice-chairperson while CPI(M) leader Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami was elected as Convenor of the PAGD. Sajjad Lone of People’s Conference would be the spokesman for the amalgam. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Abdullah, who turned 84 earlier this week, said the alliance is an “anti-BJP platform” and not an anti-national amalgam. “The BJP has tried to divide people and is making attempts to break the federal structure of the country, but it won’t succeed. It is not a religious fight but the fight for the identity of the nation,” he said. Abdullah, who represents Srinagar Lok Sabha seat in the Parliament, said the PAGD is not an anti-national jamaat (organisation).  “Our aim is that the people of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh should get their rights back. That’s where our battle is. Our battle is not for more than that,” he said. Talking to the media persons, Sajad Lone said during the meeting, it was decided the flag of erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir State will be the symbol of the group. “The next meeting of the group will be held in Jammu within two weeks,” he said.  “The group has decided to come up with a document on lies being spread against people of Jammu and Kashmir. The white paper will be a tribute to the people of Jammu and Kashmir. It will compare the reality and false propaganda on the ground,” Lone added.  He also announced that the group is going to hold a convention on November 17.  The Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee (JKPCC), which was earlier attending the meetings of the group, has quietly distanced itself from the alliance in recent days.  JKPCC president Ghulam Ahmad Mir, who was part of the meetings that took place before the formalisation of PAGD earlier this month, has skipped the last two meetings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farooq-abdullah-president-mehbooba-vp-of-people-s-alliance-for-gupkar-declaration-906513.html
24-10-2020||North and Central||AAP workers detained on way to gherao BJP office||Several Punjab AAP leaders and volunteers were detained by the Chandigarh Police while on their way to lay siege to the BJP office in Sector 37 here on Saturday. They were protesting against the statement of national BJP president J P Nadda, who on Thursday said middlemen and not farmers are behind the agitation against the Centre’s farm laws in Punjab. The Chandigarh Police used a water cannon to disperse the protesters, led by Aam Aadmi Party's Barnala MLA Meet Hayer. The police had put up barricades to stop AAP workers and leaders. “We came here to gherao the BJP office,” said Hayer while demanding that the BJP should seek apology for “calling farmers as middlemen”. Hayer claimed that police detained over 40 party leaders and volunteers. Hayer also urged Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to ensure guaranteed procurement of all crops at the minimum support price by bringing own laws to protect interests of the farming community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-workers-detained-on-way-to-gherao-bjp-office-906526.html
24-10-2020||North and Central||J&K: Pakistan violates ceasefire in 3 sectors along LoC, IB||Pakistani troops violated the ceasefire by resorting to unprovoked firing and mortar shelling in three sectors along the Line of Control (LoC) and the International Border (IB) in Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Saturday. The Indian Army and the Border Security Force (BSF) retaliated effectively, they said. "At about 6.30 pm (on Saturday), Pakistan initiated an unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and shelling mortars along the LoC in the Degwar sector in Poonch district,” a defence spokesman said. He said the Indian Army retaliated befittingly and the cross-border shelling between the two sides was going on when last reports were received. Pakistani Rangers also fired on forward posts and villages in Rajpurian in the Ghagwal sector of Samba district and Faqeera and Manyari in the Hiranagar sector along the IB in Kathua district, a police official said. He said firing from across the border in Rajpurian started around 2 am. The exchange of fire between Pakistani Rangers and the BSF continued till 3.45 am, the spokesman said. In Kathua district, Pakistani Rangers resorted to firing around 10.30 pm on Friday which continued till 4.30 am, he said. However, there was no report of any casualty on the Indian side in the firing from across the border, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-pakistan-violates-ceasefire-in-3-sectors-along-loc-ib-906536.html
24-10-2020||North and Central||15-year-old girl thrown off terrace by three men for objecting to harassment in Uttar Pradesh||A 15-year-old girl was seriously injured after she was allegedly thrown off from the terrace of a building by three men for objecting to harassment by them, police said on Saturday. According to police, the girl and the accused persons belonged to the same locality. The incident took place when she was returning home on Friday. Shakeel, Junaid and their one more friend forcibly took the girl to the terrace of the building and threw her off the roof after she objected to harassment by them, police said. The minor told police that she was also beaten up by the accused persons. The girl, who has suffered serious injuries, has been admitted to a hospital in Azamgarh, Mau SP Sushil Dhule said. The SP said a case has been registered on the basis of a complaint lodged by the girl's family and the three men have been arrested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/15-year-old-girl-thrown-off-terrace-by-three-men-for-objecting-to-harassment-in-uttar-pradesh-906541.html
24-10-2020||North and Central||25 injured as tractor trolley overturns in UP's Banda||Twenty-five people were injured after the tractor-trolley in which they were travelling overturned here on Saturday when the driver was trying to avoid hitting another vehicle, police said. The injured were part of a group of 35-40 people who were returning from a visit to a temple, they said. The speeding tractor-trolley overturned in front of the Government Medical College here while the driver was trying to avoid hitting another vehicle, said SHO, City Kotwali, Dinesh Singh. He said the injured have been admitted to the Government Medical College hospital. The condition of 15 of them is stated to be serious. Singh said 35 to 40 people were travelling in the tractor trolley at the time of the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/25-injured-as-tractor-trolley-overturns-in-ups-banda-906548.html
24-10-2020||North and Central||TRP manipulation case: News Broadcasters Association urges govt to withdraw CBI probe||The News Broadcasters Association on Saturday urged the government to immediately withdraw the CBI probe into alleged manipulation of Television Rating Points (TRP), saying the speed with which the investigation was transferred to the central agency overnight raises doubts about intentions. In a statement, the News Broadcasters Association (NBA) expressed serious concern at "the open-ended FIR registered by the Uttar Pradesh Police against the media for alleged TRP manipulation". "The speed with which the case was transferred to CBI overnight raises doubts about the intentions. A complaint filed against unknown persons by an individual who has no locus standi may lead to a witch-hunt against the media, its advertisers and advertising agencies," said the NBA. "We sincerely urge the government to immediately withdraw the case referred to CBI," said the news media body, which is headed by Rajat Sharma. The NBA statement comes days after the CBI had registered an FIR into alleged manipulation of Television Rating Points (TRP) on the basis of a reference from the Uttar Pradesh Police. The case, which was earlier registered at a police station in Lucknow on a complaint of an advertising company promoter, was handed over to the CBI by the Uttar Pradesh government, officials had said. In its statement, the NBA also said that it is very disturbed at the turn of events in Mumbai as the "clash between Republic TV and Mumbai police is posing a threat to the credibility and respect of two great institutions, the media and the police". "We are deeply concerned that journalists working in the newsroom have become victims of this unfortunate conflict," the NBA said. "We do not approve of the kind of journalism that is being practised by Republic TV. And even though Republic TV is not a member of NBA and does not subscribe to our Code, we still take strong exception to cases filed against its editorial staff," it said. The NBA said it stands for the freedom of speech and expression of the media as enshrined in the Constitution of India. "At the same time, we endorse the practice of ethics in journalism and put fair and balanced reporting at the core of what we report upon," it said. The NBA said it reprehends any attempt to target journalists doing their work in newsrooms but, on the other hand, it disapproves of any "vengeful reporting by media". "We condemn the reporting of baseless stories which subverts and interferes with the functioning of the law enforcement agencies," the news channels body said. It appealed to the Mumbai Police to ensure that no journalists are made victims of this crossfire. "We also appeal to journalists working with Republic TV not to cross the 'Lakshman rekha' as clearly observed by the Bombay High Court," the NBA said. It also reiterated that it does not support toxic content and unethical journalism. "News broadcasters are governed by the independent regulatory body, NBSA, headed by (Retd.) Justice A.K. Sikri. NBSA over the years has played an extremely important role in being a watchdog by monitoring the content of news channels," the statement said. It has acted against well known national and regional broadcasters by levelling fines, apologies and warnings in several matters including the coverage of the death of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, the NBA, which is a premier association of private news and current affairs broadcasters, said. "We appeal that non-member broadcasters be requested to follow the Code of Ethics and Guidelines of NBSA," it said. On the alleged TRP scam, the NBA said the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) has a mechanism to deal with such cases. "An internal competent body headed by (Retd.) Justice Mukul Mudgal is capable and empowered to look into cases related to TRP data tampering. All cases related to TRP manipulation should be transferred to this authority," the statement said. TRP or Television Rating Points of a channel or programme are used to measure popularity by advertising agencies which affect pricing. The points are calculated in India by Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) using a device installed in over 45,000 households across the country called "Bar-O-Meter". The device collects data about a programme or channel watched by members of these households on the basis of which weekly ratings are issued by BARC. Recently, the Mumbai Police had registered a case of TRP manipulation following which the ratings were temporarily suspended by BARC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/trp-manipulation-case-news-broadcasters-association-urges-govt-to-withdraw-cbi-probe-906560.html
24-10-2020||Opinion||An affair of mediocrity and myopia: All the issues not important for the final US presidential debate||Among the words or phrases that were never spoken in the two presidential debates were: Syria, human rights, drones, democracy, inequality, dictatorship, Israel, Palestine, Middle East, United Nations, World Health Organization, Guantánamo, European Union, Britain, Brexit, France, Italy, Hong Kong, Africa (or any single African state), South America, terrorism, multilateral, authoritarianism, alliance. That’s a pretty good measure of the shrinking of the American mind. President Donald Trump never mentioned Afghanistan, where the United States lost more than 2,400 lives and spent some $2 trillion over the past two decades. Joe Biden did, once. One of the characteristics of a nightmare is that it is all-consuming. Everything beyond it fades into the murk. Trump, in an extraordinary sustained broadcast of his self-obsession, has managed to corral the world into the shadow of an orange colossus. Yes, Trump was more civil in the second debate, and Biden, ahead in the polls, did himself no harm. Still, it was an affair of stunning mediocrity and myopia. Let’s just posit for a moment that the rise of China, the assertiveness of Vladimir Putin’s Russia, the resurgence of dictatorships, the fragility of democracies, the challenges of population growth in Africa, the pandemic’s exposure of a global leadership vacuum, rising inequality in Western societies, the frozen inadequacy of the United Nations, social fracture, the spread of the surveillance state, and the hate-multiplying impact of social media platforms may be pivotal issues of the coming decade. What did we hear on these themes? Essentially nothing. TV commentators went through their thing, opining on the significance of Biden looking at his watch, the importance (or not) of gazing directly into the camera, the punch Trump landed (or not) on Hunter Biden. I did not hear any laments on all that Trump’s America, in its America-first inward turn, has relegated to oblivion. Oh, yes, Syria, where some 80% of the survivors of a civil war that left more than 400,000 people dead now live in poverty and 40% of people are unemployed. Oh, yes, Hong Kong, and Belarus, where brave protesters have been battling for democracy in struggles that would once have engaged the American imagination. Oh, yes, the Middle East, where so much American treasure and such sustained American diplomacy have been deployed in the pursuit of an Israeli-Palestinian peace, and so many American and Iraqi lives were lost not so long ago in Iraq. Gone, baby, gone. The shrinking of the American mind involves a kind of numbness. It has become difficult to think or see beyond the noise emanating from the White House. Indignation fatigue has set in. There he goes again. That plaintive whining voice. Without respect for truth, without respect for science, what debate can there be? In the end, the debates amounted to a portrait of the growing irrelevance to the rest of the world of an insular United States. Two men in their 70s showed an almost complete disregard for the I-want-to-help-change-the-world idealism of Generation Z. This was close to insulting. The exchanges were, on the whole, petty, petulant and predictable. In them, I saw the reflection of an American society in which constructive debate is near impossible. Trump has governed through fomenting division and violence. He has almost never risen to themes of reconciliation or outreach. As a result, American debate is reduced to rival tribes shrieking contempt for each other. These tribes forget that nobody ever had their mind changed by being made to feel stupid. It’s worth examining some of the debates’ vanished words for a moment. The protection of human rights must always be a crucial American mission. Democracy is still the best defence of human dignity and freedom. Inequality continues to grow, eating away at the social fabric of societies, compounding injustice, a word mentioned once by Biden in the first debate. Guantánamo remains a stain on America’s conscience. Young men and women in the American military are out in dangerous far-flung places fighting terrorism. The United Nations, the World Health Organization and the European Union are examples of multilateral organizations Trump’s United States has flouted to its cost. Britain and France are nuclear powers that are critical partners in an alliance (NATO) that has brought peace and stability to Europe. Africa, famously home to “shithole” countries for Trump, is where roughly two-thirds of population growth will occur between 2020 and 2050; its fate is also humanity’s. Speaking of the future, America, as it approaches its 250th anniversary this decade, is still a young country. It is not yet preposterous to believe that its best days lie ahead. It is still a land of striving, space, churn and reinvention where what binds people is greater than what separates them, if only a leader would seek to heal rather than hate. The essence of America is openness. History, geography, immigration and fate have established that. The shrinking of the American mind under Trump therefore amounts, for Americans, to a dangerous denial of themselves. Prolonged for another four years, in a second Trump term, it would negate the American idea, without which, at least for this immigrant, the United States, as conceived, with all its flaws, ceases to be. Perhaps, in the end, the greatest usefulness of the debates was as a vivid illustration of just how far we have fallen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/an-affair-of-mediocrity-and-myopia-all-the-issues-not-important-for-the-final-us-presidential-debate-906318.html
24-10-2020||Opinion||We've heard quite enough from Donald Trump||By Frank Bruni Everybody talks about Joe Biden as the old jalopy in this presidential race, but Thursday night in Nashville, Tennessee, it was Donald Trump who seemed to be running on fumes. I don’t mean physically: He had his full repertoire of facial expressions (cocky, kooky, menacing, martyred) and the usual grating bray. I mean metaphorically. I mean politically. He’s almost certainly reaching the end of the road. And the second (and last) onstage matchup of him and Biden tidily illustrated why. While he needed to put on a show different from the farce that he has performed over this wretched year, he has nothing new — nothing more — in him. While he needed to part company with his foul temper, that’s the only weather available to him. His calmness during the first third or so of the debate inevitably gave way to the usual excitability. He was back to his characteristic grandiosity, his customary falsehoods, his mocking, his taunting. “We can’t lock ourselves up in a basement like Joe does,” he pouted. “He has this thing about living in a basement.” He described Biden’s children as “a vacuum cleaner sucking up money” from sketchy foreign sources. He told Biden, “Don’t give me the stuff about how you’re this innocent baby.” Both statements perfectly exemplified Trump’s habit of assigning his opponents caricatures that apply more aptly to him. And the self-pity. Oh, the self-pity. Trump bellyached about how the IRS treated him, about how Robert Mueller treated him, about the messes supposedly bequeathed to him by President Barack Obama, about his general tragic unappreciated lot in life. Trump has taught America and Americans that there’s always someone else to blame. That lesson hasn’t bettered us a bit. Enough already. Enough of his terrible example. Enough of his toxic campaign. Enough of the ambient ugliness in America. As Election Day draws nearer and Trump’s opportunity to recast and redeem himself shrinks, he just offers up more noise, more nastiness. And it has cost us, dearly. That was evident in the coverage of the debate, much of which remarked on how relatively restrained and substantive it was. Relative to the previous debate, sure, but that was pure bedlam. Trump still flung fantastical accusations, still trafficked in extravagant lies and still interrupted, at least when his microphone wasn’t muted. That this was deemed to be in the neighbourhood of normal just proves how thoroughly he has lowered our expectations and debased the presidency. For most of the evening, Biden shook his head in disbelief, smiled the way you do at an incorrigible toddler, and counted down the minutes until it was all over. He actually looked long and hard at his watch. In a different debate with a saner opponent, that gesture might have been fatal. In this one, it was merely relatable. I, too, couldn’t wait for the night to end. And I’m betting that an overwhelming majority of Americans felt the same way. Trump came into the evening in miserable shape, the odds against his reelection growing longer with each daily snit. His economy has tanked, his base has shrunk, his attempts to vilify Biden have failed, and his downplaying of the coronavirus has been undercut by his own infection with it and its rampage through the White House. The debate itself presented a tough, even impossible, task. On the one hand, Trump had to rattle Biden, because the way to catch up to a front-runner is to halt his stride, and Trump was hardly going to do that with politeness and affirmations. But he couldn’t repeat his disastrous turn in their previous encounter, when he wasn’t so much fierce as feral. To repair the damage, he had to exhibit at least a whisper of decorum and the faintest murmurings of a heart. Those goals were in tension, though several prominent Republicans noted that Trump had a model for how to behave: Mike Pence, who was alternately zealous and Zen in his vice-presidential debate with Kamala Harris. But Trump lacks the humility to take cues from anyone. And nudging the nutty monarch of Mar-a-Loco to emulate the Hoosier snoozer is like asking a honey badger to morph into a three-toed sloth. It goes against the very nature of the beast. He pursued an odd strategy, built on pure delusion and dependent on voters’ complete amnesia. He painted Biden, not himself, as an ethical abomination whose career in government was devoted to personal enrichment. He essentially cast Biden as the incumbent, speaking as if Biden had exited the vice presidency all of 60 seconds ago, and clung to the claim that he, the leader of the world’s richest and most powerful country for nearly four years now, was the ultimate outsider. “It’s all talk, no action, with these politicians,” Trump said at one point. These politicians? Mr President, please allow me to introduce you to the profession that you now inhabit. You’re awful at it, and there’s a death toll of more than 220,000 Americans confirming that. But it is your occupation, God save the rest of us. As for Trump’s delusions, they flared brightest when he likened himself — for the umpteenth time — to Abraham Lincoln and when he confidently predicted that Republicans would regain the House majority. Republicans will be lucky to hold on to their Senate majority. And all the rosy soothsaying in the world won’t change that, any more than Trump’s promise about the coronavirus (“We’re rounding the turn; we’re rounding the corner; it’s going away”) will be magically fulfilled. I would love to be able to write that Biden, in contrast, was dazzling, but I live in a realm more truthful than Trump’s. Biden is never dazzling. On Thursday night he was frequently wobbly, failing to nail comebacks that should have been a cinch, and spoke more negatively of the oil and gas industry than he intended to, so that he was forced to try to clean up his remarks after the debate. Trump will probably spend the coming days telling workers in that industry that Biden is coming for their jobs. But what I’ve come to appreciate about Biden is that he’s not claiming greatness, not the way Trump does with just about every breath. He’s claiming good intentions. If he wins, he may be the rare president who’s not convinced that he’s the smartest person in every room. That could actually help him get things done. I nodded along with his final remarks, when he said, yet again, “What is on the ballot here is the character of this country: decency, honour, respect.” He’s right about that, and he’s the right person because of that. “You know who I am; you know who he is,” Biden said earlier. “Look at us closely.” I don’t need to turn my eyes toward Trump anymore. I’ve seen all that I can take, and I’m long past ready for a different view.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/weve-heard-quite-enough-from-donald-trump-906322.html
24-10-2020||Opinion||Covid-19's other toll: Unnecessary tests, huge hospital bills||In a physician chat group recently, a doctor who treats hospitalized patients made a recommendation to our group of 38,000 members that left me startled and alarmed. She shared her protocol for all Covid-19 patients admitted to the hospital: every one of them gets not only a chest x-ray but an entire battery of special tests, including a coagulation test, a leg ultrasound and a CT scan. This was offered as her blanket standard of care. What it actually represents to me is one of the biggest problems with health care in America—because not every admitted patient needs all these tests. And this is not a new story. Simply put, as physicians in the US, we overdiagnose and overtreat people. We order way too many tests, treatments and surgeries that you don’t need and that may actually harm you—and they cost money, lots of it. Incredibly, in a nation of 328 million people, we order approximately 15 million nuclear imaging studies, 100 million MRIs and CT scans and close to 10 billion blood tests on patients every year. We’re not talking about a little pinch of “err on the side of caution” here. We are talking about runaway medicine, with patients aboard a system with no brakes, few guardrails and no one fully at the controls. Moreover, we as physicians don’t do a good job informing you of the downstream risk of these costly procedures, because we may not even recognize the mess we are creating in the first place. Why all the tests? Well, we may order them because we are worried about missing a diagnosis and we want to get you healthy as soon as possible. Sometimes, it is to avoid getting sued. (When in doubt, it’s always easier to test.) Sometimes it’s because patients request the tests and we yield. Less innocently, we may order more tests because they bring in more money. We are doctors, but we are revenue generators too, and, for some, not necessarily in that order. Let me walk you through two overdiagnosis/testing hypotheticals. Here’s one: You are admitted to the hospital with a cough and a low-grade fever. You test positive for Covid-19, and a chest x-ray demonstrates that you have pneumonia. This is a fairly typical scenario. As a clinician, though, I also opt for a CT scan to make sure you do not have a blood clot in the lung (a pulmonary embolism), even though when you were admitted most doctors already would have put you on a prophylactic lower dose of a blood-thinner for this—to help prevent clotting. The CT scan again shows pneumonia; we knew that already from the x-ray. There is no finding of a pulmonary embolism. But the scan it does show a little something of which I’m not exactly sure—a possible nodule, or what we physicians refer to as an “incidentaloma.” This is not uncommon; incidental solitary lung nodules are found on CT studies from 8 to 51 per cent of the time. Per an expert panel of the American College of Radiology, most incidentalomas found on imaging studies are benign. In fact, 99 per cent of lung nodules found on chest CT are benign—that is, not cancerous. But their discovery can lead to extensive downstream testing, worry and potential morbidity, as we doctors start poking and prodding you, wanting to assure ourselves that the incidentaloma is indeed nothing. I inform you of the nodule in your lung. You pepper me with questions and become worried, because, after all, sometimes nodules are cancerous. We may run more tests to assess it, but more likely we’ll monitor this nodule for months—years, sometimes—and do additional CT scans at various intervals to see whether it changes in size. These tests will expose you to additional radiation, which may increase your risk of cancer years down the road, and cost you money. If we are more concerned about your incidentaloma, we may decide to do a lung biopsy, in which we stick a needle directly into the lung to get a tissue sample for evaluation. Not very often, but occasionally, we accidentally poke a hole in the lung, causing what is called a pneumothorax. This is quite serious and can make you immediately short of breath or sometimes even cause a drop in your blood pressure. Now, not only have you received potentially dangerous radiation from the original CT scan, but you have undergone an invasive procedure and you’ve experienced harm. This particular complication will likely require the placement of a chest tube or a Thora-Vent device, both of which are invasive and can be very painful. If the pneumothorax is significant, it will mean a hospital stay in order to observe you. Key here, of course, is that we never needed to go down this path— but here we are. Here’s another scenario, and one that is much more common. Instead of the incidentaloma, we find a small pulmonary embolism (PE). As your doctor, I breathe a sigh of relief and pat myself on the back for ordering a test that I didn’t really think you needed, but one that yielded this discovery. But here’s the catch: From the time CT pulmonary angiography was first used about 30 years ago, we have dramatically increased the number of patients in whom we look for and diagnose PE. “There is good reason to believe that this hasn’t done anything good,” says Jerome Hoffman, professor emeritus at UCLA Medical Center and an expert on overdiagnosis. In an interview, Hoffman told me that doctors used to look for PEs “only when patients were clinically very ill," and the PEs they found were indeed very important; they killed about one in five people with this diagnosis, he says. Now, “because it is so easy to look with CT, we find a lot more PEs, but the same number of patients die—meaning that your chance of dying from a PE today is drastically less.” Hoffman calls the lower case-fatality rate an optical illusion, in that we’re now finding so many more PEs, the vast majority of which would be clinically insignificant. In our hypothetical, though, we don’t have evidence from randomized controlled trials to conclude that ignoring these small clots is safe, so I feel compelled to treat you. Treatment is controversial: some guidelines suggest it’s not required, some advise to consider it on a case-by-case basis, and others recommend treating most cases. I choose to prescribe you a blood thinner medication—but sometimes this has harmful side effects, like serious bleeding. This might lead to you needing blood transfusions, which, of course, carry their own risk. You’re now transferred to the intensive care unit. And so it goes. Technology becomes the problem rather than part of the solution. And, says Hoffman, “This will only get worse as our wondrous technology ‘improves,’ and we find ever tinier abnormalities that we otherwise wouldn’t have known existed, and wouldn’t have caused any harm.” The cost is staggering. At least 30,000 deaths in the US each year are linked to mistakes and injuries caused by superfluous medical treatment. Meanwhile, unnecessary testing and surgeries add up to more than $200 billion in extra spending per year in the US, according to the Institute of Medicine. In a 2017 survey, doctors from the American Medical Association (AMA) said that nearly a quarter of all the tests they performed were unnecessary, along with more than 20 per cent of the prescriptions they wrote and every 10th surgery. Researchers estimate that among cancers detected by screening, some 11–19 per cent of breast cancers and 20–50 per cent of prostate cancers constitute overdiagnosis. Too much medical care is a true public health crisis in this country. But such treatments continue to be pushed as part of what is already a $3.8 trillion domestic health care market—and hospitals, insurers, device makers and big pharma are scooping up the profits.  Let’s get back to your Covid-19 admission. What’s that going to wind up costing you? FAIR Health analyzed data from over 30 billion private health care claim records, using revenue codes associated with influenza and pneumonia as a means of estimating these costs. Their finding: The average charge for a hospitalized Covid-19 patient stay would be $73,300 if the patient were either uninsured or seeing an out-of-network provider. That estimate is significantly lower for a privately insured patient with an in-network provider, but it still clocks in at a breathtaking $38,221. (How much you’d actually pay, of course, depends on your health plan deductible and the cost-sharing policies of your insurer.) Throw in some extra testing charges, and it’s little wonder that nearly one-third of working Americans have some level of medical debt, with 28 per cent of those owing at least $10,000. As physicians, we all went into medicine to help patients, not bankrupt them. But medicine has become a business replete with overdiagnosis and overtreatment—and skyrocketing medical charges. It’s clear that our health care system needs significant reform. A broader discussion of that change is beyond the scope of this article, but here are some ideas to kick-start the process. First, rein in hospital and pharmaceutical price gouging via market forces, price caps or regulation. Use value-based or bundled care, rather than fee-for-service medicine, to reduce the impetus to order more. Initiate tort reform, to help alleviate the practice of defensive medicine. Push for cost transparency so that prices are knowable to patients ahead of time, thus allowing for informed decisions. Eliminate some of the enormous administrative excesses and various middlemen who siphon off profits in our medical supply chain, spiking costs. You should absolutely see a physician for your health concerns, especially if you are sick with Covid-19; it’s a dangerous virus. But don’t ever be afraid to speak up and ask why tests are being ordered. Ask why specialists are being consulted, why procedures or surgeries are being scheduled, or why you are being admitted. If it’s an elective situation, feel free to get a second or third opinion. Let’s take our health back while keeping our wallets intact. As we’ve seen repeatedly, it is often true in medicine that less is more.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/covid-19s-other-toll-unnecessary-tests-huge-hospital-bills-906587.html
24-10-2020||Second Edit||Imran Khan, Pakistan military face grave challenge||Pakistan’s politics is on the boil again. Eleven opposition parties, including the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N), the Pakistan People’s Party (PPP) and the Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam–Fazlur (JUI-F) have come together to call for the ouster of the Imran Khan government. They have formed an alliance called the Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM) and have held two massive rallies at Gujranwala and Karachi so far. Public unhappiness over the performance of the Khan government is high over deteriorating law and order, rising prices and food shortages and the PDM is skilfully channelling this discontent to bring down the government. Although mass protests and agitations are common in Pakistan, the current protests are significant. For one, the manner in which the PDM is taking on the military is unprecedented. Pakistani politicians have criticised the military when in opposition, but this time PML-N chief Nawaz Sharif, who is in exile in London, has done the unthinkable. In a speech delivered remotely to tens of thousands of people at the Gujranwala rally, Sharif accused Army Chief Gen Qamar Bajwa and ISI chief Lt Gen Faiz Hameed of “rigging elections” and installing an “inefficient and incapable group of people,” in power. Besides, he entered the lion’s den as it were, if only virtually, to do so. Gujranwala is in Punjab, where the military enjoys much support. Another unprecedented development in recent weeks is the growing rift between Sindh’s police force and the military. The Pakistani Rangers is reported to have forced the Inspector General of Police of Sindh to order the arrest of Safdar Avan, the husband of Sharif's daughter Maryam Nawaz. The disrespect meted out to their chief has not gone down well with the Sindh police force. They are reported to have gone on mass leave to protest the military action. Opposition parties have planned more rallies and agitations across the country in the coming weeks. Unrest will grow, especially if the government arrests opposition leaders to quell it. China will be monitoring developments in Pakistan closely. It has invested billions of dollars in the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor. All Pakistan’s main parties support CPEC; so, whether Khan’s Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf is in power or not will not worry Beijing. What Beijing needs for CPEC’s success, though, is stability in Pakistan, and it will tell the military generals to ensure this. Whether the military will call for talks between the government and the opposition parties to get the latter off the streets or whether it will prefer to use force remains to be seen. Given its record, the latter option is more likely, but it won’t be wise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/imran-khan-pakistan-military-face-grave-challenge-906276.html
24-10-2020||South||Row erupts in Tamil Nadu over MP's alleged remarks on women||A row erupted here on Friday over the alleged derogatory remarks of Lok Sabha MP and Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) founder Thol Thirumavalvan about women, with the BJP lashing out at him and demanding an apology. The allegation against the Chidambaram Member of Parliament was that he spoke ill of women while citing Manusmriti, a perceived anti-feminist ancient code of conduct. But the VCK leader denied denigrating women and insisted he was working for their emancipation. A video clip in social media purportedly showed him making some remarks but the leader alleged "communal" forces were creating a wrong impression that he belittled women. Users on micro-blogging site Twitter debated the issue, with some supporting him and others criticising the MP. BJP leader Khushbu Sundar hit out at Thirumavalavan and asked him to be careful of what he speaks since he was a political leader. Addressing reporters at the state BJP headquarters, Kamalalayam, Sundar said women cannot be objectified and accused the MP of "using religion" against them. "He is a political party leader and should be aware of what he is saying..women cannot be objectified... you should apologise," she said and pointed out there were women in his family too. Without naming anyone, she said many women family members of political leaders claiming to be followers of rational leader, the late EVR Periyar, "go from temple to temple and click picture." Responding to the charges, Thirumalavan said he had made no disparaging remarks against women while participating in an online conference recently. "I said that Manusmriti demeans women. But those with an eye on political mileage, a casteist-communal group is spreading falsehood against me and creating an impression as if I spoke against women," he said in a video uploaded on his Twitter page. "This is completely wrong. We are struggling for women's emancipation and those unable to tolerate this are doing such things to create a flutter in the DMK alliance during (ahead of) elections," he said. VCK, which has two MPs including Thirumavalavan, is part of the multi-party opposition Secular Progressive Alliance in Tamil Nadu led by the DMK. Further, he announced state-wide protests by his party against Manusmriti in Tamil Nadu on Saturday. Incidentally, the leader had courted controversy earlier too when his comments on women statues in temples did not go down well with pro-Hindu organisations and certain sections of the population.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/row-erupts-in-tamil-nadu-over-mps-alleged-remarks-on-women-906250.html
24-10-2020||South||M K Stalin slams Tamil Nadu CM, ticks off Governor over government students quota||DMK chief M K Stalin on Saturday slammed Chief Minister K Palaniswami over the 7.5 per cent quota for government school students in medical courses and asked if it was fair for him to be in the top position and yet not persuade Governor Banwarilal Purohit to clear the Bill envisaging reservation. Presiding over a protest demonstration by his party to seek nod for the quota Bill that is pending with Governor, Stalin reiterated his party's opposition to the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test. "We are against the NEET. Till such time Kalaignar (late DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi) and late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa held power, there was no NEET in Tamil Nadu," he said. The national test was implemented in the state since Palaniswami was "subservient" to the Centre, he alleged. "As soon as the DMK is voted to power, we will fully involve ourselves in scrapping NEET through legal avenues and we will emerge victorious," he said after citing aspects like death of 13 students by suicide over NEET in the past over a year, a case involving impersonation and "confusion" over declaration of results. Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu are due during April-May 2021. Stalin said Palaniswami accused him of "doing politics" in the matter, and hit out at the ruling party leaders, saying "Are you all politicians? Soon you are all going to become (political) orphans." If the DMK championing the cause of the people and its fight for government school students was "politics, then we accept it wholeheartedly," he said and mocked at the Chief Minister as a "fake" farmer. "This is the first phase of protest. I would like to assure you that the DMK will continue to hold protests till a full stop (till students got 7.5 per cent quota) is put to the matter. The protest shall continue." The DMK chief asked whether Palaniswami occupying the position of Chief Minister was "fair" without firmly persuading the Governor to approve the students quota Bill. The people are "ready" to weigh justice and injustice in the Assembly elections next year, he said. Palaniswami had said on Friday that Stalin was trying to derive political mileage on the quota issue. The protest was to condemn the "incompetent" Palaniswami government, which could not get the students quota cleared and against the "non-sanction of approval" to the Bill by Raj Bhavan, Stalin said. "In regards to the Governor he is a very brisk person," Stalin said adding Purhoit toured Tamil Nadu immediately after assuming office (2017) "violating" traditions. Purohit's extensive tour led to doubt as to whether the Governor or Palaniswami helmed Tamil Nadu as the Chief Minister, he alleged. "What is the necessity for such a brisk person to delay this matter. What is the reason?" he asked. "The Governor was under the impression that Palaniswami would not raise questions on the student quota issue, but DMK will ask and this protest demonstration evidences that," the DMK leader said. The NEET results were out and medical counselling should start and only if the Governor assented to the Bill, government school students would get reservation, he said. Thanking the Governor for replying to his letter seeking early approval for the Bill, Stalin wondered why it should take 3 to 4 weeks for Purohit to decide on the Bill. The DMK chief said the legal aspects of the 7.5 per cent reservation was already scrutinised by the government which had set up the Justice P Kalaiyarasan Committee and sought to know the need for examining it again and also questioned the four-week time frame indicated by Purohit. "Only when the Bill comes into force following Governor's assent, 300 government school students will get an opportunity to become doctors. Otherwise, only eight students may get admission. This is such a big injustice. How could we be mute spectators," he asked. "The Governor feels that the AIADMK government will give up if the matter was delayed," he alleged adding his party would not however budge and pursue all avenues for getting the Bill cleared. The TN Admission to undergraduate courses in Medicine, Dentistry, Indian Medicine and Homeopathy on preferential basis to the students of the Government Schools Bill 2020 was passed in the Assembly on September 15. The Bill, aimed at providing horizontal reservation of 7.5 per cent for students of state-run schools who clear NEET was sent to the Governor for his assent following its passage. The quota initiative was following the recommendations of a committee, headed by former Judge, Madras High Court, Justice Kalayarasan and it included experts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/m-k-stalin-slams-tamil-nadu-cm-ticks-off-governor-over-government-students-quota-906380.html
24-10-2020||South||Death toll in Tamil Nadu firecracker unit blast rises to seven||The toll in the blast at a fireworks factory mounted to seven on Saturday with two more women workers succumbing to injuries and the manager of the manufacturing facility has been arrested, police said. All seven victims were women. The blast was triggered when explosive ingredients were handled by workers for the manufacturing process at the factory on Friday. Five workers were charred to death and over five others sustained injuries. Two women, who fought severe burn injuries, meanwhile, died without responding to treatment at a hospital here, police said, adding the manager of the private unit was arrested. A probe was on into the blast and efforts are on to arrest the owner of the firm who has gone absconding, police deputy superintendent, (Peraiyur), Mathiazhagan said. An office-bearer of a Sivakasi based association of firecracker unit workers, Karmegam Pandian, alleged that several units functioned without a proper licence and did not follow mandated safety measures to avoid mishaps. He urged the government to close down such units. "There are sufficient employment opportunities in well-established factories with proper licence and they adhere to safety norms that are stipulated. Workers should seek jobs only in such units," he said. Chief Minister K Palaniswami condoled the deaths and announced an ex-gratia of Rs two lakh each to the next of kin of the deceased. He also announced Rs one lakh to those who had sustained grievous injuries. Condoling the deaths, DMK president M K Stalin demanded that the government ensure safety measures in fireworks factories ahead of Diwali festival.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/death-toll-in-tamil-nadu-firecracker-unit-blast-rises-to-seven-906424.html
24-10-2020||South||Onions to cost Rs 35 per kg in bazaars of Hyderabad||The Telangana government on Saturday decided to sell onions at Rs 35 per kilo at the government-run 'Rythu Bazaars' here in the wake of a sharp rise in the price of the edible bulb in the open market. The subsidised sale beginning today would be available at 11 Rythu Bazaars, a market where small farmers can sell vegetables directly to consumers, in the state capital, an official press release said. Two kilos of onions would be sold per person and the consumers have to show any identity card, the release said. The sale of the vegetable has been taken up without any profit motive, Agriculture Minister S Niranjan Reddy was quoted as saying in the release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/onions-to-cost-rs-35-per-kg-in-bazaars-of-hyderabad-906497.html
24-10-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh rains: 7 member Central team to visit state to assess damage||A seven member central team will visit Andhra Pradesh for an on-the-spot assessment of the damage caused by the recent heavy rains and floods in the state. Based on the study, the inter-ministerial team, headed by Rakesh Kumar Singh, Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Home Affairs, will also recommend whether the disaster in the state could be considered to be of a severe nature. An official memo issued by the Disaster Management Division of the Ministry on Saturday asked the team to visit the state immediately and assess the damage and also the relief operations undertaken. The team will comprise officials from the Agriculture, Finance, Jal Shakti, Power, Road Transport and Highways and Rural Development ministries. Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy last week wrote to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, requesting that the Centre immediately grant Rs 2,250 crore to the state that was battered by heavy rains and floods this month. The Chief Minister said as per preliminary estimates, the state suffered damage to the tune of Rs 4,450 crore due to the deluge from October 9 to 13 and the consequent flooding. Roads and power installations suffered severe damage, while standing crops in thousands of acres were destroyed, the Chief Minister pointed out, adding that a total of 19 people were killed in rain-related incidents. "We have suffered badly due to rains\floods in August and September and the fresh spell caused further damage. In this situation, the Centre should stand in support of the state. We urgently need at least Rs 1,000 crore as advance to take up relief works on a war-footing and restore normalcy," the Chief Minister said in the October 17 letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-rains-7-member-central-team-to-visit-state-to-assess-damage-906502.html
24-10-2020||South||'Joseph' finds relevance after Kerala police unearth unethical organ trade racket||'Joseph', a 2018 Malayalam film, had not gone down well with the medical fraternity in Kerala as they felt that the film, which tells that story of unethical practices of organ trade, had affected organ transplants in the state. The film, however, has become even more relevant now with Kerala police unearthing the presence of organ trade rackets thriving in the state. A senior police officer told DH that allegations of unethical practices in organ donation had been around for quite some time. The Crime Branch has now initiated a preliminary inquiry following some tip-offs and it found that many from financially weak backgrounds were being wooed by such rackets. The Kerala police has launched a detailed probe into the matter.  'Joseph' is about the unethical practice of declaring patients brain dead to harvest organs as well as rackets that involve killing prospective donors. The film came at a time when organ transplant had become very common in Kerala. In view of the unethical practices prevailing in the sector, the Kerala government had initiated the Deceased Donor Organ Transplantation Program to streamline the process in 2012. The film also showed how private hospital lobbies managed to bypass such checks imposed by the government. The Indian Medical Association's Kerala chapter had flayed the film by stating that the relatives of many brain-dead patients were showing reluctance towards organ donation. IMA state Vice President Dr. Sulphi N told DH that the present police investigation was also initiated after forums like the IMA had sought a probe. "Our objection towards the film was about generalising that people were being murdered by rackets for harvesting organs. Our concern was that such wrong depictions regarding cadaver organ donation would only help the rackets involved in the unethical trade of transplanting organs from live donors," he said. According to data available with Kerala's Deceased Donor Organ Transplantation Program, as many as 218 organs were donated in the state in 2015 and 199 in 2016. However, the number came down to 60 in 2017 and fell to 29 in 2018, the year in which the film was released. In 2019, it was 55 and this year, it's 61 so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/joseph-finds-relevance-after-kerala-police-unearth-unethical-organ-trade-racket-906511.html
24-10-2020||South||Kerala MLA KM Shaji gets notice for demolition of house||An Opposition party MLA in Kerala has been issued a notice by a local body in the state for demolishing his house citing violation of norms. K M Shaji of the Indian Union Muslim League in Kerala, who was served the notice by the Kozhikode city corporation the other day, termed the decision 'politically motivated'. The corporation's contention was that while Shaji had obtained permission for constructing a 3,200-sq-foot house, the total area of the house, when constructed, was around 5,550 square feet. Though the corporation had issued several notices to the MLA, Shaji had not responded and hence the local body had initiated the demolition measure. Shaji's house was already under probe by the Enforcement Directorate following allegations of illegal wealth. Measurements of his house were even taken as part of the Enforcement Directorate's investigation. Shaji said that the completion certificate of the house was not submitted and he could apply for regularising any changes made from the approved plans. The state government had earlier ordered a vigilance investigation against Sahji on the basis of allegations against him accepting a bribe of Rs. 25 lakh from an aided school management to upgrade the school's status from high school to higher secondary school.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-mla-km-shaji-gets-notice-for-demolition-of-house-906517.html
24-10-2020||South||Navaratri Brahmotsavam festivities concludes at Tirupati temple||The nine-day annual Navaratri Brahmotsavam festivities at the Lord Venkateswara temple at Tirumala here concluded on Saturday with the conduct of the celestial bathing of centuries-old procession idols at a makeshift tank built inside the shrine. The idols of Lord Venkateswara and consorts Padmavathi and Lakshmi, and Sri Chakram were given the holy bath by chanting Vedic hymns this morning, a temple official said. High priests, after conducting special pujas to the idols, took them back to the sanctum sanctorum of the ancient shrine. Due to the coronavirus pandemic, the Brahmotsavam was observed without processions and devotees, he said. Because of Adhika Masam (an extra month which makes it 13 months this year) in the traditional Hindu Lunar calendar, two Brahmotsavams of nine days each were conducted this year, he said. Both festivities were conducted inside the shrine without devotees participation, he said. TTD Board Chairman YV Subba Reddy who tested positive for coronavirus ten days ago did not participate in the Navaratri Brahmotsavam, the official added. However, Subba Reddy today extended the Dussehra festival greetings to devotees of Lord Venkateswara across the country, a TTD press release said. The festivities began on October 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/navaratri-brahmotsavam-festivities-concludes-at-tirupati-temple-906520.html
24-10-2020||South||Puducherry CM V Narayanasamy announces Deepavali bonus for staff||Chief Minister of Puducherry V Narayanasamy on Saturday announced Deepavali bonus for 2019- 2020. The bonus of Rs 6,908 is for non-gazetted group 'B' staff and those under group 'C' category while it is Rs 1,200 for full-time casual staff in government departments, the Chief Minister said in a press statement here. This would entail an expenditure of Rs 18 crore for the government, the statement said. A total of 26,000 staff would be benefited, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-cm-v-narayanasamy-announces-deepavali-bonus-for-staff-906533.html
24-10-2020||South||DMK protests against Governor Banwarilal Purohit for delaying nod to NEET quota||DMK cadres staged a protest near the Raj Bhavan here on Saturday seeking Governor Banwarilal Purohit's nod for a Bill envisaging 7.5 per cent quota for government school students in medical courses, with party chief M K Stalin questioning the 'delay' in giving assent. Stalin also slammed Chief Minister K Palaniswami for not exerting pressure to get it cleared. Presiding over the protest to seek nod for the quota Bill, he wondered why Purohit has not assented to it though over a month has elapsed since it was passed by the Assembly and sent to him for clearance. The DMK chief asked whether Palaniswami occupying the position of Chief Minister was "fair" without firmly persuading the Governor to approve the students' quota Bill. While Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu are due during April-May 2021, the NEET related issue has once again brought the two major political parties of the state into a straight fight. Stalin said the people are "ready" to weigh justice and injustice in the Assembly elections and assured to take legal steps "as soon as the DMK assumes power," to get NEET scrapped. The protest was against the Governor who has not approved the Bill so far and the "incompetent" Palaniswami government that did not get it passed, Stalin alleged. Law Minister C Ve Shanmugam hit back accusing Stalin of enacting a 'drama' in the guise of protest knowing full well the Bill would be cleared and that the reservation was an initiative of the AIADMK government. Stalin was doing it to try to prevent the Chief Minister earning a "good name" from the people on the quota issue, he alleged. Also, at the time of Governor's approval, of which the Minister sounded confident, Shanmugam said the DMK wanted to claim it as its achievement and thereby attempt to prevent the credit going the government's way. Fisheries Minister D Jayakumar also exuded confidence about the Bill's early clearance by Purohit. Stalin, referring to the Governor, said "as regards the Governor he is a very brisk person," adding Purohit toured Tamil Nadu immediately after assuming office (2017) "violating" traditions. Purohit's extensive tour led to a doubt as to whether the Governor or Palaniswami helmed Tamil Nadu as the Chief Minister, he alleged. "What is the necessity for such a brisk person to delay this matter. What is the reason?" he asked. Stalin said Purohit has mentioned in a letter to him that he would need 3 to 4 weeks to decide and wondered why he should require so much time for it. The legal aspects of the reservation were already scrutinised by the government which had set up the Justice P Kalaiyarasan Committee. When this was the case, he sought to know the need for examining it again and also questioned the four-week time frame indicated by Purohit. The Governor was under the impression that Palaniswami would not raise questions on the student quota issue, but "Stalin and DMK will ask" and this protest is evidence of that, the top DMK leader said. While the NEET results were out and medical counselling should start, government school students would get reservation only if the Governor approved the Bill, he said. "Only when the Bill comes into force following Governor's assent, 300 government school students will get an opportunity to become doctors. Otherwise, only eight students may get admission. This is such a big injustice. How could we be mute spectators," he asked. "The Governor feels that the AIADMK government will give up if the matter was delayed," he alleged adding his party would not however budge and pursue all avenues for getting the Bill cleared. Stalin said Palaniswami accused him of "doing politics" in the matter and hit out at AIADMK leaders, saying "are you all politicians? Soon you are all going to become (political) orphans." If the DMK championing the cause of the people and its fight for government school students was "politics, then we accept it wholeheartedly," he said and described the Chief Minister as a "fake" farmer. "This is the first phase of protest.I would like to assure you that the DMK will continue to hold protests till a full stop (till students got 7.5 per cent quota) is put to the matter. The protest shall continue." The TN Admission to undergraduate courses in Medicine, Dentistry, Indian Medicine and Homeopathy on preferential basis to the students of the Government Schools Bill 2020 was passed in the Assembly on September 15. The Bill, aimed at providing horizontal reservation of 7.5 per cent for students of state-run schools who clear NEET, was sent to the Governor for his assent following its passage. The quota move was following the recommendations of a committee, headed by former Madras High Court Judge, Justice Kalayarasan, and it included experts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-protests-against-governor-banwarilal-purohit-for-delaying-nod-to-neet-quota-906537.html
24-10-2020||South||Kerala varsity cancels B-Tech 3rd semester exam following mass cheating||An engineering supplementary examination in Kerala was cancelled owing to mass malpractice using mobile phones. The third-semester mathematics (algebra) supplementary examination of B.Tech held on Friday by the APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University headquartered in Thiruvananthapuram was cancelled as a whole by the university after five colleges reported of malpractice. The university authorities were exploring the option of seeking a police probe as a major racket was suspected to be involved. The malpractice was suspected to be done through a social media closed group. Students carried mobile phones inside the examination hall by taking advantage of the social distance norms put in place owing to Covid-19.  Sources in the university said that while reports of malpractice were reported only from five colleges, it was strongly suspected that similar malpractice took place at more colleges and hence the examination was cancelled as a whole. It was suspected that the students were made to pay a charge for joining the social media group. Within minutes after the examination began, the malpractice came to light as mobile phones were seized from students at some colleges across the state. Subsequently, the university authorities alerted all colleges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-varsity-cancels-b-tech-3rd-semester-exam-following-mass-cheating-906539.html
24-10-2020||State||Karnataka to do pooled coronavirus tests to cut costs||The state government hopes to save costs on Covid testing by adopting pooled sampling. In this process, instead of testing just one sample in one test tube, five samples are used. However, this can be done only when there are greater chances of samples being negative, since, if a sample pool tests positive, then each sample has to be individually tested again. Now, with 10 districts of Bidar, Gadag, Raichur, Koppal, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Ramanagara, Shivamogga, Chamarajanagar, and Kolar, having less than 5% weekly positivity rate, the state has allowed pooled sampling here.  However, in the rest of the 20 districts, individual tests will continue till they have a weekly average positivity rate of less than 5%. The government pays Rs 800 for every sample’s RTPCR test in a private lab. In Karnataka, 65% of labs are private and more than one lakh tests are done at government and private labs. In Ramanagara district, which has a TPR of 4.1%, district surveillance officer Dr Kiran Shankar said, “We have a target of testing 800 samples with RT PCR everyday.” “While pooling samples, we will make sure they are of low risk categories and not SARI, ILI or of patients with comorbidities. In pooling, the cost incurred on reagents added to samples and consumables will come down,” he said. “Earlier, we would test only 96 samples in one cycle, which would take two-and-a-half hours. Now, we can pool and test 480 samples and get the results in a short time.” Dr C N Manjunath, state nodal officer for Covid-19 testing, explained the process. “If Ramanagara has a target of testing 800 samples everyday via RT PCR, instead of using 800 test tubes for 800 samples separately, 160 tubes will hold 800 samples as each tube will have five samples.” Dr V Ravi, Senior Professor and Head, Neurovirology, Nimhans, and member of State Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee, told DH, “Increased volume and decreased costs are the benefits of pooled testing. Cost is reduced while doing RNA extraction.” Koppal has so far done 75,235 RT PCR tests. It’s weekly test positivity rate (TPR) is 3.7%. Vikas Kishor Suralkar, deputy commissioner, Koppal told DH, “We have been pooling samples even when our TPR was more than 5%. But I agree that the likelihood of a positive pool is less when the TPR is less than 5%. Even if some pools should come positive and we have to test all five samples individually again, one extra test doesn’t increase the cost much. But avoiding five individual tests, when a pool comes negative,  greatly reduces the cost.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-to-do-pooled-coronavirus-tests-to-cut-costs-906267.html
24-10-2020||State||Degree, PG colleges in Karnataka to reopen on November 17||Colleges for undergraduate and postgraduate courses in the state are set to reopen from November 17, after a gap of almost eight months. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan and other officials discussed a report submitted by the department. The colleges in the state were closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic in March 2020. The state government's decision follows the permission given by the University Grants Commission (UGC) to reopen colleges. At present, the colleges in the state are conducting classes via online mode. The state had even conducted exams for final year students based on online classes. The reopening of colleges applies to undergraduate, postgraduate, engineering and diploma courses. Ashwath Narayan said, "We have made all arrangements for the reopening of colleges for physical classes and it will be implemented with all safety measures in a phased manner." The government said students can continue to attend classes online if they or their parents have concerns about physical classes. However, attending colleges for practical sessions will be mandatory. "The decision has been taken in the interest of students. Those who wish to attend physical classes must submit consent letter from parents and also register their names by giving a self-consent letter," he said. "Initially, we were planning to reopen schools first, but now, we are opening colleges in the first phase," Ashwath Narayan said. Various departments, including social welfare, health, transport and higher education, are involved in the process. The district commissioners have been told to take necessary steps. The minister said that measures will be taken to issue student bus passes in coordination with the transport department. Colleges and universities have been instructed to sanitise classrooms and hostels on their campuses.  Meanwhile, the department has requested the government to relieve lecturers deployed for Covid-related work to facilitate the resumption of classes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/degree-pg-colleges-in-karnataka-to-reopen-on-november-17-906272.html
24-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Auto, cab drivers join Congress in Karnataka||Scores of auto-rickshaw and taxi drivers joined the DK Shivakumar-led Congress on Saturday, through which the party hopes to make electoral gains. Tanveer Pasha, the president of the Ola Uber Drivers’ & Owners’ Association as well as the Karnataka State Auto & Taxi Federation was inducted into the party by Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar. Jai Bharat Auto Drivers’ Association president Chandra also joined the Congress. This is yet another blow to the JD(S) as Pasha headed the regional party’s transport unit. Meanwhile, JD(S) leader HD Kumaraswamy was hoping to cash in on the drivers’ sentiments when he backed the launch of a new app-based cab aggregator service Namma TYGR in 2017. Shivakumar said that the Congress would fight for the rights of the drivers who faced “injustice” during the Covid-19 lockdown. “During the lockdown, we mounted pressure on the government to announce an aid of Rs 10,000 per month to help the drivers as their lives were affected. The state government announced a one-time aid of just Rs 5,000 to only 7.75 lakh drivers. According to us, there are 32 lakh licensed drivers in the state. Not even 10% of the drivers have received the Rs 5,000 aid that was announced,” Shivakumar said. Shivakumar also announced the activation of a new drivers’ cell of the KPCC. The party wants to make the most of the onboarding of Pasha and his associates in the upcoming November 3 Rajarajeshwarinagar bypoll. “There are 7,000 drivers that we have identified in this constituency. They’ve decided to express their ire against the injustice they faced,” Shivakumar said. Of late, Shivakumar has inducted several leaders and office-bearers of the JD(S), the regional party that is the Congress’ arch-rival in the Vokkaliga-dominated Old Mysuru region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/auto-cab-drivers-join-congress-in-karnataka-906417.html
24-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Over 7 lakh recoveries so far in Karnataka, 4,471 new cases||Karnataka has reported 4,471 new cases of Covid-19 and 52 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 7,98,378 and the death toll to 10,873, the health department said on Saturday. The day also saw 7,153 patients getting discharged, pushing the total number of recoveries in the state to over the 7 lakh mark. A total of over 72,81,090 samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,12,545 were tested on Saturday alone, and 21,981 among them were rapid antigen tests Out of 4,471 fresh cases reported on Saturday, 2,251 cases were from Bengaluru urban alone. As of October 24 evening, cumulatively 7,98,378 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 10,873 deaths and 7,00,737 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 86,749 active cases, 85,814 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and stable, while 935 are in ICU. According to the bulletin, 26 out of total 52 deaths reported on Saturday are from Bengaluru urban, followed by Mysuru (6), Chamarajanagara and Dakshina Kannada (3), Ballari, Dharwad and Kolar (2), and Bagalkote, Bengaluru Rural, Chitradurga, Haveri, Kalaburagi, Shivamogga, Tumakuru and Vijayapura (1). Most of the dead are either with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounted for 2,251, Tumakuru 232, Mysuru 173, Manyda 163, Dakshina Kannada and Hassan 136, Ballari 129, Bengaluru Rural 102, Dharwad 93, Chikkamagaluru 85, Chitradurga 84, followed by others.  Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 3,23,305 infections, followed by Mysuru 46,565 and Ballari 36,683. Among discharges too Bengaluru urban tops the list with total of 2,63,607 discharges, followed by Mysuru 42,962 and Ballari 34,376.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-over-7-lakh-recoveries-so-far-in-karnataka-4471-new-cases-906509.html
24-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Let’s come to power first: DK Shivakumar on being Karnataka CM||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president DK Shivakumar on Saturday declined to comment on his party colleagues projecting him as the next chief minister if the Congress were to come to power in the state. “Some have said that I’ll be CM out of the love they have for me,” Shivakumar said when asked about statements from party leaders GC Chandrashekhar, Sowmya Reddy, and Hanumantharayappa that he will be CM. "First, our party should come to power. Then, the high command and legislators will decide who the CM should be. Many people will express their wishes. I’m not responsible for them,” he said. Shivakumar’s projection as the Congress’ CM candidate comes after former minister BZ Zameer Ahmed Khan recently said that Congress Legislature Party leader Siddaramaiah will be the CM again.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/let-s-come-to-power-first-dk-shivakumar-on-being-karnataka-cm-906544.html
24-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Fresh Covid-19 cases fall below 5,000 in Karnataka||The number of fresh Covid cases dropped below 5,000 in Karnataka on Saturday. The state reported a total of 4,471 new cases of infection and 52 related fatalities. The total recoveries in the state exceeded seven lakh with the discharge of 7,153 patients on Saturday. While Bengaluru Urban reported 2,251 fresh cases, Tumakuru reported 232, Mysuru 173, Mandya 163, Dakshina Kannada and Hassan 136 cases each. Cumulatively 7,98,378 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state while total discharges stand at 7,00,737. As many as 1,12,545 samples were tested on Saturday of which 21,981 among them were rapid antigen tests. Twenty-six deaths reported on Saturday are from Bengaluru Urban.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/fresh-covid-19-cases-fall-below-5000-in-karnataka-906558.html
24-10-2020||West||Candy or chocolate - What will NCP offer to Khadse, asks BJP leader||Maharashtra BJP president Chandrakant Patil on Friday said his party gave a lotto former state minister Eknath Khadse and now it remains to be seen what the NCP, which he has joined, offers him. "The BJP gave a lotto Nathabhau (Khadse) and there could have been an amicableway out about injustice (the reason given by Khadse to quit BJP). "Now, let's see what Jayant Patil (state NCP president) offers to him," the BJP leader said. "Jayant Patil should explain why the joining ceremony which was scheduled to take place at 2 pm was pushed to 4 pm. Because it was not yet decided by the NCP what to offer him," he said. Chandrakant Patil claimed that Khadse left his Nariman Point flat after he got an assurance that "something" which will satisfy him will be offered. "That something could be a limlet candy or a Cadbury chocolate. Now, only time will tell whether Nathabhau will get satisfied with limlet candy or Cadbury or as there is no option left (for him) but to be satisfied with whatever is offered," quipped the former minister and sitting MLA from Pune.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/candy-or-chocolate-what-will-ncp-offer-to-khadse-asks-bjp-leader-906275.html
24-10-2020||West||Mumbai mall blaze: Firefighting continues after 36 hours||Firefighting operation is still on after over 36 hours at the City Centre Mall in Mumbai Central area, where a major blaze broke out, fire brigade officials said on Saturday morning. As many as 18 fire engines and 10 jumbo tankers are engaged in the operation to douse the fire, an official said. The fire had erupted on the second floor of the basement-plus-three storied mall at 8.50 pm on Thursday. "There was no report of injury to anyone," the fire brigade official said. Five fire brigade personnel, including a deputy fire officer, sustained injuries during the fire-fighting operation, but all of them are stable and discharged from hospitals. The fire was initially categorised as level 1 (minor) but was upgraded to level-3 at 10.45 pm and to level-4 at 2.30 am, after flames spread to other parts of the building. Over 3,500 people from the adjacent residential high-rise had been evacuated as a precautionary measure. The Mumbai Fire Brigade had given a 'brigade call', in which fire engines are called from all agencies in the city. Meanwhile, Maharashtra Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray visited the site and took a stock of the fire fighting operation on Friday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-mall-blaze-firefighting-continues-after-36-hours-906326.html
24-10-2020||West||Former Maharashtra minister Vinayakdada Patil passes away||Former Maharashtra minister and senior Congress leader Vinayakdada Patil died at a private hospital in Nashik following a brief illness, his family sources said. He breathed his last late on Friday night. He was 77. Patil was earlier receiving treatment at a hospital in Mumbai but was shifted to Nashik some days ago. On Friday, he was admitted to the private hospital in Nashik to get treatment for a kidney ailment, they said. Patil, a close associate of NCP chief Sharad Pawar, had worked as the Industries, Cultural Affairs, Youth and Sports minister in the state. He was known for his contribution in the fields of agriculture and forestry and for Jatropha cultivation across the nation. Renowned Marathi litterateur late V V Shirwadkar, popularly known as 'Kusumagraj', had given him the title of 'Vanadhipati'. Patil is survived by two daughters, sons-in-law and grandchildren. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray expressed his grief over the demise of Patil. In a tweet, the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said that Patil, who once held the position of sarpanch, went on to become a minister in Maharashtra. He worked for the welfare of the state and farmers, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/former-maharashtra-minister-vinayakdada-patil-passes-away-906350.html
24-10-2020||West||Maharashtra BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis tests positive for Covid-19||Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday said that he tested positive for the coronavirus. Fadnavis, a senior BJP leader and former Chief Minister, has been travelling extensively. He is BJP’s election in-charge for Bihar and had been travelling in the poll-bound state. This week, he travelled in the flood-affected areas of Maharashtra for three days. “I have been working every single day since the lockdown but now it seems that God wants me to stop for a while and take a break! I have tested Covid-19 positive and in isolation. Taking all medication and treatment as per the advice of the doctors,” Fadnavis. He also advised people who had come in contact with him to get Covid-19 tests done.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-bjp-leader-devendra-fadnavis-tests-positive-for-covid-19-906406.html
24-10-2020||West||Independent MLA Geeta Jain who supported BJP joins Shiv Sena||In yet another jolt to the BJP in Maharashtra, independent MLA Geeta Jain, who had supported the BJP after the Vidhan Sabha elections, joined the Shiv Sena on Saturday Jain (56), who represents the Mira-Bhayander constituency in Thane district, is an influential leader in Mumbai’s northern suburbs. Jain visited Matoshree, the private bungalow of Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena President Uddhav Thackeray and formally joined the ruling party. Jain, who was associated with the BJP for nearly a decade, is a first-time MLA and a former Mayor of the Mira Bhayander Municipal Corporation (MBMC). Ahead of the 2019 Vidhan Sabha elections, she rebelled and defeated BJP’s official candidate Narendra Mehta and Congress leader Muzaffar Hussain. After the results, she patched up with the BJP leadership, met the then Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis and extended support to the BJP. However, since Thackeray assumed office as chief minister, Jain has been in touch with the Shiv Sena leadership and finally switched sides with her entry coinciding with the ongoing Navratri festivities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/independent-mla-geeta-jain-who-supported-bjp-joins-shiv-sena-906429.html
24-10-2020||West||Stopped for not wearing helmet, woman beats up traffic cop||A traffic police constable was allegedly beaten up by a woman, after he intercepted the two- wheeler she was travelling on without wearing a helmet in Kalbadevi area of south Mumbai, an official said on Saturday. A video of the incident, which went viral on social media, garnered a sharp reaction from Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, who tweeted saying immediate action must be taken against the woman, as it was the matter of Mumbai police's honour and tagged state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh in the post. The incident took place on Friday afternoon at Cotton Exchange Naka in Kalbadevi, where traffic police constable Eknath Parthe intercepted the two-wheeler on which the accused woman was riding pillion without a helmet, the official said. An argument ensued regarding the fine, during which the woman allegedly started thrashing the constable in full public view, he said. In the video, the woman is seen claiming that the constable had verbally abused her, while the latter is seen refuting her allegation. Even as Parthe was being assaulted, a crowd gathered at the scene and some bystanders were seen shooting the assault on their mobile phones. Subsequently woman police personnel reached the spot and the accused identified as Sadvika Ramakant Tiwari (30) and her associate Mohsin Khan (26) were taken to Lokmanya Tilak Marg police station, the official said. An offence under section 353 (assaulting a public servant) and other relevant provisions of the IPC has been registered against the duo, who was arrested, he said. Meanwhile, the traffic police in an official release said Parthe had not used foul language and had addressed both the accused in a polite manner. Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Yashasvi Yadav praised the constable for not losing his temper and being patient, while being thrashed and abused by the accused woman, the release stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/stopped-for-not-wearing-helmet-woman-beats-up-traffic-cop-906434.html
24-10-2020||West||Sex racket busted, actor held, 3 women rescued in Mumbai||The Mumbai Crime Branch busted a prostitution racket and arrested a smalltime film actor and rescued three women who have played roles in television serials, an official said on Saturday. Acting on a tip-off that the racket involved struggling actors and belly dancers, Unit XII of the Crime Branch sent a decoy customer and set a deal for three women for a consideration of Rs 10.50 lakh, he said. Later, a team led by Senior Inspector Mahesh Tawade raided a five star hotel in Goregaon on Friday afternoon and made the arrest. A case has been registered under IPC and Prevention of Immoral Trafficking Act and Vanrai police station is conducting further probe, he added||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sex-racket-busted-actor-held-3-women-rescued-in-mumbai-906480.html
24-10-2020||West||Palghar lynching case: 38 held, remanded in judicial custody||Thirty-eight people were arrested by Maharashtra police on Saturday in connection with April's Palghar lynching case in which two sadhus and their driver were killed by a mob, a case that had hit national headlines and led to a political slugfest. They were sent to judicial custody by a Dahanu court till November 4, officials said. Earlier, on October 21, a total of 24 people were held followed by eight the next day, they said. The total number of accused in judicial custody is now 70, they added. On April 16, two seers and their driver, who were heading towards Surat from Mumbai in a car, were beaten to death by a mob in Palghar's Gadchinchlale village on suspicion that they were child-lifters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/palghar-lynching-case-38-held-remanded-in-judicial-custody-906518.html
24-10-2020||West||PM Modi should have stepped in over Mahadayi row, says Congress leader Dinesh Gundu Rao||Prime Minister Narendra Modi should have taken initiative to amicably resolve the ongoing Mahadayi inter-state river water-sharing dispute, AICC secretary in-charge of Goa Dinesh Gundu Rao said on Saturday.  Addressing a press conference in Panaji, his first since taking over as the All India Congress Committee in-charge of Goa, Rao said in India, the final arbiter is the Supreme Court, where the appeals by three states - Karnataka, Goa and Maharashtra - against the Mahadayi Tribunal award is pending.  "The other mechanism would have been the Prime Minister calling everyone and resolving the problem. But he (Modi) did not do it," Rao said. He also cited the lead taken by the late Prime Minister Indira Gandhi who, in 1971, had stepped into a similar inter-state dispute to resolve the Cauvery river water dispute. Rao also said that it was up to each state involved in the dispute to press for its rights. "Each state will fight for its rights... Each state will have its own issues. Ultimately in a democracy, there is an arbitrator," he said. The Congress party overseer for Goa also described the Mahadayi (Mhadei in Goa) issue as a "sensitive and an important" one and refrained from commenting in detail, stating that the matter was "sub judice". Goa and Karnataka are battling out a two-decade-long dispute over the sharing of the Mahadayi (also called Mhadei in Goa) river water in the Supreme Court after both parties expressed reservations about the award by the Mahadayi Water Dispute Tribunal in 2018. Goa has also opposed the diversion of water from the Mahadayi river basin through the Kalasa-Banduri project claiming it would cause “ecological devastation” in Goa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pm-modi-should-have-stepped-in-over-mahadayi-row-says-congress-leader-dinesh-gundu-rao-906556.html
