27-10-2020||Comment||A contested future: India, China and the Indo-Pacific||Though foreign policies of major powers do not change dramatically with changes in government, Indian foreign policy vision has been evolving rapidly since the Modi government came to power in May 2014. This evolution is only natural for a nation that is rising in the global power hierarchy. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar articulated this vision of Indian foreign policy in a speech he gave last year in November in which he challenged the “dogmas of Delhi”, as well as in his new book. Jaishankar has noted that India was at present standing at the “cusp” of change with “more confidence” and argued that “a nation that has the aspiration to become a leading power someday cannot continue with unsettled borders, an unintegrated region and under-exploited opportunities. Above all, it cannot be dogmatic in approaching a visibly changing world order.” In more ways than one, Jaishankar’s speech has now become the central document through which Indian foreign policy will be assessed in the coming years. His conceptualisation of various phases of Indian foreign policy and his critique of Indian policymaking has reverberated through the corridors of Indian polity. For a strategic community which continues to tell the world about the consistency in Indian foreign policy and how effective that has been in the pursuit of Indian interests, Jaishankar’s speech stands as a profound corrective. When he says that “the balance sheet for India’s foreign policy after seven decades presents a mixed picture,” he is underlining the fact that consistency can be overrated in foreign policy. Winning an even bigger mandate in 2019 than his first electoral victory in 2014, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has launched an ambitious agenda in the realm of foreign and national security. His unusual selection of Jaishankar, a former diplomat, in the powerful position of India’s external affairs minister rather than any party heavyweight shocked many. The appointment reflected Modi’s concern about the global turbulence through which Indian foreign policy must navigate and the need for an experienced hand. A former foreign secretary with several key ambassadorial postings, including China, under his belt, Jaishankar not only underscores the priority Modi attaches to foreign policy, but also to professionalism rather than orthodoxy. This need became pertinent in August 2019 when the Modi government took a momentous step in domestic politics with serious foreign policy implications. He suspended Article 370 via Clause 3 that had allowed Jammu and Kashmir to enjoy autonomy. The state of Jammu and Kashmir has been bifurcated into two Union Territories: Ladakh without a legislature; Jammu and Kashmir with a legislature. Though Modi’s BJP had long signalled its intention on this front, the move was dramatic both within and outside India. On the wider foreign policy front, India has been busy courting major powers and reaching out to various parts of the world. New Delhi has engaged with multiple partners and actors in the international system in an attempt to develop strategic relationships that can enhance India’s profile and further its global interests. This is as much applicable to India’s neighbours in South Asia and the Indian Ocean region as it is to the wider Indo-Pacific and Middle Eastern states. India’s ties with European nations are also growing at a time when the European Union is willing to enhance its geopolitical footprint. India’s rising global profile is reshaping New Delhi’s approach to its major partnerships in the changing global order. Though sections of the Indian establishment still want to reinvent non-alignment under ever new guises, New Delhi is showing signs of pursuing strategic autonomy separately from non-alignment under Modi. This separation is overdue in India’s foreign policy, and the country stands to benefit from leveraging partnerships rather than shunning them. The single most important determinant in India’s foreign policy evolution has been the spectacular rise of China and its consequences for Indian interests. Few can deny the impact that China is having on the international order. China is everywhere these days, challenging the global order at times and yet at times trying to be the guarantor of the global economic order in the age of Donald Trump. With a population of 1.3 billion and the world’s second-largest economy, China seems ready to play an ever more influential role in the global order. Since the global financial crisis of 2008, China’s political leadership has been more vocal than ever about its central role in global affairs. China faces a range of challenges: from its per capita income still being a fraction of that in the developed world to rising inequality, from environmental degradation to an ageing population. Most significantly, it has an archaic political system which wants to bring in economic development in a controlled manner – the very survivability of the political system being dependent on continuing economic growth. But these challenges have not precluded the Chinese political leadership from proclaiming an ambitious global agenda. Whereas previous Chinese leaders would prefer to talk of their nation as “developing” or “poor,” Xi Jinping is unabashed in proclaiming China a “great power.” Xi is the most powerful Chinese leader since Mao Zedong, who died more than 40 years ago, after the National People’s Congress voted overwhelmingly in favour of a constitutional amendment which gives Xi the right to remain in office indefinitely. Not that there was any doubt about it but when it finally happened, it seemed to be marking another red line in China’s evolution as the pre-eminent global power of our times. China talks of a multipolar world order but in reality, it wants a unipolar Asia. Its assertiveness in staking its maritime territorial claims in recent years might have convinced it that there is no real opposition to it in the region and beyond. The West is too preoccupied with its own internal challenges to pose any serious problems in China’s way. And the regional states are too weak to do anything about Chinese belligerence. The ASEAN has turned out to be a paper tiger when it came to the crunch. China’s divide and rule policy has fractured any sense of unity in Southeast Asia. And so, as China and India rise in the Indo-Pacific, they are jostling with each other unlike at any time in the recent past. The Sino-Indian military standoff in the Himalayas underlines this trend and conveys a new-found geopolitical reality in the region: the future of the Indo-Pacific will remain heavily contested for the foreseeable future. (The writer is Director, Studies, at Observer Research Foundation, New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/a-contested-future-india-china-and-the-indo-pacific-907930.html
27-10-2020||Davangere||Davangere University announces results within two hours of evaluation||Davangere University has created a record of sorts by announcing the results of final year degree and postgraduate examinations within two hours after the evaluation. Sources in the university stated that the examinations for final year degree and postgraduate students were conducted from September 14 to October 23, including for backlog subjects too. The university teachers completed the evaluation of answer scripts within 48 hours after the examinations. Besides, the university announced the results within two hours after the evaluation. Speaking to DH, Davangere University Registrar (Evaluation) H S Anita said, following the guidelines from the state government, the university conducted examinations only for final year students of degree and post-graduation due to Covid-19. As many as 2,211 students appeared for final year PG examinations, and the pass percentage is 95%. As many as 707 students of Science, 871 of Commerce, and 633 of humanities appeared for the examinations. She said, 44,651 students appeared for final year degree examinations, and the pass percentage was 72%. The pass percentage in Arts-86%, Commerce-79%, and Science-62%. As many students have failed in Physics, the pass percentage in Science is less. As many as 34,206 students who had backlog subjects appeared for the examinations. Of them, 33,845 are degree students, and 361 are PG students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/davangere/davangere-university-announces-results-within-two-hours-of-evaluation-907842.html
27-10-2020||Davangere||Davangere district gets ready for S-W Graduates' constituency polls on October 28||The polling for the elections to South-West Graduates' constituency in the district comprising Davangere, Jagalur, and Harihar taluks would be held in 29 booths from 8:00 am to 5:00 pm on October 28.  As many as 15 candidates are in the fray. The South-West Graduates' constituency comprises of Kolar, Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru, and Chitradurga districts, and three taluks of Davangere district, wherein 20,962 voters are eligible to cast their votes. Around 12,858 voters come under the purview of the Davangere City Corporation. Four mustering centres have been set up in the district, namely at City Corporation, Davangere taluk office, Harihar taluk office, and Jagalur taluk office. There are 17 booths in the city, and booth officials took ballot boxes from the polling booths on Tuesday. The polling booths are at Aanugodu, Anaji, Mayakonda, and Lokikere in Davangere taluk. Three booths are in Harihar taluk, three in Malebennur, two in Jagaur, and one each in Sokke and Bilichodu. The counting of votes would be held on November 2, and the election process would be completed on November 5. Deputy Commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi visited the mustering centres and gave instructions to the electoral officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/davangere/davangere-district-gets-ready-for-s-w-graduates-constituency-polls-on-october-28-907851.html
27-10-2020||First Edit||Do not use CBI to bury truth, federalism||Maharashtra is the latest state, after Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and West Bengal, to withdraw the general consent given to the CBI to investigate cases in their territory. Kerala, which has questioned in the high court the takeover of a case in the state by the CBI, is also considering withdrawing its general consent. These states have the common grievance that the agency acts at the behest of the central government and allows itself to be used as a political tool against them. The Maharashtra government’s decision seems to have been prompted by the suspicion that the CBI may take over a case about the manipulation of TV viewership which the state police is investigating, as it happened in the Sushant Singh Rajput case. Just as the Patna police filed an FIR in the Rajput case, an FIR was filed last week by the UP police in Lucknow for alleged TRP manipulation on a complaint by a person who has no locus standi in the case. The very next day, the case was referred to the CBI.  The National Broadcasters Association (NBA) has requested the Centre to withdraw the case as it thinks that it may lead to a witch hunt against the media, its advertisers and advertising agencies. The state government has legitimate doubts that the central government may use the CBI to sabotage the case filed by the state police and to protect its favourites and harass others. The states’ lack of trust in the CBI is not new. It has been infamously dubbed in the past as the “caged parrot’’ doing the bidding of its masters at the Centre. But the lack of trust has deepened with the very evident and gross misuse of the agency by the Centre in recent times. Other central investigating agencies are also wantonly used for political ends.  The state governments’ decision has to be seen in this context. After a state withdraws its general consent, the CBI can investigate cases in that state only on its request in a specific case or on the orders of the high court or the Supreme Court. A breakdown in the relationship between the Centre and the state governments, which the decision signifies, is not good for the polity, for cooperative federalism, and for the CBI as such. The CBI is an important institution in a very important area of national life and is a link between the Centre and the states. It gets weakened when it loses its credibility and is rejected by the states. The loss of its standing is part of the weakening of all institutions that hold the country’s democratic system together.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/do-not-use-cbi-to-bury-truth-federalism-907542.html
27-10-2020||First Edit||Heed the warning of the IMF report||There are some unpleasant takeaways for India in the World Economic Outlook published by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) which has made estimates and projections of economic growth for 2020 and for the period up to 2025. The estimates are for the world and for individual countries, and India comes away with a lot of damage to its economy in absolute and in relative terms. The report has noted that poverty is set to increase, reversing the gains made in the last two decades, and income inequalities will increase further. Younger workers and women will be more adversely affected than others. Human capital accumulation, including schooling and learning, will also suffer serious setbacks. Vulnerabilities that existed in social, economic and other areas will become sharper and deeper across the world. The report projects a difficult economic scenario for India for this year and the coming years. While global growth is projected to contract by 4.4%, the Indian economy is set to contract by 10.2%. The IMF doubled the rate of India’s GDP contraction since its last update in June, but the estimate for the world has improved. Most of the economies with which India’s economy is often compared, like those of China, the US, and even Brazil and Pakistan are likely to be less affected. The IMF also thinks India will be the worst affected not only in the short term but also in the medium term. It will also take longer than other countries to recover. These are based on the present situation and trends, but it should be noted that the Indian economy had begun to slide much before Covid-19 struck, thanks to the repeated shocks administered to the economy in the form of demonetisation, a badly designed and implemented GST, and arbitrary rule-making that created policy uncertainty for key sectors such as automotive. The long and harsh, and arguably premature, lockdown further aggravated it. One estimate that has drawn much attention is that India will be poorer than Bangladesh by 2025 in per capita terms. Last year, India’s GDP grew at 4.2%, itself an 11-year low, while Bangladesh grew at 8.2%. This year, while India is likely to decline in double digits, Bangladesh is set to grow at 3.8%. It will sustain the lead even after India starts recovering. Its per capita GDP will be higher than India’s this year and in the coming years. It will be at $2,756.11 while India will be at $2,729.24 in 2025. If the present trends do not change, India will be the third poorest country in South Asia, after Pakistan and Nepal. The government will do well to heed the analysis and warnings in the report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/heed-the-warning-of-the-imf-report-907931.html
27-10-2020||In Perspective||Same-sex marriage: A Papal shock to the Church||Pope Francis’ latest call for same-sex civil unions and a right for them to be part of the family is a big step forward towards the Catholic Church’s support for the LGBT people.  As the first Pope to make public his views on the thorny issue, it sets him apart from his predecessors as well as the Catholic establishment. But is this another off-the-cuff remark or will it translate into changing the Church’s stance? The Catholic Church considers same-gender sex as sinful and has, historically, resisted its acceptance. Although it teaches that homosexuals should be treated with dignity, it has still been opposed to gay marriage. The latest comments from the head of the Catholic Church came in the documentary ‘Francesco’, in which the Pope says: “Homosexual people have a right to be in a family. They are children of God and have a right to a family. Nobody should be thrown out or be made miserable over it. What we have to create is a civil union law. That way they are legally covered. I stood up for that.” The film also shows him encouraging two gay men to attend church with their three children. The documentary by Evgeny Afineevsky, an Oscar-nominated director, made its premiere at the Rome Film Festival on October 21. The Pope allowed Afineevsky, who is gay, to travel the world with him and gave the director exclusive interviews. This is not the first time the Pope has come out in support of LGBT. In 2013, when he began his papacy, he made headlines when he said, “Who am I to judge?” in response to a question on gay priests. He also said of gay people, “We must be brothers.” The Pope’s comments, on camera, are likely to evoke mixed reactions from the over one billion Catholics worldwide and others – criticism from conservatives and praise from liberals, particularly the LGBT themselves. Terming the Pope progressive and brave, Nowal Norah Augustus, a Bengaluru-based Catholic teacher said the Church has been staunchly against same-sex marriages. “With the Pope’s nudge in this direction, the Church might relent, but it won’t be easy or unanimous.” Indeed, the big question is, will the Pope, who is head of the Catholic Church and calling for the creation of civil union laws, go a step further to enable official Church recognition to gay/lesbian unions? Any such change in the Catholic Church’s stance calls for formal deliberations internally and at least for now, there are no signs of that. In 2003, the Vatican’s doctrinal body, the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith said: “The Church teaches that respect for homosexual persons cannot lead in any way to approval of homosexual behaviour or to legal recognition of homosexual unions.” A Bengaluru-based Catholic priest said the Pope’s views are positive and go a long way in how we treat LGBT. “Whether it gets formal sanction is left to the Vatican to decide,” he said. But some believe that although the comments were a personal reflection, it had a strong message. The Pope’s comments in the film were some of the clearest language the pontiff has used on the subject since his election in 2013, Papal biographer Austen Ivereigh told Reuters. “Pope Francis’ clear and public support for same-sex civil unions marks a new stage in the Church’s relationship with LGBTQ people,” said Fr. James Martin, a Jesuit priest and author of ‘Building a Bridge,’ a book about Catholic ministry to homosexuals. “It shows his overall pastoral approach to LGBTQ people, including those who are Catholic, and sends a clear message to those Bishops and Church leaders who have opposed such laws,” he told Reuters. But conservatives remain critical. “The Pope’s statement clearly contradicts what has been the long-standing teaching of the Church about same-sex unions. The Church cannot support the acceptance of objectively immoral relationships,” Bishop Thomas Tobin of Providence, Rhode Island, said on the Diocese of Providence website. “One does not have to be a theologian or a moral expert to know that such statements are totally heterodox and constitute a very serious cause of scandal for the faithful,” Archbishop Carlo Maria Vigano, an ultraconservative Italian critic of the Pope said on the US-based ‘Church Militant’, a traditional Catholic news website. Having come out openly in support of the LGBT people, the pontiff may have stirred the pot once again. As a “man of the people”, he has spoken in the past on many issues, including poverty, the environment, racial and income inequality, migration, etc. So, do the Pope’s comments show a likely direction that the Catholic Church might take in the future? Is this a start for a dialogue in the Vatican? Only time will tell, but if it does begin, it could lead to a radical transformation of the Church’s stand on homosexuality. (The writer is a senior journalist based in Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/same-sex-marriage-a-papal-shock-to-the-church-907453.html
27-10-2020||In Perspective||Scientists, society must unite to fight pandemic||From time immemorial, there have been three ways to fight any disease: Avoid the disease in a person either by vaccination, if available, or by leading a healthy lifestyle; detect the disease early in a person; and, if affected by the disease, treat the person with medical intervention. Covid-19, caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus, is no exception to this. In the current Covid-19 pandemic, scientists and clinicians around the world have been striving to understand the nature of the virus, and the symptoms it causes in humans. While a lot of ground has been covered in the last 10 months and understanding has begun to emerge, leading to new therapies, diagnostics and vaccines, there is still far more to uncover. Indian scientists have also made remarkable inroads in this understanding and, moreover, their findings have yielded exciting developments in all the three measures mentioned above. The new diagnostic kits, such as FELUDA developed at the CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, are examples of contributions of Indian scientists. This kit has been approved by DCGI and ICMR has issued an advisory that all government and private labs approved by ICMR for the Covid-19 RT-PCR based testing may use this new test. Further, the drug Favipiravir, launched in the market by Cipla, has CSIR technology behind it. Similarly, new findings about treating diseases from the age-old traditional knowledge of the Indian system are expected soon. Vaccines are in development in the country and the manner in which the Indian scientists have managed to contribute to all these aspects is exemplary. However, there is a still more to learn and we are learning each day. There have been many perplexing observations about the pandemic. Why are some people asymptomatic and recover on their own? While we now know that it affects people above the age of 65 worse than those below this age, it is not that people below 65 years are not affected. We know that people with prior conditions, such as diabetes, are worse affected. It is not true that people without diabetes are safe. Those without co-morbidities cannot feel safe from the virus and the possibility of developing a severe form of the disease. Many people without co-morbidities have lost their lives to Covid-19. This establishes the fact that we know little about the virus and the severity with which it will hit anyone who comes in contact with the virus. The only proven way to control the pandemic across the world is by following some simple precautions. This is a festive time all across the country, which usually witnesses large gatherings, family reunions and celebrations. However, given the pandemic, 2020 is not a typical year of festivals. Who would have imagined nine months ago that we would live in such times as the present one? This virus has continued to ravage the world and has disrupted every sphere of human activity. With the unlock process going on and more and more activities resuming, it is easy to forget the virus and jump into the festivities and celebrate, as we all love to do. However, we should not forget the doctors and healthcare workers in India and around the world who have been working relentlessly to ensure that affected individuals get the best care. Their contributions have been most remarkable in reducing the pain and sufferings of people, many of whom have worked day and night. The festival season is a good time to pay tributes to them. The most befitting way to do so is to make sure that we, as the general public, don’t aggravate the burden on the doctors and healthcare workers. For that, we must not overlook the safety measures we can take to contain the spread of the virus. Here are simple guidelines to follow: Only ‘namaste’, no handshake; maintain distance from others, at least 6-10 feet; avoid crowding; keep homes and rooms as well ventilated as possible; wear masks and wear them correctly; encourage others around you to wear masks; wash hands with soap frequently; use sanitizer when there is no soap and water; detect symptoms of infection early and isolate yourself early; spread the message of unity in fighting the virus. It will be a fitting tribute to the countless ‘Corona Warriors’ if we truly observe discipline during the festival season and ensure that we do not cause an explosion of the pandemic by our complacency. Scientists and the research community can lead the fight against coronavirus not only through their research but also by amplifying the message of the steps to be taken to control the infection. Every one of us -- from scientists to students to the common man -- can make a difference. (The writer is Director-General, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, and Secretary, Department of Science and Industrial Research)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/scientists-society-must-unite-to-fight-pandemic-907928.html
27-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Simple Vijayadashami sans procession in Mangaluru this year||Vijayadashami was observed in various temples in Dakshina Kannada with puja rituals and without any processions on Monday. Puja rituals were held at Kudroli Gokarnanatha Temple, Mangaladevi Temple, Kateel Durgaparameshwari, Polali Rajarajeshwari and other temples in the district. At Kudroli Temple, 'Vagishwari Durga Homa', 'Shivapuje', 'Devi Pushpalankara Puja', 'Utsava, 'Mantapa Bali', 'Mantapa Puja' and other rituals were held prior to the immersion of Goddess Sharada. 'Vidyarambha' and 'Tulabhara' sevas were held at Mangaladevi and 'Rathotsava' was held in the night.   Usually, at Kudroli Temple, the idols of Navadurgas along with Mahaganapathy and Sharada were taken in procession for seven kilometres, embellished by decorative umbrellas, tableaus, bands, chende and traditional dances. The Covid-19 pandemic has put a brake on the elaborate procession of the Mangaluru Dasara. The procession of Navadurgas, Ganapathi and Sharada idols were taken within the temple premises before the immersion of the idols in the temple lake. Prior to the 'visarjana puja' rituals, a tableau of Narayana Guru was taken out for a round in the city. Every year, the Dasara procession would pass through Kambala Road, Mannagudda, Ladyhill, Lalbagh, Ballalbagh, PVS, Navabharath Circle, K S Rao Road, Hampankatte, University College, Ganapathi High School, Venkatrama Temple, Car Street, Alake before reaching back to the temple in the wee hours of the following day. The devotees would throng the roads to get a glimpse of the procession along with tableaus. 'Vijayadashami' and 'Shami Puja' was held at Kukke Subrahmanya Temple. The worshipped goddess was taken out in a procession till Kashikatte on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/simple-vijayadashami-sans-procession-in-mangaluru-this-year-907638.html
27-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Nitte University gets Technology Enabling Centre||Nitte (Deemed to be University) has been chosen by the Department of Science and Technology (DST), Government of India, to host the Technology Enabling Centre (TEC) for the state of Karnataka. This is one of 10 such centres established at the national level. DST and other national funding agencies realise that most of the academic research lies on the shelves of the academic institutions though they have the potential to lead to the development of technologies. The level of maturity of technology is indicated in terms of 'Technology Readiness Level' (TRL). Research Leads may be at TRL 1 or 2. There may be need to continue research to demonstrate the feasibility and this moves the research lead from TRL 2 to TRL 4. Technology development will lead to progress from TRL 3 to TRL 6, technology demonstration from TRL 5 to TRL 7 and so on, said Dr Iddya Karunasagar, senior director (International Relations), Nitte University.    Technology Enabling Centres are expected to create an ecosystem for academic research to lead to technology development by networking with institutions, national laboratories and industry, he said. The TEC is mandated to assess the technology and service needs of Micro, Medium and Small Enterprises (MSMEs) in Karnataka to enable access to these through the network of institutions and industries. Nitte (Deemed to be University) provided 3,000 sq ft area in Architecture College building, Paneer campus to house the TEC. DST provided support for state-of-the-art networking equipment and infrastructural facilities. The newly-developed Centre was inaugurated by Chancellor Vinay Hegde in the presence of Dr  Satheesh Kumar Bhandary, Vice-Chancellor and Dr Moodithaya, Pro-Vice-Chancellor. Dr Indrani Karunasagar, director of TEC and Dr Smitha Hegde, the coordinator explained the newly-created facilities, which includes patents, IPR and technology transfer cell headed by Dr Iddya Karunasagar; state-of-the-art training facility with smart board, networking and discussion rooms, webinar and video-conferencing facility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nitte-university-gets-technology-enabling-centre-907689.html
27-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||10 in Kollegal take ill; water contamination suspected||More than 10 people fell ill, after allegedly drinking contaminated water, at Ashraya Layout, in Kollegal town, Chamarajanagar district, on Tuesday. Water contamination is said to be the reason behind the incident. It is suspected that drainage water might have entered into a broken drinking water supply pipe. Ten people, including two children, have taken ill. Seven are being treated at a government hospital, in the town. One woman is said to be in a serious condition. She has been shifted to Mysuru for further treatment. The incident created anxiety among the residents of the area. Health department and City Municipal Council officials visited the area and took stock of the situation. The officials said that the samples of water have been sent to a laboratory for testing, as residents suspect that drinking water might be contaminated. The health condition of the affected persons are being monitored, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/10-in-kollegal-take-ill-water-contamination-suspected-907884.html
27-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Civic workers a relieved lot due to simple Dasara||Unlike during normal years, this time, civic workers of Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) were a relived lot, as their job was comparatively easy after Dasara, due to scaled-down celebrations, in the wake of the Covid crisis. Immediately after the Jamboo Savari, on Monday, the pourakarmikas swung into action, to clear the additional garbage of Dasara. However, it was not much, compared to last year. A section of the citizens opine that the lack of civic sense among the people is a major problem in maintaining cleanliness in Mysuru, which usually tops the list of ‘cleanest’ cities of the nation. MCC Health Officer Dr D G Nagaraju said that during previous years, additional civic workers were hired on contract, temporarily, for Dasara season, to maintain cleanliness of the city. “During normal years, two to three tonnes of garbage was generated near the Palace, on the Palace premises on Raja Marga, the Jamboo Savari route, and its surroundings. Comparatively, this year, the garbage generation was negligible, due to simple celebration of Dasara and the restriction of Jamboo Savari within the Palace precincts. As a minimum number of participants were allowed to witness the events, there were not much people on the streets. Even though people came out to enjoy the illumination, they would not spend much time in one place,” he said. “As the people were not allowed near the Palace, some of them had gathered near Rangacharlu Town Hall, to catch a glimpse of the golden howdah carried by elephant Abhimanyu, where they had littered some waste. However, the pourakarmikas swung into action on Monday night itself, and cleared most of the garbage. The remaining was cleared on Tuesday morning,” he said. G C Sridhar, a retired government employee, said that virtual Dasara was a boon is disguise as the littering of the city was avoided. “Whether people come to witness Jamboo Savari or not is not the issue. What type of people are they? Can’t they avoid littering around with waste? Are they not ‘citizens’? Can’t they responsibly dispose off the waste into designated garbage bins? Can’t they temporarily keep the waste, either in their pockets or bags, and dispose them responsibly, when they get back home?” he asked. “Just because we live in an Independent nation, where ‘freedom’ is the foremost right, we cannot take things for granted. We are good in preaching principles, ideologies and morality, with scant regard for them. We describe our nation as motherland and call it ‘Bharath Matha’, meaning ‘Mother Bharath or Goddess Bharath’. But, we happily dirty the goddess. Are we civilised people?” asked M N Somasekhar, a schoolteacher.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/civic-workers-a-relieved-lot-due-to-simple-dasara-907899.html
27-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Vijayadashami celebrated at Melkote||Vijayadashami was celebrated with religious fervor at Sri Cheluvanarayana Swamy temple in Melkote, Mandya district on Monday. After Shami puja, the utsav idol of Cheluvanarayana Swamy was taken out on a vijayotsava procession, along with goddess Kalyana Nayaki. The deity was decorated with a colourful ‘peta’ (head gear) and ornaments along with a sword, arrow and mace. The idol was decorated with the attire of a king and banni puja was performed. Special pujas were held to seek blessing to fight against the coronavirus. After Shami puja, the idol was taken out on a procession on the temple premises. Hundreds of devotees visited the temple and had darshan of the deity. However, Ashwa Vahanotsava, that was held every year, during Vijayadashami celebrations, was cancelled, in the wake of Covid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vijayadashami-celebrated-at-melkote-907900.html
27-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Minister Somashekar presents honorarium to mahouts||Abhimanyu, who was successful in his maiden attempt of carrying the 750-kg golden howdah, and other Dasara jumbos were in a relaxed mood, on the premises of Mysuru Palace on Tuesday. The jumbos practising for the D-day, for almost a month, were given a relaxed bath, by their mahouts and kavadis, on Tuesday. The jumbos - Abhimanyu, Vikrama, Vijaya, Gopi and Kaveri - were brought from Veeranahosahalli in Hunsur taluk on October 1. The jumbos belong to Mathigodu, Anekaadu and Dubare camps, and will return to their respective camps, after participating in Mysuru Dasara 2020, on Wednesday, according to sources. The 300-meter Jamboo Savari procession this year, was like a trial for Abhimanyu, who was given the responsibility of carrying the golden howdah. However, he has participated in Dasara procession 21 times. He was pulling 'Ane gaadi', during the procession and was carrying goddess Chamundeshwari, during Srirangapatna Dasara. With the elephants getting ready to leave the city, after the arduous task, District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar visited the Palace and performed puja. He offered sugarcane, paddy and jaggery, as a thanksgiving for their successful participation in Dasara. He also presented a honorarium to the mahouts and kavadis, given by the Palace Board. Meanwhile, Abhimanyu and Gopi, were taken to Mysuru Zoo to help the Zoo authorities to shift an elephant calf to Koorgalli Rehabilitation centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/minister-somashekar-presents-honorarium-to-mahouts-907901.html
27-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||‘Despite scaling down, Dasara held in significant manner’||Cooperation and Mysuru District In-charge Minister S T Somasekhar said, “Even though the annual Dasara celebrations were scaled down, due to the Covid crisis, they were held in a significant manner.” It has to be noted that Dasara concluded on Monday, with its grand finale, Jamboo Savari. Addressing media persons here, on Tuesday, the minister said that this year, Dasara has created history by being virtual and reaching lakhs of people across the globe. “On the Facebook page of the Information and Public Relations department alone, six lakh people have watched Dasara events. Besides, the events were either streamed or broadcast on various media platforms,” Somasekhar said. “Honouring Covid warriors and a renowned doctor, Dr C N Manjunath, inaugurating Dasara was a good gesture. The participation of the people was limited as per the advise of the technical committee. But, the celebrations were held as per traditions,” he said. The minister said, “Despite the limitations in the celebrations, tributes were paid to legendary playback singer S P Balasubrahmanyam, with a musical nite on the Mysuru Palace stage. As per the decision of the government, to restrict the celebrations to Chamundi Hill and the Palace, the events were held in a proper manner, in these two venues.” “Abhimanyu, who carried the golden howdah for the first time, also performed well. The five elephants, along with their caretakers, will return to their respective camps in forests, on Wednesday,” he said. “For conducting Dasara celebrations, it was earlier decided that the state government would release Rs 10 crore and Mysuru Urban Development Authority would provide Rs 5 crore. However, all the Dasara events have been conducted with just Rs 10 crore. The details of the expenses would be available by November 1,” the minister said. “Covid tests were ramped up amid Dasara celebrations. Even though there was an increase in the total number of tests, the number of infected persons decreased,” Somashekar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/despite-scaling-down-dasara-held-in-significant-manner-907902.html
27-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||7 held for stealing electronic items from govt schools||The police arrested seven accused, for stealing computers at government schools of various districts, during the lockdown, and have recovered computers and other electronics items worth Rs 61 lakh from them. The arrested are C Ravikumar of Nagamangala taluk, S R Manjunath, S P Nagaraju, C B Hemanthkumar of Mandya taluk, S Y Ramakrishna, B G Venkatesh of Bengaluru, and Sadiq of VV Puram, Mandya. They had allegedly misused the lockdown, to steal the computers. Addressing media persons, Superintendent of Police K Parashuram said that the accused had stolen the computers from the government schools during lockdown and sold them to Ramakrishna and Venkatesh in Bengaluru. The batteries were sold to Sadiq. In all, 160 computers, 16 batteries, three television sets, one washing machine, one weighing machine, two UPS, three copier machines and one printer have been recovered. Two cars and one goods vehicle that were used for the crime have also been recovered, he said. The accused had stolen the goods from Mandya, Mysuru, Ramanagar, Hassan, Tumakuru and Bengaluru districts. With their arrest, 34 theft cases have been busted. The computers stolen at various government schools are worth Rs 54 lakh. Another accused is at large, the SP said. Parashuram also informed that two persons have been arrested in connection with the cheating case, in which women were lured by promising hefty interest for pledging their gold. Gold jewels weighing 2.1 kg is recovered. A probe is being conducted on the complaints lodged by the victims. The case would be handed over to the CID for further probe, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/7-held-for-stealing-electronic-items-from-govt-schools-907906.html
27-10-2020||Karnataka Districts||Uncle held for nephew's murder, contract gang too nabbed||A person from Benadi village in Nippani taluk who had filed a complaint over his nephew going missing since last month has been accused of murdering the 25-year-old by contracting a gang from neighbouring Kolhapur in Maharashtra. Police arrested all the accused on Tuesday. Police said Vishal alias Appaso Patil (25) resident of Benadi in Nippani had gone missing on September 27. His uncle Satish Dadasaheb Patil had filed a missing complaint with the police. Investigating teams subjected Satish for interrogation and he spilt the beans that himself had got Vishal murdered. Satish informed the police that Vishal had become a nuisance in the village and had been demanding subdivision of family property. He suspected that even after giving his share, Vishal would continue to harass him in the future and decided to eliminate him. Satish contacted his friend Amul Prakash Waddar and expressed his desire to get Vishal eliminated and get rid of the "nuisance" he has been facing. Waddar contacted Dilip Parashram Waddar, Babasaheb Pandurang Kamble from Honnali village in Kagal taluk in Kolhapur and Vikas Patil from Khabwade village in Karvir taluk in Kolhapur.   Satish gave them a contract of Rs 6 lakh to eliminate Vishal and gave Rs 1.50 lakh as advance and assured to pay the remaining amount after they completed the task. As per the contract, the gang murdered Vishal by strangulating him on September 27 and dumped his body in ghats at Anadur village in Gaganbawada taluk in Kolhapur district, while his car was discarded near a lake at Junani village in Solapur. Police arrested the main accused and gang that murdered the victim and disposed of his body and car. Cash Rs 2.84 lakh was recovered from them. Nippani Rural police investigated the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/uncle-held-for-nephews-murder-contract-gang-too-nabbed-907920.html
27-10-2020||Karnataka Politics||Who is responsible for 1.5 lakh Covid-19 deaths? asks Siddaramaiah||Hitting back at Union Minister Sadananda Gowda for blaming him and KPCC president DK Shivakumar for the death of senior CPM leader Maruti Manpade, Opposition leader Siddaramaiah questioned who was responsible "for the death of more than 1.5 lakh Indians due to Covid." Speaking at various campaign rallies held at Rajarajeshwari Nagar constituency, he dismissed Gowda's remarks as 'childish'. Gowda on Tuesday accused the Congress of bringing farmers to agitate against Centre's farm reforms, ignoring Covid-19. "Manpade, a farmers' leader, died of Covid and I hold Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar directly responsible for this,” he said, adding they were responsible for spreading Covid because of these protests. "Sadananda Gowda has made a childish remark by saying that Shivakumar and I are responsible for the death of Maruti Manpade. Then who is responsible for the death of more than 1.5 lakh Indians due to Covid19?" he said. He attacked the Prime Ministers Office of taking advantage of Covid-19 to force anti-farmer and anti-labour laws. "Government could have controlled (the) pandemic effectively but instead they chose to use it for their gains. This is the reason for the death of many activists like Maruti Manpade," he added.  2/3||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/who-is-responsible-for-15-lakh-covid-19-deaths-asks-siddaramaiah-907857.html
27-10-2020||Karnataka Politics||MLC polls: BJP aims for 'single largest party tag' in Legislative Council||As many as 2.34 lakh voters will be eligible to exercise their franchise in four Legislative Council constituencies bound for polls on Wednesday, October 28. Ruling BJP will have to win at least two of the four constituencies to be the single largest party at the Council, a position currently held by Congress, which has one MLC more than BJP. Biennial elections are being held for two teachers constituencies - Bangalore Teachers and North East Teachers, and two graduates constituencies - Karnataka West Graduates and Karnataka South East Graduates, in which 40 candidates are in the fray. BJP candidate from Bangalore Teachers' Constituency Puttanna will be seeking re-election for the fourth time, having represented the constituency thrice previously as a JD(S) candidate since 2002. He joined BJP in March this year after JD(S) expelled him for 'anti-party activities' in November 2019. He will be up against Congress's Praveen Peter and JD(S)'s AP Ranaganatha, who are among the nine candidates contesting the polls. Rebel trouble The ruling party, which is striving to strengthen its numbers in the Legislative Council faces a setback in Karnataka South East Graduate constituency, as it had to expel two BJP members from the party for contesting as rebels. DT Srinivas, husband of Hiriyur BJP MLA K Poornima and Halanur Lepakshi were expelled from the party days ahead of the polls by the state unit. The constituency is currently represented by JD(S) MLA R Chowda Reddy Thoopalli. BJP has fielded Chidanand M Gowda for the MLC constituency, while the Congress candidate is former MLC Ramesh Babu. He had switched camps from JD(S) to Congress in September this year, upset with the party for 'depriving him of opportunities' to enter the Legislative Council. Karnataka West Graduates Constituency has 11 candidates in the fray, where sitting MLC from BJP Sankanur SV is contesting against RM Kuberappa from Congress and KS Channappa from JD(S). Noted Kannada activist Vatal Nagaraj is a candidate from Kannada Chalavali Vatal Paksha from North East Teacher's Constituency, which was represented by Congress's Sharanappa Mattur in the previous term. BJP has fielded Shashil G Namoshi and JD(S) Timmayya Purle. Opposition Congress is the single largest party in the Legislative Council currently with 28 MLCs (plus chairman), followed by BJP which has 27. There are 14 JD(S) MLCs and one independent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/mlc-polls-bjp-aims-for-single-largest-party-tag-in-legislative-council-907917.html
27-10-2020||Main Article||Bihar Assembly Election: Criminals on the ballot||In September 2018, a five-judge constitution bench that included the Chief Justice of India, pronounced an important verdict on criminals in politics. The Supreme Court was hearing a batch of petitions seeking disqualification of candidates who have pending criminal cases. One of these petitions was a PIL filed by the Public Interest Foundation of India (PIF) back in 2011. The director of PIF had written these words, even before the results of the 2014 elections were announced. "The next government will face the challenge of curbing corruption...It must be remembered that the government will be on probation as its performance would be critically tracked by a very vibrant civil society and media." That director was later handpicked to become the Principal Secretary to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2014. The PIF petition had asked for the removal of criminals from the ballot choices. This was the petition that was disposed of by the Supreme Court in 2018. But its verdict stopped short, unfortunately, of disqualifying tainted candidates.  The central government, which was a defendant in the suit, firmly opposed the petition, saying that legislating a new disqualification was not in the domain of the court; it was for Parliament to pass such a law. Besides, the Centre used the old argument that a person is innocent until proven guilty and cannot be deprived of the right to vote, or the right to contest elections merely based on criminal charges. The court expressed helplessness, and not for the first time. But the court did ask political parties and candidates to widely publicise their criminal records, “at least three times in newspapers and TV channels” after filing nomination papers. Two years later, the Supreme Court was again hearing a contempt petition, that its 2018 order was being completely ignored by political parties. This time, even the Election Commission joined the PIL and asked the court to make political parties strictly liable for the disclosure of criminal cases of their candidates. The EC is itself toothless, of course, in disqualifying tainted candidates.  This time, too, the apex court passed a harsh order, asking parties and candidates to widely publicise criminal histories in local as well as national newspapers, as well as on social media, including Twitter and Facebook. The published material needs to have all details of the alleged offense, charges framed, etc. And most importantly, the political party has to explain why the candidate was chosen despite the criminal taint. Merely saying that the candidate is winnable is not enough. And all this has to be done within 48 hours after the last date for withdrawal of nominations. The Bihar Assembly election is the first in which this 2020 order of the Supreme Court is being tested. In the first phase, in which 71 out of 243 MLAs will be selected, 1,066 are in the fray. Of these, 31% have criminal cases against them. If you look at the data party-wise, 73% of the candidates of RJD, 72% of BJP, 59% of the LJP, 57% of Congress, 43% of JD(U) and 31% of BSP have criminal cases, among the major parties. It looks like the percentages of tainted candidates keeps going up with every election, just like the cut-off marks for admissions to Delhi University colleges. Prima facie, the observance of the Supreme Court order is more in the breach. The EC has specified a format (Form 7) for declaring a candidate’s criminal record: the form must list details as to why the party chose a tainted candidate. Most parties and candidates have written that the candidate’s chances of winning are high. On this, the parties might actually be totally truthful. But this shows the impunity with which the Supreme Court and the EC’s orders are being flouted. There does not seem to be even an iota of effort to give tickets to candidates with “clean” resumes. Can voters punish the tainted candidates? Unfortunately, this is not so easy. In the first phase of Bihar polls, 61 out of 71 constituencies are “red alert” ones, meaning each of these has at least three or more candidates who have criminal records. So, the choice for the voter is between one alleged criminal and another. It has been seen by researchers that tainted candidates win, despite their image, perhaps partly because of their ability to raise resources to fund their own elections. No wonder the parties are quoting “winnability” as the reason in Form 7, to justify their choice of candidate. In the first phase, more than one-third of all candidates are millionaires. Among the major parties, nearly 80% are crorepatis. Since moneyed “bahubalis” have a higher chance of winning, the ratio of tainted legislators is almost double that among the candidates. This trend of criminality among lawmakers is relentlessly going up. The share of Members of Parliament who have criminal cases against them, has also gone up from 24% in 2004, to 30% in 2009, 34% in 2014 and is now at an alarming 43%, as of 2019. These cases are not only about offenses like loitering, breaking a curfew or defamation, but even serious cases like rape, murder, theft, kidnapping, assault and extortion.  Even if you consider only serious criminal charges such as these, 29% of the current MPs have them, and this proportion is the highest in the past 16 years. Among the MPs, the proportion of crorepatis has gone up from 30% in 2004 to 88% in 2019. The Supreme Court through its 2020 order thought that perhaps by shaming the parties, it could put some restraint on the rising trend of criminality among candidates. But this is clearly not visible so far in the Bihar Assembly elections. And going by the trend of the past 16 years, it is unlikely to change. The only hope, apart from fast-tracking cases, is to disqualify tainted candidates from contesting. This can be done by amending the Representation of the People Act, 1951. Those who are tainted and desirous of being in public service can surely clear their name in a court of law before contesting elections. Will the lawmakers take up this challenge to cleanse the political system? (The writer is an economist and Senior Fellow, Takshashila Institution) (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/bihar-assembly-election-criminals-on-the-ballot-907452.html
27-10-2020||Mysuru||Need research on curse against Mysuru royals: minister||Minister for Kannada and Culture C T Ravi, on Monday, said that there is a need for more research on Alamelamma’s curse on Mysuru Royal family. He was speaking after releasing books, Archaeological Excavation at Talakad Vol-II, Buddhist Art and Culture in Karnataka, Hampi Splendour That was, Mysuru Dasara the State Festival, Karnataka a Garden of Architecture, brought out by the Department of Archaeology Museums and Heritage, here. Ravi said, it is believed that Talakadu turned a barren land, Malangi turned into a whirlpool and Wadiyars of Mysuru did not have children due to Alamelamma's curse. Adoption of children in the Wadiyars family is still in practice. It is a challenge for science. There is a need for a detailed research and the study on spiritual energy and the curse, he said. Ravi said, “Macaulay educational system created inferiority among us. It is not right to follow his education policy. Macaulay's education policy created the illusion that civilization, knowledge; science has come from Western countries. Temples, which are engraved in the shape of rockets and aeroplanes, are scientific proofs of our science".||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/need-research-on-curse-against-mysuru-royals-minister-907471.html
27-10-2020||Mysuru||Dasara jatre at MM Hills, sans devotees||Dasara jatre at Male Mahadeshwara Hills, Hanur taluk, Chamarajanagar district, was scaled down this year, in the wake of Covid pandemic. The celebrations were held in a simple manner, but as per tradition. The district administration had restricted the entry of devotees to the temple, during the three-day Dasara festival. Except for MM Hill Development Authority employees, security and police, only a handful of people were seen at the temple. Vehicles and devotees were stopped at Talabetta itself. Moreover, as the authorities had informed well in advance, there were no devotees. Only a few, who had come in vehicles, along with family members, were sent back from Talabetta. The three-day jatra used to draw lakhs of people, to the hill temple, every year. Special pujas were held on Ayudha puja day, on October 25, for Mahadeshwara Swamy and Veerabhadraswamy. The idols were placed in a golden chariot and taken out in a procession within the temple precincts. Only a handful of people were present to pull the chariot. Special pujas were also held on Vijayadashami, on Monday. The locals, who have stalls near the temples had no business, due to the restrictions. Madappa, a shopkeeper, said, this was the first year they had the darshan of the deity during the festival. “We do not get an opportunity to visit the temple during fairs and festivals, as we are busy in business. This year, we could visit the temple, as there are no devotees,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/dasara-jatre-at-mm-hills-sans-devotees-907472.html
27-10-2020||Mysuru||‘Trouble shooter’ successfully carries golden howdah||The 54-year-old Dasara veteran Abhimanyu successfully completed Jamboo Savari by carrying 750-kg golden howdah, on the premises of Mysuru Palace, on Monday. Abhimanyu carried golden howdah for the first time and was accompanied by kumki elephants ‘Vijaya’ and ‘Kaveri’. The Jamboo Savari commenced at 3.55 pm after Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa showered flowers on the idol of goddess Chamundeshwari, on the golden howdah, during the auspicious Kumbha lagna. The Jamboo Savari was limited to the Palace premises due to the outbreak of Covid-19. The usual vijayadashami procession is between the Palace and Bannimantap Grounds, covering nearly 5 kilometres. Abhimanyu has earned the nickname ‘AK 47’ for his do-or-die attitude in rescue and combing operations of rogue elephants and ‘Troubleshooter’ for the Forest department. He is also compared to the Abhimanyu of the ancient Indian epic Mahabharata, for his dare-devil attitude, by thecaretakers. Though Abhimanyu has been part of Mysuru Dasara from the last two decades, he played the lead role for the first time. Until last year, he was pulling ‘Ane Gaadi’ during the procession, in which the Police band performed. In addition, he was carrying the wooden replica of howdah, during the SrirangapatnaDasara. The tusker, which was captured in Hebballa Forest in Kodagu district in 1977, is the favourite among the forest officials for any combing or rescue operations. He is also considered the most dependable tusker to capture rogue elephants. Abhimanyu has special skills to round up wild elephants and the vets rely on him to dart and administer medicines to the jumbos during operation. Elephant Drona carried the howdah for 18 years, Balarama for 13 years and Abhimanyu’s predecessor Arjuna carried golden howdah for nine times till 2019 and was given retirement as it had crossed 60-years. According to the Forest department authorities, Abhimanyu completed the task without any fear. “We were confident about his performance,” said Veterinarian Dr D N Nagaraj, who takes care of Abhimanyu. Expressing happiness mahout Vasanth said, “Abhimanyu has made me proud. I am here because of him. Abhimanyu completed his task without any hassle,” he said. Vasanth said, Abhimanyu has been participating in Dasara from the last 21 years and his experience made him to complete the task easily. The Forest department officials expressed gratitude to Vasanth’s father Sanappa, also the first mahout of Abhimanyu, for imparting him good training. The tuskers never fail to follow his master’s command, even during musth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/trouble-shooter-successfully-carries-golden-howdah-907475.html
27-10-2020||Mysuru||Vijayadashami procession amidst tight security||The Vijayadashami procession, the last leg of Mysuru Dasara, was held successfully amidst tight security. The City Police intensified the security in and around Mysuru Palace where Jamboo Savari was held. Only 300 people were allowed for the event due to outbreak of Covid-19. Though a few people’s representatives had brought their family members, the Police did not allow them to enter the Palace premises.    City Police had deputed additional staff at all the four gates of the Palace - Varaha, Balarama, Karikal Thotti and Jayamarthanda and only limited persons wereallowed. The City Police Commissioner Chandragupta had issued orders prohibiting vehicle movement on the roads near the Palace. The sniffer dog squad, five teams of bomb detection and disposal squad inspected the Palace premises. The Police Commissioner had clamped prohibitory orders under section 144 around the Palace premises. Deputy Commissioner of Police A N Prakash Gowda said, as many as 535 police constables, 30 PSI and CPI, commando force, 10 KSRP battalion were deputed for security.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/vijayadashami-procession-amidst-tight-security-907476.html
27-10-2020||Mysuru||Vatal protests against restricting Jamboo Savari to Palace||Police took Kannada Chaluvali Vatal Paksha president Vatal Nagaraj into their custody for protesting against the district administration's decision of restricting Jamboo Savari for Mysuru Palace premises, on Monday. The Police took Nagaraj into custody near Town Hall, where he was staging a protest. Nagaraj criticised the state government for confining the Jamboo Savari to the Palace premises. Charging Chief Minister Yediyurappa for not allowing common people to be a part of the celebration Vatal said, the government could have allowed one lakh people to watch the procession by taking precautionary measures. The government has failed to control the spread of Covid-19, he blamed. Laskhar Police, who took him into custody released him later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/vatal-protests-against-restricting-jamboo-savari-to-palace-907483.html
27-10-2020||Mysuru||Foot-in-mouth moment? Somashekar calls CM B S Yediyurappa a 'villain'||Karnataka's Cooperation Minister S T Somashekar on Tuesday had a foot-in-mouth moment as he accidentally called Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa a "villain" while addressing media persons. However, he quickly apologised for the slip of his tongue and said, “What I meant to say is that those who cause problems to the government are villains. I meant to say that 'the CM is a hero'." His slip of the tongue was in response to a question by media persons. “Former CM Kumaraswamy says ex-CM Siddaramaiah is a villain. Siddaramaiah says he is not a villain, but a hero. Is Siddaramaiah a hero or a villain?”  To this, he replied, “Neither of them is villain, Yediyurappa is the villain”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/foot-in-mouth-moment-somashekar-calls-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-a-villain-907677.html
27-10-2020||National||2016 train accident: Panel finds welding fault but adds caveat: wait for the NIA sabotage probe||Five years after a train accident in UP claimed 152 lives, a railway safety probe agency said it is not possible to call the mishap a "sabotage" till the NIA investigation is complete, even as it listed sudden mechanical failure, severe corrosion and poor welding among possible reasons for the derailment. The derailment of 19321 DN Indore-Rajendra Nagar Express on November 20, 2016 near Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh was one of the worst railway accidents. The case was handed over to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) after doubts were raised over a possible "terror angle" in the incident. "The accident of Train no.19321 DN (Indore-Rajendra Nagar Express) at Km-12907/8 16 between Pokhrayan Malasa Section located on Jhansi-Kanpur single line Section (Electrified) of Jhansi Division of N.C. Railway at 03.02 hours on 20.11.2016 is being investigated by NIA, New Delhi...report of their investigation has not been submitted to the CRS, Eastern Circle, Kolkata so far. "Railway Board has also not forwarded any report of investigation by NIA to CRS, Eastern Circle, Kolkata so far. Hence, it is not possible to conclude the cause of the accident...," the report says. The Commission of Railway Safety (CRS), which reports to the Ministry of Civil Aviation, has, however, listed the probable causes of the accident. It says while the NIA is probing the case from the "sabotage angle", no report has so far been submitted either by the premier investigation agency or by the Railway Board regarding the findings of the NIA. Among the probable causes, the CRS has discussed "rail fracture" -- which it itself has ruled out because "four trains have passed before this train in preceding about one hour and no abnormality/jerk/sound" was reported by any of those. The report has indicated that one of the most probable reasons for the derailment could be a sudden mechanical failure. It says according to a metallurgical report submitted by the RDSO, Lucknow and the National Metallurgical Laboratory, Jamshedpur, the condition of the S-1 coach was very bad. The S-2 and B-3 coaches also suffered heavy damage, the report says, adding that the S-1 and S-2 coaches took off from the track, "becoming projectile at high speed", and fell on the B-3 coach, resulting in very high casualties in these coaches. It happened in a matter of seconds at "2:58:01 hours", which indicates that it was a "sudden derailment and capsizing of coaches but not a gradual derailment by wheel climbing", the report says. It further points out that the S-1 coach, which had "severe corrosion, old breakage and a poor quality of welding", got worked out after the passing of the Pokhrayan station and fell down while on the run when it reached a speed of 106 kmph, and the "head stock embedded in track, causing intense obstruction to the movement of coaches behind S-1". The accident became a high-profile case after the then railway minister Suresh Prabhu, suspecting sabotage, wrote to Rajnath Singh, who was the home minister at the time, demanding a high-level investigation into it in January, 2017. The home ministry had then forwarded the case to the NIA to probe the sabotage angle. Even Prime Minister Narendra Modi, at an election rally, had said the accident was a "cross-border conspiracy". "The office of the CRS is an independent institutional mechanism and does not report to the Railway Board. Since the matter is still under investigation, it would not be proper to share the details. "The railways would only be able to make any comment on the completion of a full investigation by other national authorities," a spokesperson of the national transporter said, on being asked about the CRS report. It may be noted that during the last few years, the railways has taken extensive maintenance, technological and management measures to reduce the number of accidents of passenger trains, the spokesperson said. "This has resulted in a historic zero passenger death due to railway accidents over the last 18 months. The railways has moved very aggressively and swiftly to ensure higher passenger safety standards all across its network," the spokesperson added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2016-train-accident-panel-finds-welding-fault-but-adds-caveat-wait-for-the-nia-sabotage-probe-907432.html
27-10-2020||National||Male govt employees entitled to child care leave as single parents: Jitendra Singh||Union minister Jitendra Singh on Monday said male government employees who are single parents are now entitled to child care leave. "Single male parent" includes employees who are unmarried or widower or divorcee and may therefore be expected to take up the responsibility of caring for a child single-handedly, he said. Describing it as a path-breaking and progressive reform to bring ease of living for government servants, Singh said orders regarding the decision were issued quite some time back but somehow did not get enough traction in public domain. In further relaxation, the minister of state for personnel said an employee on child care leave may now leave the headquarters with the prior approval of the competent authority, according to an official statement. In addition, the Leave Travel Concession (LTC) may be availed by the employee even if he is on child care leave, he added. The child care leave can be granted at 100 per cent of leave salary for the first 365 days and 80 per cent of leave salary for the next 365 days, Singh said in the statement issued by the personnel ministry. Based on inputs received over a period of time, he said another welfare measure introduced in this regard is that in case of a disabled child, the condition of availing child care leave up to the age of 22 years of the child has been removed. Now child care leave can be availed by a government servant for a disabled child of any age, he added. With the personal intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his special emphasis on governance reforms, Singh said, it has been possible to make several out-of-the-box decisions in the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) over the last six years. The basic purpose behind all these decisions has always been to enable a government employee to contribute to the maximum of his potential, although at the same time there will be no leniency or tolerance towards corruption or non-performance, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/male-govt-employees-entitled-to-child-care-leave-as-single-parents-jitendra-singh-907433.html
27-10-2020||National||DH Toon | Over-riding China the only way, says RSS chief||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Sunday said India needs to be more powerful than China in terms of military preparedness, adding the world is aware of that country's expansionist designs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-over-riding-china-the-only-way-says-rss-chief-907515.html
27-10-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on October 27||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected over 79 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On September 6, India topped Brazil's coronavirus tally and now has the world's second-highest number of Covid-19 cases. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:   Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  79,81,796 as of October 27   States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  119,941 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->  
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> No. of people discharged: 72,01,070      Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-october-27-907519.html
27-10-2020||National||Speak Out: October 27, 2020||During his rally on the last day of campaigning ahead of polling in the BIhar Assembly Elections, RJD leader and Mahagathbandhan CM candidate Tejashwi Yadav brought into question CM Nitish Kumar's work and asked why he should be given another chance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/speak-out-october-27-2020-907559.html
27-10-2020||National||With 36,470 infections, India's daily Covid-19 cases decline sharply; lowest in over 3 months||The number of coronavirus cases reported in India in a span of 24 hours dropped below 40,000 after over three months, while the new fatalities  registered during the same period remained under 500, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. India's Covid-19 caseload mounted to 79,46,429, with 36,470 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 1,19,502 with 488 new fatalities being recorded, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 72,01,070 people have recuperated from Covid-19 so far, pushing the  national recovery rate to 90.62 per cent while the case fatality rate stands at 1.50 per cent.  The number of active cases of coronavirus infection has remained below 7 lakh for five days in a row. There are 6,25,857 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country as on date which comprises 7.88 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.    India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, the 30-lakh mark on August 23 and 40 lakh cases on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16,  60 lakh cases on September 28 and crossed 70 lakh on October 11. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 10,44,20,894 samples have been tested up to October 24 with 9,58,116 samples being tested on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-36470-infections-indias-daily-covid-19-cases-decline-sharply-lowest-in-over-3-months-907560.html
27-10-2020||National||China's aggression on agenda as India, US hold 2+2 dialogue||China’s aggressive moves along its disputed boundary with India and its belligerence elsewhere in the Indo-Pacific region was on the agenda as External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh joined the US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Secretary of Defence Mark Esper for the 2+2 dialogue. Pompeo said at the beginning of the meeting that the US had “a lot” to discuss with India, including ways to “confront” the “threat” posed by the Communist Party of China to “security and freedom” as well as “to promote peace and stability in the region”. With the Indian Army resisting the aggressive moves by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the two nations – in eastern Ladakh, Jaishankar avoided directly referring to the communist country but did send out a subtle message to Xi Jinping’s regime in Beijing. He said that India and the US could make a real difference when it comes to promoting respect for the territorial integrity of the nations. “At a time when it is particularly important to uphold a rules-based international order, the ability of India and the US to work closely in defence and foreign policy has a larger resonance,” said the External Affairs Minister Jaishankar. “Together, we can make a real difference when it comes to regional and global challenges, whether it is in respecting territorial integrity, promoting maritime domain awareness, countering terrorism or ensuring prosperity.” The third India-US 2+2 dialogue was the last engagement between New Delhi and Donald Trump’s administration in Washington D.C. before the final day of voting for the presidential elections in America on November 3. What added to the significance of the India-US high-level talks was that it was held amid growing belligerence of China – not only along its disputed boundary with India but also in the South China Sea, East China Sea, Taiwan Strait and elsewhere in the region. India and the US will sign the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA) on the side-line of the bilateral 2+2 dialogue on Tuesday. The agreement will enable the exchange of geo-spatial information between the two countries, enhancing the operational efficiency of the US defence platforms being operated by India. The two sides, according to the sources, are also discussing an agreement on maritime domain awareness cooperation – a pact, which will institutionalise sharing of information bilaterally on potential sea-borne security threats and thus will help keep watch on the activities of the Chinese PLA Navy in Indo-Pacific region. Pompeo and Esper had separate meetings with Jaishankar and Singh soon after arriving in New Delhi on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinas-aggression-on-agenda-as-india-us-hold-22-dialogue-907606.html
27-10-2020||National||Hathras rape case: SC asks Allahabad HC to monitor CBI probe||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to monitor itself the CBI probe into the Hathras case of an alleged gang-rape of a 19-year-old Dalit girl, saying the Allahabad High Court was already looking into all aspects of the matter. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said all issues including security of the victim's family and witnesses would be considered by the High Court. The top court passed its judgement on a batch of PILs led by Satyama Dubey. With regard to plea for shifting the case out of Uttar Pradesh, the court said the issue is kept open and would be considered if required, once the CBI probe is complete. Notably, the High Court had taken Suo Motu cognisance of the matter after reports emerged that district administration forcefully the cremated body of the victim without the presence of family members. During the hearing then, the victim's family sought transfer of trial to Delhi, the accused sought a restraint order on discussing evidence in the matter and the Uttar Pradesh government agreed to provide security to the girl's family by central police. The Uttar Pradesh government faced flak on alleged lapses of officials in cremating the victim's body on the night of September 29-30. Four accused were arrested in the September 15 incident. The state government had earlier asked the court to allow the CBI to continue the probe under its own supervision into the incident. In an affidavit, the state government listed out steps taken for security and protection provided to the family members of the girl, which included the deployment of armed constabulary, civil police and personal security and installation of eight CCTV cameras.  The case, which drew country-wide outrage has been referred by the Uttar Pradesh government to the CBI, which has already started its probe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hathras-rape-case-sc-asks-allahabad-hc-to-monitor-cbi-probe-907617.html
27-10-2020||National||Mike Pompeo says US, India must focus on threat posed by China||The United States and India must work together to confront the threat posed by China to security and freedom, US Secretary Mike Pompeo said on Tuesday as he prepared for talks with Indian leaders. Pompeo arrived in New Delhi on Monday along with Defense Secretary Mark Esper for an annual strategic dialogue at a time of heightened tension in the region, with Indian troops confronting Chinese forces on their disputed Himalayan border. "Today is a new opportunity for two great democracies like ours to grow closer," Pompeo said before the talks with Indian Foreign Minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, "There is much more work to do for sure. We have a lot to discuss today: Our cooperation on the pandemic that originated in Wuhan, to confronting the Chinese Communist Party’s threats to security and freedom to promoting peace and stability throughout the region.” US President Donald Trump has made being tough on China a key part of his campaign to secure a second term in next week's presidential election and Pompeo has been trying to bolster allies to counter China's growing influence in the region. India has its own problems with a more assertive China. In June, 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a clash with Chinese troops on their high-altitude border, hardening the mood in India against China and driving Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government to seek closer military ties with the United States. This month, India invited Australia to join naval drills it holds each year with the United States and Japan, brushing off Chinese concerns that the exercises destabilise the region. "Our focus now must be on institutionalising and regularising our cooperation to meet the challenges of the day and uphold the principles of a free and open Indo-Pacific well into the future," Esper said. The two sides will later on Tuesday sign a military agreement that will give India access to advanced US satellite and map data for better accuracy of its missiles and drones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mike-pompeo-says-us-india-must-focus-on-threat-posed-by-china-907629.html
27-10-2020||National||Poor people were blamed for wrongdoings of those involved in scams, BJP govt acknowledged their honesty: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said his government has acknowledged the honesty and hard work of street vendors by offering them loans that were inaccessible to the poor in the past. Addressing beneficiaries of the PM Street Vendor's AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) Scheme in Uttar Pradesh via video conferencing, he said those involved in scams had blamed the poor for their wrongdoings. "Those doing politics in the name of poor had created an atmosphere that if a loan is given to them it would not be returned. Those who had themselves been involved in scams had always put the blame of all dishonest things on the poor, but I have always been saying that the poor of the country have never compromised with honesty and self respect," Modi said. He said today loans have been given to street vendors and they are repaying them in time. “Through the PM SVANidhi Yojna the poor have once again presented the example of its honesty before the country. The street vendors of UP are repaying it through their hard work besides earning their livelihood. This is the will power and hard work and honesty,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/poor-people-were-blamed-for-wrongdoings-of-those-involved-in-scams-bjp-govt-acknowledged-their-honesty-pm-907650.html
27-10-2020||National||India, US sign Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement||India and the US on Tuesday inked a landmark defence agreement that will allow sharing of high-end military technology, classified satellite data and critical information between the two countries. The signing of the long-negotiated Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA) during the third edition of the 2+2 dialogue between the two strategic partners also signals further boosting of bilateral defence and military ties and it comes in the backdrop of India's tense border standoff with China in eastern Ladakh. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajath Singh held the talks with US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Defence Secretary Mark T Esper. Both sides were assisted by their top military and security officials. In the 2+2 dialogue, the two sides deliberated on a host of critical issues including ways to further expand the already close relationship between the militaries of the two countries as well as broader issues of mutual interest in the Indo-Pacific region. The inking of the BECA completes finalisation of four key pacts between the two countries which were identified as crucial to significantly expand the strategic ties. A key pact called General Security of Military Information Agreement (GSOMIA) was signed by the two countries in 2002. The GSOMIA provides for specific measures to ensure security standards for safeguarding critical information shared by the US with India. In a major move in 2016, the US had designated India a "Major Defence Partner" intending to elevate defence trade and technology sharing  to a level commensurate with that of its closest allies and partners. The two countries inked the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) in 2016 that allows their militaries use each other's bases for repair and replenishment of supplies as well as provide for deeper cooperation. India and the US signed another pact called COMCASA (Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement) in 2018 that provides for interoperability between the two militaries and provides for sale of high end technology from the US to India. About BECA, officials said the agreement will give India access to classified geo-spatial data as well as critical information having significant military applications from the US.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-sign-basic-exchange-and-cooperation-agreement-907657.html
27-10-2020||National||Hizbul chief, Bhatkal brothers, Chhota Shakeel among 18 designated terrorists||Hizbul Mujahideen chief Syed Salahudeen, Indian Mujahideen founders Bhatkal brothers -- Riyaz and Iqbal -- and Dawood aide Chhota Shakeel are among 18 people who were designated 'terrorists' on Tuesday under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967. With this, there are 31 people who are designated terrorists and added in the fourth schedule of the amended UAPA. Earlier in September last year, four people, including Lashkar-e-Taiba chief Hafiz Sayeed and underworld don Dawood Ibrahim, and on July 1 this year, nine Sikhs involved in Khalistan movement were declared terrorists. The latest notification also includes two hijackers -- Ibrahim Athar and Yusuf Azhar -- of Indian Airlines plane in 1999 and Ibrahim Memon, who is based in Pakistan and wanted in the 1993 Mumbai blasts case. Athar is also a key conspirator in the 2001 Parliament attack case. "Reinforcing the commitment of strengthening national security and its policy of zero tolerance to terrorism, the Modi government today has declared 18 more individuals as designated terrorists under the provisions of the UAPA. These individuals are involved in various acts of terrorism from across the border and have been relentless in their nefarious efforts of destabilizing the country," an official statement said. Among the 18, there are four LeT terrorists, including Hafiz Sayeed's brother-in-law Abdur Rehman Makki, who heads the outfit's political affairs department. Makki also served as the head of LeT's foreign relations department. Sajid Mir, a Pakistan-based LeT Commander and one of the main planners of 26/11 Mumbai terror attack, and Yusuf Muzammil accused in 26/11 as well as LeT frontal organisation Falah-i-lnsaniyat Foundation Deputy Chief Shahid Mehmood also figure in the list. Abdul Rauf Asghar, involved in the setting up of training camps in Pakistan for recruitment and militant training and Key conspirator in the Parliament attack case, and Shahid Latif, Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed Commander of Sialkot sector who is involved in the launching of JeM terrorists into India, are also named among the 18. Besides Salahudeen, the Supreme Commander of Hizb-ul-Mujahideen and Chairman of United Jihad Council (UJC) Involved in fundraising and routing finances to India for the furtherance of terrorist activities, the outfit's Deputy Supreme Commander Ghulam Nabi Khan and Deputy Chief Zaffar Hussain Bhat also figure in the list. Bhat is the Pakistan-based Deputy Chief of the Hizb and handles financial affairs and responsible for sending funds for its operatives in the Kashmir Valley. Riyaz Bhatkal and Iqbal Bhatkal are identified as founders of terror outfit Indian Mujahideen. According to the notification, Riyaz is involved in various terrorist acts in India including German Bakery (2010), Chinnaswami Stadium, Bengaluru (2010), Jama Masjid (2010), Sheetlaghat (2010) and Mumbai (2011). Iqbal is involved in terror financing and various terrorist acts including Jaipur Serial Blasts (2008), Delhi Serial Blasts (2008), Serial Blasts of Ahmedabad and Surat (2008), German Bakery Blast, Pune of (2010) and Chinnaswami Stadium blast. Shakeel, the Pakistan-based associate of Dawood, looks after all criminal and underworld operations of D-company as well as finances D-company operatives of India. He is also involved in the smuggling of firearms to Gujarat during 1993 before the Mumbai blasts. Three others involved in the 1993 Mumbai blasts case and also linked to Dawood are also named in the list. It includes Mohammad Anis Shaikh, who was responsible for the supply of arms, ammunition and hand grenades. Memon, who hatched the criminal conspiracy, and Javed Chikna.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hizbul-chief-bhatkal-brothers-chhota-shakeel-among-18-designated-terrorists-907678.html
27-10-2020||National||SC extends time to complete trial against Tarun Tejpal in rape case||The Supreme Court on Tuesday granted time extension for a Goa court by three months to complete the trial in a rape case against Tehelka's former editor Tarun Tejpal. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah extended the deadline from December 31, 2020 to March, 2021. The top court had on August 19, 2019 directed the Goa court to conclude the trial at the earliest within a period of six months, saying the case lodged in 2013 by then female employee of Tehelka magazine was already delayed. The court had also said there was sufficient material against Tejpal for his trial in the case. In October, this year, the police sought permission for an extension of time for completing the trial in the case. The state government led by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta also sought permission for cross-examination of the victim-girl through video conferencing as she had lung infection and weary of travel during the Covid-19 pandemic. Tejpal was represented by senior advocate Kapil Sibal and advocate Farrukh Rasheed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-extends-time-to-complete-trial-against-tarun-tejpal-in-rape-case-907684.html
27-10-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown in containment zones to continue till Nov 30; no e-permit needed for inter-state travel: MHA||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Tuesday extended the guidelines for reopening to further ease Covid-19 restrictions issued for October till November 30, saying the essence behind the decision is to "move ahead" but warned that it did not mean the end of the pandemic. The MHA said there is a need to exercise abundant caution by adopting Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and referred to the 'Jan Andolan' launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi October 8 to follow three 'mantras' -- wear your mask properly, wash your hands frequently and maintain a safe distance of six feet. "The essence behind graded re-opening and progressive resumption of activities is to move ahead. However, it does not mean the end of the pandemic. There is a need to exercise abundant caution by adopting Covid-19 appropriate behaviour by every citizen in their daily routine," an official statement said. It said there was an urgent need to instil a sense of discipline and ownership amongst citizens in order that the resumption of activities is successful and gains made in the management of the pandemic are not diluted. The MHA has already advised Chief Secretaries and Administrators of states and Union Territories that they should endeavour to promote Covid-19 appropriate behaviour extensively at the grass-root level and take measures to enforce the wearing of masks, hand hygiene and social distancing. The 'reopening' guidelines issued on September 30 had allowed states the flexibility to decide on reopening schools after October 15 while cinema theatres, entertainment parks and business to business (B2B) exhibitions were also allowed to function from the same date. The “reopening” guidelines had virtually opened up the whole country and also further relaxed restrictions on religious, political, social and other gatherings by entirely lifting the cap of 100 people after October 15. However, in closed spaces, a maximum of 50% hall capacity will be allowed with a ceiling of 200 persons. International air travel other than those permitted by the government will also continue to remain suspended. Lockdown in containment zones will continue till October 31. The guidelines are no more called “unlock guidelines”, which were issued for months since June, but “re-opening” guidelines, with the government indicating that most of the restrictions have been lifted except in containment zones. It had also allowed the opening of cinemas, theatres and multiplexes outside containment zones from October 15 but with 50% capacity. Entertainment parks and similar places, as well as swimming pools used for training of sportspersons, will be allowed to open from October 15. Business to Business (B2B) exhibitions will also return from mid-October, in a boost to the sector. The guidelines also reiterated its warning to states against imposing local lockdown and if a state wants to impose local lockdown outside containment zones – state-wide, district, sub-district or city level --  it will have to consult the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-in-containment-zones-to-continue-till-nov-30-no-e-permit-needed-for-inter-state-travel-mha-907705.html
27-10-2020||National||Pankaja Munde booked for violating prohibitory orders at rally||A case has been registered against BJP leader Pankaja Munde and 40 to 50 others for allegedly violating prohibitory orders during her rally at Sawargaon in Maharashtra's Beed district, police said on Tuesday. Munde visited Bhagwan Bhakti Gad in Sawargaon on October 25 and addressed an online Dussehra rally from there. An offence has been registered at Amalner police station against Pankaja Munde, Rajya Sabha MP Dr Bhagwat Karad, MLAs Monica Rajale and Megnana Bordikar and others who attended the rally, an official said. "Only five persons had been permitted to be present and prohibitory orders had been enforced in the district. The rules were violated, which is why the offence was registered under section 188 (disobeying an order issued by a public servant) and other provisions of the IPC and Disaster Management Act," the official told. Meanwhile, reacting to the development on Monday night, Munde tweeted, "I went to Bhagwan Bhati Gad after obtaining necessary permission and now this offence has been registered. After BJP workers, now the session of registering offences has reached me."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pankaja-munde-booked-for-violating-prohibitory-orders-at-rally-907706.html
27-10-2020||National||US vows to stand with India as they deepen defence cooperation amid Chinese aggression||The United States vowed to stand with India to help it deal with “any threat” to its sovereignty, even as the two nations had a high-level dialogue in New Delhi on Tuesday, amid the stand-off between Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in eastern Ladakh. China’s “reckless aggression” along its disputed boundary with India in eastern Ladakh topped the agenda, as External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh hosted the US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Secretary of Defence Mark Esper for the 2+2 dialogue in New Delhi. Pompeo and Esper conveyed to Jaishankar and Singh that the US would always stand with India to protect its sovereignty and territorial integrity in the wake of the challenges posed by China. India and the US also signed the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA) on the side-line of the 2+2 dialogue on Tuesday. The agreement, which will institutionalize sharing of geospatial information, was the last in a series of “foundational pacts” India and the US inked since 2016 to step up bilateral defence cooperation. The signing of the agreement formally elevated the defence cooperation between India and the US to a new level. The two nations also signed four more pacts on the side-line of the 2+2 dialogue, including one for technical cooperation in earth observations and earth sciences. A couple of hours before holding the 2+2 dialogue with Jaishankar and Singh in the Hyderabad House in New Delhi, Pompeo and Esper also sent out a subtle message to the Xi Jinping’s regime in Beijing by visiting the National War Memorial of India “to honour the brave men and women of the Indian Armed Forces, who have sacrificed for the largest democracy of the world, including the 20, who were killed by the (Chinese) PLA forces in Galwan Valley in June (on June 15)”. “The US will stand with India as they confront threats to their sovereignty and to their liberty,” said Pompeo, as he and Esper joined Singh and Jaishankar in a press conference after the dialogue. “Our leaders and our citizens see with increasing clarity that the Chinese Communist Party is no friend to democracy, the rule of law, transparency nor the freedom of navigation, the foundation of a free and open and prosperous Indo-Pacific.” Singh earlier said at the beginning of the 2+2 dialogue that India was being challenged by “reckless aggression” on its northern borders. He was obviously referring to the unilateral moves by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to push the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the two nations – westward and transgress into the territory of India. Jaishankar avoided directly referring to the communist country but said that India and the US could make a real difference when it comes to promoting respect for territorial integrity of the nations. He later told journalists that the Indo-Pacific region was a particular focus of the 2+2 talks on Tuesday. “We reiterated the importance of peace, stability and prosperity for all countries in this region...This is possible only by upholding the rules based international order, ensuring the freedom of navigation in the international seas, promoting open connectivity and respecting the territorial integrity and sovereignty of all states,” said the External Affairs Minister. “A multi-polar world must have a multi-polar Asia as its basis.” Jaishankar and Pompeo earlier this month joined their Australian and Japanese counterparts, Marise Payne and Motegi Toshimitsu, in Tokyo for the second annual ministerial meeting of the ‘Quad’ – an informal coalition of the four nations to contain China. The India-US 2+2 dialogue on Tuesday took place eight months after Prime Minister Narendra Modi hosted American President Donald Trump in Ahmedabad and New Delhi. It was the last engagement between New Delhi and the Trump Administration in Washington D.C. before the final day of voting for the presidential elections in America on November 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-vows-to-stand-with-india-as-they-deepen-defence-cooperation-amid-chinese-aggression-907708.html
27-10-2020||National||Bypolls: Jyotiraditya Scindia meets Sachin Pilot, says he's welcome in Madhya Pradesh||BJP MP Jyotiraditya Scindia on Tuesday said he met his former colleague and senior Congress leader Sachin Pilot in Gwalior and that he is welcome to the state to campaign for the November 3 by-elections. Pilot arrived in Madhya Pradesh for a two-day visit on Tuesday morning to campaign for Congress candidates in Gwalior, Shivpuri, Bhind and Morena districts of the state. "I met him in Gwalior and welcomed him," Scindia, who quit the Congress in March and joined the BJP, told PTI. Madhya Pradesh has the tradition of welcoming everyone on its soil, therefore he (Pilot) is also welcome here, said Scindia, the scion of the erstwhile Gwalior royal family. Asked whether his (Pilot's) presence will make anydifference in the bypolls, Scindia said in a democracy everyone has the right to campaign. By-elections to 28 Assembly seats in the state are scheduled on November 3. Twenty-five of these seats fell vacant after sitting Congress MLAs resigned and joined the BJP, leading to the collapse of the Kamal Nath-led state government. Most of these rebel Congress MLAs were considered close to Scindia. Besides, three seats fell vacant due to the death of their sitting MLAs. To a question on his meeting with Pilot before the political crisis in Rajasthan a few months bacck, Scindia said he does not want to comment on the internal affairs of the Congress. In July, Pilot and 18 other MLAs rebelled against the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government in Rajasthan, leading to Pilot's sacking as deputy chief minister and state party chief. Following his patch-up talks with senior Congress leaders, the political crisis was resolved after nearly a month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bypolls-jyotiraditya-scindia-meets-sachin-pilot-says-hes-welcome-in-madhya-pradesh-907757.html
27-10-2020||National||From the Newsroom: MHA extends guidelines for reopening; SC refuses to monitor CBI probe into Hathras case||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, The Supreme Court refuses to monitor CBI probe into Hathras case; India and the US signed the landmark defence pact; Karnataka Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar said that it was difficult to pinpoint the month in which Covid-19 vaccine will be available in Karnataka; MHA extends guidelines for reopening to further ease Covid-19 restrictions; Outsiders can now buy land in Jammu and Kashmir and blast kills 8 in Pakistan.      Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom— your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald. Here are the top news of October 27, 2020: India and the US signed the landmark defence pact, BECA, that will allow sharing of high-end military technology, geospatial maps and classified satellite data between their militaries as the two countries held a high-level dialogue on Tuesday and vowed to ramp up their security ties and boost strategic cooperation in the Indo-Pacific amidst China's growing economic and military clout in the region. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh held the third edition of the 2+2 talks with US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Defence Secretary Mark T Esper. Both sides were assisted by their top military and security officials. During the talks, the US side also assured India that America stands with it as they confront threats to their sovereignty and liberty. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to monitor itself the CBI probe into the Hathras case of an alleged gang-rape of a 19-year-old Dalit girl, saying the Allahabad High Court was already looking into all aspects of the matter. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said all issues including security of the victim's family and witnesses would be considered by the High Court. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- After reports that UK's National Health Service was preparing for an initial rollout of the Covid-19 vaccine developed by the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca Plc from the week "commencing November 2", Karnataka Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar said that it was difficult to pinpoint the month in which it will be available in Karnataka. He, however, added that it will tentatively be available in 2021. After a detailed presentation on the research status of the vaccine by AstraZeneca Pharma India Limited Managing Director Gagan Singh, responsible for overall commercial operations in India, Sudhakar told reporters here on Tuesday that neutralising antibodies were found in trial volunteers administered with the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, but that data was available only for 56 days. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Tuesday extended the guidelines for reopening to further ease Covid-19 restrictions issued for October till November 30, saying the essence behind the decision is to "move ahead" but warned that it did not mean the end of the pandemic. The MHA said there is a need to exercise abundant caution by adopting Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and referred to the 'Jan Andolan' launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi October 8 to follow three 'mantras' -- wear your mask properly, wash your hands frequently and maintain a safe distance of six feet. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The Centre has paved the way for people from outside Jammu and Kashmir to buy land in the union territory by amending several laws, over a year after the nullification of Articles 370 and 35A of the Constitution. In a gazette notification, the Centre has omitted the phrase "permanent resident of the state" from Section 17 of the Jammu and Kashmir Development Act that deals with disposal of the land in the union territory. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- A powerful blast ripped through a religious seminary in northwest Pakistan's Peshawar city on Tuesday, killing at least eight people, mostly students, and wounding over 120 others, senior police officials said. There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the blast in the city, bordering war-torn Afghanistan. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- That is it today, From the Newsroom. Tune in tomorrow morning for our feature show, The Lead. If you liked this show, please share this podcast with your friends, family and on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-mha-extends-guidelines-for-reopening-sc-refuses-to-monitor-cbi-probe-into-hathras-case-907798.html
27-10-2020||National||Declining trend of Covid-19 in India, except for 2 to 3 states: Government||The Covid-19 pandemic in India is showing a declining trend, except for two to three states, the government said on Tuesday, noting that it is "particularly noteworthy" vis-a-vis some countries in the northern hemisphere where a severe increase in the intensity of the virus' spread is being seen. The situation related to the pandemic in the world is particularly concerning and it has been seen that countries of much greater economic capability and per capita income, and having a good health system can succumb to a huge second peak, Chairperson of the National Task Force on Covid-19, V K Paul, told a press conference. "This must be a lesson for all of us," Paul, who is also the NITI Aayog member for health, said. "We are very fortunate that our trend is in the opposite direction. We are fortunate that today we are showing a decline of the (Covid-19) pandemic, except in two or three states. This decline is particularly noteworthy because in other countries of the northern hemisphere there is a severe increase in the intensity of pandemic," he said. The pandemic, largely in the northern hemisphere, has struck again in several countries. The third peak has come in the US, Paul said, adding that "becoming a bit lax..slowing down surveillance, containment strategies also must be playing a role". He said that Kerala, West Bengal and Delhi are proceeding towards a third peak. This is a matter of concern and there can be no complacency in following Covid-19 "appropriate behaviour" in the coming times as more challenges will emerge, Paul said. More festivals are coming and "where ever we have faltered in the last few days, it will show in 10 to 12 days", he said. Secretary in the health ministry, Rajesh Bhushan, said that it has been observed that states and union territories like Kerala, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Delhi have reported a rise in cases during the festival season. "It is mandatory for all of us to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in the festival season," he said. The continuous decline in average daily new coronavirus cases has been observed and the figure has come down from 83,232 between September 23-29 to 49,909 for October 21-27, Bhushan said. "India's Covid-19 case fatality rate has declined from 1.77 per cent on September 1 to 1.50 per cent as on date. India's Covid-19 recovery rate has increased from 76.94 per cent on September 1 to 90.62 per cent as on date," he said. Bhushan also said that 49.4 per cent of new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours were reported from five states and union territories, which are Kerala, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Delhi. Fifty-eight per cent new Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours were reported from Maharashtra, West Bengal, Delhi, Chhattisgarh and Karnataka, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/declining-trend-of-covid-19-in-india-except-for-2-to-3-states-government-907814.html
27-10-2020||National||'Dynastic corruption' a part of political tradition in many states: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said that "dynastic corruption" is a major challenge for the country and lamented that it has become a part of political tradition in many states. Addressing a conference, he said that corruption which goes on from one generation to another makes the country hollow like a termite. "Today, I am going to mention another big challenge before you. This challenge has been gradually growing in the past decades and has taken a formidable form in the country. "This is the challenge of dynastic corruption (bhrashtachar ka vanshwaad), that is, corruption which is carried forward by one generation after another," Modi said. He said in the past decades it has been seen that when one generation involved in corruption escapes punishment, the next generation tends to be more brazen in committing such acts. "He sees that when nothing has happened to the one who earns crores of rupees at home, then his confidence is further enhanced," Modi said in his address in Hindi. The prime minister said there is a need to have systemic checks, effective audits, capacity building and training against corruption. "Fighting corruption is not a job of a single agency but is a collective responsibility," Modi said after inaugurating the national conference on vigilance and anti-corruption. The three-day conference, inaugurated via video conference on Tuesday, is being organised by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dynastic-corruption-a-part-of-political-tradition-in-many-states-pm-narendra-modi-907818.html
27-10-2020||National||SC asks Centre to find out solution to bring back stranded Indians in Kuwait||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Centre to find a way to bring back over 30,000 stranded Indians, mostly from Tamil Nadu and blue-collar workers, home from Kuwait, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The government, for its part, said that out of 1.33 lakh Indians, it has facilitated the repatriation of 87,022 Indians from Kuwait to various destinations in the country. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah told Additional Solicitor General K M Nataraj that the Union government should find the solution in the matter. He said every effort was being made to bring back the people. He indicated some diplomatic issues to be considered. The court posted the matter for consideration after four weeks. Senior advocate S Nagamuthu, appearing for Velinadu Vazh Tamilar Nala Sangam, submitted that about 33,000 Indians were stranded in Kuwait without food and water. In its written response filed on October 7, the Ministry of External Affairs said a total of 559 flights have already been operated from Kuwait to India. Some of those registered for travel may not be willing for it now. There may be some others who travelled on flights other than those being operated under the Vande Bharat Mission, it said, claiming, availability of flights was no more a reason for being stranded in Kuwait. The government further said in deserving cases, the mission was also providing air tickets to stranded Indians from Indian Community Welfare Fund.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-centre-to-find-out-solution-to-bring-back-stranded-indians-in-kuwait-907839.html
27-10-2020||National||Coal scam: Delhi HC suspends 3-year jail term of ex-minister Dilip Ray, seeks CBI reply on appeal||The Delhi High Court Tuesday suspended the three-year jail term of former Union minister Dilip Ray in a coal scam case pertaining to irregularities in the allocation of a Jharkhand block in 1999. According to a lawyer associated with the case, Justice Suresh Kumar Kait also issued notice to the CBI and sought its response on the appeal filed by Ray, challenging his conviction and sentence in the case. The high court has listed the matter for further hearing on November 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coal-scam-delhi-hc-suspends-3-year-jail-term-of-ex-minister-dilip-ray-seeks-cbi-reply-on-appeal-907867.html
27-10-2020||National||College girl shot dead after she resists abduction in Haryana; family alleges 'love jihad'||In a shocking incident, a 21-year-old college girl was shot dead in broad daylight in Haryana's Ballabhgarh, causing outrage in Faridabad. The incident, which was captured in CCTV, triggered massive uproar on social media as well. The accused first tried to kidnap the girl named Nikita Tomar, and upon failing on his attempt, he shot at her, police told media. As Haryana CM, Manohar Lal assured strict action against the culprits, police have already nabbed two persons. The main accused has been identified as Tausif and the second person is Rehan. Meanwhile, the victim's family called it a case of "love jihad", saying that the accused wanted the girl to convert and marry him. They further claimed that Tausif had tried to abduct Nikita in 2018 as well, and a case was filed against him, but the police did not act then. "When the boy tried to kidnap our sister in 2018, police didn't do anything and instead asked us to reach a reconciliation. The boy was asking her to convert and marry him. Our sister obviously didn't agree," Nikita's sister told India Today. However, Haryana police denied the charges. "In 2018, Nikita's family filed a kidnapping case against Tausif but the family later said they did not want to take action. We have arrested accused Tausif now," the publication quoted Haryana Police Commissioner as saying.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/college-girl-shot-dead-after-she-resists-abduction-in-haryana-family-alleges-love-jihad-907868.html
27-10-2020||National||GoAir's internal probe finds senior executive guilty of sexual harassment||An internal probe by GoAir has found a senior executive from its corporate communications and public relations team to be guilty of sexual harassment of two female employees, aviation industry sources said on Tuesday. "Two female employees complained about sexual harassment by a senior executive who has been a part of its corporate communications and public relations team. The airline's internal committee investigated the matter and found him guilty," a source said. Confirming the development, another source said the incident with one of the female employees happened during an official overseas trip. Both the female employees have already resigned from the airline, sources informed. In response to PTI's queries about the matter, GoAir spokesperson said, "The company has a sexual harassment policy, including a Committee, to investigate the cases and take appropriate measures. It is committed to taking all the necessary steps to ensure that its women employees have a favourable working environment." "GoAir is an equal opportunities employer and we also stand committed to promoting a work environment that is conducive to the professional growth of our women employees and encourage equality of opportunity across all levels within the organisation," the spokesperson stated. The Mumbai-based airline did not respond to PTI's query on what action has it taken against the senior executive who has been found guilty of sexual harassment. Apart from GoAir, the senior executive was also part of the corporate communications and public relations team of Bombay Dyeing and Bombay Realty, the sources said. On February 6 this year, aviation regulator DGCA had told CEOs of all airlines to strictly follow the Vishakha guidelines to deal with the cases of sexual harassment in their respective organisations. The DGCA, in its letter to the CEOs, stated that it has received "numerous" complaints from women working as pilots, cabin crew and in other technical areas regarding sexual harassment by their senior colleagues. "All the airlines are hereby advised to ensure strict compliance of the Vishakha guidelines. They should also give wide publicity about this committee among the employees to facilitate hassle-free reporting and disposal of matter in accordance with relevant national regulations," the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said. The regulator told the CEOs that the Supreme Court, in the Vishakha case, had laid down the guidelines for dealing with "such situations". "Action taken in the matter please be intimated within two weeks from the date of the issue," the DGCA instructed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goairs-internal-probe-finds-senior-executive-guilty-of-sexual-harassment-907883.html
27-10-2020||National||SC stays Bombay HC order giving relief to Lalit Modi||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed the 2019 Bombay High Court order, which asked the Enforcement Directorate to consider a plea by fugitive Lalit Modi, who wanted to cross-examine the BCCI officials in connection with alleged FEMA violation case.   The High Court asked the ED to consider afresh a request for giving Modi the reply of BCCI to their show-cause notice in 2011.  A bench of Justices R F Nariman, Navin Sinha and Krishna Murari ordered, “Issue notice. In the meanwhile, there shall be stay of operation of the judgment and order of the High Court.”  The ED approached the top court against June 20, 2019, High Court order which had directed it to reconsider the issue of forwarding the reply of the BCCI to Modi against their 2011 show-cause notice.  Modi, former chairman of the IPL, was aggrieved with the January 2018 order of the ED's adjudicating authority, which declined to grant cross-examination of N Srinivasan, Peter Griffith, Andrew Wildblood, A K Nazeer Khan, and D K Singh (complainant), whose statements are being relied upon by the ED in adjudication proceedings. This was evident from the 2011 show cause notice, issued by BCCI, Modi claimed.   The High Court had said that the ED would consider afresh the request made by Modi and pass an order in accordance with natural justice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-stays-bombay-hc-order-giving-relief-to-lalit-modi-907886.html
27-10-2020||National||NCB recovers charas from Deepika Padukone's manager's house||The NCB reportedly recovered 1.7 grams of charas and at least two bottles of cannabis (CBD) oil in her residence. She was earlier questioned by NCB in connection with the Sushant Singh Rajput case. “Prakash’s name cropped up during the questioning of one of the paddlers arrested by us in the case in which we are looking to bust drug networks around Bollywood, Based on the information, we raided her residence today. We found 1.7 grams of charas and at least two bottles of CBD oil," an NCB official told the publication. Prakash was not home when the search was conducted and it was carried out in the presence of her acquaintances. “We have called her for questioning tomorrow to NCB, however, her phone has been switched off and we do not know where she is,” the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncb-recovers-charas-from-deepika-padukones-managers-house-907887.html
27-10-2020||National||Bengaluru Urban worst affected by Covid-19 in India, Mumbai far second: Union Ministry of Health||Bengaluru Urban is the worst Covid-19 affected district in India, according to the Union Health Ministry, which on Tuesday said that 35% of active Covid-19 cases had been reported from only 18 districts. With 8.65% of active cases, Bengaluru Urban is way above the second-highest district Mumbai (3.25%). It is also the only district from Karnataka that featured in the list of 18 districts. There are seven districts from Kerala, six from Maharashtra, two from West Bengal and one each from Tamil Nadu and Chhattisgarh that account for more than one-third of 6.25 lakh active Covid-19 cases in India. But barring Bangalore Urban, Mumbai and Pune (2.35%), each of the remaining 15 districts contribute less than 2% of the active cases. India’s overall count of fresh infections declines further with the reporting of only 36,470 cases in the last 24 hours. The numbers dropped to such a level last time was on July 18 when 34,884 new Covid-19 cases were recorded. What is worrisome, however, is that Kerala that is yet to come out of the Covid pangs of Onam festivities and West Bengal in the run up to the Durga Puja now occupy the top two slots among the ten states that account for 76% of new cases. As they eclipsed, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu that were leading the charts for many weeks, there are concerns on a possible new wave in November after the festive season. The onset of winter also makes the weather conducive for the virus to survive. With the fear of a second surge growing, NITI Aayog member Vinod Paul flagged such cases seen in several western countries. “The situation related to the pandemic in the world is particularly concerning and it has been seen that countries of much greater economic capability and per capita income, and having a good health system can succumb to a huge second peak. This must be a lesson for all of us,” said Paul, chairperson of the National Task Force on Covid-19 and a former professor at AIIMS, Delhi. For the second consecutive day, the number of daily tolls was below 500. Out of the 488 deaths recorded in the last 24 hours, 58% were from five states including Karnataka even though Maharashtra and West Bengal top the list with 84 and 59 new Covid-19 deaths respectively. “Day after tomorrow we will have a review meeting with the officials of Kerala, West Bengal and Delhi. A similar meeting with Maharashtra and Karnataka officials will be held later,” added Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengaluru-urban-worst-affected-by-covid-19-in-india-mumbai-far-second-union-ministry-of-health-907889.html
27-10-2020||National||Army celebrates 74th Infantry Day in Bengaluru||The Indian Army celebrated the 74th Infantry Day at the War Memorial of The Parachute Regimental Training Centre in Bengaluru on Tuesday. October 27 is marked out for celebration. On this day in 1947, an infantry company of the 1st Battalion, The Sikh Regiment, was air-lifted from Delhi to Srinagar to hold off invading tribals backed by the Pakistan military in Kashmir. This action was ordered after the Instrument of Accession, acceding Jammu and Kashmir to India was signed by the then Maharaja of the princely state. To commemorate the occasion, wreaths were laid in remembrance and gratitude towards members of the infantry fraternity. General Officer Commanding, Karnataka and Kerala Sub Area represented the serving Infantry personnel while the veterans were represented by Lt Gen K Nagaraj, PVSM, UYSM, ADC (Retd), who was also the senior-most veteran.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-celebrates-74th-infantry-day-in-bengaluru-907894.html
27-10-2020||National||'Baba ka Dhaba' fame couple get free cataract surgery||Kanta Prasad and his wife -- the elderly couple owning the 'Baba ka Dhaba' that made headlines after a video about their struggle making ends meet in the pandemic went viral -- on Tuesday underwent cataract surgery. The medical procedure has been offered to the couple by Delhi's Sharp Sight Eye Hospital free of charge. "We spent so many years with hazy, unclear vision. But now we can see everything crystal clear. It's like getting a new eye. Our economic condition is such that we could have never afforded cataract removal," Kanta Prasad said. Prasad and his wife's plight came to light last month after a social media influencer captured the 80-year-old owner of the Malviya Nagar food stall tearing up while narrating the challenges his family had been facing since the lockdown, and posted it on social media requesting people to help the couple. Soon after the video went viral, help poured in from across the city, and the country for the couple. "We saw the video and more than his helpless state, we were moved by the spirit of the old man and his wife to fight hunger and earn a livelihood for their family during these challenging times,” said Deepshikha Sharma, CEO, Sharp Sight Eye Hospitals. "While many of us are confined to our homes fearing COVID-19, here's a couple who have a bigger worry and that is to survive and have no choice but to open their eatery every single day," Sharma said. According to the statement from the hospital, their objective was to help the couple recover their vision so that they wouldn't have to be dependent on others. "Our team escorted the old couple to our hospital and did a thorough eye checkup and during investigations realised that their vision had deteriorated due to cataract. We decided to perform cataract surgery along with implantation of the latest type of intraocular lens as our way of giving them support," said Samir Sud, director and senior ophthalmologist, Sharp Sight Eye Hospitals. "As a result, the old couple can lead a new life independent of glasses and see the world around them brighter and clearer once both their eyes are operated," he said. Sud added that surgery had been performed on one eye for both of them and the second eye was scheduled to be operated on next week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/baba-ka-dhaba-fame-couple-get-free-cataract-surgery-907908.html
27-10-2020||National||Long-term exposure to air pollution can contribute to mortality in Covid-19 cases: ICMR DG||Studies in Europe and the US have established that long-term exposure to air pollution can contribute to mortality in Covid-19 cases, ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said on Tuesday. He stressed that studies have found "virus particles remain suspended with PM 2.5 particulate matter, but they are not active viruses". "There have been studies in Europe and the US, where they have looked at polluted areas and compared mortality during lockdown and correlation with pollution... they found that pollution is clearly contributing to mortality in Covid-19 and that's well established by these studies," Bhargava said at a press conference. Every winter, the air quality in north India, including in Delhi, dips to a dangerous low. Experts have warned that high levels of air pollution can aggravate the Covid-19 pandemic. It is well-proven that pollution is related to mortality, Bhargava said and asserted that the most inexpensive prevention for Covid-19 and pollution is rapid and widespread adoption of wearing masks. He said in some cities with high pollution levels, people wear masks even when there is no pandemic.  "Following COVID-appropriate behaviour, be it wearing masks, maintaining social distancing, respiratory etiquette and hand hygiene, do not cost us anything. Wearing a mask has a double advantage as it can protect one from Covid-19 as well as from pollution," the ICMR chief said. About the spread of coronavirus infection among children in India, he said the country's overall figure shows that of the total Covid-19 positive cases, only eight per cent are below the age of 17. "For those below five years, the figure would be probably less than one per cent," Bhargava said, adding there is some evidence that children "can be spreaders, rather super-spreaders".  In response to a question, Bhargava said that India, so far, has not reported any cases of Kawasaki disease among Covid-19 patients. Kawasaki is an auto-immune disease that affects children who are less than five years and presents with fever, thrombocytosis and a condition in which the arteries of the heart become dilated. "It is less common in India. This has been described with Covid-19 in different parts of the world. I don't think we have had any experience of Kawasaki with Covid-19 in India so far. It is a very rare condition," Bhargava said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/long-term-exposure-to-air-pollution-can-contribute-to-mortality-in-covid-19-cases-icmr-dg-907910.html
27-10-2020||National||ISB's PG programme for senior executives tops FT's 2020 rankings||The Indian School of Business’s Post Graduate Programme in Management for Senior Executives has been ranked number one in India and 53 globally in the Financial Times 2020 EMBA rankings.  ISB's PGPMAX is a 15-month global executive MBA level programme for senior executives and business owners with a minimum of 10 years of experience. “The rankings not just highlight the relevance of the PGPMAX programme but also the importance of an Executive MBA for the working professionals. It becomes more critical for the experienced executives to equip and brace themselves up to be ahead of the curve with the current circumstances. The need of the hour is to reinvent and gear up to meet uncertainties & looming challenges,” said Professor Rajendra Srivastava, Dean ISB. ISB Alumni from PGPMAX Class of 2017 were surveyed for this year’s ranking. This assessment has brought forth some more findings, such as PGPMAX being ranked number 11 in the standalone programme category in Asia.  The school is ranked number 12 globally in terms of salary today (average alumni salaries three years after graduation). The salary increase is measured based on the average difference in alumni salary between their salary before the EMBA and now. The PGPMAX programme is ranked number 28 globally for work experience of its students, a statement from ISB said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isbs-pg-programme-for-senior-executives-tops-fts-2020-rankings-907914.html
27-10-2020||National||India, US ask Pakistan not to allow its soil to be used for terror activities||India and the US on Tuesday strongly condemned cross border terrorism in all its forms and asked Pakistan to take "immediate, sustained and irreversible" action to ensure that no territory under its control is used for launching terror attacks. The issue of cross-border terrorism figured in the third edition of the Indo-US 2+2 ministerial dialogue that discussed a plethora of security challenges facing India's neighbourhood and beyond. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh held the talks with US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Defence Secretary Mark T Esper. Both sides were assisted by their top military and security officials. A joint statement issued after the talks said both sides denounced the use of terrorist proxies and strongly condemned cross border terrorism in all its forms while emphasising the need for concerted action against all terrorist networks, including Lashkar-e-Tayyiba, Jaish-e-Mohammad, Hizb-ul-Mujahideen, al-Qaeda and ISIS/Daesh. At a joint media briefing with his American counterpart Mike Pompeo, US Defence Secretary Mark Esper and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Jaishankar said: "We made clear that cross-border terrorism is completely unacceptable." The joint statement said the ministers called on Pakistan to take an immediate, sustained and irreversible action to ensure that no territory under its control is used for launching terrorist attacks, and to expeditiously bring to justice the perpetrators and planners of all such attacks, including 26/11 Mumbai, Uri, and Pathankot. "The ministers also committed to the continued exchange of information about sanctions and designations against terror groups and individuals, particularly in light of recent legislative changes in India," it said. The two sides also vowed to take steps against financing and operations of terrorist organisations, countering radicalism and terrorist use of the internet, cross-border movement of terrorists, and prosecuting, rehabilitating, and reintegrating returning terrorist fighters and family members, according to the statement. It said the ministers also planned to enhance ongoing cooperation in multilateral fora, including at the UN. "They also reaffirmed their support for the early adoption of a UN Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism (CCIT) that will advance and strengthen the framework for global cooperation and reinforce the message that no cause or grievance justifies terrorism," it said. In view of the announcement made during President Donald Trump’s visit to India in February to establish a new India-US Counter-Narcotics Working Group, the ministers welcomed the proposal to convene the first such virtual meeting later this year, to be followed by an in-person meeting in 2021. The aim of the meeting would be to enhance cooperation between Indian and US drug and law enforcement agencies. In the talks, both sides also discussed their shared interest in promoting a sovereign, peaceful, united, democratic, inclusive, stable and secure Afghanistan, including support for an Afghan-led and Afghan-owned peace process. "They applauded India’s development assistance, and efforts to build trade linkages and multi-modal connectivity infrastructure for Afghanistan to enhance its regional connectivity to sustain growth and development over the long term," the joint statement said. It said the US congratulated India for its non-permanent membership of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) for the term 2021-2022. "The US also reaffirmed its continued strong support for India's permanent membership in a reformed UNSC as well as for India's early entry into the Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG)," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-ask-pakistan-not-to-allow-its-soil-to-be-used-for-terror-activities-907919.html
27-10-2020||National||India, US to ink MoU for joint study on Covid-19, other infectious diseases||India and the United States are set to step up cooperation in the healthcare sector, including collaboration in research on Covid-19 and the other infectious diseases. As External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh joined the US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and the Secretary of Defence Mark Esper for the India-America 2+2 dialogue in New Delhi on Tuesday, both sides agreed to strengthen cooperation in the development of vaccines, therapeutics, diagnostics, ventilators and other essential medical equipment. They agreed to jointly promote access to high quality, safe, effective and affordable Covid-19 vaccines and treatments on a global scale, according to a joint statement issued after the 2+2 dialogue. They noted that bilateral engagement in the research and development and mass production of vaccines and therapeutics plays to the respective strengths of India and the US. The 2+2 dialogue was the first high-level engagement between India and the US before the Covid-19 pandemic swept the two nations as well as the rest of the world. The two sides agreed to negotiate and ink an overarching Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between Ministry of Health and Family Welfare of the Government of India and the US Department of Health and Human Services, to enhance cooperation, including on emergencies and pandemics, prevention, diagnosis and treatment of communicable and non-communicable diseases as well as biomedical research and innovation. They also agreed to work out and sign an MoU between the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID/NIH) to collaborate through an International Center of Excellence in Research focused on infectious diseases, including the Covid-19 and other emerging threats. Noting the importance of health sector cooperation, they also looked forward to convening the India-US Health Dialogue soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-to-ink-mou-for-joint-study-on-covid-19-other-infectious-diseases-907921.html
27-10-2020||National||Parliamentarians can no longer be silent bystanders, must unite to fight terrorism: LS speaker Om Birla||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Tuesday said as people's representatives, parliamentarians can no longer be silent bystanders and must unite to fight the challenges of terrorism and violent extremism. He emphasised on the need for a collective fight against terrorism by countries across the world while speaking at the meeting of the BRICS Parliamentary Forum via video-conference. Stating that the BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa) countries need to intensify their collective fight against terrorism, which poses the biggest threat to humankind, Birla said, "As people's representatives, parliamentarians can no longer be silent bystanders and they must unite to fight the challenges of terrorism and violent extremism." He emphasised that the funding of all terrorist activities must be stopped immediately and the conditions that are conducive to the spread of terrorism and violent extremism need to be addressed and resolved at the earliest, the Lok Sabha Secretariat said in a statement. The speaker said the parliaments of the BRICS nations must use international platforms to highlight their collective resolve to support all treaties and agreements against terrorism. Talking about the COVID-19 pandemic, Birla said it has caused the tragic deaths of millions of innocent people, severe economic challenges and disruption of everyday life. "If ever there was any greater need for international unity and cooperation, then it is now," he was quoted as saying in the statement. Sharing India's experience and strategies to deal with the unprecedented Covid-19 crisis, Birla said the government is implementing a multi-billion-dollar economic stimulus package to address the challenges posed by the pandemic and has quickly and successfully made cash transfers to vulnerable sections of the population.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentarians-can-no-longer-be-silent-bystanders-must-unite-to-fight-terrorism-ls-speaker-om-birla-907935.html
27-10-2020||National||Neighbours would trust India, not China, says Gadkari||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari said on Tuesday that "Indian culture and Hindu culture" is not "expansionist" and neighbouring countries would never feel threatened by India, but they would not feel the same way about China. While Indian culture seeks welfare of the entire world, China's rise was underpinned by expansionism, the senior BJP leader said. His remarks came amid the face-off between Indian and Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh. "Indian culture and Hindu culture is not expansionist. To seek welfare of the entire world is our nature which we have inherited from our history and culture. We are not expansionist," he said. "Our neighbours like Bhutan, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh would never think that India, on account of its strength, will invade them or encroach on their land. "However, there is no (such) trust about China...China's rise was based on expansionism. They think they are superior, and their thinking is to conquer the whole world with the help of this power," Gadkari said. "But our country, on the basis of its largest democracy, Hindu culture, Hindu religion and heritage thinks of the welfare of the entire world," he said. India has the strength and power to guide the world and the words of Swami Vivekananda that the 21st century will belong to India is an inspiration for us, he said. The Union minister was speaking at online unveiling of the book "Ram Mandir to Rashtra Mandir", brought out by the Saptahik Vivek publication. "Today, we all are happy as the decks have been cleared for the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya. Lord Ram was a role model in all aspects for mankind. Mahatma Gandhi had called Lord Ram's rajya (rule) as ideal. We want to create this Ram Rajya in our country," he said. The creation of Ram temple is a victory of Indian culture, but that temple is not "communal and is not limited any one community", he added. He also said that he had met Grameen Bank's founder Mohammad Yunus of Bangladesh at a conference. "I am thinking of starting a socio-economic finance institution where small businesses will get loans upto Rs ten lakh," the Union minister who also handles the MSME portfolio said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/neighbours-would-trust-india-not-china-says-gadkari-907960.html
27-10-2020||National||Bids invited for Mumbai-Hyderabad bullet train project||The National High Speed Rail Corporation Ltd (NHSRCL) has invited bids for the prepare detailed project report (DPR) for Mumbai-Hyderabad high-speed rail corridor, popularly known as the Bullet Train Project. "NHSRCL has invited the first tender for preparation of a DPR for 711 km long Mumbai-Pune-Hyderabad High Speed Rail Corridor," the company said on Tuesday. The pre-bid meeting will be held on November 5, and the starting date for submissions of tender is November 11. The last date for submissions is November 17 and tenders are to be opened on November 18. Earlier, NHSRCL invited DPRs for the 459-km-long Delhi-Amritsar-Chandigarh, 865-km-long Delhi-Varanasi, 753-km-long Mumbai-Nagpur, 886-km-long Delhi-Ahmedabad stretches as well as the 711-km-long Mumbai-Hyderabad bullet train corridor. At present, NHSRCL is constructing the 508 km Mumbai-Ahmedabad high-speed rail project, popularly known as the Bullet Train Project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bids-invited-for-mumbai-hyderabad-bullet-train-project-907963.html
27-10-2020||National||Online booking for high-security registration plates to restart from November 1 in Delhi||Online booking for getting high-security registration plates and colour-coded stickers will restart from November 1 and home delivery of HSRPs will also begin on a trial basis in a few areas of Delhi, sources said on Tuesday. The decision was taken at a meeting held by Delhi Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot to discuss ways to sort out problems encountered in affixation of HSRPs and colour-coded stickers. The vehicle owners who will opt for home delivery of HSRPs will be charged Rs 100-200, the sources said. "A presentation was given in the meeting by the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) explaining how the issues, including delay in providing HSRPs and stickers to the vehicle owners, can be addressed," an official source said. A spokesperson of HSRP manufacturer Rosmerta confirmed that booking for high-security registration plates will begin from November 1 and installation will start from November 7. "Customers will be sent a message by the automobile dealers when the number plate will be ready," he said. The sources said vehicle owners booking high-security registration plates online will get a receipt so that in future if there is a drive by the Transport Department to challan violators, they are not punished. The Delhi transport minister had earlier this month directed manufacturers and dealers of HSRPs not to take new bookings unless a system was put in place to address the issues being faced by vehicle owners. Gahlot had also restrained the Transport Department from taking coercive measures to enforce rules pertaining to HSRP until further orders. The Transport Department had issued a public notice asking vehicle owners to get HSRPs and colour-coded stickers, saying it would launch a drive to check violations. The HSRPs and colour-coded stickers are mandatory for all vehicles registered before April 2019. Vehicles registered after April 2019 come equipped with the HSRP and the stickers. There are around 30 lakh vehicles registered in Delhi that have to get HSRPs and the stickers. The online booking was stopped by the Transport department after receiving complaints from vehicle owners over delays and problems in logging in. The sources said if the home delivery of HSRPs and colour-coded stickers is successful, it will be implemented across the city in the next one or two months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/online-booking-for-high-security-registration-plates-to-restart-from-november-1-in-delhi-907977.html
27-10-2020||National Politics||Mehbooba Mufti should go to Pakistan with family: Gujarat Deputy CM||Angered over PDP president Mehbooba Mufti's recent remarks about the scrapping of Article 370, Gujarat Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel on Monday said the former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir should move to Pakistan with family if she doesn't like India and its laws. Patel, addressing a bypoll rally in Kurali village of Vadodara district, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah brought in the CAA and scrapped Article 370, which accorded special status to the erstwhile state of J&K, for the safety and security of the country. "Mehbooba is blabbering for the last two days. She should buy plane tickets and move to Karachi with her family. That will be good for everyone. "If she wants, people of Karjan taluka would send her money to buy plane tickets," said Patel, attacking the Kashmiri politician, a former ally of the BJP. "Those who do not like India or laws introduced by the government, such as CAA or abrogation of Article 370, should go to Pakistan. "Anyone who is not feeling safe or happy should immediately move to Pakistan," said Patel, a senior BJP leader. He was addressing the rally in support of BJP candidate from the Karjan assembly seat Akshay Patel. Karjan is one of the eight assembly polls going to bypolls on November 3. "If you still stay here, you will face action. Anyone who will do something wrong would face action. We do not want to keep trouble makers, irrespective of their caste or religion. Mufti, in her first interaction with the media after her release from detention last week, had said she will not hoist the tricolor till the flag of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir was restored. The PDP chief had criticised the revocation of Article 370 and said Parliament had no power to take it away. Referring to the "tough" image of Minister of State for Home Pradeepsinh Jadeja, Patel said no one from Juhapura, a minority-dominated area in Ahmedabad, creates any trouble now. Referring to the Gunda Act and anti-land grabbing law recently passed in the Assembly, Patel, without naming anyone, said anti-social elements have nowhere to go except Pakistan. "Other states are also acting tough on such elements. It seems they are left with no other option than to go to Pakistan. They are free to go there now. "We also do not want to keep them. India's population has also gone over 130 crore. Everyone can live in peace if they go," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mehbooba-mufti-should-go-to-pakistan-with-family-gujarat-deputy-cm-907498.html
27-10-2020||National Politics||BJP leader Khushbu Sundar detained on way to protest against VCK's Thol Thirumavalavan||Several BJP leaders, including new entrant Khushbu Sundar, were on Tuesday detained while they were on their way to Chidambaram, a town 215 km away, for participating in a protest against VCK leader Thol. Thirumavalavan over his "derogatory remarks" against women.  While Sundar was stopped on her way at Muttukadu near here, another state leader K T Raghavan was also not allowed to proceed to Chidambaram. The Cuddalore district police had on Monday night refused to give permission for the protest as they apprehend it could lead to law and order problems.  "This protest is to oppose Thirumavalavan for his comment against women. He should apologise. Why are we not being allowed to protest?" she asked. The BJP's women's wing had organised a protest in Chidambaram, represented by Thirumavalavan in Lok Sabha, against his comments on women, quoting the Manusmriti.  In Chennai, the BJP cadre burnt an effigy of Thirumavalavan even as cadres of the BJP and the VCK clashed in Madurai and other parts of the state.  The cybercrime cell of the Central Crime Branch (CCB) had last week filed a case against Thirumavalavan, a prominent Dalit leader in Tamil Nadu. The case relates to "derogatory remarks" made by the Lok Sabha MP during a speech in which he speaks about how the Manusmriti demeans women. A case has been slapped against him under Sections 153 (Wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 153 A (1) (a) (dealing with attempts to promote ill-will between communities), 295 A (Deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs), 298 (Uttering, words, etc., with deliberate intent to wound the religious feelings of any person), 505 (1) 9B), and Section 505 (2) of the IPC. As the issue gained political attention, Thirumavalavan had said he never made any derogatory comments against women but was only referring to how they were described in the Manusmriti. "I said Manusmriti demeans women. But those with an eye on political mileage, a casteist-communal group is spreading falsehood against me and creating an impression as if I spoke against women. This is completely wrong. We are struggling for women's emancipation," Thirumavalavan said, in his reaction. Thirumavalavan's VCK is part of the DMK-led alliance in Tamil Nadu and the Dalit leader is one of the vehement critics of the BJP in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-leader-khushbu-sundar-detained-on-way-to-protest-against-vcks-thol-thirumavalavan-907567.html
27-10-2020||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi slams UP govt over 'rising prices', alleges it spends crores on 'false propaganda'||Hitting out at the Uttar Pradesh government over alleged rise in prices, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday said the Yogi Adityanath dispensation which spends crores of rupees on "false propaganda" is silent on people's problems. In Uttar Pradesh, during the festival season, rising prices have "wreaked havoc" on the common people, Priyanka Gandhi said. "Vegetable prices are skyrocketing. Work and businesses are already stalled," she alleged in a tweet in Hindi. "But the BJP government, which spends crores of rupees in false propaganda, is silent on people's problems," the Congress general secretary said. Along with her tweet attacking the UP government, Priyanka Gandhi also tagged the prices of various vegetables in Lucknow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-slams-up-govt-over-rising-prices-alleges-it-spends-crores-on-false-propaganda-907585.html
27-10-2020||National Politics||Street vendors, small traders need special assistance package, not loans: Priyanka||Street vendors and small traders need a special assistance package not loans, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said on Tuesday, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi interacted in Uttar Pradesh with some beneficiaries of the 'PM SVANidhi scheme' for street vendors. Tweeting just ahead of the prime minister's interaction with the street vendors from UP, Priyanka Gandhi said throughout the lockdown, street vendors and small shopkeepers, were hit hard. "It became difficult for them to run their homes, their livelihood was ruined," the Congress general secretary in-charge UP East said. "The street vendors, shopkeepers, small traders today need a special assistance package, not loans," she said. The PM Street Vendor's Atmanirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) scheme was launched on June 1 to help street vendors resume their livelihood activities after they were hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/street-vendors-small-traders-need-special-assistance-package-not-loans-priyanka-907646.html
27-10-2020||National Politics||Tejashwi Yadav's aggressive challenge opens up Bihar's poll fight||As Bihar readies for the first phase of voting on Wednesday, the NDA's sweep of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls appears to be a distant memory with the RJD-led opposition mounting a spirited fight against the nearly 15-year-old rule of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. The ruling alliance and the incumbent chief minister, on the other hand, are repeatedly referring to what they call the 15-year misrule under the earlier RJD regime from 1990-2005. Opposition's chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Yadav's attack on Kumar over issues of "unemployment and corruption" and offer of "ummeed aur badlaav" (hope and change) seems to have struck a chord with a section of voters, opening up the electoral battle which many believed was done and dusted in the ruling alliance's favour till a few months back.  Seventy one seats in the southern and parts of central Bihar are going to the polls in the first phase of the elections to the 243-seat state assembly. The National Democratic Alliance, which also has Jitan Ram Manjhi's HAM(S) and Mukesh Sahani's Vikassheel Insaan Party besides the BJP and the JD(U) in its fold, hold 37 of these constituencies, while the 'mahagathbandhan' of RJD-Congress-Left has 34 sitting seats in the first phase.  When the two alliances had last squared off against each other in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the NDA had won 39 of 40 Lok Sabha seats and over 53 per cent of votes, while the opposition could only win one seat and manage barely 30 per cent of votes. Since then, a couple of smaller parties from the opposition camp, which has been joined by the CPI(ML) and two other Left parties, has switched to the NDA, while Chirag Paswan-led Lok Janshakti Party has broken away from the ruling alliance to fight on its own.  As the pivot of the polls has shifted from national to local issues, and Kumar's stewardship of the state and not Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership of the country came into focus during the assembly poll campaign, the opposition has sniffed a chance.  "This election is between Bihar and Nitish Kumar. The trend of the election is very clear. People want change," RJD spokesperson Manoj Jha says.  The mood in the ruling JD(U) camp is of cautious optimism, as the party's task has become more difficult in many seats due to the challenge from the LJP, which is not contesting against the BJP.  JD(U) general secretary Afaque Ahmad says the people of Bihar are politically astute and will back Kumar whose work is all about "good governance and development". Asked about the big crowds Yadav is drawing as he goes after Kumar, he does not accord it much importance.  He says Ram Manohar Lohia, a socialist icon and then the most vocal critic of Jawaharlal Nehru, used to attract a huge audience when he fought against the first prime minister from Phulpur in 1962.  "Lohia Ji still lost badly. There is no match between Nitish Kumar and Tejashwi Yadav. Kumar will again be chief minister," Ahmad says.  NDA sources point out that the gap between their alliance and the RJD-led opposition has always been too big, and asserted that it will be hard to bridge.  Various opinion polls have suggested that the NDA will get a majority and the opposition alliance may fall short of the three-digit mark while highlighting the much narrower difference in vote share -- from 6-8 per cent -- between the two groupings compared to the Lok Sabha polls. The RJD camp believes that it has gained among Dalit votes with its alliance with the CMI(ML), the strongest of the Left parties in the state, while the NDA has been hit by Paswan deserting it.  Yadav's promise of several sops, including 10 lakh government jobs, for the youth, and his focus on the alleged petty bureaucratic corruption under the Kumar government has swayed a large section of youths, his party argues, expressing confidence that the momentum is in its favour.  With the 30-year-old scion of the jailed RJD supremo Lalu Prasad Yadav's family often mocking Kumar (69) as a "tired" leader who needs rest, the incumbent chief minister has been spending a considerable part of his poll speeches in reminding voters of the party's alleged misrule between 1990-2005 and the changes he has ushered since then.   "What was there? Did they (Lalu and wife Rabri Devi who replaced him as CM) build any school, any hospital? Could your daughter go out after dusk fell?" he asked people at a rally on Monday.  Kumar is credited with restoring law and order after coming to power in 2005 and heralding a focus on development projects, an agenda that has won him three successive victories in the assembly polls. The opposition, however, has sought to build a campaign over the perceived anti-incumbency against his 15 years of rule and to put him on the defensive over lack of employment in what remains a poor and backward state, his handling of the recent migrant crisis and alleged corruption to argue that the state needs new leadership.   Many ruling alliance's leaders have cited Tejashwi's lack of formal education, he has studied till class nine, to attack his leadership credentials.  Political circles in Patna are abuzz with various theories about a hint of anger and asperity in the speeches of Kumar, generally known for his measured words, as he hops across the state to fend off the challenge and seeks one more term to carry out his development agenda.  Modi had held three rallies on October 23 and is likely to speak at nine more in the days ahead including three on Wednesday, seeking to consolidate votes in the favour of the NDA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tejashwi-yadavs-aggressive-challenge-opens-up-bihars-poll-fight-907668.html
27-10-2020||National Politics||Poor now linked to banking system, have access to loans: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said his government has acknowledged the honesty and hard work of street vendors by offering them loans that were inaccessible to the poor in the past. "Those doing politics in the name of the poor had created an atmosphere that if a loan is given to them it would not be returned. Those who had themselves been involved in scams had always put the blame for all dishonest things on the poor," he said, addressing beneficiaries of the PM Street Vendor's AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) Scheme in Uttar Pradesh via video conferencing. Modi said today the poor have been linked to the banking system and loans have been given to street vendors who are repaying them in time. "I have always been saying the poor of the country have never compromised with honesty and self-respect. Through the PM Svanidhi Yojna the poor have once again presented the example of their honesty before the country," he said. "The street vendors of UP are repaying loans through their hard work besides earning their livelihood. This is the will power and hard work and honesty,” Modi said. The Prime Minister interacted with three beneficiaries of the scheme hailing from Agra, Varanasi and Lucknow and enquired about how it has helped them. Modi, who explained the scheme in detail, also took the opportunity to attack those who had questioned the government's move of linking the poor with the banking system. “The doors of the banks which have today been opened for you have not happened in a day. It is the result of the 'sabka saath, sabka vikas and sabka vishwas' policy," he said. The PM said the scheme was a reply to those who were sceptical about linking the poor with the banking system. He claimed that when the jan-dhan accounts were opened, many people had questioned and laughed but now those accounts had come to the help of the poor. "The street vendors are helping in taking the poor forward, they are getting connected to banks, the mainstream of the economy. In a global pandemic which forced big nations to bow before it, the common man of the country bravely did it," he said. The PM SVANidhi scheme was launched on June 1 this year to help poor street vendors, impacted by economic distress due to the Covid-19 pandemic, in resuming livelihood activities. Around 25 lakh applications have been received of which 12 lakh have been sanctioned. While interacting through video conferencing with Preeti, a fruit vendor from Agra, Arvind Maurya who sells momos and coffee in Varanasi and Vijay Bahadur who sells bhelpuri in Lucknow, the PM enquired about their businesses and how the scheme has helped them. Expressing satisfaction on coming to know that Preeti accepts digital payments, Maurya gives one momo extra to those using masks and maintaining social distancing and Bahadur used the loan amount to better manage his business, the Prime Minister said other people too can learn from their example. He also asked Maurya, a resident of his Parliamentary constituency Varanasi, how he prepared momos and asked Bahadur if the younger generation likes bhelpuri. On a lighter note, Modi said people in Varanasi like momos these days but he has never had them during his visits there and his security personnel would not allow him to eat the dumplings without first tasting them themselves. He said while earlier people had to go to the banks to take loans, the banks are now coming to them to give loans. He also said in the economy of Uttar Pradesh, street vendors have an important role to play. “Such a big state with a big population. Through street vending, a large number of people are not only earning their livelihoods but also helping in meeting the requirements of the people in their own towns and villages." Street vending jobs have an important role in checking migration from Uttar Pradesh which is today the top-performing state in the scheme, he said, praising Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and his team for their efforts. Modi said almost 6.50 lakh applications had been received from UP of which 3.75 lakh were sanctioned. He lauded the banks and their employees in making an important contribution in achieving this target.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/poor-now-linked-to-banking-system-have-access-to-loans-pm-narendra-modi-907749.html
27-10-2020||National Politics||Cancel postal ballots polled so far in Madhya Pradesh: Digvijaya Sing to Election Commission||Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Tuesday demanded that the Election Commission cancel the postal ballots polled so far for the November 3 Madhya Pradesh by-elections as candidates have yet not been given the list of such voters. Earlier in the day, Congress workers staged a protest outside the office of the state Chief Electoral Officer here. Later, a three-member delegation led by Singh met the Election Commission (EC) officials. Talking to reporters after the meeting, Singh said, "Our main demands were that postal ballots polled so far be cancelled and a list of such voters be provided to all candidates." The Congress leader said the officials informed that the EC is going to hold a meeting on the issue on Tuesday. He also said the transfers of government officials in the bypoll-bound districts should be stopped and only those officials, against whom a complaint was lodged and was verified, should be removed. Singh alleged that some police officials were influencing voters in favour of the ruling BJP. He thanked the EC for removing some police officials against whom complaints were made. "We are keeping an eye on the police officers against whom complaints are reaching to us. We warn them that Congress leaders know how to deal with such elements whether we stay in the government or not, though we are returning to power," the Congress veteran said. Alleging that police officers in the Gwalior-Chambal region were doing "netagiri" (leadership), he said the Congress has been taking it seriously. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan accused state Congress president Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh of threatening the government officers and employees. "Kamal Nath ji and Digvijay Singh ji are threatening the officers and employees nowadays after anticipating their possible defeat. Words like we will see, we will deal with it are being used," Chouhan said in a tweet. "We appeal to the Election Commission to take suo motu cognisance on this issue," he added. By-elections to 28 Assembly seats in the state are scheduled on November 3. Twenty-five of these seats fell vacant after sitting Congress MLAs resigned and joined the BJP, leading to the collapse of the Kamal Nath-led state government. Besides, three seats fell vacant due to the death of their sitting MLAs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cancel-postal-ballots-polled-so-far-in-madhya-pradesh-digvijaya-sing-to-election-commission-907762.html
27-10-2020||National Politics||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat's views on Hindutva broad, inclusive: Shiv Sena||Shiv Sena on Tuesday lauded RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat's remarks on Hindutva as being broad and inclusive, adding he has given a befitting reply to those who feel that anyone not with the BJP is not Hindu. The Sena also said Bhagwat won't seek reopening of temples during coronavirus pandemic as he has a scientific temper. "He is for investing in vaccine development. The BJP leaders who are happily clanging bells for reopening of temples amid the pandemic should listen to Bhagwat first," an editorial in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana said. "Some 'thekedar' (contractors) have a perverted ideology that Hindutva is their monopoly and those not with the BJP are not Hindus. The RSS chief has shown them their place," the editorial said. Responding to Shiv Senas fresh salvo, Maharashtra BJP's chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said, "It is the Shiv Sena that has given up Hindutva and to hide its failures, that party needs to criticise the BJP over any issue." At the RSS' annual Dussehra event in Nagpur on Sunday, Bhagwat had said the Sanghs concept of Hindu rashtra is not political or power centred. He had said the Hindu culture expressed itself in diverse forms, but some groups are trying to spread hatred in society by creating insecurity among people. Bhagwat had claimed the word Hindutva was applicable to the 1.3 billion people of India as it expressed identity, continuity of spirituality-based traditions and the entire wealth of value system in the land of Bharat. The Sena mouthpiece claimed the BJP's Hindutva revolves around the cow. "Hindutva supporters in BJP have instigated Hindu-Muslim riots and reaped political benefit out of it," it said. There is cow slaughter daily in many BJP- ruled states, so BJP's cow politics on Hindutva is baseless, it added. "It is shocking that rape and murder are also seen through the Hindutva prism. The definition of Hindutva has never been so narrow as it is now," the Sena said. The editorial also referred to Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari's sarcasm-laden letter to Thackeray saying it was ironical that shrines were still shut while bars and restaurants were allowed to reopen in the state. Koshyari had asked if Thackeray, "a strong votary of Hindutva, had suddenly turned secular". Thackeray had hit back, saying he did not need a certificate of Hindutva from Koshyari. "Koshyari tried to teach lessons to Thackeray by asking whether he had given up his Hindutva. Koshyari wanted the state government to reopen places of religious worship. "Thackeray responded strongly, saying his definition of Hindutva does not include clanging of bells and dishes," the editorial said. Upadhye claimed the 11-month-old Maha Vikas Aghadi government in the state, comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress has failed on almost all the fronts. "This government is still struggling to control the Covid-19 cases, the state administration is weakened and there is no direction to this government at all," Upadhye said. "That is why the Sena needs to keep criticising the BJP to divert attention," the BJP spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rss-chief-mohan-bhagwats-views-on-hindutva-broad-inclusive-shiv-sena-907794.html
27-10-2020||National Politics||Bihar Polls: Narendra Modi, Rahul Gandhi to visit state on October 28 for 2nd round of campaigning||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will visit Bihar on Wednesday to campaign for their respective alliances in the high-voltage state assembly polls. This will be the second electoral visit of the two leaders to Bihar. Both of them had plunged into campaigning for the three-phased state assembly elections on October 23 and addressed a series of rallies. Modi will address three public meetings at Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur and Patna to garner support for the NDA nominees in constituencies that will go to the polls in the second phase on November 3. Rahul Gandhi, who will visit Bihar on the same day as the prime minister, will address rallies at Valmiki Nagar and Kusheshwar Asthan in Darbhanga district to canvass for the Grand Alliance. The by-poll to Valmiki Nagar Lok Sabha seat will be held on November 3 along with the second round of voting in the state elections. Modi and Rahul Gandhi had kicked off their campaign in battleground Bihar on Friday last week. While Modi had addressed three back to back rallies at Dehri-On-Sone in Rohtas district, Gaya and Bhagalpur, the Congress leader had his meetings at Hisua in Nawada and Kahalgaon in Bhagalpur district. The two leaders had gone for each other's jugular over the Chinese intrusion in Ladakh and both cried "insult" to soldiers and their families. The abrogation of Article 370, farm sector reform laws, "jungle raj" during the 15 years of RJD dispensation, the migrant crisis and joblessness too figured prominently in the bitter electoral discourse. With the rallies taking place at a time when Covid-19 is raging in Bihar, elaborate arrangements have been made keeping in mind the regulations for the deadly virus. A report from Darbhanga said that senior officials of the Special Protection Group (SPG), who provide security to the prime minister, held meeting with Darbhanga district magistrate S M Thyagrajan to ensure Covid guidelines are followed at the rally venue. Officials said that no one will be allowed inside the venue without face masks and people who will be on the dais with the prime minister have undergone RT-PCR tests. NDA candidates from across the district will sit on a separate dais near to the main one, they said.    Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and BJP general secretary Bhupendra Yadav will be present on the occasion. In Muzaffarpur, the Prime Minister's rally will be held at Motipur, around 30 km from the district headquarters. A limited number of chairs have been put in the field where the rally will be held. The chairs have been placed inside circles marked at a distance from each other. In capital Patna, the public meeting will be held at the Veterinary College ground near the airport. Incidentally, the Veterinary College premises had been home to RJD supremo Lalu Prasad who had stayed for a long time in the early part of his early life in the quarters of his brother, who was a peon in the college. When Prasad was sent to jail in the multi-crore rupees fodder scam in July 1997, he was initially kept in the college guest house before being forwarded to Beur jail here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bihar-polls-narendra-modi-rahul-gandhi-to-visit-state-on-october-28-for-2nd-round-of-campaigning-907836.html
27-10-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi exempted from court appearance in defamation case||A court here on Tuesday granted Congress leader Rahul Gandhi a permanent exemption from appearance in a criminal defamation case he is facing over remarks against Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate R B Etaliya allowed Gandhi's plea seeking exemption, his lawyer said. The Congress leader is facing the case for calling Shah a "murder accused" at an election rally in Rajasthan before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Gandhi's lawyer had last September sought permanent exemption from appearance before the court for his client, stating that he was a leader of a national political party and had a busy schedule. Hearing on the plea was delayed first due to adjournments sought by the lawyer for the complainant, BJP corporator Krishnavadan Brahmbhatt. When Brahmbhatt's lawyer S V Raju was appointed Additional Solicitor General of India and consequently needed the permission of the Union Ministry of Law and Justice to appear in the case, it caused further delay. The order on Gandhi's plea for a permanent exemption from appearance is another criminal defamation case, filed by Ahmedabad District Cooperative Bank and its Chairman Ajay Patel, is also reserved for order by another city court, said Gandhi's lawyer P S Champaneri. In the present case, Brahmbhatt has said in his complaint that the slur used by Gandhi was slanderous as Shah was discharged in the Sohrabuddin Shaikh fake encounter case in 2015. In January 2020, Gandhi appeared before the court and pleaded `not guilty'. He was granted bail. Ajay Patel's complaint of defamation is about Gandhi's claim that the cooperative bank was involved in a `scam' where scrapped currency of Rs 750 crore was swapped with valid currency within five days of demonetization in 2016.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-exempted-from-court-appearance-in-defamation-case-907840.html
27-10-2020||National Politics||Association for Democratic Reforms moves Supreme Court for urgent hearing on Electoral Bonds||Association for Democratic Reforms has filed a plea in the Supreme Court for urgent consideration of its 2017 PIL on the validity of Electoral Bonds. It said in view of passing of more than nine months since the last date of hearing of the PIL and new developments relating to the proposed Bihar legislative election, the matter required urgent hearing.  The application filed by advocate Prashant Bhushan pointed out that even though a notification issued on January 2, 2018, stipulated sale of electoral bonds in January, April, July and October months of each year, the window was not opened in April and July. But it was been opened in October, right before the Bihar legislative election. "The electoral bonds scheme has opened the floodgates to unlimited corporate donations to political parties and anonymous financing by Indian as well as foreign companies which can have serious repercussions on the Indian democracy," the plea claimed. The Finance Act of 2017 has introduced the use of electoral bonds which is exempt from disclosure under the Representation of Peoples Act, 1951, "opening doors to unchecked, unknown funding to political parties", it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/association-for-democratic-reforms-moves-supreme-court-for-urgent-hearing-on-electoral-bonds-907846.html
27-10-2020||National Politics||Bihar polls: Tejashwi Yadav in damage control over 'Babu Saheb’ remark; BJP says 'he is speaking like Lalu Prasad'||RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav went into damage control mode Tuesday after his "Babu Saheb" remark triggered criticism, saying while he had used the term to highlight “corruption” of officials under the Nitish Kumar government his rivals were giving it a “casteist spin”. "I used the term for Sarkari babus (government officials)...don't we use the term 'Sushasan Babu', 'SDO babu', 'badka babu' (senior officials) and 'chhotka babu' (junior officials)," Tejashwi told reporters Tuesday, clarifying his remarks made at a poll rally Monday. While, the word 'Sushasan Babu', meaning the man propagating good governance, is used in the political circles in Bihar for Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, other terms are used for officials in the secretariat and other government departments in the state. The opposition chief ministerial candidate said he had made the remark to highlight that corruption was everywhere under the Nitish Kumar's rule and people have to “pay bribe” even for getting a birth or death certificate. The BJP and the JD(U) had slammed him on Monday and the remarks continued to draw criticism on Tuesday too. BJP leader and Union minister Giriraj Singh made a scathing attack on the young RJD leader, saying, "In the process of inheriting the political legacy of his father, Tejashwi has started speaking like Lalu Prasad, who had used 'BHURA BAL SAAF KARO' slur against the forward castes." On the other hand, there is a leader like Prime Minister Narendra Modi who provided 10 per cent reservation to the poor among the forward castes, the BJP leader said. Bihar JD(U) spokesman Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said, "Seeing his jobs card making no impact among people, Tejashwi is now playing the caste card by making such statements." Coming down heavily on the rivals, Yadav said they were trying to give a "casteist spin" on his comments out of fear of defeat in the polls.    Addressing a rally in Rohtas on Monday, Tejashwi had said, "Jab Lalu Yadav ka raj tha, tab gareeb seena taan ke Babu Saheb ke samne chalte the. (When Lalu Yadav was in power, the poor used to walk before 'Babu Saheb' with their head held high). However, we will take everybody along. Employees working honestly will be rewarded and those indulging in wrongdoing punished," he asserted. BJP leader and Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Modi had criticised the remarks last night itself in a tweet, saying, "The RJD has made an objectionable remark against forward castes in its rally at Rohtas. The RJD had also opposed the 10 per cent reservation for upper caste poor." "Their politics has been about eliminating Bhu-Ra-Ba-L (an acronym used for upper castes -- Bhumihar, Rajput, Brahmin and Kayasth, the last often being referred to as Lala in the state). They again want to divide Bihar on the basis of caste," he alleged. He had also dragged name of late Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, who had quit the RJD before his death last month, to drive home his point.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bihar-polls-tejashwi-yadav-in-damage-control-over-babu-saheb-remark-bjp-says-he-is-speaking-like-lalu-prasad-907864.html
27-10-2020||National Politics||Bada bhai-chhota bhai ruined MP: Jyotiraditya Scindia attacks Kamal Nath, Digvijaya Singh||Congressman-turned-BJP Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia on Tuesday termed his former colleagues Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh as siblings who "ruined" the state. Campaigning for November 3 byelections in the state at Biora in Rajgarh and Badnawar in Dhar district, he targeted Nath over transfers of officials. The Congress rubbished his allegations. "Bada bhai-chhota bhai (elder brother and younger brother) turned Vallabh Bhawan (state secretariat) into a den of corruption. Nath would be described as the world's biggest industrialist, so I thought he would bring industries to the state, but in reality he started a transfer industry," Scindia alleged. A superintendent of police was transferred five times in six months when Kamal Nath-led Congress government was in power between December 2018 and March 2020, the former Congress leader alleged. "Liquor and mining businesses also thrived. A minister even complained to the Congress president against him. Bada bhai (Kamal Nath) became chief minister, chhota bhai (Digvijaya Singh) became super CM and in 15 months, they ruined the state," Scindia further said. Referring to his exit from the Congress along with MLAs loyal to him which led to the Nath government's fall, Scindia said for the first time in last 70 years 22 MLAs, including six ministers, resigned for the cause of development. The state was back on the track of development after Shivraj Singh Chouhan took over as Chief Minister, he said. Reacting to Scindia's allegations, state Congress spokesperson Jitu Patwari said transfers made by the Nath government were justified, as it had come to power after 15 years and wanted to change governance. The allegations of corruption were baseless and the Congress has evidence about Scindia's own questionable land deals, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bada-bhai-chhota-bhai-ruined-mp-jyotiraditya-scindia-attacks-kamal-nath-digvijaya-singh-907865.html
27-10-2020||National Politics||CPI(M) terms changes in Jammu and Kashmir land laws 'highway robbery'||The CPI(M) on Tuesday described the amendments to land laws in Jammu and Kashmir to allow people from outside the Union Territory to buy land there as "highway robbery" and alleged that this was a way to "loot" its natural resources. In a gazette notification, the Centre has omitted the phrase "permanent resident of the state" from Section 17 of the Jammu and Kashmir Development Act that deals with disposal of the land in the union territory, paving the way for people from outside Jammu and Kashmir to buy land in JK and Ladakh, over a year after the nullification of provisions under Articles 370 and 35A of the Constitution. "This is highway robbery. The loot of J&K's resources and beautiful landscape. Having destroyed all people's democratic structures, will the next step be forcible land acquisition to hand over to cronies and fatten the purses of the ruling party at the centre? This cannot be allowed," CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said in a tweet. Before the repeal of Article 370 and Article 35-A in August last year, non-residents could not buy any immovable property in Jammu and Kashmir. However, the fresh changes have paved the way for non-residents to buy land in the union territory. Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha told reporters that the amendments did not allow the transfer of agricultural land to non-agriculturists. However, there are several exemptions in the Act which enable the transfer of agricultural land for non-agricultural purposes, including setting up of educational or health care facilities. M Y Tarigami, a central committee member of the CPI(M) and a leader from Jammu and Kashmir, tweeted, "This is a design to disempower the people of J&K further and put their land on sale for corporations. It is daylight robbery of land in the name of integration, development and security."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cpim-terms-changes-in-jammu-and-kashmir-land-laws-highway-robbery-907892.html
27-10-2020||National Politics||Chirag Paswan, LJP come under fresh attack from J P Nadda||In a fresh attack on Chirag Paswan-led Lok Janshakti Party, BJP president Jagat Prakash Nadda on Tuesday asserted that berating Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar while lavishing praise on Prime Minister Narendra Modi was a "conspiracy" to split votes which could benefit the opposition RJD. Addressing election rallies in Rajnagar and Dhaka assembly segments of the poll-bound Madhubani and East Champaran districts respectively, Nadda, who did not mention the LJP or its president by name, nonetheless asked the people to be on their guard against the "conspiracy" lest Lalu (Prasad) may be back. "A conspiracy is on these days, to berate Nitish Kumar while praising Narendra Modi. This is aimed at splitting votes. You have to be careful. Narendra Modi has been generous in providing assistance to the state. "But if Lalu comes back, all the efforts of the NDA will come undone", said the BJP chief referring to the RJDs jailed supremo whom the saffron party and its allies have been relentlessly attacking, building up a "15 years versus 15 years" narrative. Nadda had made similar remarks at election rallies he addressed in the state on the previous day. Chirag Paswan, son of former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, pulled out of the NDA in Bihar recently vowing to defeat Nitish Kumar and his JD(U) and ensuring that the BJP, a partner in the states ruling coalition, headed the next government. Paswan has also been singing paeans to the Prime Minister, comparing his fidelity towards Modi to Hanumans devotion for Lord Rama. He has also sought to drive a wedge between BJP and JD(U) underscoring the LJPs unflinching support to Modi government on all issues, unlike the Bihar Chief Minister's party which opposed the scrapping of Article 370, the law against triple talaq and the proposed country-wide NRC. "The elections are an occasion for the people of the state to make a choice between highways and potholes, between prosperity and fear of kidnappings. The RJD stands for anarchy. It has joined hands with the disruptive CPI(ML) which has been involved in many massacres. And about the Congress, the less said the better", Nadda said. He alleged, "Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and their ilk are so obsessed with attacking Modi that they end up attacking the country itself".    "Our Prime Minister succeeded in containing Covid-19 by the timely imposition of lockdown and utilising the period for improving medical facilities. Compare this with the situation in Europe, or in the US where presidential elections are on and the incumbent is being accused of mishandling the pandemic", Nadda said. However, Rahul Gandhi makes comments suggesting India has done worse than Pakistan in handling the global pandemic. Same was the case with Shashi Tharoor. And some time back Mani Shankar Aiyer gave the call for ousting Modi from power while in Lahore, he said. Such has been the nationalism of Indian National Congress, the BJP president remarked with a tinge of disgust. "Under Modi, the nation's borders have been secure. When Chinese troops attempted incursions in Galwan, it was thwarted by valiant soldiers of the Bihar Regiment, though some of them lost their lives in the process", he said recalling the stand-off that took place in Ladakh a few months ago. Nonetheless, infrastructure development has taken place at an unprecedented speed across the inhospitable terrain and the previously inaccessible corners can now easily be reached by road, Nadda added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chirag-paswan-ljp-come-under-fresh-attack-from-j-p-nadda-907903.html
27-10-2020||National Politics||Bihar Election: Chirag Paswan's video shoot after father's death triggers row||He jokes, talks about 'cuts and edits' in Bollywood parlance, and even the 'texture' of hair, as he stands in front of the smiling portrait of his father Ram Vilas Paswan. A purported video of LJP president Chirag Paswan rehearsing for a video message a day after the death of his father, one of the foremost Dalit leaders Bihar produced after Jagjivan Ram, has gone viral. The 37 years old LJP chief, embarrassed over the development that came less than 24 hours before Bihar votes in the first phase of assembly polls, reacted with indignation and accused Chief Minister Nitish Kumar of "stooping so low", suggesting that he suspected the JD(U) president's hand in the damaging video. In the nearly two-minute clip, shot before he got his head tonsured as a sign of bereavement, the Jamui MP can be seen standing in front of a garlanded portrait of his late father, donning white clothes worn as part of mourning. Chirag, who has pulled out of the NDA in Bihar vowing to oust Nitish Kumar from power while, paradoxically, helping his junior ally BJP in the state to form the next government, can be heard bantering with his associates about people having "different textures of hair". "You people will do the cut and edit part. I will include a line about our candidates (in the video)," Chirag Paswan is purportedly seen as telling the camera crew while asking if a single or a double camera was being used.    Senior JD(U) leader Neeraj Kumar, who is also the state's Information and Public Relations Department Minister, came out with a statement dripping with sarcasm. "It has been our parampara (tradition), our sanskaar (value system) to serve our fathers. But look at actors of the new generation who get busy with shooting immediately after their father's death," Kumar said, without naming anybody, but obviously taking a swipe at Chirag's unsuccessful attempt to make it in Bollywood before joining politics. He also said the video presented "a shameful facet of dynasty politics where one's own father becomes a tool for setting political agenda". "Take to serving the people, mister. Politics is about hard reality, not the make-believe world of acting," Kumar added, twisting the knife. The LJP chief came out with a flurry of tweets alleging that the controversy had been triggered at the behest of the Bihar chief minister to "divert public attention". "I had to release the first list of my party candidates within six hours of my father's death. I had to fulfil all my duties in capacity of the party president without stepping out of my home for 10 days. So I had no choice but to shoot the video for a digital campaign," he tweeted. "Do I have to prove to Nitish Kumar how much grief the death of Papa has caused me," Paswan asked indignantly in another tweet and added, "I had been shooting videos on a daily basis. What other option did I have, at a time when the campaign for elections was picking up". "I had never imagined that the Chief Minister can stoop so low. I am appalled. This attempt at diverting public attention from the incident at Munger would not be successful," said the LJP chief referring to the violence that rocked the Bihar district Monday night during immersion of Durga idols, killing one person and injuring many. Bihar BJP chief Sanjay Jaiswal, whose party was said to be tacitly approving of Paswan's rebellion before deciding to drop him like a hot potato, reacted with bemusement. "I can only say Chirag Paswan is a fine actor. A reason why movies were his first choice," Jaiswal said with a smirk when asked about the video. "The people of the state will never forgive this," asserted Paswan, ending his tweet with the hashtag "asambhavNitish", apparently seeking to assert that the incumbent chief minister's return to power was "impossible".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bihar-election-chirag-paswans-video-shoot-after-fathers-death-triggers-row-907974.html
27-10-2020||North and Central||All UP districts to have anti-human trafficking police stations||All districts of Uttar Pradesh will now have anti-human trafficking police stations to check the trafficking of women and children. These police stations will be set up in all districts of the state for effective action in trafficking cases and a government order (GO) to this effect was issued on October 20, a spokesperson said on Monday. Forty new anti-human trafficking units will be set up to function as police stations, he said. So far there are 35 anti-human trafficking units in the state which were set up in 2011 and 2016 by the then governments. These thanas will have the power to register FIRs, carry out investigation and take required legal action, the spokesperson said. These thanas are being set up on the directives of the central government department concerned and funds for them have been allotted by the Centre, he said. The Centre has provided Rs 15 lakh each for the 40 new thanas, amounting to Rs six crore in total, and Rs 12 lakh each for the already existing 35 thanas, amounting to Rs 4.20 crore, the spokesman added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/all-up-districts-to-have-anti-human-trafficking-police-stations-907446.html
27-10-2020||North and Central||Union Govt to bring new law to curb air pollution in Delhi-NCR||The government will soon bring in a new law to curb air pollution in Delhi-NCR, a top official from the Ministry of Environment said on Monday.  "The new law will be only for Delhi and NCR. It will come out soon. I cannot comment on what penalties it will entail. It's a new law to curb pollution in Delhi-NCR region only. Air Act is for the nation and it will be as it is," Environment Secretary R P Gupta told PTI. The response from him came after the Supreme Court, which had raised concern over the worsening air quality in Delhi-NCR, was told by the Centre that it will bring a new legislation to curb pollution and submit a proposal before it in four days. A layer of poisonous haze lingered over the national capital on Monday as the air quality in the city was recorded in the "very poor" category for the fourth consecutive day. The city recorded a 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) of 353 on Monday. It was 349 on Sunday, 345 on Saturday and 366 on Friday.  Most of the air quality monitoring stations in the city recorded the air quality in the “very poor” category, while pollution levels rose to "severe" levels at Vivek Vihar (AQI 414), Wazirpur (404) and Anand Vihar (418). An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate',201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.  The share of stubble burning in Delhi's PM2.5 concentration was 16 per cent on Monday. It was 19 per cent on Sunday and 9 per cent on Saturday. NASA's satellite imagery also showed a very dense cluster of fires in Punjab, Haryana and nearby regions.   In its October 16 order, the top court had ordered deployment of National Cadet Corps, National Service Scheme and Bharat Scouts and Guides for assisting in the monitoring of stubble burning in the agricultural fields of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi-NCR, saying all it wants is that "people of Delhi-NCR can breathe fresh air without any pollution".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/union-govt-to-bring-new-law-to-curb-air-pollution-in-delhi-ncr-907502.html
27-10-2020||North and Central||Ballia firing incident: Two more people arrested||Two more people have been arrested in connection with the firing incident in Durjanpur village that took place following a fracas over-allotment of ration shops and left one person dead, officials said on Friday. SHO, Reoti police station, Praveen Singh said two named accused Prayag Singh and Prayas Singh, carrying cash rewards of Rs. 50,000 each, were arrested on Tuesday. On October 15, local BJP leader Dhirendra Pratap Singh had allegedly opened fire leaving 46-year-old Jai Prakash Pal alias Gama dead following a quarrel over the allotment of ration shops in the village. A named FIR against eight persons and 20 to 25 unnamed persons was lodged by the deceased family of which 12 people including the main accused Dhirendra have so far been arrested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ballia-firing-incident-two-more-people-arrested-907688.html
27-10-2020||North and Central||Bhojpuri singer Golu Raja hurt in celebratory firing in Uttar Pradesh||Bhojpuri singer and actor Golu Raja was injured in celebratory firing at the home of a local BJP leader in a village here, police said on Tuesday. The incident took place on Monday night when Raja was performing at the birthday function of local BJP leader Bhanu Dubey's son at his home in Mahakarpur village, Station House Officer (SHO), Garwar, Anil Chandra Tiwari said. Raja was injured and rushed to a private hospital in Buxar from where he was referred to Varanasi, the SHO said. The matter is being investigated, Tiwari added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bhojpuri-singer-golu-raja-hurt-in-celebratory-firing-in-uttar-pradesh-907693.html
27-10-2020||North and Central||Senior doctors of Delhi North Corporation hospitals go on indefinite strike over pending salaries||Patients of North Corporation-run hospitals faced hardship as the senior doctors there went on an indefinite strike on Tuesday, a day after they had gone on casual leave en masse over their pending salaries. Maruti Sinha, general secretary of the Municipal Corporation Doctors' Association (MCDA) said, "Our demands, which include the release of pending salaries for the last three months, have not been met, so we are now on an indefinite strike". MCDA, an association of senior permanent doctors of the civic hospitals, was established in 1974 and has about 1200 members. It also includes doctors from hospitals run by other two municipal corporations. "We have about 700 doctors from the North Corporation hospital who are part of MCDA. We all went on mass casual leave in protest. And, even though our conscience doesn't allow, our doctors did not attend to patients even in emergency wards," Sinha said on Monday. Patients at Hindu Rao Hospital and other North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run hospitals faced inconvenience as doctors struck work to press for their demands. Authorities may have taken services of contractual doctors, she said. Services were also hit on Monday when the senior doctors went on a mass casual leave and did not even attend to patients in the emergency department. Resident doctors of Hindu Rao Hospital are on a relay hunger strike for the last couple of days, demanding the release of their pending salaries too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/senior-doctors-of-delhi-north-corporation-hospitals-go-on-indefinite-strike-over-pending-salaries-907695.html
27-10-2020||North and Central||Centre amends laws, now any Indian citizen can buy land in Jammu and Kashmir||In a significant move, the Centre has notified fresh land laws for Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh after which any outsider can buy land in the twin union territories (UTs). After the new laws, neither a permanent resident certificate nor a domicile certificate is needed to buy land in J&K. In a gazette notification, the Union Home Ministry notified the new land laws on Monday by omitting any precondition on purchase of land in the UTs.  The MHA in its release stated that the order will be called the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Adaptation of Central Laws) Third Order, 2020.  It added that it will come into effect immediately. Under the new laws, the government can also transfer land in favour of a person or an institution for the purpose of promotion of healthcare or educational institutions. Before the special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 was revoked in August last year, non-residents could not buy any immovable property in the erstwhile state. The fresh laws have sparked fears among locals that this will dilute the erstwhile state’s demography. Reacting to new land laws by the Center, J&K’s former chief minister and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti tweeted: “Yet another step that's part of GOI’s nefarious designs to disempower & disenfranchise people of J&K. From the unconstitutional scrapping of Article 370 to facilitating loot of our natural resources & finally putting land in J&K up for sale (sic).” “After failing on all fronts to provide roti & rozgar to people, BJP is creating such laws to whet the appetite of a gullible electorate. Such brazen measures reinforce the need of people of all three provinces of J&K to fight unitedly,” she advocated. Another former CM and National Conference leader Omar Abdullah in a sarcastic comment claimed that J&K is “now up for sale.” “Unacceptable amendments to the land ownership laws of J&K. Even the tokenism of domicile has been done away with when purchasing non-agricultural land & transfer of agricultural land has been made easier. J&K is now up for sale & the poorer small landholding owners will suffer,” he tweeted. Even the newly launched party, Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP), which is believed to be a proxy of the BJP, said that any laws which do not safeguard the interests and rights of people of J&K would be unacceptable to it. “Better would have been such laws of urgent nature should have been left to or dealt with in consultation with the duly elected government in Jammu and Kashmir,” JKAP president Altaf Bukhari said in a statement. However, J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha clarified that the new land laws being introduced in the UT will not impact agricultural land. “Agricultural land has been kept reserved for farmers; no outsider will come on those lands,” he told reporters. “The industrial areas that have been defined, we want that like rest of the country, here too industries come so that Jammu & Kashmir also develops and employment is generated,” the LG added. Earlier in April, the government of India had spelt out the domicile laws for the J&K which said a person who has resided in the UT for a period of 15 years or has studied for a period of seven years and appeared in Class 10th and 12th examination in a school within the region shall be deemed to be the domiciles of Jammu and Kashmir. It also included the children of the central government officials, who have served in J&K for a period of ten years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-amends-laws-now-any-indian-citizen-can-buy-land-in-jammu-and-kashmir-907740.html
27-10-2020||North and Central||'Namaste' gang kingpin arrested in Delhi||The Delhi Police on Tuesday claimed to have arrested the kingpin of the Namaste gang which used to greet people with folded hands before robbing them. Chand Mohammad (35), a resident of Faridabad in Haryana, targeted senior citizens by introducing himself as an acquaintance or friend of one of their relatives and taking away their jewellery, police said. He had committed more than 100 such crimes in Delhi and its neigbhouring areas since 2017, they said. The accused would greet his victims with folded hands and seek their blessings by touching their feet. He would then ask them to give him their jewellery on some pretext and flee from there, police said. Along with the accused, police also arrested one Dinesh Kumar Soni (47), a resident of Faridabad, who allegedly bought the stolen items from Mohammad. According to police, the matter came to notice after a complaint was received from a 70-year-old woman on October 17. In her complaint, the woman said that Mohammad made 'Namaste' gesture and touched her feet before introducing himself as a jeweller known to one of her relatives. He then asked her to give him the gold ear rings that she was wearing and after taking the jewellery, he fled from there, police said. On her complaint, a case was registered under section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code at the Maidan Garhi Police Station, said Atul Kumar Thakur, Deputy Commissioner of Police (south). On the same day, a similar incident had taken place in Neb Sarai area where the accused cheated another senior citizen using the same modus operandi, he said. "The accused had committed similar crimes in the area of Maidan Garhi, Neb Sarai, Sangam Vihar, Govindpuri, Ambedkar Nagar, Malviya Nagar and other areas of south district earlier. To nab the accused, our team collected CCTV footage of the incident and identified him and the vehicle used in committing the crime," the DCP said. The accused had also targeted several people in the west district of Delhi from 2017 to 2020. CCTV footage of multiple incidents at Hari Nagar, Tilak Nagar, Rajauri Garden, Kirti Nagar, Patel Nagar, Punjabi Bagh and Kapashera areas in west Delhi were analysed, he said. During investigation, the scooter used by the accused was traced to a vacant spot near a park where it was parked. The team laid a trap there and after waiting for four days, Mohammad was caught. The accused told police that he had stolen jewellery worth around Rs 60 lakh but lost most of it in gambling.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/namaste-gang-kingpin-arrested-in-delhi-907752.html
27-10-2020||North and Central||Tanishq ad: Plea in HC to regulate news channels from broadcasting content on communal disharmony||Amid row over the recent Tanishq advertisement showing an inter-faith couple, a plea has been moved in the Delhi High Court seeking to regulate news channels over broadcast and publishing of content based on communal disharmony and hate speech. The plea said it can be clearly inferred from the Tata jewellery brand advertisement that its purpose was to showcase the spirit of unity and brotherhood amongst two religious groups. However, news channel Sudharshan TV in its October 12 show ‘Bindas Bol’, made their best attempts to incite hatred amongst the two religious groups by terming the ad as ‘advertisement jihad’, the petition filed by an advocate said. Following the criticism over the ad on social media, the company had withdrawn it. Petitioner-advocate Asghar Khan said in his plea that the Programme Code under the Cable and Television Networks (Regulation) Rules stipulate that no programme should be carried which “contains an attack on religions or communities or visuals or words contemptuous of religious groups or which promote communal attitudes”. “This programme (of Sudarshan TV) violates the Programme Code enumerated under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act 1995, together with the Code of Ethics and News Broadcasting Standards Regulations. “The expression of views derogatory to a particular community has a divisive potential, together with free speech, there are other values which need to be balanced and preserved,” it said. The plea has arrayed the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Press Council of India, News Broadcasters Association and Sudarshan News as parties. The plea sought a direction to the authorities to form guidelines to include restrictions as envisaged under Article 19 of the Constitution and orders of the Supreme Court to ensure that media does not abuse the freedom of speech and expression. It also sought a direction to the authorities commanding them to make a mechanism to check contents and advertisements which are spreading hatred amongst the communities and are against the society at large and the spirit of Union of India. The plea sought to declare the alleged hate/ derogatory speeches made by Sudarshan News as violative of Articles 14 (Equality before Law), 19 (Protection of certain rights regarding freedom of speech) and 21 (Protection of Life and Personal Liberty) of the Constitution. It has also prayed for the imposition of ‘gag order” restraining the orator or author of hate or derogatory speeches made on the lines of religion from addressing the public anywhere within the country till the disposal of the criminal proceeding initiated against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tanishq-ad-plea-in-hc-to-regulate-news-channels-from-broadcasting-content-on-communal-disharmony-907812.html
27-10-2020||North and Central||Noida gets first Metro station dedicated to transgender community||The Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) on Tuesday officially renamed one of its stations here as "Pride Station" dedicated to the transgender community, a first for Metro services in northern India. Gautam Buddh Nagar MP Mahesh Sharma, Noida MLA Pankaj Singh and NMRC Managing Director Ritu Maheshwari unveiled the new name of the station, earlier known as the Sector 50 station. Six members of the transgender community, who have been recruited by NMRC through contractors for services at the Metro station, were present at the station. "These members have been provided the necessary training by NMRC before deployment," NMRC's Deputy General Manager for Corporate Communications Sandhya Sharma said. According to the NMRC, which operates the Metro between the twin cities of Noida and Greater Noida in western UP, it is a first-of-its-kind initiative introduced by a Metro network in northern India. "This step has been taken by the NMRC for the inclusion and meaningful participation of the members of the transgender community. As per Census 2011, there are 4.9 lakh transgenders in India, out of whom around 35,000 are staying in NCR. These numbers may have increased manifold in the present scenario,” the operator said. The initiative was inspired by the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019, passed by the Centre for the protection of the rights of the transgender people and working towards their welfare, it added. The NMRC had on June 19 announced its decision to convert the Sector 50 station into a “She – Man” station that shall have special facilities and employment for the transgenders. The operator had earlier thought of renaming the station as “Rainbow”. Earlier in 2017, the Kochi Metro Rail Limited in Kerala had taken a similar step by employing 23 transgenders, breaking new ground in gender justice. “The station has been named 'Pride' as the NMRC feels extremely proud and privileged to have qualified members of the transgender community as part of the NMRC family. It also instils a sense of pride among the community and this step by NMRC is bound to be a ray of hope to uplift the members of this community and help in breaking stereotypes about them so that they too can live a dignified life with their head held high,” the NMRC said in a statement. The name, it said, was selected after receiving suggestions from the general public and various NGOs and other organisations that work for the community. Suggestions were called online from people on NMRC's website and maximum people suggested the name “Pride”. The “Pride” station, though dedicated to the transgenders, will be open for all passengers. It will also provide employment opportunities for the transgender community, it added. The artwork and look of the Pride station have also been done to signify the essence and spirit of the members of the transgender community. To provide the community with employment opportunities and to enable their meaningful inclusion in the society, NMRC had also come up with six vacancies -- four for ticket vending operator and two for housekeeping staff -- for the transgender community. “These vacancies were specifically for deployment at the 'Pride' Station. The candidates were asked to submit their applications to NMRC's contractors responsible for deploying staff at NMRC's stations,” the operator said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/noida-gets-first-metro-station-dedicated-to-transgender-community-907826.html
27-10-2020||North and Central||Woman killed for standing up against sexual harassment of her daughters in Uttar Pradesh||A 55-year-old woman was allegedly beaten to death by four people for opposing their attempts of sexual harassment against her daughters at Nara village under Mansurpur police station here, police said. Mansurpur police station SHO K P Singh said a case was registered against four people -- Akash, Gopi, Binendra, and Rajesh -- who are absconding. A manhunt is on to catch hold of them. According to the complaint lodged by the family members, it is alleged that the four neighbours were harassing the young women of the family that was bitterly resisted by the mother. On Monday evening, the four accused entered her house and attacked the woman identified as Sevti Devi (55). She was severely beaten up by the men. She was rushed to a nearby hospital where she was declared dead. The body has been sent for a post-mortem. Meanwhile, police raided the residences of all four accused to arrest them but they were not there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-killed-for-standing-up-against-sexual-harassment-of-her-daughters-in-uttar-pradesh-907848.html
27-10-2020||North and Central||Two tourists killed as bus crashes into truck in Punjab's Hoshiarpur||Two tourists were killed when a private tourist bus carrying them rammed into a stationary truck parked on the road near Dasuya here, police said on Tuesday. Eight other passengers were injured in the incident which took place late on Monday night, they said. The identification of the deceased was yet to be made and their bodies had been kept in the mortuary of Dasuya Civil Hospital, police said. The injured were also admitted to the same hospital. The Jammu-bound bus was carrying tourists from Chhattisgarh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-tourists-killed-as-bus-crashes-into-truck-in-punjabs-hoshiarpur-907853.html
27-10-2020||North and Central||Three Neeraj Bawana gang members arrested||Three alleged members of the Neeraj Bawana gang were apprehended by the Special Cell of Delhi Police early Tuesday morning after the exchange of fire between the two sides in Karala area here, officials said. The accused have been identified as Manish Dabas (27), a resident of Ladpur Village, Deepak alias Katia (26), a resident of Sultanpur Dabas, and Prince Panchal (23), a resident of Burari, they said. Dabas and Deepak received bullet injuries in the incident, a senior police officer said. They all were involved in an extortion case and shooting at the house of a businessman in north Delhi's Model Town area, he said. According to police, an extortion case was registered at Model Town police station. The complainant received a phone call on October 2 where the caller said that he belongs to the Neeraj Bawana gang and demanded Rs 50 lakh. On October 21, the complainant again received an extortion call. The caller threatened to kill him or his family members if he does not give the money. On Saturday, they fired multiple rounds near his house, police said. During investigation, police got a tip-off on Monday that three members of the Neeraj Bawana gang, who were involved in an extortion case, will come near Karala Village, the officer said. "Thereafter, a trap was laid and around 4.30 am, a car was seen coming towards Karala Village from Rohini Helipad side. They were signalled to stop, but they tried to escape and accelerated the car. "Their car stuck at the roadside, following which two of them came out of the vehicle and fired at police. Police also fired four rounds in which Dabas and Deepak got injured," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said. Three loaded pistols, one car and four mobile phones were recovered from their possession, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-neeraj-bawana-gang-members-arrested-907862.html
27-10-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh moves to negate Centre's farm reforms||After Punjab, Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh on Tuesday set in motion the process to negate the Modi government's farm sector reforms, terming them as anti-farmer. At a special two-day session of the state assembly, Chhattisgarh Agriculture Minister Ravindra Choubey introduced the Chhattisgarh Agriculture Produce Market (Amendment) Bill, 2020 that grants the state government the powers to declare private mandis as “deemed markets”, thus effectively bringing them under the state government control. Opposition BJP raised objections that the government had not circulated the copies of the bill in advance, but the same was rejected by Speaker Charan Das Mahant, who allowed the introduction of the legislation. After the centre ushered in farm sector reforms through three legislations – the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and Essential Commodities Act 2020, Congress President Sonia Gandhi had asked chief ministers of party-ruled states to explore legal options to negate the impact of the central laws. “As advised by Congress President, Chhattisgarh Government will amend State law to counter the draconian anti-farmer legislations of the Modi government in the assembly starting today (Tuesday). These historic legislations in Punjab, Chhattisgarh & Rajasthan will uphold our farmers' rights,” AICC General Secretary K C Venugopal said here. Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel hit out at the central laws contending that they encouraged hoarding of agricultural commodities. The state government is expected to get the bill approved by the assembly on Wednesday. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has also declared that the state government would also take the legislative route to negate the central laws. Punjab Assembly had passed bills to counter the farm reforms unveiled by the Modi government last week. The bills will have to be approved by the Governors of the respective states and President Ram Nath Kovind before they become the law of the land.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-moves-to-negate-centres-farm-reforms-907885.html
27-10-2020||North and Central||Congress is spreading lies, 'misleading' farmers: Haryana CM M L Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister M L Khattar on Tuesday launched a scathing attack on the Congress over its criticism of the recent farm sector laws, and said the opposition party raises a hue and cry whenever the government takes any major decision. He said the Congress is "misleading" farmers by telling them that the new laws will "ruin" them, lead to dismantling of mandis and the minimum support price (MSP) system, and will help big corporate houses "exploit" them. "Chaudhary Devi Lal used to say it is difficult sometimes to make farmers understand, but easy to mislead them," the chief minister said referring to his deputy Dushyant Chautala's great grandfather and former deputy prime minister. The Congress is repeatedly spreading "lies" and is in the habit of raising a hue and cry whenever the government takes any major decision, be it the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution or the Ram temple construction in Ayodhya. Addressing a state-level function in Hisar to mark the completion of the BJP-JJP government's one year in office, Khattar also condemned the burning of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's effigies on the occasion of Dussehra by some farmer leaders in Haryana and asked should a "Ram bhakt" PM be equated with demon king Ravana. Khattar, along with his deputy and JJP leader Dushyant Chautala, performed the ground-breaking ceremony for the extension of Hisar airport runway from 1,200 metres to 3,000 metres at a cost of Rs 165 crore. In addition to the runway extension project, events were held for laying foundation or inauguration of 306 projects worth Rs 1,688 crore across the state, he said. He said the coalition government is taking Haryana ahead on a new growth trajectory, but the opposition Congress was repeatedly spreading "lies". "Whenever any major decision is taken by our government, they create a hue and cry," he said. The Congress created a hue and cry when Article 370 was scrapped and claimed that it would lead to bloodbath in Kashmir Valley. "Has anything happened in Kashmir for one year?" he asked. He said that on the Ram temple issue too the Congress raised a hue and cry and said that riots will break out in the country. On the Citizenship Amendment Act also, they made a lot of noise, the chief minister said. "When the Congress-led UPA was in power they did not dare to act against Pakistan for their misadventures for the fear that they were a nuclear weapon armed nation, but it was the Modi government which dared to carry out surgical strike, air strike to teach them a lesson," Khattar said. "After 1962, the Congress did not have the courage to raise voice against China, but China today finds itself isolated in the world and the entire world is supporting us...,” he said. He said the opposition should not do politics on every issue and added that such things create obstacles in the development of the state. On the burning of PM Modi's effigies by a group of farmers led by BKU state unit chief Gurnam Singh, Khattar said limits were crossed when "they say that like on Dussehra effigies of demon king Ravana are burnt, they will burn effigies of the Prime Minister".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-is-spreading-lies-misleading-farmers-haryana-cm-m-l-khattar-907895.html
27-10-2020||North and Central||Man killed in dispute over loud music in Delhi||A 29-year-old man was allegedly stabbed to death and his two brothers were injured on Tuesday during a quarrel that erupted after they objected to loud music being played by their neighbour in northwest Delhi's Mahendra Park area, police said. The deceased has been identified as Sushil, a resident of Sarai Pipal Thala in Mahendra Park area, they said. Police said they received information regarding the quarrel around 3:15 pm on Tuesday. Sushil and his brothers -- Sunil and Anil -- got injured in the incident and were admitted to Babu Jagjivan Ram Memorial (BJRM) Hospital, police said. While Sushil succumbed to injuries, Anil is serious and undergoing treatment. Sunil, who is also admitted to the hospital, stated that loud music was being played at the house of one Abdul Sattar, a senior police officer said. When they asked Sattar, a garlic trader in Azadpur Mandi, to turn down the music, a quarrel erupted between them and Sattar and his four sons -- Shahnawaz, Aafaq, Chand and Haseen -- stabbed them, police said. Shahjahan, the wife of Sattar, was also injured in the clash and admitted to the BJRM hospital. Based on Sunil's statement, a case under relevant sections was registered at Mahendra Park police station. Sattar and his two sons -- Shahnawaz and Aafaq -- have been arrested, while Chand and Haseen are absconding, the officer said. Sunil and Anil have been shifted to Safdarjung Hospital for further treatment. Police said Sushil has previous involvements in criminal cases and he used to smuggle liquor. He is survived by his wife and a son. The post-mortem will be conducted at BJRM Hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-killed-in-dispute-over-loud-music-in-delhi-907896.html
27-10-2020||North and Central||One dead, over two dozen injured in firing during Durga idol immersion||One person was killed and over two dozen people, including security personnel, were injured in firing and stone-pelting during goddess Durga idol immersion here, police said Tuesday, a day before the first phase of polling in the district and some other parts of the state. The police said the incident happened late Monday night at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Chowk under the Kotwali police station limits of the city. While people alleged the young man, who was in his early 20s, died in police firing, the administration said he was hit by a bullet fired by somebody from among the crowd. Coming on the eve of polling in the first phase of assembly elections, the incident drew political reactions with LJP president Chirag Paswan demanding strong action against Superintendent of Police Lipi Singh. RJD chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Yadav also criticised the state government for the incident. "Tejashwi Yadav has criticised the Nitish Kumar government for shooting without any reason children going for the immersion of idol in Munger. He has expressed condolences to the family of the deceased," the RJD said in a tweet. Chirag Paswan tweeted, "A 302 (murder) case should be registered against the Munger Police. Firing on devotees shows Nitish's is a Talibani regime. The local SP should be suspended immediately and an FIR registered against her under section 302 (murder)." He demanded Rs 50 lakh ex gratia and a government job for the kin of the deceased. Bihar Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi said the Election Commission should take cognisance of the incident and initiate action against the culprits. Munger District Magistrate Rajesh Meena said the police were also fired on. The DM and the district police chief visited the area and said the situation was under control. SP Lipi Singh said, "Some antisocial elements indulged in stone-pelting during the Durga puja immersion which left 20 jawans injured. There was also firing from the side of the crowd in which unfortunately a person died. We are conducting flag marches across the city. The situation is under control. We are keeping an eye on antisocial elements. Don't pay attention to any kind of rumour," she said. A purported video of the incident shows security personnel baton-charging a group of people in the immersion procession. Also, a disturbing image has been circulating on social media which shows the man purportedly killed in the incident lying motionless on the ground with his head split open. Among the police personnel injured are Sangrampur police station SHO Sarvjeet Kumar, Kotwali SHO Santosh Kumar Singh, Kashim Bazaar SHO Shailesh Kumar and Basudevpur outpost in-charge Sushil Kumar, police said. Police said they have recovered three firearms, bullets and spent cartridges and added that some miscreants have been detained. Witnesses said the trouble started after a makeshift bamboo carrier broke down while carrying a Durga idol and it was taking time to repair it. They said as the carrier was being repaired other idol processions got held up, leading to a pile-up. They said the administration wanted the procession to clear up quickly as the security personnel had to be deployed on election duty on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-dead-over-two-dozen-injured-in-firing-during-durga-idol-immersion-907922.html
27-10-2020||North and Central||J&K panchayats to get computers, internet connectivity||The Jammu and Kashmir administration is all set to provide digital infrastructure with internet connectivity to all panchayats and block development councils (BDCs) to transform and strengthen functioning of the Panchayati raj institutions, officials said on Tuesday. A sum of Rs 36.80 crore has been earmarked to these bodies for purchase of computers, printers and scanners, they said. "The rural local bodies will also be equipped with internet facility enabling them to work in an efficient and transparent manner," an official said. The department of rural development and panchayati raj had earlier conducted digital training for sarpanches and panches to acquaint them with basics of computer; and on how to work digitally, make digital payments, and maintain records, and they are already making payments under the MGNREGA and the 14th Finance Commission through digital signatures. "The digital infrastructure will make the panchayats more transparent, accountable and efficient," said Sheetal Nanda, Secretary Rural Development and Panchayati Raj, Jammu and Kashmir.  "The move is basically aimed at providing speedy delivery of services to the rural masses," she said. Nanda further added that the move will provide an easy access and mode of communication with the panchayats. The government has also sanctioned Rs 4.29 crore to panchayats, with Rs 10,000 for each panchayat specifically for meeting the expenses for the conduct of the recent B2V3 programme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-panchayats-to-get-computers-internet-connectivity-907929.html
27-10-2020||North and Central||Encounter breaks out between security forces and militants in J&K's Budgam||An encounter broke out on Tuesday between security forces and militants in Budgam district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation at Moachwah in Chadoora area of Budgam district following information about presence of militants there, a police official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after militants opened firing towards security forces positions. The exchange of firing was going on between the two sides but there were no reports of casualties so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/encounter-breaks-out-between-security-forces-and-militants-in-jks-budgam-907961.html
27-10-2020||North and Central||Nitin Gadkari urges Walmart to work with khadi industries to take their products to global markets||Union MSME Minister Nitin Gadkari on Tuesday urged retail giant Walmart to work with khadi and village industries to take their products, including khadi denim, to global markets. He also highlighted that the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector in India is a major job creator and contributor to the country's gross domestic product (GDP). "Khadi gram udyog has very good products. We are making khadi denim...the quality of products is good, of international standards... I will request if you can give opportunity to khadi gram udyog. I feel that will be a unique thing for Walmart also," Gadkari said at a virtual event here. The minister noted that the MSME sector is the backbone of the country's economy, employing over 11 crore people and is an engine to economic growth. He said the government has taken a number of steps to help the MSME sector that has seen a significant impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. Gadkari suggested that Walmart can engage with sectors like handloom, handicrafts, and other village industries. "They (industries) have unique types of products that are definitely going to give you (Walmart) more business. At the same time, it creates job opportunities in India. Our target is to increase exports, and Indian MSMEs must become part of the global supply chain," he said. He added that global corporates such as Walmart are contributing to expanding the footprint of India's MSME industry globally, by sourcing from these enterprises and also helping the sector enhance its quality standards. In December last year, US retail major Walmart said it would open 25 institute hubs in India over the next five years, which would train 50,000 entrepreneurs from the MSME sector. The institutes are to be opened under the Walmart Vriddhi Supplier Development Programme and would be strategically located near manufacturing clusters. On Tuesday, Walmart said it is adding interactive online training experiences and personalised mentoring to the programme, with access to resources and experts to support growth for MSMEs. This also supports the goals of Digital India by providing MSMEs with the tools to adopt new technologies to expand their business. Walmart Vriddhi's first all-digital e-institute will initially be open to MSMEs in Panipat, Sonipat, and Kundli, an area that is a hub of textile, steel and kitchenware production with a strong entrepreneurial heritage and a skilled workforce. "Following the Covid-19 outbreak, the programme has been reshaped to emphasise digital experiences, and this allowed it to be rolled out to more MSMEs. "In the future, it will offer a mix of digital and in-person training, mentoring and network experiences via physical Vriddhi Institutes when conditions are favourable," Nittin Dutt, senior director and head at Walmart Vriddh, said. The e-institute-based Vriddhi Programme provides MSMEs with an easy-to-use interactive learning experience through online modules with a blend of teaching and assessment tools. Participants receive personalised feedback through virtual classrooms, formal assessments and one-on-one advisory sessions. To prepare MSMEs to sell through new online and offline channels in India and abroad, the programme will also offer advanced training that includes personalised mentoring and the opportunity to work with service providers and peers. The programme equips MSMEs with tailored knowledge of key aspects of business management, enterprise growth, customer-centric services, manufacturing best practices, responsible sourcing and more. "Walmart Vriddhi opens up opportunities for MSMEs to sell into Walmart's supply chains or the open marketplace. "Wherever they are in their journey and whatever their aspirations for growth, that openness makes the programme unique and puts the supplier at the centre of everything we do," Judith McKenna, president and CEO of Walmart International, said. Flipkart Group Chief Executive Officer Kalyan Krishnamurthy said that as India adjusts to the 'new normal', digital transformation is a path to resilience for businesses. "In concert with the government's Digital India initiative, we want to help Indian MSMEs digitise so they can react to market trends and challenges with speed and agility, better serve their customers and grow their business," he said. Flipkart and Walmart are working together on Vriddhi and other programmes to make a real difference for MSMEs and to contribute to sustained economic growth for India, he added. Eligible MSMEs can access the digital training experience through a mobile application available on iOS and Android in both English and Hindi. Vriddhi will progressively roll out e-institutes to other regions in India, providing tailored training, mentoring and ecosystem support.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nitin-gadkari-urges-walmart-to-work-with-khadi-industries-to-take-their-products-to-global-markets-907964.html
27-10-2020||Opinion||Warnings for democracy from Donald Trump’s presidency||“A man can wish upon himself...something harmful, stupid, and even completely idiotic...in order to establish his right to wish for the most idiotic things,” wrote Russia’s Fyodor Dostoevsky in his existentialist novel, Notes from Underground, in 1864. In 2016, the American people – with or without Russian influence (not from Dostoevsky!)  – wished for Donald Trump, whose presidential prospects seemed “completely idiotic” to much of the world. Now that the mercurial President of the United States of America is competing for re-election, the occasion is appropriate to reflect on what exactly the Trump presidency has revealed about the nature of democracy in a nation so used to being the standard bearer of modern democratic ideals. The alarm bells are ringing “Our (America’s) democracy is in terrible danger — more danger than it has been since the Civil War, more danger than after Pearl Harbor, more danger than during the Cuban missile crisis and more danger than during Watergate.” These are the words of the Pulitzer Prize winning journalist Thomas Friedman ahead of the November elections, when Trump takes on Joe Biden for the right to helm the 46th American presidency. The “terrible danger” that has assailed the world’s oldest democracy has brought with it some urgent warnings. The biggest of them has been to make obvious the acceptability for the present version of populist politics, represented by the likes of Trump, Benjamin Netanyahu, Viktor Orban, Jair Bolsonaro, Boris Johnson and Narendra Modi. This lack of universal outrage at what represents despicable standards of behaviour for any human being, let alone the American president, points to the second warning the Trump years have offered – the dangers behind the normalisation of polarisation. For decades, America has been a highly partisan country, with Republicans and Democrats splitting political support. But with Trump’s arrival, the previously healthy partisanship has turned into noxious polarisation. This has not only meant that the pro-Trump and anti-Trump lobbies are always at daggers drawn, but that they also inhabit entirely different public spheres. It appears as though for the common Republican, the common Democrat has become pure anathema, and vice versa. The toxicity between opposite ends of the political spectrum has been exacerbated by the media, where propaganda has been at an all-time high during Trump’s tenure. The likes of Fox News and CNN have not only come to represent mutually unsustainable worldviews, they have also reduced the complexities of democracy into a monolithic debate on its most potent mascot – in this case, Trump. A cursory glance across the op-ed section of The New York Times immediately illustrates the disproportionate focus engendered by Trump. While it is undoubtedly crucial to highlight Trump’s long list of lacunae, it is equally vital to document the institutional inertia (from the Senate to the Supreme Court) accelerating the democratic disintegration of America, for which Trump is just one of several factors. Herein lies the third warning from the Trump presidency – an excessive emphasis on a divisive, populist leader produces reductionist reportage that does not do justice to the complicated contours of a dysfunctional democracy. The final warning The Trump presidency has shattered the illusion that trust, once built into the fabric of a democracy, endures forever. With his reluctance to accept defeat, Donald Trump could be pushing America to the brink of civil chaos, perhaps even civil war, proving that trust in a democratic process is only as good as the trustworthiness of its topmost individual. The final warning from the era of Donald Trump is that nothing, not even trust, can be permanent in a democracy. Past glories should never allow believers in democracy to take the present for granted. Collectively, the Donald Trump presidency contains a deeper lesson, which concerns the difference between successful campaigning and successful governance. As a campaigner, Trump had correctly identified the American pulse in 2016, creating an appealing counter-narrative to the globalised, meritocratic order of the Democrats. But as the President, in charge of governance, Trump could not produce answers to the questions he had raised himself. Far from making America “great again”, Trump plunged his nation’s democracy into chaos, inflicting fresh wounds instead of healing old ones. Come November 3 – and what could be the beginning of a new era for its democracy – America will do well to remember that the promise of better days, no matter how compelling, does not guarantee improvements. Change, after all, always looks easier to realise from outside the White House than within it. (Priyam Marik is a freelance journalist writing on politics, culture and sport)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/warnings-for-democracy-from-donald-trump-s-presidency-907664.html
27-10-2020||Panorama||Eye check-ups are important||Good vision is a key factor for our overall health, safety, and quality of life.  Though the eyes are one of the most important organs of sense in our body, people often neglect to get their eye tested regularly, unless they have some problem with their vision. Vision problems such as cataract, refractive errors, glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy, age-related macular degeneration (AMD), and retinopathy can impact people of all age groups. Infants, school-going children, women, the elderly, people with disabilities or a family history of visual impairment, and those with chronic lifestyle disorders such as diabetes are especially vulnerable. According to data from IAPB (The International Agency for the Prevention of Blindness), early detection of vision problems can prevent more than 75% of visual impairment. An annual eye health check-up is just as important as an annual body health check-up. Vision impairment or vision loss can affect all aspects of one’s life and well-being such as performing activities at home and school, work opportunities and interacting with family and the community. A comprehensive eye examination can help with early detection of potential eyesight problems, which could lead to vision loss and blindness if left untreated. Data from “Avoidable Blindness India”, a study group, indicates that about 88.2% of blindness in India is avoidable. There are various benefits to a comprehensive eye exam.  Routine eye examinations are very essential for children at six months of age, three years of age, and five years of age to detect any potential vision abnormalities, which can be corrected in the early stage, while the child's vision system is still developing. For people over the age of 40, dilated eye exams every couple of years can help detect diseases such as glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy, and AMD in their early stages. An annual, dilated eye exam is essential for senior citizens who are at increased risk of developing degenerative age-related eye problems that cause slow but permanent damage without any noticeable symptoms. Eye health during the pandemic Eye health has taken a backseat during the coronavirus pandemic, and this could lead to permanent vision loss for those with chronic conditions such as diabetes or glaucoma. Regular follow-up visits are very important, even during this time of Covid-19, in order to monitor vision changes and ensure that any complications can be treated in the early stages to prevent vision loss. It is safe to get an eye exam or surgery done at this time as hospitals are following necessary Covid-19 safety measures such as thermal screening, maintain social distancing of six feet, prior appointment system, only one attender per patient, use of masks and sanitizers, regular disinfection of waiting areas, testing equipment, and the OT. Prioritize the health of your eyes to prevent vision impairment and blindness Yearly check-ups by an ophthalmologist is a small investment to ensure the long term health of your eyes, and those of your family members. Timely screening can help diagnose a vision problem early and you can get treatment at the right time to avoid vision loss at a later stage. So do not neglect your annual eye check-up which can help you reduce the chance of developing serious eye problems, and keep your eyes and vision healthy in the years to come. (The author is the Chairman of a Bengaluru-based eye hospital)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/eye-check-ups-are-important-907457.html
27-10-2020||Panorama||Indian-Americans can determine who will win in battleground states: M R Rangaswami||Silicon Valley executive, entrepreneur and investor M R Rangaswami is a well-known figure and voice of the Indian-American community. In the 1990s, he was among the many who burnished Indian-Americans’ reputation in Silicon Valley, co-founding one of the earliest angel investment firms there. In 2012, recognising the rise of Indian-Americans as a political force, he founded ‘Indiaspora’, a non-profit to bring together the Indian diaspora. Rangaswami tells DH’s Anirban Bhaumik that while the Democrats’ agenda has for long resonated with Indian-Americans, they are not a monolithic voting bloc.   How important are Indian-Americans as a community in the US elections? Indian-Americans are becoming an increasingly important voting bloc in the US. While we are still a relatively small percentage of the voting population, given our growing numbers, which have more than doubled in the last couple of decades, as well as our growing financial influence in politics, it’s easy to see why presidential candidates on both sides of the aisle are making such a concerted effort to win our votes. Indian-Americans are definitely poised to play a major role in the battleground states. Our numbers are significant in several states and could be a deciding factor. For example, in Michigan, there was only a difference of about 10,000 votes that determined the outcome of that state (in 2016), and the number of eligible Indian-American voters there is 45,000. Texas, which many consider to be a battleground state this time around, has more than 160,000 Indian-American voters. The majority of Indian-Americans have traditionally voted Democrat. Why? Yes, that is true. I think there are several issues that the Democratic Party has touted as part of its platform that resonate with Indian-Americans. According to a recent report that we did with AAPI Data, we found that issues such as healthcare, education, environment and racial discrimination were all important or extremely important for Indian-Americans. These also happen to be the ones that the Democratic Party traditionally makes it a point to campaign on. How was President Trump’s tenure in the White House for the Indian-American community? I think the US-India relationship has continued to grow during President Trump’s tenure. The very visible “Howdy! Modi” rally he attended in Houston as well as the subsequent “Namaste! Trump” rally in India have both helped solidify this alliance between the two countries through the diaspora and helped shine a spotlight on the Indian-American community on the national and even global stage as a result. Why are some Indian-Americans, if not many, switching loyalty to the Republican Party? Yes, based on a few surveys ahead of the election, including the one from AAPI Data and another one from Carnegie and Johns Hopkins, it looks like there likely will be a small increase in the percentage of Indian-Americans who favour Trump in this election compared to 2016. However, at the end of the day, while there may be more Indian-Americans compared to the last election who vote for Trump based on US-India relations, the surveys indicate that a majority support the Democratic Party. But the survey also indicates that some support the Republican Party. The Indian-American community is not monolithic. Has Kamala Harris’ nomination as Biden’s running mate helped consolidate Indian-American community behind him? I think Senator Kamala Harris’ nomination has been a proud moment. To have someone of Indian descent receive the vice-presidential nomination of a major political party is a historic milestone that I think the Indian-American community as a whole can celebrate. A recent survey by Carnegie Endowment and Johns Hopkins indicated that it will likely energise Democratic Party voters to go out and vote. What are the major community-specific issues for Indian-Americans? The community-specific issues for Indian-Americans include immigration reform that addresses the backlog in the US to receive visas and creates a pathway to citizenship. For example, about 700,000 lawful permanent residents, or green card-holders, who have applied for US citizenship are waiting in a backlog, and of those, more than 300,000 are Indians who are eligible for citizenship. More than 300,000 Indians in the US who are working legally are in the backlog to receive their green cards. The immigration backlog begins with work visas to enter the country. Because of limits to the number of visas for high-skilled workers, or H-1B visas, Indians are adversely affected when applying to work in the US. Both candidates have promised immigration reform. President Trump, for example, has promised to create pathways to citizenship for immigrants, including for DACA, or Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, who are undocumented immigrants, of which Indians in the US are a growing number. Biden has promised to expand the number of visas offered and to eliminate the limits on employment-based green cards by country. However, to fully address immigration issues for our community, reform would be needed with cooperation from the US Congress. Other community-specific issues include protection against hate crimes as well as policies that help small business-owners, for example, as many Indian-Americans in the US own small businesses. How much do you think the state of India-US relations affects Indian-American voters’ choices in this presidential elections? Interestingly, while India-US relations may be an important factor for some Indian-Americans, most likely among the older immigrant demographic who have close ties to India, recent surveys show it actually plays a very small role as a deciding factor for the majority of Indian-Americans in the presidential elections. Trump in his first debate with Biden alleged that India is among one of the countries which are hiding actual Covid-19 deaths. He has again said in the final debate that India's air is filthy. Do you think such comments will influence the choice of Indian-Americans when they will cast votes? While there is always a possibility it may colour Indian Americans’ perceptions of how President Trump views India, I do not think it will influence the choice of Indian Americans in any significant way at this point in the election. The majority of Indian Americans have determined which candidate they will support, and I believe Indian Americans who are voting for Trump will dismiss it as comments that have been taken out of context, while Indian Americans who are voting for Biden will use it to garner additional support for their candidate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/indian-americans-can-determine-who-will-win-in-battleground-states-m-r-rangaswami-907459.html
27-10-2020||Panorama||Zero-budget natural farming may provide sustainable future for agriculture||‘Back to basics’ is the mantra of Zero-Budget Natural Farming (ZBNF), a radical indigenous farming technique gaining mass acceptance in some parts of India. Even the Union Budget 2019-20 referred to it as a practice to "double farmers’ incomes”. States such as Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, and Himachal Pradesh have already jumped on the bandwagon. While the practice is gaining momentum, the question is: can ZBNF really be the way forward for sustainable agriculture? What is ZBNF? ZBNF is known to be a climate-resilient, low-cost, natural, and sustainable agricultural practice. It utilises locally-sourced inputs such as cow dung, cow urine, and plant organic matter, totally avoiding the use of inorganic fertilisers and pesticides.  An exploratory study conducted in Andhra Pradesh by research-based think tank Center for Study of Science, Technology and Policy (CSTEP) reveals that ZBNF’s prescribed means of irrigation, nutrient, and pest-management systems has the potential to significantly reduce water and energy consumption as well as emissions from the agriculture sector (compared with conventional farming). Furthermore, the study suggests that the practice is not only environment-friendly but also cost-effective, owing primarily to the use of easily available low-cost farm inputs. With Andhra Pradesh scaling up ZBNF across the state, it is essential to assess the sustainability of the practice. With about 86% of the state’s farming community constituting small and marginal farmers, the repercussions of the transition could be immense. When scaling up ZBNF, it would be prudent for the state to recall Sikkim’s tryst with organic farming. Lessons from Sikkim Though Sikkim is regarded as the first 100% organic state in the country, it is yet to witness any significant success since the 2003 rollout. This is mainly because the state’s transition to organic fertilisers and manure was not adequately supported by a robust supply chain. Also, with the soil taking time to adjust to the new methods, the yield was relatively low in the initial years. The produce was more expensive on account of the cost-intensive organic inputs, need for special training in new techniques, higher labour cost, and the initial reduction in yield. This adversely affected the farmers, their families, consumers, and in turn, the state’s economy. This emphasises the overriding need for policy initiatives to be constantly monitored and supported by the government. Doing the Math One of the core practices of ZBNF involves the use of indigenous cows. However, with lower milk productivity in indigenous cows compared to foreign cows, farmers prefer the latter. We need to keep in mind that not all marginal or small farmers can afford to own an indigenous cow. This, coupled with the costs involved in procuring certain ingredients for the suggested natural solutions, is bound to increase the input costs for farmers. Additionally, there are impediments to farmers practising ZBNF in sporadic patches amidst fields of conventional-farmed crops (replete with factory-produced fertilisers and pesticides). Pests from neighbouring fertiliser-treated fields could infest the ZBNF fields, affecting the yield. Given that most farmers currently involved in ZBNF belong to the ‘marginal farmer’ category, such losses in yield can be financially devastating. The losses can further deepen due to the reduced rate of community buy-in—as seen in Sikkim. Transition planner A recent study in Nature Sustainability states that while the nutrient value of the natural inputs is similar to the chemical ones used in low-input farms (farms using lower quantities of fertilisers and pesticides), it is less in high-input farms. When such nutrient deficiencies are aggregated at a large scale, it might hamper the yield over the years, potentially leading to food security concerns. To overcome such challenges and ensure a smooth transition, a geographically-phased upscaling of ZBNF would be ideal. Based on the observations of the above study, marginal farms are at an advantage of minimal or no loss of yield. Initially, these can be transitioned into ZBNF followed by a gradual transition in larger farms. The observations from the study by CSTEP suggest that crops like paddy and chilli have lesser variations in yield with transition to ZBNF, and hence can be scaled up in the initial phases. More in-depth studies on other crops is recommended before a complete transition. While harnessing the advantages of the prescribed natural inputs, it is also important to explore the feasibility of alternatives in case of inaccessibility to critical inputs. Considering the Government’s interest in promoting ZBNF at the national level, the extent of its sustainability needs to be critically monitored in the next few years. An extensive study with a larger sample size and a few demonstration units in small pockets of monitored agricultural land is recommended. As the prescribed guidelines for ZBNF are similar for all crops and agro-climatic conditions, the single-solution applicability of natural ingredients needs to be tested for all crops and soil types. Close monitoring of the soil health during and after transition would allow us to understand the long-term impact of the practice. That said, any policy endorsement of ZBNF should be backed by adequate scientific research. (The writers work at CSTEP, a research-based think tank)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/zero-budget-natural-farming-may-provide-sustainable-future-for-agriculture-907926.html
27-10-2020||Panorama||A robust ecosystem for remote work||Irrespective of which side of the debate you are, you now know that most people will prefer to work from home (WFH) --wholly or partly--even after the pandemic. Not justthe employees, many employers, too have begun to see both the value and inevitability of WFH. WFH already promises cost savings for employers and flexibility for employees. But look at the big picture: as more people work away from centralised offices,   we will see numerous benefits: urban decongestion, reduction in CO2 emissions, growth of rural economies as skilled people return to the small towns, and access to untapped talent pools, (think of rural women, senior citizens, etc.). Above all, remote work options will migrate work to labour instead of migrating labour to work-- at least for several millions of white-collar and clerical and knowledge workers. But, are we ready, as a nation, to harness the benefits of large-scale remote work? Clearly no. WFH has been at best, emergency response to the Covid-19 crisis. Both our sense of triumph and trepidation over WFH stem from perpetuating what was essentially the classic jugaad around sending desktops to homes, replicating office work over painfully long zoom calls, and throwing virtual parties. WFH often raises the images of a young working couple with school-age children, aged parents, two bedrooms, patchy internet, trying to join zoom calls via makeshift arrangements from cramped homes. On the other side, there is an equally hassled set of managers attempting to ‘extract’ work (as the popular expression goes) from the discomfort of distance. All this happens when suddenly millions of people are pushed into WFH -without any thoughtful preparation. This is unsustainable. We need holistic and integrated thinking around making remote work, work. Remember, we took over 300 years to hone and evolve the present office-based work system. Ever since the first formal office of the western world- the Royal admiralty office in 1726--was set up in London, we have built a whole ecosystem for offices. The current management processes, organization designs, personal and public transportation models, parking lots, ergonomic furniture, food courts, sleeping pods, and massage chairs make office work efficient.  What have we done to enable remote work? If we have to give a chance to the new opportunity of working from anywhere: from homes, neighbourhood co-working spaces, or staycation spots, we must build a robust ecosystem with thoughtful and evidence-based interventions around four factors by key actors like the  Centre, States, Industry bodies and firms. The Center must enable universal access to high-speed and reliable internet, invest in robust ICT infrastructure, and advance the goals of digital India not merely to support- e-commerce but encourage e-work alias remote work. It is time to push for making access to ‘always- on’ internet a basic right of citizens. We must leapfrog and bridge the ‘digital divide.’ We should also study laws like the Telework Enhancement Act (2010) of the US and build enabling legal frameworks to promote and protect remote work. The state governments should build and leverage a remote work ecosystem in small villages and towns and connect rural youth, women, and underprivileged sections to mainstream employment. It is time India’s municipal commissioners and mayors compete to attract talent to their towns away from the big cities like the Tulsa remote initiative in the US where city workers are incentivized to move back to small towns.  Employers need to reimagine many of their HR and organization systems to enable remote work. Industry bodies should think of evolving a full-suite of handbooks, tool kits, and training programs to help employers, especially SMEs, adopt and leverage ‘remote work’ not only as a cost-saving device but also as a talent tapping tool. Remote work can be a powerful transformational tool only if companies can usher in more distributed organization models and bury traditional hierarchies. Managing a remote workforce will demand a massive mindset shift and a trust-based inclusive culture. Firms must not underestimate this tectonic shift. (The writer is Professor of Organizational Behavior & Human Capital at Indian School of Business)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/a-robust-ecosystem-for-remote-work-907927.html
27-10-2020||Right in the Middle||The road not taken||Aamir Khan is known to be a ‘thinking man’s hero while Shah Rukh and Salman are superstars liked by the masses. I have been a diehard fan of Aamir since his debut in ‘Qayamat Se Qayamat Tak’. I was a young teen when Aamir hit the spotlight and since then have followed him closely. I haven’t stalked him physically but digitally! The point here is that I consider myself an intellectual! Being brainy and thinking you are smart are two entirely different things. I learnt that the hard way. Aamir went through a fitness journey for ‘Dangal’ and bragged about it as well. As a fan, I wasn’t going to take this lying down. So, out came the dumbbells and since the time the movie released, I have been at it.  The thing is, even fat knows the difference between a superstar and a common fan. While he became lean, mean and tough, I became obtuse. The reflection in the mirror is not flattering. I try my best to flex my muscles when I am around people, but no one notices them. I probably look like having age-related, joint problems. Couple this with a head full of no hair and you’ll know what I am talking about. My young son and his friends are big fans of the Khan trio and their six-pack abs. I am no less, I tell them. I have a family pack!   These stars and celebrities have it good. They come out with biopics and autobiographies and tell us that they were just like us before they became demi-Gods. Just as you are feeling smug that Sachin, Dhoni, Karan Johar and Rishi Kapoor were just like you and me, the penny drops. They are raking in the moolah even here! We pay them, to watch and read about them and to tell us that they made it and we didn’t. I believe that these celebrities and stars are called ‘influencers’ in this new social media age. Well, they certainly have had an influence on me. They made me post stuff on Facebook, Twitter and what-not in the hope of garnering a few likes and retweets. But when not even 3.5 people liked or followed me, I was back to reality. By the way, the three likes were from me, my wife and my daughter. The 0.5 like is from my son who doesn’t have a Twitter or Facebook account yet.  My self-destruction from a thinking man and intellectual to a desperate failure, passing through midlife crises has brought me to a stage where I am reminded of Robert Frost’s “The Road Not Taken”. Well, I believe the roads don’t matter. They are filled with potholes anyway!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-road-not-taken-907455.html
27-10-2020||Right in the Middle||The nowhere people||Finally, the lockdown, that was put in place in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic was eased out gradually. The city sprouted back into action. People began reclaiming public spaces. Shanti, my house help, showed up to collect her dues and explore her future employment prospects. Sharing a six by six feet shanty with her unemployed husband and her youngest son who held irregular jobs in the unorganised sector, she used a public toilet. I gave her her three-month salary and politely turned her away. Maids have been the hardest hit, employers are apprehensive about letting them into their homes, understandably so. “I am coming to Delhi,” he said when he called me. “Don’t come, there’s a disease spreading here,” my husband had warned him. He came anyway, caught between a livelihood here and hunger and starvation back home. Bashisht, a small-time contractor did bricklaying work in cities. He landed at my doorstep to collect his tools lying with me. Soon, after the janta curfew was announced, I haven’t heard from him since. He is, probably, was one of many migrants homeward bound, nursing anguished hearts, blistered soles, on empty stomachs with little hope, eerily reminiscent of the mass exodus during Partition. Some succumbed on the way, others made it, somehow, after the arduous journey to a cold reception. The nowhere people, disowned by the cities, their karmabhoomi, and were not welcome in their villages, their janmabhoomi. A few monsoons back, “the sorrow of Bihar”, the Kosi river was in spate, submerging Bashisht’s dwelling in his village. He rushed back with “loans” from his regular patrons. A paltry few thousands we gave him was never repaid, evoking a sense of déjà vu. “Farming is not an option anymore,” stated Shanti, a small landholder from Aligarh. “Crops fail due to inclement weather. Everything’s destroyed but for mounting debts. Here, we are assured of a fixed income,” she articulated. “Urban poverty is an artificial construct,” disparages my son, training to be an environmental scientist. And it suits us fine, cheap labour at exploitative rates. Our developmental model is top-heavy, not sustainable, bound to collapse. It needs to be bottom-heavy, with a robust rural economy where agriculture, allied activities and traditional crafts are viable. To quote the Mahatma, “Whenever you are in doubt, apply the following test. Recall the face of the poorest, the weakest man you may have seen, and ask yourself, if the step you contemplate is going to be of any use to him… you will find your doubts melt away.” Let’s walk the talk, for once.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-nowhere-people-907933.html
27-10-2020||Second Edit||The air’s filthy, and it’s killing babies||The State of Global Air 2020 report draws attention to the immense vulnerability of new-born babies to air pollution. It causes the death of nearly half-a-million babies in the first month of their lives, the report points out. Most of these deaths are in the developing world. India accounts for the largest number – nearly a quarter of the global total -- of such deaths; around 1.16 lakh infants died due to exposure to air pollution in 2019. Nigeria and Pakistan stood second and third with 67,900 and 56,500 such deaths. A baby’s vulnerability to air pollution begins long before she is born. Exposure of an expectant mother to air pollution impacts the foetus and results in premature birth and low birth weight. These are important factors linked to high infant mortality. But air pollution’s impact goes way beyond survival during the first month. Even if a baby manages to survive, exposure to air pollutants have lasting impact on her brains, lungs and other organs and thus affects her general health, movement, capacity for thinking and learning and subsequently earning a livelihood. India struggles with a high infant mortality rate and while this is declining, it remains a cause for serious concern. Hitherto, we have focused on the nutrition of the expectant mother and sought to enable her access to skilled birth attendants and emergency obstetric care to ensure survival of the new-born. But we haven’t tackled exposure of expectant mothers or new-borns to air pollutants. Again, the world has tended to focus on air pollution’s impact on those with respiratory problems or the elderly, but we have overlooked the vulnerability of infants to this killer. The report says that indoor pollution is a greater killer of infants. Although millions of homes have benefited from the increasing use of cooking gas and solar or electrical stoves, millions more are yet to be freed from the dangers of cooking on open fires and inhaling smoke in closed rooms. The poorest households continue to use charcoal, wood and animal dung for cooking, and they do so in poorly ventilated homes. The government must step up implementation and effectiveness of the Ujwala Yojana scheme to protect the lives of its youngest citizens. The report’s findings are pertinent to the Covid-19 pandemic. Weak lungs are vulnerable to the coronavirus. Thus, air pollution’s impact on infants could make them highly susceptible to Covid-19, especially in the winter months. India and the world cannot ignore or defer dealing with the problems highlighted by the State of Global Air 2020 report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/the-air-s-filthy-and-it-s-killing-babies-907450.html
27-10-2020||Second Edit||Pope’s remarks call for open debate||Pope Francis’ remarks, which seemingly endorse homosexual marriages, have created a flutter within the Catholic church and outside. The teaching of the Catholic church and Vatican policies have till now stoutly disapproved homosexuality which is considered by them as unnatural and sinful. But the Pope’s words mark a break from the past and a willingness to take a new look at entrenched ideas and policies. The Pope did not make an official announcement of change of policy as the head of the Catholic church. He was only heard making the comment in a documentary film on his own life. The words are: “Homosexual people have a right to be in the family. They are children of God. Nobody should be thrown out of the family… over this. What we have to make is a law of civil co-existence, for they have the right to be legally covered.’’ Pope Francis is known to be more liberal than his predecessors on many issues on which the Church has held strong positions for centuries. He has been considered a revolutionary and a disruptor by many. He had once wondered who he was to judge “if someone was gay and was searching for the Lord’’. The comment this time is more specific because he has acknowledged that a homosexual person has the right to be in a family, which is an important social unit in the Church’s view of the world. But there is some lack of clarity in the statement. There is a view that he has only said gay people should be welcomed in their own families and should not be cast out but has not yet approved their wish to have their own families. He has said that homosexual people are also children of God, but the question whether he would agree to a gay marriage would still be debated, till he clarifies the matter. But it will be noted that he has indicated his support for members of the LGBT community to enter civil marriages. The Pope’s endorsement may not mean acceptance of his views by the Church. Some senior clerics had already expressed views similar to the Pope’s in the past. They have been welcomed by some sections in the Church but have created confusion, bewilderment and even opposition among others, especially traditionalists. The Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council has said that there is no change in the Church’s stance on same-sex marriage. But the Pope’s views are certainly bound to have an impact sooner or later because of his numero uno position in the Church.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/pope-s-remarks-call-for-open-debate-907932.html
27-10-2020||South||NEET on centre stage; DMK aims to make 2021 elections battleground for 'TN vs Delhi'||Tamil Nadu politics never surprises anyone. A few days ago, the principal opposition party, DMK, was out on the streets to exert pressure on Governor Banwarilal Purohit to give his assent to a legislation passed by the Assembly, handing out yet another embarrassment to the ruling AIADMK. The Edappadi K Palaniswami government, which piloted the Bill that provides for 7.5 per cent horizontal reservation in medical admissions for government school students who clear National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), looked hapless with its arch-rival succeeding in stealing the thunder. The Tamil Nadu Assembly passed the Bill unanimously on September 15 but the Governor, who is sitting on it for over a month, had on October 22 sought another "three to four weeks" to arrive at a decision, prompting the DMK to get into agitation mode. And DMK president M K Stalin, who led the protest march towards the Raj Bhavan, did not mince words when he declared that Purohit refusing to sign the Bill and the AIADMK government "remaining silent" was indeed a political issue and they will continue to fight it politically. Add to the long list, the DMK's love-and-hate relationship with Governors since it came to power for the first time in 1967. Though the protest was against Purohit, the real target was the BJP, which the DMK accuses of meddling with Tamil Nadu affairs ever since the death of J Jayalalithaa in 2016. NEET is already an emotional issue in Tamil Nadu and conduct of the exam in 2017 contributed to much of the anger that the Narendra Modi-led dispensation at the Centre and the AIADMK faced from people in 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Taking up the issue of delay in signing the Bill that would ensure 300 students from government schools get into medical and dental colleges, Stalin has made NEET a major political issue in the run-up to the 2021 elections. Stalin is not just projecting the AIADMK as "weak" and "helpless" but is also dragging the BJP and the Modi government by branding them as "anti-Tamil Nadu." Stalin is also on the course to make the 2021 assembly elections as a fight between "Tamil Nadu versus Delhi", citing issues like Hindi imposition, insistence on conducting NEET, "denying reservation to OBC students" in medical seats surrendered by the state in all-India quota, and “weakening the federal structure.” By flagging these issues close to the election, Stalin is trying to brand the BJP as "anti-social justice" and AIADMK as "subservient" to the saffron party. Prof Ramu Manivannan, Head of the Department of Politics and Public Administration, University of Madras, said the DMK will gain much, morally and electorally, by attacking the BJP and accusing it of "letting down the interests of Tamil Nadu.” "That is the only way the game seems to be placed now. Attacking the BJP more and connecting the AIADMK with the saffron party works to the advantage of the DMK. The DMK is already projecting the elections as a fight to reclaim the state's lost glory. This will work heavily in favour of the DMK with another Dravidian party on BJP's side," Manivannan told DH. The Governor may eventually sign the Bill or may even put it on the back burner, but NEET would remain an election issue with the DMK declaring that it would dispense with the exams once it came to power. That how the promise would be carried out with the BJP at the Centre has not been explained by the DMK. The protest by the DMK has already forced the BJP to go on the defensive. Leaders of the state unit are now queuing up to "appeal" to Purohit to give his assent to the legislation as it involves students from government schools. And the strategy of taking head-on the Central Government is time-tested and has been successful in Tamil Nadu where late Jayalalithaa invoked “state pride” to tilt the tide in her favour in 2014 by calling the contest a “Lady versus Modi” fight. Stalin himself took a leaf out of Jayalalithaa's playbook in 2019 to defeat AIADMK-BJP alliance. Will Stalin succeed in his strategy of projecting the 2021 elections as a fight between “Tamil Nadu and Delhi'' or the BJP and AIADMK be able to successfully counter the narrative? Answer in a few months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/neet-on-centre-stage-dmk-aims-to-make-2021-elections-battleground-for-tn-vs-delhi-907590.html
27-10-2020||South||US Election: Hoarding in support of Trump comes up in Kerala||As the US presidential elections are fast approaching, a hoarding in support of President Donald Trump has appeared in Kerala too. Christian Association and Alliance for Social Action (CASA), a Kerala-based body, has put up a hoarding in support of Trump at Jos Junction, one of the busiest parts of Kochi city. With the prominently placed hoarding catching the attention of many, CASA is getting positive and negative responses and even abuses and threats. CASA state president Kevin Peter told DH that there were several reasons why they support Trump. There was no war during the regime of Trump even as he initiated stern measures against terrorism. His handling of China and his relationship with North Korea are also laudable. Moreover, like Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Trump is also giving due importance to the welfare of his country, he said. CASA is appealing to all Malayalis with US citizenship to favour Trump in the elections. Apart from putting up the hoarding, CASA is also carrying out campaigns through social media. "We have been getting a mixed response. While many were positive ones, many abused and threatened us for supporting Trump," he said. CASA, which was formed a couple of years back to fight against social issues, is having members from all factions of the Christian community. The hoarding titled 'President Donald Trump and vice president Mike Pence staunch supporters of India', says that "the whole world benefitted by your actions against terrorism. You have made Arabs and Israelis friends. Make America great again. We wish you a thumping victory!".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/us-election-hoarding-in-support-of-trump-comes-up-in-kerala-907685.html
27-10-2020||South||Sathankulam police tortured father-son duo for seven hours, says CBI||Egged on by the inspector, nine policemen at the Sathankulam police station in Thoothukudi district subjected P Jeyaraj and his son Emmanuel Bennix to “several rounds” of "brutal torture" after their "illegal" arrest on June 19 leading to their death, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has concluded in its investigation. The horror that took place inside the Sathankulam police station from 7:30 pm on June 19 to the time they were remanded the next day has been narrated in the charge sheet filed against S Sridhar, Inspector of Police, and eight other policemen—the ninth person died due to Covid-19—by the CBI. The duo was arrested for allegedly violating Covid-19 rules. However, the CBI has made it clear there was no violation of rules. The charge sheet, accessed by DH, corroborates the family's version that the father-son duo was tortured by police for no reason. While the son died on June 22, the father breathed his last a few hours later on June 23. The custodial deaths sent shock waves across the nation after which the Tamil Nadu government arrested the policemen and handed over the case to CBI. Busting "every lie" of the police version, the CBI investigation concluded that Jeyaraj and Bennix were innocent having committed no crime but were arrested due to a "criminal conspiracy" hatched by the policemen, and beaten up and tortured for hours by making them "bow down" on a wooden table with just underwear on them. Worse is that Bennix was asked to "clean the blood that had oozed" from the wounds suffered by him and his father and those scattered on the floor and walls of the police station, in a bid to destroy any shred of evidence. The father-son duo was tortured inside the police station by nine policemen, who took turns to beat them up, at the instigation of inspector Sridhar, who "prodded the staff" to start "fresh rounds of beating" when there was a lull, the charge sheet said. Besides Sridhar, the charge sheet blames sub-inspectors K Balakrishnan, P Raghuganesh, head constables S Murugan, A Samadurai, and police constables M Muthuraja, S Chelladurai, X Thomas Francis, and S Veilumuthu for the crime. The CBI also blamed Dr N Vinila, Medical Officer at the Sathankulam Government Hospital, for declaring the father-son duo "fit for remand" despite their injuries on the buttocks and other parts of the body. "Both (Jeyaraj and Bennix), turn by turn, were made to bow down on a wooden table in underwear only, their hands and legs were caught hold by accused police officials, so that they were not able to defend themselves...Though Jeyaraj begged that given his high BP and diabetic condition, he would not be able to sustain such grievous injuries, still no one paid any heed and the accused police officials continued with several rounds of brutal torture with intervals in between 7.45 pm on 19.06.2020 to 3 am on 20.06.2020," the charge sheet said. The CBI investigation also found that the arrest of Jeyaraj and Bennix was "illegal" in the first place while noting that two policemen picked up the father from near his shop after which the son arrived at the police station. There was an altercation between Bennix and the policemen on his father's arrest after which the torture began, the document said. Jeyaraj and Bennix were bleeding continuously and they were "limping" and were "not able to walk or sit properly when they were brought to the hospital on June 20 morning because of the severe injuries inflicted on them the previous night, the CBI said, adding that the post-mortem report had also concluded that the injuries found on the bodies of the duo were "1 to 3 days" of age. The CBI also noted that the father-son duo was "hale and hearty" when they left their home on June 19 for their shops and contended that the admission register at the Kovilpatti sub-jail where they were remanded contains entries pf "wounds available in the gluteal region" of the body. The charge sheet also said the blood on the lathi used by the policemen to torture the father-son duo and bloodstains collected from the walls of the police station contain the blood of the deceased.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sathankulam-police-tortured-father-son-duo-for-seven-hours-says-cbi-907833.html
27-10-2020||South||Tamil Nadu: 9-year-old boy addicted to online game PUBG dies by suicide||A 14-year-old boy died by suicide in the district, allegedly upset over not being allowed to play the online game, PUBG by his parents, police said on Tuesday. According to police, Arun, a class 9 student in a private school, was addicted to PUBG (Player Known's battleground) and used to spend much of his time playing the game on his mobile. Worried about his addiction, his parents took him to a private nursing home in Coimbatore district, where he has been undergoing de-addiction treatment for the past 2 months. On Monday evening, when the boy's parents were away, the victim went inside one of the rooms and allegedly ended his life. Later, the parents returned home and found him hanging in his room. A case was registered and an investigation is on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-9-year-old-boy-addicted-to-online-game-pubg-dies-by-suicide-907856.html
27-10-2020||South||Resentment over reservation to forward communities may result in political repercussions for Kerala govt||The decision to allow ten per cent reservation to forward communities has not gone down well with minority communities, especially the communities that fall in the Other Backward Classes like the prominent Hindu Ezhava, as they fear that it would affect the reservation benefits. The govt's decision may have political repercussions. With Hindu Ezhava and Muslim community bodies standing against the Kerala government's decision, the left-front was also fearing if it would create cracks in minority vote banks, especially the Hindu Ezhava which were traditionally considered to be pro-left vote banks. The decision to allow reservation to the economically weaker section of forward communities was considered as a move to appease the forward communities ahead of the polls. The left-front government's relationship with Hindu forward communities like the Nair community worsened owing to the stand of the left-front in favour of implementing the court order allowing women of all ages to Sabarimala Ayyappa temple. Even as Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan reiterated that the ten per cent reservation would not affect any existing reservation, leaders of minority communities point out that once ten per cent seats from the general category are reserved for the forward community, the proportion of seats under the existing reservations would come down proportionately. He also said that the state was only implementing the mandatory obligation in view of amendment made by the centre in reservation. Leaders of minority communities including Vellapally Natesan of the Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana Yogam that represents the Ezhava community has already come out in the open against the government decision. Meanwhile, the Nair Service Society that represents the Hindu-Nair community is demanding that the reservation to forward communities should be implemented with retrospective effect from January.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/resentment-over-reservation-to-forward-communities-may-result-in-political-repercussions-for-kerala-govt-907880.html
27-10-2020||South||Illegal alteration to building claims trader's life in Kerala||A trader died after he fell through an opening made illegally on the floor of the corridor of a shopping complex connecting the basement at Kozhikode in Kerala on Saturday. Hydrose Haji, a 70-year-old textile trader from Tirur in Malappuram district, is the victim. On Monday, the Kozhikode corporation initiated steps to suspend the licence of the building. The complex, in the heart of the city, has wholesale textile shops. For easy access to the basement parking lot, especially to transport goods, an opening on the floor of the corridor was made. The opening was covered with a lid-like small door made of iron bars. Haji, who used to run a textile shop at Tirur, had come to the complex to buy textile products. However, he fell through an uncovered opening and landed in the basement, a 15-foot fall. Though he was rushed to a nearby hospital, he died by afternoon. An employee of the shop told a section of media that usually the door would be closed immediately after loading or unloading goods from vehicles in the basement. But unfortunately, that day, the opening was left uncovered and Haji fell into it as he did not notice it.  Kozhikode corporation secretary Binu Francis told DH that the officials who inspected the building reported multiple violations of norms in the building and hence a notice has been served to the owner. As per the approved plan of the building, the place where the mishap occurred was to be a corridor with handrails. But the handrails were found to be removed and a pathway was made using material like plywood and openings were made on it to transport goods. They have also spotted many other violations in the building. The police have registered a case against the building owner, who is said to be an NRI businessman. Apart from negligence, provision for culpable homicide not amounting to murder was likely to be invoked against the building owner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/illegal-alteration-to-building-claims-traders-life-in-kerala-907881.html
27-10-2020||South||Covid-19 could not deter Banni, a gory Dasara event on Andhra Pradesh-Karnataka border||The Covid-19 threat seems trivial compared to the gory ritual of a stick fight often involving the cracking of skulls. The pandemic scare elsewhere could not force the devout villagers along the Andhra-Karnataka border give a break to Banni, the Dasara night tradition when scores of participants are wounded by the belligerent swirling of sticks. The age-old tradition is in honour of Lord Maala Malleshwara Swamy, a popular local deity at Devaragattu, close to Karnataka border, in Kurnool district. It attracts over a lakh people every year, from the two states. The armed combat begins around midnight between men, mostly farmers, of the surrounding villages split into groups. They battle with sticks to get hold of the procession idols of Malleshwara Swamy (Siva) and Mallamma (Parvati). The ritual resulting in broken bones, split skulls continues till the crack of dawn. Despite a fortnight-long awareness drive about the Covid-19 spread, official ban on Banni, imposition of 144 section barring public assembly and deployment of about 1500 police personnel, the event took place on Monday night, as usual. By Tuesday morning, over 45 people were reportedly wounded and treated at a medical camp, and three needed hospital admittance for their serious injuries. “We did everything possible to discourage the event this year, including setting up check-posts at Alur etc places to stop the devotees from Karnataka, Anantapuram,” Ramakrishna Reddy, revenue divisional officer, Adoni told DH. However, the Banni street which appeared deserted till about 11 pm, was swarming with people who made their way through the hills and forests. Officials say that due to the restrictions, the audience number fell below 50 thousand this year and the men wielding lathis to about five thousand. “We could not hold the people back beyond a point as it leads to further flaring of tempers. They are attached to the tradition from several generations and believe the Mallanna Swamy would protect them from every harm including the virus,” a district official says. The Kurnool administration has been trying for years now to deter the locals from indulging in the injurious celebration. There is no official record of the Banni origins but is believed to be a tradition passed on from the Vijayanagara period. Some locals claim that spears, axes were used earlier, in suggestion that “the violence as such has drastically come down. A few lathis are adorned with steel rings at the top to make the blow even bloodier. “The popularity and magnitude of the event has only widened over the decades. Though it is mostly injuries, once in a few years a death happens,” says Nagaraju Barki (40) of Neraneki village. However, these deaths in many cases are attributed to rivals settling their unresolved conflicts using Banni as cover.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-could-not-deter-banni-a-gory-dasara-event-on-andhra-pradesh-karnataka-border-907890.html
27-10-2020||South||Attacked by Sri Lankan Navy with bottles, allege fishermen||Groups of fishermen from here were attacked by the Sri Lankan Navy personnel using bottles and stones early on Tuesday while fishing near Dhanushkodi, resulting in injuries to some and damage to their gear, a fishermen association leader alleged. While fishermen who ventured into the sea on Monday morning onboard 400 boats returned by night after being chased away by Lankan naval personnel, groups that were on their way back home later came under attack, local fishermen association president P Sesuraja told reporters here. Fisheries Minister D Jayakumar, reacting to the incident said, "any attack on fishermen is condemnable and not acceptable." The alleged incident would be taken up with the Centre to prevent Tamil Nadu fishermen from facing hassles and to ensure that they worked peacefully, he told reporters in Chennai. "Sri Lankan personnel should not indulge in attacks. No fisherman goes astray wantonly. There is no border on the seas. Factors like wind speed have an impact," he said. "We are confident that the Centre would take up the matter with Sri Lanka to prevent attacks." The right course of action for Lankan officials would be only to handover fishermen to Indian authorities and not assault them, he said. Jayakumar said steps were afoot to provide satellite phones on a subsidised cost to fishermen going for deepsea fishing and the scheme was being rolled out now. The cost of each phone is about Rs One lakh and the subsidy component shall be Rs 25,000, he said. Political parties, including the DMK and MDMK, condemned the 'attack' in Dhanushkodi area in Indian waters that came close on the heels of more than 4,000 fishermen being driven away by the Lankan navy on October 17 while fishing near Katchatheevu. DMK leader T R Baalu condemned the alleged attack and targeted the Centre for being a "mute spectator" and the AIADMK government for "not pressuring" the central government to take action. Baalu wanted the union government to take up the matter with Lanka to prevent attacks. The DMK's parliamentary party leader hit out saying the Centre must not "lend support for Lanka to usurp the traditional fishing rights of Tamil Nadu fishermen." Sesuraja said these incidents came after a lull in the mid-sea attacks on Indian fishermen for over three months. Fisheries department Assistant Director Rajendran and police officials said they were looking into the complaint of the alleged attack on the fishermen. The fishermen leader alleged the Lankan Navy pelted stones and flung glass bottles at fishermen injuring one 'seriously' while several others also suffered wounds. Their fishing nets and accessories were also damaged by the personnel, he claimed. MDMK general secretary Vaiko alleged a fisherman suffered head injury and many sustained 'bleeding injuries' and hundreds of fishing nets were cut by Lankan naval personnel. India did not even lodge a strong protest with the island nation and it was anguishing, he said. The root cause of the problem was 'ceding' Katchatheevu islet to Sri Lanka, Vaiko, a Rajya Sabha MP, said adding, "I urge the Centre to take appropriate steps to retrieve it." Katchatheevu was ceded by India to Sri Lanka in the 1970s and political parties and others have been demanding that it be taken back. PMK founder leader S Ramadoss condemned the attack adding it was a 'transgression' by Lanka and wanted the Centre to lodge a strong protest with Lanka's envoy to India. "The state and the central government should not tolerate the attack on Tamil Nadu fishermen by Sri Lankan forces," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/attacked-by-sri-lankan-navy-with-bottles-allege-fishermen-907950.html
27-10-2020||State||Karnataka can't keep China out of electric buses||India may have made rules to curb Chinese imports, but a look at transport corporations' efforts to procure 490 electric buses shows that there is no alternative to Chinese products for now, at least in the electric vehicle sector.  Over the last few months, officials have been struggling to procure 490 buses, including 390 for the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation and 50 each for KSRTC and NWKRTC. Last week, BMTC buses started a trial run of an electric bus provided by Evey Trans Pvt Ltd, a special purpose vehicle of Olectra Greentech Ltd which has emerged as a leading company due to its technical collaboration with China-based BYD. An official said that apart from Evey, several Indian companies, including the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC), have come forward to participate. "Of the five bidders, only one met our expectations. We had sought a bus that runs for at least 250 km on single charge. The only bidder who could match that range was one whose buses had Chinese products. We have reduced the expectation to 220 km. But other companies are struggling to cross 100 km," he said.  Highly-placed sources in the government said discussions were held on a letter by BMTC which sought clarity on "Chinese products" offered by the Indian bidders.  "Officials in the corporation have sought clarification on the Centre's rule which says the government can restrict 'procurement from bidders from a country sharing a land border with India'. The rule doesn’t bar products imported from China by Indian companies. However, considering the scale of procurement, there were concerns that taking such products will open a backdoor for Chinese companies," the source said. Experts, however, suggested that there was no escape from China when it comes to electric vehicles as other companies find it difficult to meet the scale and the pricing of the product they offer.  Kavan Mukhtyar, partner and leader - Automotive, PwC India, noted that EV technology in India is still in its nascent stage and requires time and capital to evolve. He noted that China was the largest EV market in the world.  Without commenting on a particular company or a country, he said, "A lot of companies are trying to localise but the process will take time. It's a Catch 22 situation. Unless the demand grows, localisation would be difficult to justify. Quite likely India will be import-dependent for at least next 2-3 years," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cant-keep-china-out-of-electric-buses-907413.html
27-10-2020||State||Royal scion performs special rituals, vijaya yatre||Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar, scion of the erstwhile royal family concluded the Sharannavaratri celebrations by performing special pujas at goddess Bhuvaneshwari temple, banni puja and taking a ‘Vijaya Yatre’ on the premises of Mysuru Palace, on Vijayadashami Day, onMonday. Yaduveer, who conducted the private darbar (khasagi darbar), ascending the golden throne, as part of Navaratri celebrations at Mysuru Palace from October 17, drew curtains for the festival on Vijayadashami day. A slew of religious rituals were held on the 10th day of Sharannavaratri celebrations, by the members of the royal family, as per the tradition on the premises of the Mysuru Palace right from the morning. As every year, Yaduveer took out a Vijaya yatre, observed on the 10th day (Dashami), which derives the name Vijayadashami celebrations. Yaduveer skipped the silver chariot for the vijaya yatre, and chose thecar. Yaduveer performed puja to the ‘Banni tree’ near Bhuvaneshwari temple, on the guidance of the royal priests. He then offered ‘kanike’ and flowers to the priests , who participated in the ritual. Later, he returned to the Palace, performed pujas to the Pattada Kathi, Ane, Kudure and cows. ‘Vajramushti kalaga’ a wrestling bout between two members of the jatti community, was cancelled this year, as a precautionary measure in the wake of Covid pandemic. The procession is held only after the wrestling bout, every year. There was a minor confusion, when the palace cattle started mooing loudly out of fear, after spotting the elephants. However, it was brought under control by the attendants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/royal-scion-performs-special-rituals-vijaya-yatre-907469.html
27-10-2020||State||Mahisha Dasara in Kollegal||The residents of Anagalli, in Kollegal taluk, celebrated Mahisha Dasara, by offering floral tributes to the portrait of Mahisha, Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar and Dr B R Ambedkar, on the Marigudi temple premises, in the village, on Monday. They also distributed sarees to the women of the village. They recall the contribution of Mahisha to the development of the region and observe Mahisha Dasara, every year. Mahisha Dasara should be celebrated across the state every year, they appealed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mahisha-dasara-in-kollegal-907474.html
27-10-2020||State||Covid-19 test irregularity: Sudhakar announces suspension of maternity hospital staff||A lab technician, who was involved in Covid-19 testing irregularities at the Pobbathi Maternity Hospital in V V Puram, has been suspended and a criminal case will be registered against him and an ASHA worker, said Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar, here on Tuesday. Speaking to mediapersons, he said that false negative Covid-19 reports at the Pobbathi Maternity Hospital came to his notice through media reports. A team, consisting of the joint commissioners and health officers, was sent to the hospital for inspection immediately on the minister’s instruction. An FIR will be registered against the lab technician who was on contract and the ASHA worker who were issuing negative Covid-19 reports, he said.  The minister further said that a strict regulation will be introduced to rectify the loopholes in the BBMP and make sure such incidents are not repeated in the future. Following a discussion with the officials, a decision will be taken in this regard, Sudhakar said.  "It is a dishonour to the medical profession to make money through immoral ways," he said. The case has been taken seriously and will not be repeated in the future, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-test-irregularity-sudhakar-announces-suspension-of-maternity-hospital-staff-907764.html
27-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Mangalore University students can opt for either online or offline classes||With the state government deciding to commence degree, PG, diploma, medical and engineering colleges from November 17, Mangalore University has left to the discretion of the students to opt for online or offline classes. Vice-Chancellor Prof P S Yadapadithaya said, “After reviewing the local Covid-19 situation and directions of the state government and the UGC, the University will decide on dates for the commencement of colleges. The attendance will not be considered seriously. The students and parents will be left with the option of online and offline classes.” Mangalore University is mulling over two models for the reopening of the colleges. The colleges can decide on the model that is suitable for them. They can conduct offline and online classes on alternate days or can convert offline classes into virtual classes and live stream offline classes. The VC said Covid-19 guidelines need to be adhered to while conducting offline classes. Accordingly, the number of students in each class needs to be restricted to maintain social distance. Additional classes As a result, additional classes need to be conducted by the teachers, and pressure on lecturers might increase. To remove the pressure, online classes will be conducted on alternate days. If 50% of students give priority to online classes, then online and offline classes can be conducted at a time. The video of the classes will also be uploaded on the website of the University. In case, if a student cannot attend online classes due to a technical glitch, then he/she can view the video, the VC explained. The Mangalore University is trying to declare the results of the final-year degree students by November 15, and start the first year postgraduation courses by December 1. “We are planning to complete all the admission process fast and commence the first-year courses by December first week,” he said. Already, second and third-semester classes have commenced online. With a delay in the commencement of the academic year for first-year students, the examination calendar is likely to be changed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mangalore-university-students-can-opt-for-either-online-or-offline-classes-907593.html
27-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine trial data only 56 days old, need further monitoring: Sudhakar||After a detailed presentation on the research status of the vaccine by AstraZeneca Pharma India Limited Managing Director Gagan Singh, responsible for overall commercial operations in India, Sudhakar told reporters here on Tuesday that neutralising antibodies were found in trial volunteers administered with the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, but that data was available only for 56 days.  "Across India, 1,600 trial volunteers are being administered with the vaccine including at JSS Medical College, Mysuru, and in the past 56 days that they were monitored after being administered with the vaccine, neutralising antibodies were found. But it is difficult to say how long this will last as they have to be monitored longer, perhaps for six months," Sudhakar said.  While phase 1 of the trial has been completed, phase 2 and 3 of the trials are underway, he said. "Children in the age group of 5 to 12 years, adults in the age group of 18 to 55 years, and elderly above the age of 55 will be administered the vaccine as part of the trial. Currently, it is being studied how the vaccine acts in Covid-19 positive patients, the elderly and the children. This also includes those with comorbidities. Neutralising antibodies have been found within 22 days of administering the vaccine," he said.  The Karnataka government has also approached Hyderabad-based Covaxin maker Dr Krishna Ella, Chairman and Managing Director of Bharat Biotech International Limited. "We have contacted him and will meet soon. A discussion regarding his vaccine will be held soon," Sudhakar said.  No profit-no loss Sudhakar also informed reporters here that AstraZeneca will be deriving no profits from developing the vaccine. "The company has informed us that they will be operating on a no profit-no loss basis. They will only be recovering their operational costs," Sudhakar said. Vaccine distribution channel Currently, the vaccine distribution network in the state as in the rest of the country is only equipped for immunisation of children, pregnant and lactating mothers. "A technical committee comprising epidemiologists, technical partners, and logistics partners will be formed by early next week and we will roll out a plan on how we will distribute vaccines," he said. To a question whether vaccines will be made compulsory, he said, "That will depend on advisories (from the central government)."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-trial-data-only-56-days-old-need-further-monitoring-sudhakar-907663.html
27-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: MLC elections for four seats on October 28 under Covid-19 shadow||Karnataka will go for its first elections on Wednesday for four legislative council seats amid the Covid-19 pandemic scare and the recent flood fury in several parts of the state. The retirement of the four members of the legislative council necessitated the election. The election should have taken place before June 30. However, in the wake of the pandemic, it was postponed for an indefinite period. Subsequently, the Election Commission in September decided to conduct the elections on October 28. These MLC elections are taking place for Karnataka South-East Graduates, Karnataka West Graduates', Karnataka North-East Teachers' and Bangalore Teachers' constituencies, which fell vacant due to the retirement of R Chowda Reddy Thoopalli, S V Sankanur, Sharanappa Mattur and Puttanna respectively. Forty candidates are trying their luck in the elections in the four seats. According to the Election Commission, Karnataka South-East Graduates constituency has 1.09 lakh voters who will cast their votes at 187 polling stations. There are 15 candidates in the fray. The BJP has fielded Chidanand M Gowda, Congress Ramesh Babu and JD(S) R Chowda Reddy Thoopalli. In Karnataka West Graduates' constituency there are 11 candidates trying their luck and the fight is between S V Sankanur of BJP and R M Kuberappa of the Congress. The constituency has 74,268 voters and 146 polling booths. The Karnataka North-East Teachers' constituency has 29,234 voters who will vote at 147 polling stations. Five candidates are contesting the elections there but the fight is primarily between Shashi G Namoshi of BJP, Sharanappa Mattur of Congress and Timmaiah Purle of JD(S). The Bangalore Teachers' Constituency has 22,089 voters who will exercise their franchise at 69 polling booths. The fight is mainly between Puttanna of BJP, Praveen Peter of Congress and A P Ranganath of JD(S). The election is crucial for the Bharatiya Janata Party as it lacks a majority in the state Legislative Council. In the council with a strength of 75 members, Congress has 28 members, BJP -- 27 members, Janata Dal (Secular) -- 14 members, one independent, one chairman and four vacant seats. All those who retired from the council are in the fray again. The counting of votes will be held on November 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-mlc-elections-for-four-seats-on-october-28-under-covid-19-shadow-907800.html
27-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Former Karnataka Minister Y Nagappa dies at 87||Former minister Y Nagappa (87) passed away after a brief illness in a private hospital in the town on Tuesday. He was 87 years old. He is survived by wife, a son, and three daughters. The body was kept for public viewing in the private hospital on Shivamogga Road for some time. Many elected representatives and the public paid their last respects to the departed leader. Nagappa served as a doctor for some years before entered politics. He was elected as an MLA from Harihar thrice, and had served as social welfare minister in the Dharam Singh-led coalition government in the state. He had also served as chairman of Karnataka State Small Industries Development Corporation. He had come from a pailwan family, and had taken part in traditional wrestling competitions. He had also won medals in Dasara competitions, and had represented the University of Mysore in the inter-university traditional wrestling contests. Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa, MP G M Siddeshwara, MLAs S Ramappa and S A Raveendranath, MLC  Y Narayana Swamy, former minister  S S Mallikarjun, Kanaka Peetha Seer Niranjananandapuri Swamiji, Hosadurga peetha seer Eshwaranandapuri Swamji, and others paid their last respects to the departed soul. The last rites were held in his own farmland on the bank of river Tungabhadra at 6:00 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/former-karnataka-minister-y-nagappa-dies-at-87-907882.html
27-10-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 3,691 new Covid-19 cases, 7,740 recoveries||Karnataka on Tuesday reported 3,691 new Covid-19 cases and 44 deaths, taking the tally to 8,09,638 and toll to 10,991, the health department said. The total infections comprise 7,27,298 discharges cumulatively including 7,740 on Tuesday and 71,330 total active cases including 944 in the ICU. Of the fresh cases, Bengaluru Urban district accounted for 1,874 fresh cases and 24 deaths. Cumulatively, the city has reported 3,29,250 infections, 3,778 deaths, 2,78,843 discharges including 4,446 on Tuesday and 46,628 active cases. According to a health bulletin, 188 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Mysuru, 128 in Vijayapura, 123 in Mandya, 122 in Dakshina Kannada, 114 in Hassan and 103 in Shivamogga. Cases were also reported in Bengaluru Rural, Ballari, Bagalkote, Belagavi, Chikkaballapura, Chitradurga, Tumakuru, Uttara Kannada, Udupi and Chikkamagaluru. The health department said three deaths each took place in Ballari and Dharwad, two each in Uttara Kannada, Mysuru and Kalaburagi. One death each were reported in Belagavi, Chamarajanagar, Dakshina Kannada, Kolar, Raichur, Tumakuru, Udupi and Vijayapura. Most of those who died of coronavirus were above 50 and they had Severe Acute Respiratory Illness or Influenza Like Illness. There were as many as 66,701 tests done on Tuesday including 52,316 using the real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and other methods, taking the total tests done to 75.14 lakh, the department added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-3691-new-covid-19-cases-7740-recoveries-907945.html
27-10-2020||West||RPI chief Ramdas Athawale tests positive for Covid-19||Veteran politician and union minister Ramdas Athawale – whose ‘Go Corona Go’ slogan became the nation's anthem to fight coronavirus – tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Athawale (60) is the president of Republican Party of India (Athawale) and Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment. “Athawale tested positive for Covid-19 and has been admitted to a private hospital for four days. He is asymptomatic and stable,” said RPI (A) spokesperson Hemant Ranpise. “Athawale, who coined the slogan ‘Go Corona Go’ is known for his fighting spirit and struggles….he will defeat Covid-19 and  will be back in action soon,” he said. On Monday, Athawale had presided over a crowded event, when actresses Payal Ghosh, Soni Kanishka, lawyer Nitin Satpute, realtor Yogesh Karkera and businessman Ankush Chaphekar, formally joined the RPI (A). The Dalit leader and humourist came up with the slogan ‘Go Corona Go’ – that went viral on social media with hashtags #GoCoronaGo #GoCorona trending for days. The slogan that nearly became the nation's war-cry against the fatal virus was also used as ring tones for mobile phones and was sung collectively at several places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rpi-chief-ramdas-athawale-tests-positive-for-covid-19-907642.html
27-10-2020||West||NCP will contest 2022 Goa Assembly polls: Praful Patel||The NCP will contest the 2022 Goa legislative Assembly polls with full strength and consider an alliance with like-minded parties, party leader Praful Patel said on Tuesday. The party will be in a position to contest the polls from all 40 constituencies on its own, and in case of an alliance, the seat sharing would be discussed later, Patel said. Ruling out an alliance with the Congress, the former Union minister said the NCP will be in a position to form the next government in Goa with like-minded parties, providing an alternative to the Congress and BJP. "We will work hard for the next one and half years. We will put a senior minister from the Maharashtra government in charge of Goa's affairs," he said, adding that the NCP will open its state office in Panaji on November 22. "The NCP will offer a credible leadership and an alternative. The party has enough followers and it will work hard to win the trust and confidence of people," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncp-will-contest-2022-goa-assembly-polls-praful-patel-907673.html
27-10-2020||West||Man attacks TV actress Malvi Malhotra with knife in Mumbai||A man allegedly stabbed a TV actress with a knife in suburban Andheri after she turned down his marriage proposal, police said on Tuesday. The incident took place around 9 pm on Monday in Versova area of Andheri when actress Malvi Malhotra was returning home from a cafe. The accused, Yogesh Mahipal Singh, who was in a car, stopped her on the way and asked why she had discontinued talking to him, a police official said. This led to an argument between them and the accused stabbed Malhotra with a knife in the abdomen and on both hands and fled, he said. The actress was rushed to a private hospital where she is undergoing treatment, the official said. "We have registered an FIR against Singh under various Indian Penal Code sections, including 307 (attempt to murder), and are conducting an investigation into the case," Versova police station's senior inspector Raghvendra Thakur said. The actress told the police that she knew the accused since last one year and he wanted to marry her, but she rejected the proposal, another official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-attacks-tv-actress-malvi-malhotra-with-knife-in-mumbai-907713.html
27-10-2020||West||Dismiss plea of Sushant Singh Rajput's sisters for quashing FIR: Rhea Chakraborty to Bombay High Court||Actress Rhea Chakraborty on Tuesday requested the Bombay High Court to dismiss a petition filed by late actor Sushant Singh Rajput's two sisters to quash the FIR lodged against them for forging and procuring fake medical prescription for their brother. Chakraborty is accused of abetting the suicide of Rajput, who was her boyfriend. The actress, who is the complainant in the case against Rajput's Priyanka Singh and Meetu Singh, filed an affidavit in the HC on Tuesday opposing their plea and said the allegations against them are serious. Chakraborty also said since the probe in the case against Rajput's sisters is at a nascent stage, time needs to be given to the investigating agency. In the affidavit filed through her advocate Satish Maneshinde, the actress said a forged and the fabricated medical prescription was used to help Rajput procure medicines that are banned under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. "Rajput died merely five days after he obtained the said prescription, wherein he was unlawfully prescribed psychotropic substances at the behest of his sister (Priyanka) and Dr Tarun Kumar," Chakraborty said in her affidavit. It needs to be investigated whether Rajput consumed the medicines prescribed, which may have contributed to his death and/or further deteriorated his mental health, the affidavit said. The petition (of Rajput's sisters) should be dismissed, it said. The petition came up before a division bench of Justices S S Shinde and M S Karnik which posted it for further hearing November 4 after both the CBI and the Mumbai Police, which had registered the FIR, sought time to file their affidavits. The Bandra police here on September 7 lodged the FIR against Rajput's sisters and Dr Tarun Kumar of the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in Delhi, who signed the medical prescription. Rajput's sisters in their petition filed on October 6 sought the case to be quashed and by way of interim relief prayed for a direction to the CBI, to whom the case was handed over by the city police, not to take any coercive steps against them. The CBI is already probing a complaint lodged by Rajput's father K K Singh accusing Rhea Chakraborty and her family of abetting his son's suicide. Chakraborty in her affidavit said Rajput had a "tumultuous relation" with his family and was also suffering from mental problems for which he was undergoing medical treatment. In November 2019, Rajput was examined by three psychiatrists who all opined that he was suffering from bipolar disorder and prescribed him medications, the affidavit filed by the actress said, adding that Rajput was fine till he was having his medicines regularly. "In January 2020, Rajput went to Chandigarh to meet his family. After he returned, he said he was discontinuing his medications and treatment," the affidavit claimed. "In March 2020, when the country was hit by Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown was announced, Rajput appeared stable initially, but with each passing day his mental health started deteriorating," it said. "The death of actors Rishi Kapoor and Irrfan Khan also had a tremendous impact on Sushant Singh Rajput who seemed to have spiralled into depression. He (Rajput) also refused treatment and/or medication," the affidavit said. However, he (Rajput) continued consuming drugs, the affidavit claimed. Rajput (34) was found hanging at his residence in suburban Bandra on June 14 this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dismiss-plea-of-sushant-singh-rajputs-sisters-for-quashing-fir-rhea-chakraborty-to-bombay-high-court-907774.html
27-10-2020||West||Police ban drones, paragliders in Mumbai skies||Police have issued a fresh order prohibiting the flying of drones and other remote-controlled or "micro-light aircraft" in the city for 30 days to prevent their possible use for terrorist activities during the festive season. The order was issued on Monday under section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and will be in force between October 30 and November 28, the police notification said. "This is a routine order. There is no need for alarm. There is a section 144 order in place, it has just been extended," said a police official. Section 144 empowers the police to issue prohibitory orders in cases of nuisance or apprehended danger. Diwali will be celebrated next month. Notably, the order period covers the anniversary of the `26/11' 2008 Mumbai terror attack. The order said that it was likely that terrorists and anti-national elements might make use of drones, remote-controlled micro-light aircraft, aerial missiles or paragliders to target "VVIPs" and endanger "the life of public at large, destroy public property and cause disturbance to law and order". Restrictions were necessary to "prevent probable sabotage", it said. "No flying activities" of drones and similar devices would be allowed, except for aerial surveillance by city police themselves or upon written permission by the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Operations), the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/police-ban-drones-paragliders-in-mumbai-skies-907866.html
27-10-2020||West||PM Modi likely to launch series of facilities including seaplane service on October 31 at Statue of Unity||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is landing at Kevadia, the seat of Statue of Unity (SoU), on Friday is said to be launching a series of facilities for tourists besides the much-publicised seaplane service connecting Kevadia to Sabarmati Riverfront in Ahmedabad. The seaplane service is said to be first of its kind in the country which will be flagged off by Modi on October 31 on the occasion of birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. According to a tentative list of events seen by DH, PM Modi will be inaugurating Jungle Safari claimed to have been built at record speed and the "world's larget geodesic dome aviary," Ekta Mall, world's first technology-driven children nutrition park and mirror maze, dynamic dam lighting, a Statue of Unity website in UN languages, a Kevadia mobile app, a cactus garden and Ekta Nursery. When contacted Additional Chief Secretary, forest and environment, told DH that "These events are being planned but no confirmation has come as yet." "These are the tentitive plans but preparations are on. There will be over 8,000 policemen guarding Kevadia colony and the cirucuit house will all the events have been planned. Besides, at least 2000 policemen will be deployed for securing the Sabarmati Riverfront in Ahmedabad. There may be some last minutes in the event,"(sic) said a top police officer involved in the preparation. Sources said that PM Modi will be arriving at Kevadia on Friday afternoon and participate in various functions including 'Ekta Divas Parade" till Saturday afternoon to mark the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. Modi is expected to interact with IAS officers under probation on October 31. By evening, he will be flagging off the seaplane. He will fly in the same seaplane to Ahmedabad and return to Delhi from there. The seaplane is said to be about 50 years old. When asked if the aircraft is safe for travelling, state minister of civil aviation Bhupendrasinh Chudasama told DH, "The aircraft is old but we have checked all aspect of its flying capacity and it is 100% safe. Experts from Delhi and Mumbai also came and checked everything before giving permission to fly." SpiceJet is launching the service between SoU and Ahmedabad. The state government in a release stated that the seaplane "Twin Otter 300" (8Q-ISC) has a seating capacity of 19 passengers. The flight will make four round trips between these the two stops with ticket prices expected to be Rs 4,800 per person. The distance of nearly 200 km will be covered in less than an hour. When asked about the safety of the aircraft, which is said to have been manufactured in 1971, SpiceJet responded to DH, stating, "The seaplane chosen by SpiceJet is one of the safest and most widely used aircraft the world over and in the Maldives. The aircraft has been serviced at regular intervals and is in top class condition... The aircraft has undergone regular maintenance, overhauling and seat refurbishment and has a valid Airworthiness Review Certificate (ARC). All the required SoPs to operate these flights are in-line with operational guidance of seaplane operations."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pm-modi-likely-to-launch-series-of-facilities-including-seaplane-service-on-october-31-at-statue-of-unity-907904.html
