01-01-2022||---||Jalandhar welcomes New Year with array of protests||Avneet KaurJalandhar, December 31While the New Year was welcomed across the country with fireworks and parties, celebrations in Jalandhar were dominated by protests. Hundreds of protesting teachers raised slogans against the state government and Education Minister Pargat Singh.Major demands of nurses & guest facultyFor the past few days, the city has been witnessing a lot of chaos and traffic jams owing to various protests being held by teachers, farmers, bank employees and nurses. On the New Year’s Eve, too, the situation was no different thanks to the Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s s visit to the city.Meanwhile, the protest site of ETT (Elementary Teacher Training) teachers outside the residence of Pargat turned into a celebration venue with local residents joining the protesters to bid goodbye to 2021 as police remained on the toes.Gurmukh Singh, committee member, ETT Teachers, said, “It’s been 24 days since we are protesting outside the residence of the Education Minister. We have had several meetings with him, but in vain. We are staying with our kids on the roads and braving the chilly weather. Yet the government is not ready to pay heed to our demands.”He said Pargat had himself admitted that the Education Department has made a mistake in the case of 180 ETT regular teachers, but the government instead of correcting their wrongs, has decreased salary of the teachers.He informed that 180 ETT teachers were recruited by the Education Department in 2016 and regularised in 2018. But after five years of service, the department fired these teachers and later reinstated them on the orders of the high court. Similarly, upset over non-fulfillment of their demands, nurses under the banner of the Punjab Government Nurses’ Association and the Government College Guest Faculty Assistant Professors marked the New Year ’s Eve by protesting against the state government and resorted to celebrate ‘Black New Year’ tomorrow.Meanwhile, members of the Government College Guest Faculty Assistant Professors’ Association who have been protesting for the last 13 days outside Pargat’s residence took out “Jaggo” today in locality and went door-to-door to narrate their ordeal to masses.Jagraj Singh, member, Punjab Government Nurses’ Association, said, “A ‘Sukhmani Sahib’ paath will be held to mark New Year, but we won’t join our duties until our demands are met.” He also said it’s been over 15 days since they are protesting and medical services have been hit, but the government has been dilly-dallying the matter.Harminder Singh, chief of the association said, “The professors have been working in government colleges for since the past 20 years as guest faculty, part-time and on contract basis, but the state government still hasn’t regularised their services.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/city-welcomes-new-year-with-array-of-protests-356862
01-01-2022||---||Punjab CM Channi lays stone of project worth Rs 16 crore in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 31Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday laid a foundation stone for initiation of development works worth Rs 16 crore related to dual carriage railway underbridge in Urban Estate, Phase 1, and adjoining roads, besides announcing Rs 2 crore for the construction of the Sant Prem Singh Lubana Welfare Society Bhawan. A cheque for Rs 51 lakh was handed over to the society on the spot.The Chief Minister lauded the role played by Lubana community in bringing social awakening and economic prosperity in the country, especially in Punjab. He announced that 600 sq ft land adjoining the bhawan would also be given to the society. Further, Channi announced Rs 10 lakh for Sri Guru Ravidass Bhawan in Urban Estate.The Chief Minister also paid obeisance at Satguru Ravidass Dham in Boota Mandi during his visit to Jalandhar and handed over cheques to the tune of Rs 51 lakh each for Shiromani Guru Ravidass Mandir Prabandhak Committee, Phagwara, and Guru Ravidass Educational and Charitable Trust, Jalandhar. He said, “I also follow the teachings of Guru Ravidass and it is my sincere endeavour to ensure the welfare of common man, especially the needy.” Channi added that study centres of Srimad Bhagvad Gita and Ramayan would be started at Patiala soon.On the occasion, the Chief Minister was honoured with the Gold Medal by Satguru Ravidass Dham authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cm-lays-stone-of-project-worth-16-cr-356863
01-01-2022||---||19 test +ve for Covid in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, December 31The health authorities reported 19 new Covid-19 cases on Friday in Jalandhar district. With this, the district tally of the infected persons has reached 63,646. As many as 62,058 people have recovered from the virus in the district so far. Jalandhar has a total of 87 active cases. With no new death reported, the toll remains at 1,501. Of the 18,97,163 samples collected in the district, 17,60,095 samples tested negative.4 new cases in KapurthalaFour persons tested positive in Kapurthala today.The district tally increased to 18,923 today. Those who tested positive include patients from 23 to 51 years of age.Meanwhile, no new death due to Covid was reported in Kapurthala district today. The deceased tallystands at 556. The Healht Department asked people to follow Covid guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/19-test-ve-in-jalandhar-district-356864
01-01-2022||Mukerian||Car rams into divider near Mukerian; two killed, three injured||Two people died on the spot and three others were seriously injured in an accident that took place near Mukerian at round 1:30 am on Friday. The accident took place when five friends were going to Dharamshala from Delhi to bring medicines. Their car collided with the divider on the road.In a statement given to the police, Vikas Tomar, (33) son of Brahmpal, who is a sub-inspector in Delhi Police, said they were going to Mcleodganj via Pathankot to bring medicines for Manoj Kumar son of Satpal Singh, a resident of Ghaziabad, UP. At around 1.30 am, while rescuing a motorcyclist near Makkar Hospital on the National Highway Mukerian, their car rammed into a divider and was badly damaged. Two persons in the vehicle died on the spot, while three others were seriously injured. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/car-rams-into-divider-two-killed-three-injured-356865
01-01-2022||Deepankar Sharda||Panjab University tops in Atal innovation rankings||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 31Panjab University (PU) attainted top rank in the innovation, start-up and entrepreneurship development among the government and aided (state-run and deemed) universities of India as per the Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA).I am glad to know that despite the record number of entries, Panjab University not only improved its rank from last year but also topped the list among the state universities. This speaks about the efforts put in by the faculty and staff of the university towards the campaign of innovation, which we started three years ago. — Prof Raj Kumar, PU Vice-ChancellorThe announcement was made by Union Minister of State of Education Subhas Sarkar in a virtual ceremony recently. Major indicators for consideration for these rankings include budget and funding support, infrastructure and facilities, awareness, promotions and support for idea generation and innovation, promotion and support for entrepreneurship development, innovative learning methods and courses, intellectual property generation, technology transfer and commercialisation and innovation in governance of the institution. As many as 1,438 institutes from all states participated in various categories of the ranking.“I am glad to know that despite the record number of entries, the PU not only improved on its rank from last year but also topped the list among the state universities. This speaks about the efforts put in by the faculty and staff of the university towards the campaign of innovation, which we started three years ago. I congratulate all stakeholders and at the same time appeal to them to not to be complacent and maintain the streak in the coming years too,” said PU Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar.Panjab University is followed by Delhi Technological University and Netaji Subhas University of Technology at the second and third spot in the same category.“We at Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) are happy with the outcome of the ranking this year. Panjab University is a unique university that carries its heritage and futuristic innovation on its shoulders with equal ease and responsibilities. It’s a moment of rejoice for all of us here at the university,” said PU Director (IQAC) Prof Ashish Jain.From 7th to top spotThe PU had claimed second spot in 2020 rankings. In 2019 rankings, the PU was placed 9th. In 2019, there was no classification of categories.Chitkara varsity at second spot in pvt categoryChitkara University has secured the second rank in the ARIIA-2021 ranking in the Private/Self-Financed (Technical) category. Ashok K Chitkara, Chancellor, Chitkara University, said: “It is the hard work of our students, staff and faculty that resulted in securing this achievement. Chitkara University’s Research and Innovation Network (CURIN) encourages our students to become innovative leaders and contribute to nation-building by developing indigenous solutions.”Chitkara University has also been awarded the A+ rating by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC), which places it among the five per cent of higher education institutions (HEIs) in India to be granted such a coveted grade. It achieved high rankings in the NIRF Rankings 2021 under various categories.Chandigarh University (CU), Gharuan, claimed 7th spot in the ranking in the same category. Satnam Singh Sandhu, Chancellor, Chandigarh University, said: “Ever since its inception, our university has been committed to disseminating quality academic learning to its students, which matches the global standards.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pu-tops-in-atal-innovation-rankings-356867
01-01-2022||---||Only SAD can safeguard regional aspirations of Punjabis: Harsimrat Badal||Tribune News ServiceAdampur (Jalandhar), Dec 31Former union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Friday urged the masses to elect a stable government, which can safeguard their regional aspirations. She asserted that the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) was the only party, which had steadfastly stood up for the state and its people.Addressing a massive gathering in favour of SAD candidate Pawan Kumar Tinu in Adampur, Harsimrat said all other political parties and fronts were mere rubber stamps of “Dilli Durbar”. “Only the SAD has a track record of safeguarding regional aspirations of Punjabis. We are committed to protect the interest of all sections of society.”She also led a scathing attack on Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener Arvind Kejriwal. She said despite being in power for more than three months and making one announcement after another, nothing has changed on the ground.She said the Chief Minister had announced that 5 marla plots would be given to the needy, 36,000 contractual employees would be regularised and compensation would be given to cotton farmers. “I have been asking the people if any of these promises have been fulfilled. They say that no plot has been given. Forget regularising 36,0000 employees, even one employee has not been regularised.” She said similarly cotton farmers were promised fair compensation, but now various terms and conditions have been imposed on the award.Harsimrat disclosed that even though the Congress government had not done anything for the masses, it had accumulated a debt of Rs 1 lakh crore during the past five years. “This despite the fact that the people were taxed heavily, their power bills were hiked multiple times and they had to pay the most VAT on petrol and diesel as compared to other states.”She said Kejriwal wanted to usurp power in Punjab through hook or by crook. She said despite the fact that no woman in Delhi had been given even Rs 1 per month by the AAP, the party was promising to give Rs 1,000 per month to women in Punjab. She said similarly 200 units per bill cycle scheme was a failure in Delhi and did not benefit the people because they were charged the complete bill if they consumed even one unit more than 200 units.She said the AAP convener had taken an anti–Punjab stance on the SYL canal issue and had also advocated closing down the thermal plants of Punjab, besides calling for registering cases against farmers for burning stubble.Harsimrat also visited the residence of kisan andolan martyr Arshdeep Singh at Mansurpur Wadala and met with the family members who informed that no one from the government had visited them and that they had not received any financial assistance to date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/only-sad-can-safeguard-regional-aspirations-of-punjabis-harsimrat-356868
01-01-2022||Hoshiarpur||Two killed in road accident||Girl kidnapped, Two bookedHoshiarpur: The Mehtiana police have booked two persons for allegedly kidnapping a minor girl. According to information, Seema, a resident of Targarh village, told the police that she gone to purchase medicine with her sister’s daughter, Razia Bibi. She said as they heading were back, Mana, Surmu, Lal Hussain and Abdul Ghafoor, all residents of Kathua, along with their four other companions pushed Bibi into their jeep. The police have registered a case under Sections 363 and 366 of the IPC against the accused. OC2 booked for seeking dowryHoshiarpur: The Mukerian police have booked two persons, including the husband for allegedly demanding more dowry. According to information, Charu Jain, a resident of Mukerian, told the police that she was married to Rohit Jain, a resident of Katcha Tobha, Hoshiarpur. Charu said her husband and another relative, Anita Jain, allegedly started harassing her by demanding more dowry. She said as she could not meet their demand, she was thrown out of the house. OC3 peddlers held with contrabandHoshiarpur: The police have arrested three peddlers from different places. According to information, the Model Town police have arrested two smugglers and recovered 30-gm intoxicating powder from their possession. The accused have been identified as Gobind Singh alias Deepa, a resident of Mithewal, and Chetan Kumar, a resident of Bhawani Nagar. The police have recovered 50-gm intoxicating powder from Bharat Adia, a resident of Khanpuri Gate. The accused have been booked under the NDPS Act. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-killed-in-road-accident-356869
