02-01-2022||Avneet Kaur||No lessons learnt, Jalandhar residents welcome 2022 in style||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 1It seems people have learned no lesson from the Covid-19 second wave, which wreaked havoc all across the nation. Despite the continuous cautioning of the experts over the third wave, people have let down their guards against the fatal infection, which so far has claimed lakhs of lives.On Saturday, India reported 1,431 Omicron cases, 2,775 new Covid cases and 406 deaths in the last 24 hours. Still, leniency on the part of authorities and the careless behaviour of people was evident on New Year’s eve, as they gathered in large numbers at restaurants, pubs and on roads to welcome 2022.Even though danger of Omicron looms large, hundreds of people gathered at various locations to celebrate the New Year.On a visit to different party spots, it was seen that no covid norms were being followed at any place. Forget about social distancing, residents were even not wearing masks. Also, many present at the parties were either not vaccinated or just had taken the single dose.A few revellers at PPR Jalandhar, where the crowd was huge and almost everyone was grooving to the music on road, and they were also least bothered about the risk that the new variant poses.“It’s the New Year’s eve. Since we have been confined to our homes for the last two years, now it’s time to celebrate,” said Arshvir Singh, a Class XII student, who was partying with his friends at PPR.Not just this, at many places restaurants allowed entry to photojournalists on the condition that no pictures should be clicked.“Omicron cases have not been reported in Jalandhar, so there’s nothing to worry about,” another resident Kamal Kumar said.Situation no different at protest sites and political events “It is rightly said that in India rules are meant to be broken. Neither politicians nor common people, no one follows rules. If we point out to the protesting teachers, we should call out politicians, too, who are organising rallies one after the other,” said Sahil Verma, a resident.Dist reports 34 fresh Covid cases Jalandhar: The first day of the New Year brought district’s first Omicron case and an unprecedented Covid blast. On January 1, as many as 34 cases of Covid were reported in the district, taking the district tally to 63,680. As many as 62,069 persons have recovered from Covid in the district, while there are 110 active cases in the district. With no new death, the district toll remains at 1,501. Of the 18,99,200 samples collected in the district so far, 17,62,272 samples tested negative. The results of as many as 546 samples is still awaited.Kapurthala reports 8 cases: Kapurthala district today reported eight cases of Covid on Saturday taking the district tally to 17,931. Meanwhile, no new death was reported. The toll remains at 556. TNSWhat expert says“We cannot predict the situation as of now, but Omicron cannot be taken lightly, as there is no guarantee that this virus will behave in the same manner in India like elsewhere,” said Dr Navjot Dahiya, national vice-president, Indian Medical Association. He said even though Omicron was milder than Delta variant and other earlier versions of the virus, in line with real-world data, if a person is affected with both Delta and Omicron at the same time, the condition may turn deadly. “Omicron is less infectious to the lungs, and instead was limited largely to the nose, throat, and windpipe, but it is necessary for people to follow guidelines and abide by Covid-appropriate behaviour,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-lessons-learnt-residents-welcome-2022-in-style-357240
02-01-2022||Aparna Banerji||Nakodar's 42-yr-old woman  is district's first Omicron case||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 1A 42-year-old woman, resident of Mirpur village in Nakodar, is district’s first Omicron positive case. The first Omicron case of the state was reported from Nawanshahr.The woman who returned from Tanzania to Delhi on December 20 tested positive for Omicron on December 22.Placed in institutional quarantine, her report tested negative on December 29, after which she was discharged and sent home. Jalandhar has seen a heavy flow of international travellers returning to the country, but only one international passenger has tested positive for Omicron so far. The husband and child of the woman, whose samples were also collected, tested negative.After the surfacing of the Omicron variant, as many as 1,500 passengers have returned to Jalandhar from abroad, of which only six tested positive. The genome sequencing of all passengers who tested positive is being conducted, as per the health authorities.Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Ghotra said: “The 42-year-old woman from Nakodar had tested positive for Covid, but was discharged after she recently tested negative. None of her family members or traced contacts tested positive for Covid. So far, six international passengers have tested positive for Covid in Jalandhar, of whom one tested positive for Omicron, another for Delta variant and the genome sequencing results of the remaining four are pending.”Previous caseThe first case of Omicron variant in Punjab was an international traveller from Spain who returned to Nawanshahr a month ago. A 36-year-old resident of Chak Ramu village in Nawanshahr came to Punjab on December 4 and was placed in institutional quarantine. He had tested positive for Covid on December 12. The patient and two of his contacts who had tested positive remained asymptomatic. The trio was discharged on December 24 after testing negative. Contact tracing of at least 13 contacts of the 36-year-old has been done.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nakodars-42-yr-old-woman-is-districts-first-omicron-case-357242
02-01-2022||---||ETT teachers protest outside BJP office||Jalandhar, January 1Members of the Unemployed ETT TET Pass Teachers Union on Saturday gathered near the bus stand, Jalandhar, and raised slogans against the central government. The teachers then marched to the BJP’s head office in Jalandhar. The union has also announced that they will protest against the central government at Ferozepur on the occasion of the Prime Minister’s address on Januray 5 if their demands are not met.The intense agitation of the teachers even evinced a response today from Cabinet Minister Gajendra Shekhwat who was present at the BJP office regarding their protest today. Teachers gathered at the bus stand from where they marched to the BJP main election office in Jalandhar. After heated exchange with police, teachers broke away barricades a few feet away from the office to air their protest. Following the commotion, Union cabunet minister and Punjab Election uincharge Gajendra Shekhwat came out and assured ETT Teachers that he will take up their issue with the Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan. He assured them of finding a problem to their solution and also ensured them a time for a meeting.The ETT Unemployed Teachers which have been protesting against the Congress government said the prime reasons for the protest outside the BJP office today was that like Congress government, the central governemnt has also drafted privatisation policies which are against teachers.They termed rules of the NCTE in 2018 for the appointment primary teachers as one such regulation. They said while as per the rule, B.Ed candidates were kept on par with ETT teachers for appointments, due to this rule, the recruitment process of 10,000 ETT teachers is embroiled in a court case.Teachers while speaking on the occasion said, “The Congress government had promised Ghar Ghar Rozgar but we have been spending subsequent years outside ministers and party offices seeking that rozgar (employment). Subsequent governments have been adopting dilly-dallying tactics. We have also been holding for outside the Education Minister’s house for our demands. On New Years, people send congratulations but we have nothing to celebrate. With the central government also failing to address our issues we have held a protest at the BJP office today. We will also hold an agitation on January 5 regarding out demands.”State president of the union Deepak Kamboj, senior vice president Sandeep Sama, Balwinder Kaka, Surinderpal, Gurdaspur, among others were present during the agitation. Notably, members of the ETT 180 union are also already sitting on a dharna outside the Education Minister’s residence in Jalandhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ett-teachers-protest-outside-bjp-office-357243
02-01-2022||---||Theft at Shivpuri Shamshan Ghat temple||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 1Silver weighing around 3-4 kg was stolen from a Shivaling at Shivpuri Shamshan Ghat temple in Jalandhar Cantt in the wee hours on Friday. The police have lodged an FIR on the complaint of local residents and temple committee members and the search is on to find the miscreants.According to the information procured from Surinder Singh, police chowki in-charge at Paragpur, some miscreants tried removing the silver cover from the Shivling but since they could not remove it, they fled with the Shivling around 2:30 am or so. The temple guards reported the incident in the morning, when they found the Shivling missing.When asked if there were reports of sacrilege at the temple, Surinder Singh said it was a case of theft. He said sacrilege hadn’t been established as they scanned the CCTV footage and the case pertains to robbery only. While the silver cover and the Shivling was stolen, the base remains intact. The police also confirmed there was no other kind of damage or vandalism in any other part of the temple except theft.He said an FIR under Section 380 of the IPC was registered and the case was further being investigated.Meanwhile, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal said there seemed to be a pattern behind such acts. He said: “It is clear that some forces want to disturb peace in Punjab ahead of the Assembly elections. Attempts are being made to create communal strife.”He said it was the responsibility of the Congress government to take a firm stand against such cases, including those which occurred at Darbar Sahib and Takth Keshgarh Sahib recently. “Any delay in doing so raises question mark on the intention of the Congress government,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/theft-at-shivpuri-shamshan-ghat-temple-357244
02-01-2022||---||Dispute over throwing garbage turns ugly||Jalandhar, January 1A 60-year-old man was beaten to death by two men near Cambridge School, Choti Baradari, here on Thursday over a garbage throwing dispute. The incident came to light on Saturday after the deceased, who has been identified as Lallan Kumar, succumbed to his injuries at the Civil Hospital in the morning.According to the police, two men identified as Rakshak and Shivam of Laber Colony attacked Lallan Kumar with an iron rod. The police said the deceased and the attackers were neighbours and had a personal rivalry over garbage throwing issue as informed by Deepak Kumar, son of deceased Lallan Kumar.SHO, Division 7, Ravinder Kumar, said, a case under Sections 302, 341, 323, 324 and 34 of the IPC has been registered against the accused. He said while one of the accused has been arrested, the other identified as Shivam was still absconding.Divulging details about the deceased, the police said Lallan Kumar worked as a security guard at Model Town. They said the incident took place on Thursday morning, when the deceased was going to his job and was attacked from behind with an iron rod.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dispute-over-throwing-garbage-turns-ugly-357245
02-01-2022||---||Educational institutes usher in New Year with fervour||Jalandhar, January 1Amid the anticipated threat from Omicron, the new Covid variant, students welcomed the New Year with zeal and fervour in various parts of the city.Lovely Professional UniversityOn the eve of 2022, the students of LPU celebrated the New Year with fervour on its premises. The celebration was aimed at infusing the spirit of co-operation and harmony among students. Students distributed cards and gifts to their friends and teachers. They emphasised the importance of caring and sharing and spreading goodness all around. The students spread cheer with their smiles and lovely attire. Students have come with a resolution to work hard in their studies and prayed God for the coming year to be safe and healthy for everyone. The pandemic must culminate so that we can all live together in a safe environment, said college teachers.Innocent Hearts College of EducationInnocent Hearts College of Education, Jalandhar, celebrated new year’s eve with the title ‘A Sparkling Happy New Year — 2022’ incorporating the theme ‘Happiness is not measured by what you hold in your hands, but by what you hold in your heart’. In order to enhance the creativity, imagination and language skills amongst the student-teachers, digital card-making competition, decoration contest and languages games were organised. The whole campus was decorated creatively with twinkling colourful lights and greenery. The event started with a prayer ceremony in which all prayed to the almighty forbeing blessed withpeace, prosperity, wisdom, well-being and freedom from all the variants of Covid-19 and other diseases. Some student-teachers expressed their views through mesmerizing songs and self-composed poems. New Year resolutions were taken. Beautiful digital cards were created and shared by student-teachers.St Soldier Group of InstitutionsSt Soldier Group of Institutions welcomed the New Year with merriment and wished its staff and students a peaceful and healthy year 2022. Chairman Anil Chopra, Vice-Chairperson Sangeeta Chopra, Principal Manginder Singh, students and staff members made every day resolutions like learning something new every day, keep smiling, make the world better, never give up, try something new, improve self esteem, achieve your goals. On this occasion the students of St. Soldier Inter College, Himani, Neerja, Hansika, Diya, Garima, Shivangi, Jiya, Palak, Himanshi, Karanreet, Sanya, Riya urged all to adopt the new year as a new hope and opportunities. Chairman Anil Chopra wished peace to the whole world in the year 2022 and appealed to the entire world to pray for corona liberation and happiness.KMV College, JalandharPrincipal of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya (Autonomous), Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated all staff members and students on the arrival of New Year 2022. Addressing on this occasion, she appealed to all the citizens to contribute maximum for the development & prosperity of the country. Along with this, she also described the year 2021 as a wonderful year for KMV and averred that while the college has achieved top rankings in the annual survey of India Today, Outlook Magazine and Times of India, at the same time, while fulfilling its social responsibility, KMV has also made its valuable contribution in the development of the society. She further maintained that even in New Year 2022, KMV will strive with all its seriousness towards its commitment to raise the level of education and to empower the girls in order to make them self-reliant.PCM SD College for WomenCV Raman Society of Department of Chemistry organised a poster-presentation pompetition for students of B.Sc (Non-Medical) and B.Sc (Computer Science) to mark New Year. The aim of the competition was to enhance presentation and language skills among students and teach them to articulate while expressing their thoughts and ideas.Students of different classes exchanged their concepts and data efficiently with their audience using a combination of poster and oral presentation on various topics such as: Chemistry behind the process of breathing, Chemistry of blood co-agulation, Na-K Pump, The artificial leaf and COVID-19 into chemical science perspective. It exhibited our students’ in-depth subject knowledge and presentation expertise. The students performed with utmost enthusiasm. They proved their presentation skills through their adaptability in their topics and their talent with their excellent performance. Members of the managing committee and Principal Dr Pooja Prashar applauded the efforts of the department in organising such activities which inculcate love for learning among students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/educational-institutes-usher-in-new-year-with-fervour-357246
02-01-2022||---||Banga-Garhshankar Road construction work begins||Banga, january 1Acceding to the long-pending demand of Banga residents, the Punjab Government has started the work of Banga-Garshankar Road.Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal said the project was hanging fire since long and it got a major push with the visit of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. The principal secretary to CM, Husan Lal, had raised the issue to clear all hitches in the project. He said the CM asked the officials concerned of the PIDB to clear the files and allot the work to the contractor without further delay.Sarangal said after the intervention of the CM, the work was allocated to the contractor, who has started the work. The new road would give a major relief to the daily commuters. The Banga -Garhshanker road is of immense importance as it connects to Sri Anandpur Sahib from Garhshankar, added the DC.He said the district administration would ensure quality work so that strengthening and upgradation could be done in a smooth and long-lasting way.XEN PWD Rajinder Kumar said the 9.33 km stretch of road falling in SBS Nagar district would be completed in a record time. An amount of Rs 9.78 crore would be spent on the work and quality standards would be maintained by minute monitoring. He said we have fixed a deadline of May 2022 to complete this work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/banga-garhshankar-road-construction-work-begins-357247
02-01-2022||---||7 children rescued from begging, hawking||Nawanshahar, January 1In order to safeguard the interests and rights of children, the district child protection unit, Nawanshahr, carried out raids in its ongoing drive against child begging and labour at different prominent places such as Geeta Bhawan Chowk, Kothi Road, Lal Chowk.The District Child Protection Officer, Kanchan Arora, said during the raid two women were found indulged in begging, along with their four kids aged between 1 to 2 year old. They were rescued and produced before the Child Welfare Committee where mothers were counselled and strictly warned to not to repeat this again. Further, as children were not of school-going age, so they would be enrolled with anganwadi centres by next week.Apart from that, three more children were found selling cotton candies, socks and some other material. They were also rescued and families were traced thereafter. On being enquired, none of them was found enrolled with any school. Moreover, children were not ready to go to school. All these children and their families were counselled and they agreed to send their children to school.The DCPO said their admission would be done by next week to start their study. All the rescued children except one, who is given to fit person as his parents were not present, were handed over to their families after verification of documents and with orders of the Child Welfare Committee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/7-children-rescued-from-begging-hawking-357248
02-01-2022||---||Senior citizens honoured on New Year||Jalandhar, January 1Employees of the State Bank of India branch on Cool Road, New Jawahar Nagar, celebrated the New Year in a unique by inviting its over 80-year-old senior citizen customers to the branch who have been associated with bank for almost for nearly four decades.On the occasion, senior citizens said they feel proud to be associated with State Bank of India and thanked them for the honour and respect they had given to them today.Branch Manager Pawan Bassi said we organised the programme on the instructions of our Assistant General Manager Pradeep Kumar and it was a great experience to meet our respected senior citizen customers in the programme.He said State Bank of India is fully committed to the convenience of its senior citizen customers and the bank provides them with a wide range of banking facilities specially designed for them.The programme was attended by Manjit Kaur, Inderjit Kaur Walia, Santosh Devi, Mahavir Singh, Naranjan Das Sood, and Narinder Kumar, Sukhwinder Kaur and among others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/senior-citizens-honoured-on-new-year-357249
02-01-2022||Jalandhar||Jalandhar city welcomes 12 babies on New Year eve||On the eve of New Year, 12 babies were born at the Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS), Jalandhar, which indeed was a great moment for 12 families and equally for institute. Head of Department Dr HK Cheema said all the babies and mothers are in good health and none of baby required NICU facility. Dr Shail Kaur, professor of Department of OBG, said congratulated the doctors. Amit Singh, a resident, announced a shagun money of 501 for all babies.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/city-welcomes-12-babies-on-new-year-eve-357250
02-01-2022||Jalandhar||Protesters burn govt effigy||Members of the B.ED TET Pass Union on Saturday organised a march from the Jalandhar bus stand to the residence of Education Minister Pargat Singh and also burnt effigy of the government to mark their protest.The major demand of teachers were the advertisements and subsequent appointments on 9,000 posts primarily for posts of Hindi, Punjabi and SST teachers.State president of the union Sukhwinder Singh Dhilwan said despite repeated assurances, the government had left them high and dry. The ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar’ promise of the state government remained unaddressed, they said. They warned to intensify their stir, if the government refuses to address their demands. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/protesters-burn-govt-effigy-357251
02-01-2022||Jalandhar||59 Safai sewaks get job letters||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/59-safai-sewaks-get-job-letters-357253
