03-01-2022||Hoshiarpur||Three duped of Rs 8.55 lakh, 5 booked||Two booked for abetting suicideHoshiarpur: A woman after being allegedly harassed by her daughter-in-law and her mother ended her life by consuming poison here on Saturday. On the complaint of the victim’s husband, Hajipur police have registered a case against a mother-daughter duo for abetting suicide. Satwinder Singh, a resident of Kolian village, lodged a complaint with the police that he worked as a driver and had gone to Ludhiana. He was informed by his neighbour that his daughter-in-law Manjeet Kaur along with her mother Gurmeet was quarrelling with his wife Kashmir Kaur. His wife consumed some poisonous substance. She was rushed to a hospital where she died. OC45 organisations to support SSMJalandhar: As many as 45 key organisations on Sunday announced support to the Samyukta Samaaj Morcha (SSM) formed by farmer outfits. During a gathering held at the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Hall here, prominent leaders said the party had been formed to provide a political alternative to the people of the state. Leader Kulwant Singh Sandhu said prominent Haryana farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni would also join it. TNSLiquor seized, smuggler heldHoshiarpur: Garhdiwala police arrested a smuggler and recovered 18,750 ml of liquor from him here on Saturday. The accused has been identified as Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopi, a resident of Dhoot Kalan. He has been booked under relevant sections of the Excise Act. OCOne booked on cheating chargeHoshiarpur: A person has been booked by the Garhshankar police station for cheating. Mehnga Singh, a resident of Dhanaula Mandi village in Barnala district, had lodged a complaint with the police that Kuljeet Singh, a resident of Ring Road, Bajwara, had made an agreement with him to sell a piece of land, but did not get the registry done. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-duped-of-8-55l-5-booked-357579
03-01-2022||Sanjiv Bakshi||Woman, paramour 'strangle' NRI husband's parents in Tanda village||Hoshiarpur, January 2In a shocking incident, a woman, whose husband lives abroad, allegedly killed her father-in-law and mother-in-law, residents of Jaja village in Tanda sub-tehsil, and set their bodies on fire in the village on Saturday night. The woman allegedly strangulated and stabbed them with the help of her ‘paramour’ who is said to be a granthi at a gurdwara in Data village.The woman tried to paint the matter as robbery and murder, but during the police investigation and as per circumstantial evidence, the matter was exposed. The police have arrested the woman and the granthi after registering a case of murder against them. Her husband, Ravinder, settled in Portugal soon after his marriage, said he even warned Mandeep against her affair, but she ignored it and kept threatening to kill his parents.The accused woman had got annoyed with her in-laws for creating a hurdle in her extramarital affair with the granthi. The woman tried to paint the matter as robbery and murder, but during the police investigation and circumstantial evidence, the matter was exposed. The police have arrested the woman and the granthi after registering a case of murder against them.According to information, around 11.15 pm on January 1, Tanda police received information that an elderly couple were murdered in their own house at Jaja village and their bodies were set on fire.DSP Raj Kumar along with Tanda police station SHO Surjit Singh rushed to their house and found the flames in the bedroom of Subedar Manjit Singh (56) (retd) and his wife Gurmeet Kaur (52) and their bodies were badly burnt. At that time, Ravinder Singh, son of the victim, and his wife Mandeep Kaur were present in the house.According to the DSP, the victim’s son Ravinder Singh told him that he lived in Portugal and had come to his house these days. On January 1, he left the house around 11 in the morning and returned around 10.15pm. When he returned the door of the house was locked from inside and he somehow entered the house by jumping over the wall and found that the door in the lobby of the house was locked from inside and smoke was visible inside.He broke open the door inside and saw that his wife Mandeep Kaur was tied to a chair with a cloth in the room, but as soon as she touched the cloth to open it, the cloth worked itself loose. Then he went to his parents’ room and saw that the door of his parents’ room was closed. When he opened the door, he saw that there was a fire burning inside and the bodies of his parents were in flames.When he asked Mandeep, she told him that around 4 pm, three persons entered the house and tied her to a chair in her room and closed the door. She said the threesome ignited the fire.Ravinder said he settled in Portugal soon after his marriage. After a few days while living there, he got to know that his wife talked daily to some unidentified person late at night on the phone for hours. Ravinder even warned Mandeep against her affair, but she just ignored it. They even had several disputes over the matter. Ravinder said Mandeep kept threatening to kill his parents and due to this warning, he came to India on December 7 last year.According to the DSP, it came to light that one door of the bathroom attached to Mandeep’s room opens in the bedroom and the other in the lobby, both of which were not latched. In this regard, an in-depth investigation was done and the circumstantial evidence did not match with the story told by her.Keeping in view the sensitivity of the case, Hoshiarpur SSP Kulwant Singh Heer formed a team, headed by SP (Hqs) Ashwini Kumar, including DSP (D) Sarabjit Rai, Inspector Balwinder Pal and Inspector Karnail, and ordered a thorough investigation. The team along with Tanda SHO SI Surjit Singh went to the spot and investigated and solved the murder case in a few hours.According to the DSP, during investigation it came to light that Jasmeet Singh, who was originally a resident of Sanghar village in Amritsar, worked as a granthi in a gurdwara of Data village, had a love affair with Mandeep. Mandeep used to consider her mother-in-law and father-in-law as an obstacle in the way of her affair. Therefore, after her husband left house at 11am, she called her lover to home and both killed them and then set the dead bodies on fire so as to destroy the evidence. After the incident, both of them stole jewellery from the house, with Jasmeet took along with him and the police had recovered it from him.The DSP said after registering a case for murder, destruction of evidence and theft, both the accused had been arrested. He said Mandeep Kaur admitted that on November 23, she had stolen about 150 gm of gold along with her lover Jasmeet from her maternal home at Doburji village. A case has been registered in this regard at the Tanda police station.The DSP said the knife used in the incident, a motorcycle and gold bangles, chains with locket, chain with locket, gold rings, diamond rings, earrings, diamonds tops and Rs 45,000 had been recovered from the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-paramour-strangle-nri-husbands-parents-in-tanda-village-357539
03-01-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||Jalandhar Central: 10 councillors want Rajinder Beri's replacement with Jagdish Raja||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 2At least 10 municipal corporation councillors have come out against sitting Jalandhar Central Congress MLA Rajinder Beri and demanded that his candidature be replaced by Mayor Jagdish Raja.There are 22 wards in the Jalandhar Central constituency of which 19 are represented by the Congress in the present MC House. Of the 19, Jasleen Sethi, who is also the District Women Congress chief, is also seeking a ticket from the party for the seat. Of the remaining 18, one ward is represented by Beri’s wife Uma Beri.There are some fence-sitters who have not come out openly in support of either of the two, but among those who intend to carry forward the campaign in favour of Mayor Raja include his wife Anita Raja, Vipan Chadha, Gurwinder Bunty Neelkanth, Manmohan Raju, Mandeep Jassal, Jagdish Gag and Bimla Rani Dakoha. The councillors said Neelam Kumari too is with them, but she could not join today due to being out of city.Councillors Pawan Kumar and Tarsem Lakhotra, who represent Jalandhar Cantt and Jalandhar West constituencies, respectively, have also come out in support of Raja. Notably, DCC working president Vijay Dakoha too has raised a voice against Beri. The councillors said in the coming days they would surely meet senior party leaders in Chandigarh to discuss the matter.Interestingly, it was Beri who had taken up the cudgels to get Raja elected as the Mayor in 2018, but now the latter has turned the tides against once his more supportive MLA. The 10 councillors hadreportedly been annoyed with Beri for the last over two and a half months over development works in their areas and Raja had been insisting for a meeting with them.Even today as the councillors raised the issue against Beri, Mayor Raja was with them. Jagdish Raja said, “I am with my councillors. I will do whatever they ask me to do.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/10-councillors-want-beris-replacement-with-jagdish-raja-357540
03-01-2022||Avneet Kaur||Jalandhar’s 'golden girl' Mallika Handa takes to Twitter, vents anger against Pargat Singh||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 2Jalandhar’s golden girl in chess Mallika Handa (26), who won several medals in national and international championships, took to Twitter on Sunday to vent her anger against state Education and Sports Minister Pargat Singh. Mallika’s achievementsMallika, who is suffering from 90 per cent hearing disability and speech impairment, posted a short video clip and a snapshot of an email which she had sent to Rahul Gandhi, CM Charanjit Singh Channi and PPCC president Navjot Sidhu on her Twitter handle.The seven-time national deaf chess champion, Handa who was visibly upset, displayed the several medals and trophies she had earned for the country and asked Why is the Punjab Government being so unfair to her?She tweeted: “On December 31, I met Sports Minister Pargat Singh and he said the Punjab government has no policy to give government jobs or cash rewards to deaf sportspersons.”Narrating her ordeal, she wrote: “The former sports minister had announced a cash prize for me, I have the invitation letter for the event but unfortunately I didn’t receive the reward as the event was cancelled due to covid.”She said she was surprised and shocked at the same time when the now Sports Minister said they have no policy for deaf sports. She asked why it was announced earlier.In a telephonic conversation with The Tribune, Renu Handa, mother of Mallika, said if there was no such policy in the first place, then how the former sports minister announced reward for Mallika.She said despite the fact that her daughter had won the national deaf championship title for the seventh time in a row and brought medals in international championships too, her efforts and hard work never got recognised by the state government.She further added that her daughter is getting into depression; she wants to quit the game due to the government’s apathy.Despite repeated attempts, Sports Minister Pargat Singh could not be contacted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/golden-girl-takes-to-twitter-vents-anger-against-pargat-357541
03-01-2022||---||Jalandhar: Vax drive for 15-18 yr group begins today; over 1 lakh eligible to get jab||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 2In view of the Special Vaccination Drive to be launched from Monday, decks have been cleared by the District Administration to facilitate nearly 1.10 lakh beneficiaries between 15 to 18 years of age during the drive. Key pointsWhile holding a meeting with the officers of Health Department on Sunday evening, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said Covaxin would be administered to the children between the age group of 15 to 18 years, for which administration had selected four sites. These doses will be given at ESI Dispensary No. 1 & 3, Shri Mahavir Jain School, Vijay Nagar (Shakti Nagar), Urban Primary Health Centre, Garha and Maqsudan. Thori said all SMOs had already been directed to ensure adequate arrangements at block-level for smooth conduct of the vaccination drive. He said any eligible beneficiary could get the jab at the session sites with on the spot registration by furnishing Aadhaar card and other photo ID cards as proof.The Deputy Commissioner also said the booster dose would also be given in the district from January 10. It will be administered to the poll staff, health & frontline workers and patients with co-morbidities above 60 years age.In the larger public interest and health safety of children, the DC urged the people to get their wards vaccinated. He said timely vaccination and adhering to appropriate health behaviour could contain the further spread of virus so that parents should also motivate the children for getting Covid vaccine.Earlier, participating in the virtual meeting presided over by Chief Secretary Anirudh Tiwari, the Deputy Commissioner said in the meeting that as many as 6,000 doses were being administered in the district per day till now. He said 93 per cent eligible beneficiaries had received the first dose while 61 per cent had received their second dose so far.Additional Deputy Commissioner (D) Jaspreet Singh, ADC (UD) Himanshu Jain and others were also present in the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vax-drive-for-15-18-yr-group-begins-today-over-1-lakh-eligible-to-get-jab-357542
03-01-2022||---||Steady rise: 42 fresh cases reported in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 2In a steady rise in Covid cases, the district recorded a whopping 42 cases of Covid in the highest single day hike after the second wave. On January 1, as many as 34 cases of Covid were reported in the district. The district Covid tally in Jalandhar reached 63,722 on Sunday.At least five micro-containment and containment zones have been declared in the district with the spike in the Covid cases. Micro containment zones have been declared in New Jawahar Nagar, New Jwala Nagar (Maqsundan), Gujral Nagar and Badshahpur and containment zone has been declared in Saraswati Vihar in Jalandhar after Covid cases began peaking.While micro containment zones have two or more cases positive, containment zones have five or more cases positive.A doctor from the Apra PHC tested positive for Covid on Saturday. Those testing positive today include residents from Shikhan Bazar, Urban Estate Phase 2, Mithapur, Military Hospital (three cases), Lajpat Nagar, Hardyal Colony, Shahkot, Moti Bagh among others areas.As many as 62,080 persons have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar have reached 141 today. With no new death reported from Covid today, the deceased tally in Jalandhar remained at 1,501. Of the 19,00,659 samples collected in the district so far, 17,64,252 samples have tested negative.K’thala logs 1 caseKapurthala district today reported one new case of Covid on Sunday. The district tally reached 17,932. Meanwhile, no new death was reported in Kapurthala. The deceased tally at Kapurthala remains 556.1 death in HoshiarpurThe district reported seven new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the total number of positive cases found so far to 31,047. Of the total cases, 28,944 were reported from the district and 2,103 cases were recorded from other district. Civil Surgeon Dr Parminder Kaur said a 75-year-old female patient from Anmol Nagar locality in the city has died of Covid at her home. The toll now stands 998, she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/steady-rise-42-fresh-cases-reported-in-jalandhar-district-357543
03-01-2022||No substitute to offline studies||Open House:  Should the Punjab Government allow opening of schools and colleges after the winter vacation?||I study In Class XII at Apeejay School, Rama Mandi. The government should allow opening of schools after winter vacation because the online mode cannot replace offline studying. Offline studying, peer-to-peer learning is the best way to get education. Children have been impacted greatly by the closure of schools for more than one and a half years and are only now seeing some normalcy so I don’t think schools should be closed now. For higher classes, school years are really precious and important and getting online study in these years will not properly help. However, if the Omicron variant is really dangerous, this decision can be taken for everyone’s safety but if it is not much dangerous than offline schooling should continue functioning with stricter Covid-19 protocols in place.Rimplepreet Kaur PataraClosing schools again can be disastrousSuccessive Covid-19 waves have haunted the people. The new variant Omicorn is a matter of concern, the public health experts and scientists are working hard to gauge it. Closing schools and colleges should be the last option as it would be disastrous for children. Constant closing and opening of schools and colleges had an effect on mental health of children. If the schools and colleges are closed, children are deprived of opportunities of growth and development. They don’t get free meal provided at school. Tough time for teachers who are also feeling confused to make connections with the students and over burden for parents who are not very literate and cope with their children. School and colleges should be closed but what about the election rallies where a huge number of people gather and there is a high risk of infection. Being fully vaccinated, practicing social distancing, wearing masks, hand washing and sanitising to keep the transmission of disease lower, should be a regular practice.SHASHI KIRANStep up vaccination for studentsUnder the prevailing scenario, the safety is paramount but educational institutions cannot be closed indefinitely in the interest of overall development of students. However, as safeguard measures, inoculation drive has to given top priority among students. Amid strict compliance of Covid norms, all the teachers and taught be jabbed as a prerequisite to resume physical classes at schools and colleges. More so, in the wake of the 3rd wave of pandemic by experts and epidemiologists, our earnest attention should be focussed on expeditious vaccination of everyone, including children as the vaccine has been tested to be safe among lower age groups, as well. Further, hygiene and avoiding undue social mixing must be ensured. All along, saving human lives is our prime objective while efforts be continued to bring back normalcy in routine curriculum!Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathCan’t take the new variant lightlyDuring the outbreak of the deadly Covid wave, lockdown and stringent protocols were enforced to save the human lives. Various businesses and industrial enterprises had to face the ordeal. Academic curriculum was badly affected as the schools and colleges were also shut to prevent contagion amongst students. Consequently, the classroom studies suffered a lot and the only online teaching, to the extent possible, was carried as a stop-gap arrangement. Later, as the situation improved, educational institutions were allowed to open on the strict compliance of Covid-19 norms. Now, as the schools are to reopen after the ongoing winter vacations, a recent spurt in cases has caused serious compulsions once again. While the virulent Delta variant is still prevalent, emergence of a fast spreading new variant Omicron (B 1.1.529) across many countries of the world cannot be taken lightly. It has appeared in our country too and there is a surge in its cases in many states.Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathAcclimatise to the new normalAs we know that there has been a sudden surge in the cases of Covid -19 and it’s Omicron variant. There is a risk for the school and college going students. I myself being a school going student feel that the schools should not be closed if the whole staff is vaccinated and also as long as the students follow SMS protocol (Sanitise Mask Social Distancing). Also, learning physically is better than online as they increase the motoring skills of a student which further help in their development. And now for the college students, suppose there is a GATE exam, how would the college students give such a high level exam through an online platform? The students are also technologically advanced and the teachers are sometimes not vigilant enough to catch them. It is us who will make a difference. Children have the maximum immunity among all age groups. Therefore, in the end I would like to say that it is us who have to acclimatise to the current conditions so that everyone stays happy and safe.Sanidhya BhaskarShould revert to online modeOmicron, the latest fastest spreading variant of Covid-19, has already knocked our doors and the state governments have started implementing a slew of measures to contain it. The most vulnerable are the adults who are yet to be vaccinated with both the doses and those non-adults who could not be covered due to the non-availability of vaccines. Given these facts, it is imperative that students who fall under the latter category, are fully protected from the fresh onslaught of deadly virus. It is, therefore, urgently required that all the schools and other educational institutions are kept closed even after the winter vacations are over. Under the present circumstances, there is no other safe alternative available except to close them till the situation warrants review at the later stage. Past experience indicates that the adoption of online modes of education was successful to a great extent and the same can now be considered with lessons learnt over the period. Normal periodical classes can be managed with the enforcement of basic conditions of Covid-appropriate behavior and maintenance of strict discipline at all levels.JAGDISH CHANDERRestrictions should be back in placeIn the wake of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the emergence of its new Omicron variant has sparked fresh concerns. While the Centre has directed states to improve testing and vaccination, many state governments have taken certain measures such as imposing night curfew, keeping an eye on people returning from high-risk countries, banning entry to crowded and congested public places, and so on. Likewise, our educationists, academicians and policymakers are confronted with the predicament of opening schools and colleges. But a majority of parents emphasise the need to reopen educational institutions as their wards’ study has already suffered too much during the national lockdown and even later. Keeping in view that even the UK government has not ruled out the possibility of shutting schools in the prevailing situation, it will be prudent to act accordingly. A large number of school managements are not properly equipped to follow the mandatory health and safety precautions such as face masking, social and physical distancing, and hand hygiene. There is every possibility that it will increase the vulnerability of children as they are still unvaccinated. Learning lessons from South Africa where hospitalisations among children are increasing, the government should keep the schools shut till the battle against the novel coronavirus is ultimately won.D S KangWho will ensure Compliance in schools?Amid the rising cases of the new Covid variant Omicron, our politicians are adamant to hold rallies and conduct the ensuing state Assembly elections. The Centre is reluctant to impose a new lockdown and shut economic activities, and has asked the state governments to encourage companies and factories to adopt flexible working hours. Many parents favour that schools and colleges should also be fully reopened because the disruption of normal academic schedule during lockdown and the alternative mode of online teaching have not only impacted the study of their wards but also their physical, mental and social development. They fear that this learning loss of the younger generation may prove dangerous and counterproductive to the development of the country. They also want that the administration and school authorities should follow the standard precautions and the local administration should tighten epidemic prevention and control measures. They concur with the opinion of scientists and medical experts that children have natural immunity. Moreover, even the Prime Minister has given a nod to booster dose and vaccine for children. So far, so good. But the question is: will the school administration be able to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour in the campus? The answer lies in the fact that many students caught the deadly infection when the schools were reopened after the lockdown. It should not be overlooked that the virus has not yet been eradicated despite multiple administrative efforts. Who can deny that the safety of students is more important than their academic pursuits? Therefore, the government should desist from permitting schools and colleges to reopen after the winter break.Simran & Tajpreet S KangAdhere to the protocol strictly‘Prevention is better than cure’. The night curfew has been imposed in various districts / States from 11 pm to 5 am. In the Western countries, Omicron is increasing day by day. These countries are strictly vaccinating their residents with the booster dose and even world’s renowned Pfizer Company USA has manufactured its medicine as a cure to Omicron. Our Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced vaccination for the youth below 18 years of age and similarly a booster dose from January 10 onwards for those above 60 years. The question arises whether schools, colleges should be opened after winter vacations. The administration knows better and can decide at length about how dangerous the new variant is. Can it be more be dangerous for people who have been vaccinated? The government should once again strictly advise the masses to adopt and order protocol for the prevention from Omicron by using sanitisers, wearing masks, keeping social distancing and strictly following restrictions to stay safe from the new variant.RAJAT KUMAR MOHINDRUOpen schools after winter endsIt’s time for winter break in schools. Covid-19 and Omicron are spreading their tentacles all around the world. So, the schools should not be opened even after the winter break as children are more susceptible to infections than adults. The immunity of the children to virus is less active and effective than the adult population. During these times of crisis, life is more important than education. The viruses are very active during the winter months. It is reminiscent of the flu which caused millions of deaths worldwide in the early twentieth century. When the virus abates or subsides, the schools can be opened again. Till then, the only solution is online classes. Previously also, during the pandemic earlier in this year, the schools were closed and only online classes were being implemented. Parents of the students would also agree and give their consent for the same.Dr JS WadhwaQUESTIONThe recent bomb blast at the District Courts Complex in Ludhiana has raised concern over public safety. With the Assembly poll just round the corner, maintaining law and order has become a major issue again. What should be done to avert such terror strikes and ensure safety and security of the public at large?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (January 6)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/open-house-should-the-state-government-allow-opening-of-schools-and-colleges-after-the-winter-vacation-357546
03-01-2022||---||Foundation stones of projects laid in Phillaur||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 2Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary and former Punjab Youth Congress president and Phillaur constituency in-charge Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary laid foundation stones of development works worth Rs 47.15 lakh in villages Virk, Paddi Khalsa, Kala, Chachrari and GT Road Gohawar on Sunday.These projects, to be completed under the Punjab Nirman Programme, include streets and sewage works and construction of Bhagwan Valmiki Dharamshala at Rs 21 lakh in Virk; construction of SC dharamshala and crematorium at Rs 9 lakh in Paddi Khalsa; installation of gymnasium equipment, repair of janj ghar, construction of roof in school and shed in the crematorium at Rs 7 lakh in Kala; construction of streets in Chachrari at Rs 7 lakh; and installation of wastewater pipeline at GT Road Gohawar at Rs 3.15 lakhs.Addressing several gatherings after laying the foundation stones, MP Santokh Chaudhary said hundreds of development works had been initiated and completed in the villages and towns of the Phillaur assembly constituency.Vikramjit Chaudhary expressed gratitude to Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi for the grants and said that these projects would improve the lives of residents. He further said that the Punjab Government’s mission of building rural infrastructure under the Punjab Nirman Programme was producing stellar results.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/foundation-stones-of-projects-laid-in-phillaur-357547
03-01-2022||---||Navjot Singh Sidhu praises Charanjit Singh Channi as 'efficient' CM, woos Dalits at Phagwara rally||Phagwara, January 2Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, addressing a rally here on Sunday, said Punjab had got a Dalit CM after seven decades and credited his party (Congress) for the same.“The CM is heading the state with remarkable efficiency. In a short span, he has paved the way for an ‘enterprising’ Punjab and kindled hope for equality and justice for all,” Sidhu said.Calling the Congress the champion of the underprivileged, he claimed all other parties had failed to provide any significant benefit to the Dalits. “What has the BJP done for them,” he asked, exhorting the people not to be “misled” by those working for certain corporate houses. Sidhu dubbed the Shiromani Akali Dal, Capt Amarinder Singh and BJP as “different sides of the same coin”. Addressing the rally in favour of Phagwara Congress MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal, he claimed Punjab was now changing. “We are moving towards a new Punjab. We are batting for the welfare of Dalits, education, employment and legal guarantee for MSP.”Amid applause, the Pradesh Congress chief, while attacking BJP’s politics of “divisiveness” and “arm-twisting”, said that this would not work in Punjab, “the land of the Gurus that only knows oneness”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sidhu-praises-channi-as-efficient-cm-woos-dalits-at-phagwara-rally-357450
