04-01-2022||Avneet Kaur||Lockdown-like situation outside Pargat Singh's house in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 3Residents residing in Dashmesh Avenue are at the receiving end as the locality has turned into a protesting ground ever since MLA Pargat Singh was given cabinet berth and education portfolio.In the past few months, various protests have taken place outside his residence here at Dashmesh Avenue resulting in barricading the entire area, specifically the main road leading to the locality. Although the situation was normal in other streets of the colony, street No. 3 was blocked from both sides with barricades.At one side of the street, ETT teachers were holding ‘pucca’ dharna, while on the other side, members of the Government College Guest Faculty Assistant Professors’ Association had put up their tents and trolleys.What protesters say‘No protests in residential areas please’Meanwhile, the entire street wears a deserted look with residents resorting to staying indoors. Even though the police claimed that they open barricades whenever locals have to cross, the area residents said they are forced to park their cars in an empty plot outside the street where vehicles of protesters have been parked.“Every other day there is a protest, the entire area has become a hotspot of politics and we common people are the main sufferers,” said Sandeep Bakshi, who lives in the same locality. He said there used to be political activities earlier too when Pargat Singh was not a minister, but protests, police barricading and among other activities have intensified since he became a minister.Another resident said in November when the members of the Unemployed Physical Training Instructor (PTI) Teachers barged into the minister’s residence and a scuffle took place between the police personnel and teachers, the entire area was sealed restricting commuters’ movement.“These teachers sometimes take out ‘jaago’, beat dhols and raise slogans disturbing the entire locality but who cares. Pargat Singh himself stays in Chandigarh for most of the time and here we residents have been bearing the brunt,” he added. He further said that the situation was no less than a lockdown as they can’t let their kids stay out nor can they invite guests to their homes.Meanwhile, the protesting ETT teachers and guest faculty professors said they have asked the police to remove the barricades as they have decided to protest peacefully. The police said barricades have been placed to ensure security of the minister’s residence besides those residing in the area as in the past some protestors have stormed into the minister’s residence, which caused a huge inconvenience to his aged and ailing parents. Despite repeated attempts to contact Education Minister Pargat Singh for two consecutive days, he was unavailable for comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lockdown-like-situation-outside-pargats-house-358015
04-01-2022||Avneet Kaur||This LLB dropout sells paranthas by roadside to lead a life of dignity||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 3It has been 12 long years since Neha (30) got separated from her husband and decided to live on her own and raise her then three-year-old daughter. She said she was advised to stay with her husband for the sake of her child despite the fact he left her for another woman. But she says she chose her happiness and dignity over an unsatisfying relationship.She said it was a tough decision for her as being a single parent poses some practical challenges, especially when it comes to juggling parenting responsibilities with career. “I wanted to be a lawyer since I was in class X, but being born in a poor and rural family, I was forced to get married at the age of 16,” she said.“I then thought this was the end of my career and dreams, but to my surprise my husband allowed me to complete my studies. It was in 2006, I completed my +2 and in 2007 my daughter was born. It was when my daughter turned two, I got to know my husband was having an extramarital affair. It was then I decided not to succumb to family pressure and rather choose to live independently,” she added.“Even though my family or in-laws refused to support me, I had given a good life to my daughter and I will make sure she fulfils all her dreams,” said Neha, a resident of Gopal Nagar here, who got emotional while talking to The Tribune. Divulging more details about her struggle, she said she worked in a telecom company for over seven or eight years while pursuing her graduation in distance education. She said it was in 2016, she took admission in LLB but as she lost her job due to Covid pandemic, she quit the degree and started this stall by the roadside.“It was my circumstances, not a decision to sell paranthas by the roadside. I have to do something for a living instead of simply sitting home and trying for another job,” she said.She said she started this parantha stall on a table around eight months ago but soon she was able to purchase a food cart. “On Tuesday and Friday, I get good number of customers as on these two days, the number of operations and surgeries are high in the nearby hospital. So drivers and other people visit me to buy food,” she said while adding that from arranging her cart, to chopping to washing utensils, she manages everything on her own.Talking about her future plans, she says, “Once I get a good job, I’ll again take admission in LLB. I want to be a lawyer, so that I can fight for women’s rights and help every woman like me to bring a change in society.”PSWC chief honours Neha, KantaPunjab State Women Commission Chairperson Manisha Gulati on Monday visited two city-based women food hawkers, who have been running food stalls to feed their families.Gulati visited their food stall and handed her over an appreciation letter from the commission. She also assured them of best possible help from the commission with respect to ensuring best education to their kids besides asking administration to help them by allotting a permanent booth in the city. She lauded Neha’s efforts for not losing hope in desperate times as it is really hard for a single parent, especially a woman to survive.Meanwhile, Kanta Chauchan, 33, a resident of Partap Nagar who is running a small food outlet near bus stand, told Gulati that earlier she was working as a bike-taxi rider before losing her job to Covid-19 pandemic. Now she is, with the help of some local women, running this parantha stall to feed her family.After learning Kanta was a bike-taxi rider, Gulati took a ride with her in her two wheeler bike-taxi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-llb-dropout-sells-paranthas-by-roadside-to-lead-a-life-of-dignity-358016
04-01-2022||---||Jalandhar boy is premier of TUXIS Youth Parliament of Alberta||Jalandhar, January 3Simran Ghotra, a city-based student and a long-time member of the TUXIS Youth Parliament of Alberta, has been named its premier for 2022. He was the deputy premier for 2021, his father Satwinder Singh said.Divulging details about this youth parliament, his father said: “The TUXIS Youth Parliament of Alberta is the oldest youth parliament in Canada. The main objective of this Parliament is to impart leadership training to the youth.”He said in the last week of December each year, all its members sit in the Alberta Assembly and present bills on various issues. “This whole week-long process goes on like a real assembly. The age limit for becoming a member of the TUXIS Youth Parliament Alberta is 15 to 21 years,” he added.“Simran will now make sure to bring the issues being discussed at the TUXIS Youth Parliament of Alberta to the Government of Alberta so that the government should know what the youth has opinion on different issues”.He further added that alongside Simran, Sarah Clark was elected as the leader of opposition, Carson Flett as the deputy premier, and Seham Ahmed as the deputy leader of opposition.While Simran Ghotra has a long experience as a volunteer, he is also an active member of the TUXIS Youth Parliament of Alberta. He has also received an honour of Most Supportive Member award for 2021. He is presently pursuing his university graduation in Alberta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/city-boy-is-premier-of-tuxis-youth-parliament-of-alberta-358017
04-01-2022||Our Correspondent||Congress rebels pick Jogindar Pal Shinda as Talwara MC chief, withdraw resignations||Talwara, January 3On Monday, high voltage drama took place in the town over the ongoing controversy after eight Congress councillors rebelled to remove the council president from the post. The eight rebel councillors of Municipal Council, Talwara, not only got one more councillor, Jogindar Pal Shinda from Ward No. 13, added to their faction, but also agreed to install him as the president.All of them also signed a memorandum of understanding to make Shinda the president. Thakur Pritam Singh, president, Block Congress, Talwara, and senior Congress leader Chaudhary Mohan Lal played an important role in arranging the meeting. During the meeting, the said eight councillors also withdrew the resignations given on Friday from the Congress party, to strengthen their faction and make Shinda sit on the president’s chair.The rebel councillors had resigned from the party on Friday. Now, after the agreement on the name of Shinda for the post of president, they wrote a letter on their letter head containing their signatures to withdraw their resignation today. The letter we send to president of Punjab Pradesh Congress Party Navjot Singh Sidhu on WhatsApp. Letters regarding withdrawal of resignations have also been sent to District Hoshiarpur Congress president Kuldeep Nanda and Dasuya Assembly Constituency MLA Arun Dogra. During this, Jogidar Pal Shinda from Ward 13 of Municipal Council, Talwara, Councillor Munish Chadha from Ward No. 4, Councillor Deepak Arora from Ward No 12, Councillor Taranjit Singh from Ward No 6, Councillor Suman Dua from Ward No 7, Councillor Vikas Chandra from Ward No 8, Ward No 10 Councillor Parminder Kaur from Ward No 11, Councillor Shally Anand from Ward No 11 and Councillor Suridar Kaur from Ward No 1, etc. were present.Meanwhile, in a letter issued by Monika Sharma, the president of the Municipal Council, Talwara, an agenda related to the common meeting of the city council Talwara was issued, calling the meeting on December 4 at 12 o’clock in the municipal council office, Talwara. Sharma has urged all members to be present in the meeting on time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/congress-rebels-pick-shinda-as-mc-chief-withdraw-resignations-358018
04-01-2022||Jalandhar||Budding scribes hold photo expo||The Department of Journalism and Mass communication, CT Group of Institutions, organised an open photography exhibition titled “Happy Shuttering”. The theme for the photography was ‘Nature and Expressions’. Each participant submitted five photos on the themes. Niwit Pauly, who is a professional photographer in the industry, was invited as the chief guest for the exhibition. He also educated the one’s present on the occasion about the tips and tricks on how to capture the perfect shot by telling the importance of timing in photography. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/budding-scribes-hold-photo-expo-358019
04-01-2022||---||Will bring policy for deaf athletes: Kalia||Jalandhar, January 3Coming out in support of international chess champion Mallika Handa, who had yesterday taken to Twitter to vent her ire over no policy in Punjab to give cash rewards or jobs to deaf sportspersons, ex-Bharatiya Janata Party minister Manoranjan Kalia on Monday promised her that he would do the needful when his government would come to power.Kalia slammed the Congress government for going out of the way to offer job to the son of ex-CM Beant Singh 26 years after his assassination but not paying attention to the just demands of the specially abled players, who have been bringing honour for the state despite their handicaps.The ex-BJP state president said this issue would be covered in the party’s manifesto. “I earnestly wish to get this policy framed whenever our government comes to power. My attempt will be to reward this young woman with a job offer at the earliest,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/will-bring-policy-for-deaf-athletes-kalia-358020
04-01-2022||---||Irked over support for sitting MLA, ex-Cong minister Joginder Mann slams Navjot Sidhu||Jalandhar, January 3Turning tides against his own government, Chairman of Punjab Agro Industries Corporation and former Punjab Congress minister Joginder Singh Mann today questioned PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu asking if his ‘Punjab model’ patronised corrupt politicians, who have usurped the money meant for welfare of poor and downtrodden.Terming Sidhu as a “self-proclaimed idealist”, Mann said he was surprised as to how he could share stage with a leader whose name is involved in the alleged post-matric scholarship scheme. Mann, who does not seem to be hopeful of getting ticket from the party, seemed to be attacking Phagwara MLA Balwinder Dhaliwal, who was then Principal Secretary of the SC welfare department.He told Sidhu: “I remind that this embezzlement had led to ruining of career of several bright students from SC community. What can be more shameful than this that instead of acting against the perpetrator of this heinous crime, the president of state Congress is promoting such persons.”Further taking on the PPCC chief, Mann alleged that “it reflects on your insensitivity towards the issues pertaining to the SC brethren. This retrogressive step of the state Congress chief has bruised the psyche of every common man, especially those hailing from SC community. Sidhu should apologise from SC community for hurting their sentiments.”He categorically said yesterday’s action of state Congress chief would act as last nail in the coffin of the party as it will be routed out from entire state. He said Sidhu was playing with fire by such actions and SC community would not forgive him for shielding those who have tried to ruin their younger generations. He also said he would raise this matter in front on Congress high command and seek its intervention for checking this irreparable damage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/irked-over-support-for-sitting-mla-ex-cong-minister-mann-slams-sidhu-358021
04-01-2022||---||Sikh doctor donates diamond necklace, gold sword at Takht Sri Harmandir Ji, Patna Sahib||Jalandhar, January 3To mark the 355th birth anniversary of Guru Gobind Singh, Dr Gurwinder Singh Samra, a Sikh devotee, who runs Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital at Kartarpur here, donated a necklace studded with diamonds and rubies, a gold sword, a quilt and a handkerchief made of gold embroidery at Takht Sri Harmandir Sahib in Patna, Bihar, on January 1.The valuables were offered at a special ceremony held in the presence of jathedar of Takht Sri Harmandir Sahib, Patna, Gauhar-e-Maskeen Giani Ranjit Singh, Panj Pyaras and other office-bearers of Takht Sri Harmandir Sahib Parbandhak Committee. Divine magnanimityWhile addressing the gathering at Takht Harmandir Sahib, Giani Ranjit Singh praised Dr Samra for his services and charitable work and mentioned that just 15 days ago, he presented a gold-studded bed to Guru Gobind Singh here at the same place. He also honoured Dr Samra and his son Harmanbir Singh with siropa (robe of honour).Talking to The Tribune, Dr Gurwinder Singh Samra said the necklace presented at the feet of 10th Sikh master, Guru Gobind Singh was studded with 1,300 diamonds, rubies and other precious gems. He said it took the artisans almost a year’s span to prepare the items.When asked about the total cost of the ornaments, he refused to share and hinted it’s all worth crores. Meanwhile, this is not the first time he has donated such items to gurdwara, earlier too, he had presented a ‘kalgi’ worth Rs 1.73 crore to Takht Sri Patna Sahib and another one at the Golden Temple.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sikh-doctor-donates-diamond-necklace-gold-sword-358022
04-01-2022||---||Youth can bring change in society, Meenakshi Lekhi tells Lovely Professional University students||Jalandhar, January 3Union Minister of State for External Affairs and Culture Meenakshi Lekhi on Monday visited the Lovely Professional University campus, where she interacted with the students and the staff members.The occasion was the onset of a series of interactive sessions “Youth Talk” to be addressed by invited guests of importance. Lekhi shared, “When you are young, you have immense energy to bring changes. I personally feel that only youth can bring change in the society, as it brings forth the most productive and creative ideas.”Talking about politics and democracy, she shared that politicians do a lot of hard work for maintaining democracy. She also shared, “Whatever we do should be for the good of everyone in the world. Cooperation is the strength of India, so under its esteemed value system youth should come forward to share, care, and focus on the right doings for all. The actions of our great leaders guide us to make the country glow with the right values. Every small right action of ours can be a great contribution. We must do small right actions jointly to stay connected.”Two-time BJP MP and SC advocate, Lekhi also talked about connectivity in various means, methods and doings to set the things right for right development.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-can-bring-change-in-society-358023
04-01-2022||---||Punjabi writer Gurmit Palahi's book 'Bharat Diary-2021' released in Phagwara||Jalandhar, January 3The 7th book of noted Punjabi writer and columnist Gurmit Palahi titled “Bharat Diary-2021” was recently released by educationist Prof Jaswant Singh Gandam at a function organised by Scape Sahitik Sanstha in Phagwara. The book has been edited by Parwinderjit Singh.Palahi has already written six books, including two books each of short stories and essays, one book of poems and one book on Punjab’s current issues. He has also written hundreds of articles in local, regional, national and international Punjabi newspapers and magazines.In his presidential remarks, Prof Jaswant Singh Gandam, president, Punjabi Virsa Trust, Phagwara, called Palahi a multi-faceted personality, a prolific writer and a seasoned organiser. He quoted Chief Justice of India NV Ramana that ‘healthy democracy could thrive only with a fearless and independent press but news mixed with views is a dangerous cocktail.”He also quoted English poet and critic Mathew Arnold that ‘journalism was literature in a hurry”. Prof Gandam called social media an instant piping hot coffee that is to be served forthwith. ”In this lay both its merits and demerits,” he remarked.Noted writers advocate SL Virdi and Ravinder Chot also spoke about the book. Eminent Punjabi poet Baldev Komal recited his two ghazals, highlighting political, economic, social and human issues. One of his couplets about poll-time promises read “Wadey te wadian di barsaat ho rahi hai /Phir ik kaaley daur di shuruat ho rahi hai (There is a torrential rain of promises after promises/There again is a beginning of a dark era).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjabi-writer-palahis-book-released-358024
04-01-2022||---||23 fresh Covid cases in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, January 3In a spike in Covid cases, the district on Monday reported 23 fresh cases, taking the district tally to 63,745.As many as 62,086 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar have reached 158 today. With no new death reported from Covid today, the deceased tally in Jalandhar remained at 1,501. Of the 19,01,376 samples collected in the district, so far, 17,65,635 samples have tested negative. Five micro-containment and containment zones have been declared in the district with the spike in Covid cases.Kapurthala today reported one new case of Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/23-fresh-covid-cases-in-jalandhar-district-358025
04-01-2022||Aparna Banerji||Tepid response to vax drive for teens in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 3On the first day of the vaccination drive for the 15-18 age group in the district, only a small number of youngsters appeared at the health centres here on Monday. Only 837 individuals in age group of 15 to 18 turned up on the first day of their vaccination drive. The health centres where these drives took place wore almost a deserted look with very few youngsters turning up and staff remaining largely free.Amid the ongoing strike by nursing staff and a host of construction projects at the Civil Hospital, infrastructure has taken a back seat. Staff issued doses till 2 pm after which the drive was suspended immediately.A dingy corner at the ESI Hospital served as the vaccination site for the young beneficiaries. Three girls who turned up at the hospital at 2.30 pm were told that the drive was closed and they were asked to come the next day.Riddhi (16), a school student, said, “The government has asked everyone to take the first vaccine dose by January 15. Covaxin or Covishield, we are not worried about that. It is better to get vaccinated.” Manya (17), a student, said, “We were expecting to see a doctor, but since she had left we will come back later. I haven’t even talked to friends about the vaccine yet. I just want to get jabbed for my own good and primarily because it will allow me to travel freely in the country and the state after January 15.”Unlike the Civil Hospital where a rush of adult people for vaccination could be seen till 3 pm and brawls and heated exchanges with constant entreaties to security personnel to arrange their turn before others in the queue marked the entire day, the ESI Hospital was a picture of traquillity. In the entire day, only 51 youngsters turned up at the hospital.DIO Dr Rakesh Chopra said, “It was a decent first day response to the vaccine drive for the 15-18 age group. It turnout will get better in the coming days. We expect vaccination number to go up. As far as the rush at the Civil Hospital is concerned, the nursing school was earlier reserved as site for giving jabs but is closed due to ongoing exams.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tepid-response-to-vax-drive-for-teens-358026
04-01-2022||Hoshiarpur||20 booked for firing in Tanda||New RPO Sat Pal assumes officeJalandhar: New Regional Passport Officer (RPO) Sat Pal on Monday assumed office at Jalandhar office. After taking charge, Sat Pal said new initiatives would be taken to ensure good, responsive and transparent administration. He also said that the Regional Passport Office caters to needs of applicants from Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Kapurthala, Pathankot, Moga, Gurdaspur, districts and police district Batala adding that every effort would be made to facilitate the people from these districts. He reiterated his commitment to according top priority to issues of people visiting his office through time-bound redressal of their applications. Sat Pal said people could contact him at rpo.jalandhar@mea.gov.in or could contact on 0181-2242114 or 0181-2242115 for their works. TNSYouth dies in road accidentHoshiarpur: A youth was killed in a road accident on Sunday. Bullowal police have registered a case and started further investigation. Varinder Singh, a resident of Ambala Jattan village, told the police that he was going to Phambiyan village, along with his brother Harpal Singh, to meet his in-laws. When he reached near Khadiala Sainian village, a canter hit them. His brother was seriously injured in the accident and was admitted to Government Hospital, Hoshiarpur, but he died during the treatment. OCRobbers target 2 petrol pumpsGarhshankar: On Sunday night, three youths in a car opened fire on the guards of the petrol pump of Garhshankar and looted Rs2,000. The Garhshankar police reached the spot and started the search for the robbers. Rohit Kumar, a resident of Dehra Lakh, Aurangabad, UP told the police that he works at Jagdish filling station. On Sunday, at around 7.30 pm, a white-coloured Etios car, with three persons on board the vehicle, demanded money from him. He said they snatched Rs2,000 from him. The Garhshankar police have registered a case. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/20-booked-for-firing-in-tanda-358030
04-01-2022||Jalandhar||Students of St Soldier, Jalandhar, pray for 'peaceful year 2022'||Annual Day celebratedApeejay School, Mahavir Marg, celebrated its 53rd Annual Function. Chief Guest Mohinder Singh Kaypee, Chairman, Punjab State Board of Technical Education and Industrial Training and guest of honour Rajeev Kumar Verma, Additional Chief Administrator, PUDA, Jalandhar, graced the occasion with their presence. Sushma Paul Berlia, Chairperson, Apeejay Education, co-promoter and president, Apeejay Stya and Svran Group, Co-founder and Chancellor, Apeejay Stya University, virtually addressed the gathering. The event centred around the theme ‘Manthan - the journey within’. The celebration witnessed the theatrical performances in English and Hindi, based on the theme of the day. English play titled ‘Through the Looking Glass’ conveyed the message to appreciate and accept who we are. Hindi play titled ‘Manthan’ focused on the need to introspect for peaceful living. Highlight of the event was the felicitation of achievers in various fields.Poster-making CompetitionTo showcase the creative talent of the students, ‘poster-making competition’ was organised by PG Dept of Computer Science and IT. Students made posters on different topics such as ‘Social Media’, ‘Cyber Security’, ‘Unity in Diversity’ and Our Voter Our Right’. In ‘Social Media’ category, Mansi of BCA Semester III got first prize and Komal of BCA Semester V got consolation prize. Similarly in ‘Cyber Security’ category, Roshni of B.Voc Semester I won first prize and Chandni of BCA Semester V got consolation prize. Pallavi of BCA Semester V bagged first prize and Tanvi of BCA Semester III got consolation prize in ‘Unity in Diviersity’ category. Harjit of BCA Semester III bagged first prize and Esha of B.VoC Semester I got consolation prize in ‘Our Vote our Right ‘category. The members of the Managing Committee and the Principal Pooja Prashar felicitated students for their participation.Engineering Students get placedNTF Group visited GNA University’s Faculty of Engineering Design and Automation, Phagwara, hunting talented Design Engineers. The company selected 15 students for technical and HR finals from the walk-in pool whose interview rounds. Satyender Yadav, AGM HR and Administration, and Pritpal Parkash, AGM Design of the NTF Group, interacted with the candidates to test their CAD/CAM/CAE and FDM knowledge. Satyender Yadav discussed with GurdeepSihra, CEO, GNA Gears Ltd-cum-Pro-Chancellor, GNA University, about taking collaborated initiative to explore skilled manpower which is demand of modern automotive industries, styling and product designing and digital manufacturing. Yadav also interacted with the students of MBA and added that principal philosophy is “Design is inevitable”.Prathibha tops with 89% marksM.Sc Bioinformatics Semester IV students of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya got top positions in Guru Nanak Dev University. Pratibha Saini got the first Position with 89 per cent marks. Arvinpreet Kaur got second position with 85.7 per cent marks and Akarshita Thakur got third position with 83.7 per cent marks. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated students, HOD Dr Hapreet Singh and Purnima Sharma.New Year event for hostel inmatesKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised a special programme on the occasion of New Year in KMV hostel. On the occasion, Principal Atima Sharma Dwivedi addressed students. She wished everyone a Happy New Year 2022 and with her inspirational words told the students to set a positive purpose in life and to strive continuously to achieve their objective. Along with this, she also blessed the students to establish new dimensions of success in life with hard work and dedication. Apart from this, on this occasion, students danced and sang a lot and wished everyone Happy New Year. Hostel warden Paramjit Kaur along with all the staff members were also present on this occasion. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/message-for-peaceful-year-358032
