05-01-2022||Avneet Kaur||Covid-19 restrictions return: 2022 going the way of 2020?||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 4Even though we are yet to recover from the devastating impacts of Covid-19 lockdowns imposed during the first and second wave, there is already a third wave knocking at the door. As the Covid curbs announced on Tuesday have once again led to the closure of schools, colleges, gym and stadia, those at the receiving end are gym owners and college students. Streets wear a deserted lookCovid curbsWhat about political rallies, ask residentsAs per information, the colleges are yet to hold semester exams and were already lying shut for over a month owing to the strike of PFUCTO (Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers Organisation). Now, with fresh curbs, the students say that they stare at a bleak future as they have no information about when the exams will be held.The gym owners say they haven’t really come out of the financial crunch caused due to Covid-19 restrictions last year and now again the government had announced closure. On the other hand, the hoteliers and club management also fear that their businesses will suffer losses in the coming weeks due to 50% capacity condition.Students stressed about college, their futures“It’s been over a year and a half since we haven’t attended classes on the campus. No one knows when Covid will subside. There are many risks and dangers, but life doesn’t stop. The government before announcing closure of colleges must hand over a plan to the college and university authorities about the unfinished semester and how they will conduct the exams. We cannot simply sit at home and wait,” said Sanskriti, a mass communication student at LPU.When asked about semester exams and teachers strike, Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra, Principal, Lyallpur Khalsa College, said: “We had come a long way and at this point we can’t call off our protest as implementation of the 7th Pay Commission in the state is both about teachers rights and students future”. About the semester exam, Dr Samra said: “If the situation doesn’t improve then the government must form a high-level committee and pass orders allowing universities and colleges to take the exam before March via online or offline mode.”Meanwhile, parents were happy with the decision of closing the schools amid Omicron scare. They said life is more important than materialistic sources of the world, so exposing students to deadly diseases is foolishness.Rachna Monga, Principal, Sanskriti KMV School, said: “Schools were already closed till 10th for winter vacation. Although there’s nothing to worry as we are all prepared for online mode with better infrastructure and tools in hand. And if the government allows offline classes, we’ll prioritise students’ health and follow the guidelines strictly besides making vaccination mandatory for 15-18 age group”.What small business owners, hoteliers sayAs the state may face the possibility of shifting to stricter restrictions or even lockdown, if the situation doesn’t improve, the restaurant owners and small businessmen apprehend another wave of layoffs and losses.Ashwani Sharma, Executive Housekeeper at Ramada, said: “The government along with curbs or lockdowns must announce relief packages for the businessmen as shifting to 50% capacity or closing the hotel isn’t so easy.” He said since the curbs were announced in the morning, no customers had paid a visit and if it continues this way, the staff at the workplaces will suffer the most.”Another Kamlesh Kumar, owner of a sanitary shop said: “We have seen a lot in the past due to lockdown. The government was of no help, it was we who bore the brunt of no income. So, the government must be prepared this time, so do the people that such a situation may not arise again”.‘No gym, no vote’The gym owners said like last year, this time too the government had permitted all businesses, including liquor vends to function but gyms were not allowed to function even with restrictions. “Why doesn’t the government understand that we have to pay rent of our premises, salaries to employees, power tariff, maintenance cost of machineries and other unseen expenditures, besides we have to feed our families too. If other businesses can operate with restrictions, then why not gyms,” said Harvinder Singh of Power X Gym situated in Maqsudan.The gym owners have also started circulating the messages and graphics saying ‘no gym, no vote’ to lodge their protest. A banner of Udaan Gym reads: “With closure of fitness classes and gyms, the government is stopping the population from remaining fit and healthy. Opening of fitness institutions pulls people towards making their immune system stronger and making everyone able to fight any deadly viruses, hence ‘We support gyms’ and if no gym then no vote.Meanwhile, as per government orders, “the Raizada Hansraj Badminton Stadium will remain closed from January 4 to January 15. Only players preparing for national/international tournaments were allowed to play that too after taking prior permission from the interim committee, DBA,” said Ritin Khanna, Member Secretary, District Badminton Association, Jalandhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2022-going-the-way-of-2020-358320
05-01-2022||---||No social distancing, no mask: When Punjab CM flouted Covid norms||Phagwara, January 4On a day when the state government announced Covid curbs yet again and made wearing of masks and maintaining of social distance mandatory, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit S Channi came out to be the biggest offender.As he turned up at Lovely Professional University today, he chose not to wear any mask. He even openly flouted the Covid norms as he entered a congested students’ gallery at the function held to mark the announcement of an employment guarantee scheme.While the students were standing close together, he too entered their arena and gave two hoots to the social distancing norms. Even as all entire security personnel were wearing a mask, he put them too at a risk. Without using sanitiser even once, he even took mobile phones of students in his hand and passed them back after clicking selfies with them.All this happened at a time when the entire region is once again getting into the grip of pandemic. The threat of spread of Omicron is already looming large. Of the nearly 8000-10,000 students and staff at the campus who were attending the show today, majority were without any masks. The LPU officials said since their campus had not opened yet owing to winter break, their students were outnumbered by those from the adjoining ITIs and polytechnic institutes.Most LPU staffers and government officials attending the function were wearing masks, but the politicians who accompanied the CM seemed to be considering themselves too immune to any virus threat. Minister Rana Gurjeet Singh, MLAs Raj Kumar Chabbewal, Sushil Rinku, Balwinder Dhaliwal and Rajinder Beri, and ex-minister Joginder Mann were seen openly violating the Covid norms which have become mandatory for the commoners in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-social-distancing-no-mask-when-cm-flouted-covid-norms-358322
05-01-2022||---||Rain ends prolonged dry spell, mercury dips in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, January 4A prolonged dry spell which had been prevailing for nearly two months came to an end with rain lashing the city on Tuesday. The first rain of the winter season brought down the mercury. The day temperature was recorded at 15°C as the sun did not shine. The rain, which started early this morning, was on till evening.Christmas and New Year did not witness very cold weather. Residents kept enjoying the sunshine till this Sunday and the skies were overcast with clouds on Monday. The weatherman has forecast rain for next five days after which the night temperature too is likely to fall sharply. Agricultural experts said that the rainfall at this time of the year would be good for the wheat crop.The stalls of tea, soup, coffee and egg rolls in the city drew a huge rush. Several jhuggi dwellers were seen scrambling around. The kioks selling roasted groundnut also had more buyers today. Fire lit up outside their shanties in the evening.“The dry weather is not good for health. People faced health problems like viral cough, cold and fever in the last few weeks. The rain would also provide relief from such mild diseases,” said Sandeep Singh, a resident of the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rain-ends-prolonged-dry-spell-mercury-dips-in-city-358323
05-01-2022||---||Little boy sets world record for  fastest recitation of periodic table||Tribune News ServiceHoshiarpur, January 4A six-and-a-half-year-old boy from Hoshiarpur has brought laurels to the city by setting a world record for reciting all elements of Mendeleev’s periodic table in seriatum of their atomic numbers in a record time of 1 minute and 13 seconds.With this distinguished feat, Devadyuman also became the youngest record holder to have orally recited full periodic table in record time. After official confirmation from the World Genius Records, Devadyuman was awarded Record Confirmation certificate, World Genius Records trophy, badge, medal and a certificate.Talking to The Tribune, Rashmi Sharma, mother of Devadyuman, who is posted as a Additional District & Sessions Judge at Ludhiana, said, the periodic table was one of the most important tools in the history of chemistry as it describes the properties & atomic structure of all the elements known to mankind.She said it was during lockdown that his son got inclined towards reciting periodic table. She said Devadyuman had also registered his name in the India Book of Record for having recited the names of the capitals of all countries of the world in a record time of 2 min 19 seconds.Besides, Devadyuman was also the winner of India Star Icon Kids Achievers Award 2021 & was conferred with the Pratibha Samman Baal Rattan Award for extraordinary academic and cultural excellence, she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/little-boy-sets-world-record-for-fastest-recitation-of-periodic-table-358324
05-01-2022||Our Correspondent||Rs 4.11 lakh looted from finance company in Phagwara||Phagwara, January 4Two unidentified bike-borne robbers looted a finance company office in Dhyan Singh Colony in Phagwara in the wee hours on Tuesday. The robbers entered the office of the Finance Company and looted millions of rupees. SHO of Satnampura Police Station Harjit Singh said office manager Sukhdev Singh and another employee Parvesh Kumar and a woman Sunita Rani and her daughter were present on the occasion while the rest of the staff had gone out.The robbers threatened Sunita Rani, grabbed one of the keys to the safe, aimed pistol at the temple to get the other keys, took the keys and made off with cash worth Rs4.11 lakh. The incident was reported to the police. SP Phagwara Harinderpal Singh, DSP Ashru Ram Sharma, SHO Harjit Singh, CIA staff in-charge Sikander Singh rushed to the spot and inspected the spot and registered a case under Section 392 of the IPC and started investigation. The robbers are said to have been captured on the CCTV. The police are investigating the matter on various angles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-11l-looted-from-finance-company-358326
05-01-2022||---||1.3 lakh eligible to get precaution dose in Nawanshahr, says DC||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, January 4Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal said on Tuesday around 1.3 lakh persons, including healthcare and frontline workers, citizens with the age 60 years or above with co-morbidities and all personnel deployed for election duty would be administrated booster dose from January 10 in the district.As per the details of health department, 4,779 healthcare workers, 26,681 frontline workers, 94,914 (above 60) and 4,000 poll staff are eligible for the precaution dose.Reviewing the preparedness for the booster dose drive, Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal said that as per instructions of governments, this precaution dose would be given to all those those healthcare and frontline workers, citizen above 60 years and poll staff who have received both the doses.He said there must be a nine-month gap between the second and booster dose and all those in this entitled category would be eligible for the precaution dose only if they had taken the second dose on or before April 10, 2021.Sarangal said the district administration had already stepped-up its efforts to contain any situation arising from the new variant of Covid-19 pandemic. Deputy Commissioner said the district administration would leave no stone unturned to serve people in any kind of exigency.He said directions have been issued to reactivate the district control room, besides contact tracing, home isolation surveillance teams and a monitoring committee to ensure the follow up of the international travellers as per Covid protocols, including mandatory testing, home quarantine in the district.Deputy Commissioner asked the people to strict follow safety precautions that include wearing masks, maintaining social distancing, washing hands, and others.Sarangal solicited wholehearted support of people and asked them to not to hesitate and report to the doctors immediately if they experience any kind of flu-like symptoms. He appealed the people to remain vigilant and follow the health safety protocols meticulously especially masking, two-yard physical distancing and hand hygiene.Civil Hospital gets NQAS CertificationIn a major achievement, Nawanshahr Civil hospital on Tuesday obtained National Quality Assurance Standards (NQAS) certification from the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The certification has been accorded in recognition of the high standards of quality and performance maintained by the hospital. The Labour room of the hospital has been awarded with Laqshya certificate and Maternity operation theatre has been given Conditional Laqshya certificate. An inspection was carried out by team of the health ministry in October 2021.Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal and Civil Surgeon Dr Davinder Dhanda said Civil Hospital has overall achieved score of 86 percent. They said that 93 percent score has been given to Labour room and 85 percent score has been achieved by maternity operation theatre.They said it was a matter of pride for the Civil Hospital to receive national certification. They lauded the rare achievement and attributed the success to the hard work and dedication of the doctors and nursing staff and other team members of the hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-3l-eligible-to-get-precaution-dose-in-nawanshahr-says-dc-358328
05-01-2022||---||Jalandhar boy gets 99.69 percentile in CAT||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 4A city-based youth has made a mark by scoring 99.69 percentile in the Common Admission Test (CAT) 2021 held in November last.Having attained a good score, Mayank Kapur, who resides at Vikas Puri locality here, aims to get armed with an MBA degree either from IIM Kolkata or Indore. He credits his parents for his success. His father Sameer Kapur runs a business of automobile spare parts manufacturing in the city and Mayank says that he too chose the same line doing BTech (mechanical engineering) from Trichy NIT.But having cracked CAT with a good score, he now intends to enter the consultancy industry. “Once I complete my degree, I would like to join a top tier consultancy firm and eventually start my firm after gaining some experience,” he outlined his new plan.Mayank says that he prepared online registering himself with two preparation institutes. “They used to send me notes via post. I gave a lot of mock tests and spent a lot of time analysing my mistakes”, he gave a useful tip to others trying to follow the same path.Mayank says that he went unwell just around the time when he was to appear for the entrance test on November 28. “I could not even sit up and take my last revisions. It was during this time that my mother Monika Kapur, who is a homemaker, came as a big support for me,” he shared.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/city-boy-gets-99-69-percentile-358329
05-01-2022||---||RCF-Kapurthala records highest monthly production in December 2021||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, January 4Kapurthala Rail Coach Factory registered a record highest monthly production and average daily record production of LHB coaches in December 2021.Last month, RCF manufactured 189 coaches with an average daily production rate of 7.27. In December 2020, RCF had manufactured 154 coaches with an average daily production rate of 5.92. In November 2021, RCF manufactured 156 coaches to achieve an average daily production rate of 7.09, whereas in October 2021, 157 coaches were manufactured at an average daily production rate of 6.83 coaches.In December 2021, 87 AC coaches were produced which is the best ever production in any month. In the first nine months of this financial year 2021-22, RCF has achieved an achievement by manufacturing 1331 coaches. These include 355 parcel vans and 584 AC coaches. The RCF PRO said: “This increase in production despite the epidemic reflects the persistence and dedication of the RCF staff. This year many new products such as Narrow Gauge Vistadome coaches for Kalka Shimla Railways besides three Phase MEMU, AC three-tier economy class, high capacity parcel vans etc. will be manufactured which will be considered as important coaches in the fleet of rail coaches produced by RCF”.Bags best production unit shieldKapurthala, January 4The Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala, has won the best production unit shield for exemplary performance during the year 2020-21. RCF will share this shield jointly with Banaras Locomotive Works, Banaras, which has been presented to it recently during the 66th National Railways Awards-2021. The coveted felicitation comes for the second time for RCF, earlier being in 2013.In 2020-21, RCF Kapurthala’s production stood at 1,500 coaches. There was a record increase in production of LHB coaches (1497) as compared to previous year (928) thus registering an increase of 61 per cent in LHB production in the year 2020-21. RCF rolled out new version of parcel coach (LVPH Mark -II) on November 7 by bringing some significant design changes and reducing the weight of Mark-I by three tonnes. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rcf-records-highest-monthly-production-in-december-2021-358330
05-01-2022||---||Jalandhar DC reviews development works||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 4Reviewing the status of ongoing and completed development projects in the district, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori has directed the officers concerned to submit utilisation certificates of completed works besides commencing those works allotted work orders.Holding a meeting here at District Administrative Complex with Executive Officers, BDPOs and other officers, the DC emphasised that work on different projects, for which work orders had already been allotted, should be initiated with immediate effect. With timely completion of the said works, requisite facilities could be provided to the people, he added.Accompanied by the Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) and the Additional Deputy Commissioner (Urban Development), Thori took stock of the Smart Village Campaign, under which out of total 964 works, as many as 962 had been completed in the first phase while 2,834 works were accomplished out of total 3,086 in the second phase.Likewise, under first phase of the Urban Environment Improvement Program (UEIP), the Municipal Corporation has almost completed 122 works at a cost of Rs 1775.45 lakh out of total 127 works. As many as 185 works have been completed at a cost of Rs 1064.98 lakh out of 188 works allotted by the ADC (UD) under first phase whereas 136 works out of total 200 were completed in second phase at an outlay of Rs 3623.90 lakh.The Municipal Corporation has started all allotted 114 works, which will be completed at a cost of Rs 2,723.99 lakh while of total 155 works 73 were started with completion of 16 works at a cost of Rs 189.23 lakh.The DC also reviewed the status of Punjab Nirman Programme, 5-marla plots to be given to eligible beneficiaries and the development projects undergoing at Ballan village. All SDMs, EOs of nagar councils and other officers/officials were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dc-reviews-development-works-358331
05-01-2022||Students of MSc (Botany) Sem-4 of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya brought laurels to the college. Shanu Sharma topped the Guru Nanak Dev University exam with 92 % marks. Palk Sharma 91.8 % marks stood second||Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya students university toppers||Baseball championshipKanya Maha Vidyalaya Collegiate Sr Sec School team bagged silver medal in the 9th Junior Punjab State Baseball Championship held at Government Girls Sr Sec School, Ludhiana. Team players, namely Khushdeep Kaur, Navdeep Kaurand Rajbir displayed their sportsmanship and made their institution proud by bagging silver medal. Khushdeep Kaur was declared the Best Catcher Player. Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated the students on their achievement. She averred that players at KMV are provided many facilities which include free education, hostel, mess and transport facilities. They avail a lot from state of the art infrastructure comprising Gymnasium, health club, swimming pool and sprawling play grounds. All these exceptional facilities elicit such excellent outcomes. Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi also said KMV would continue to provide these facilities to the students who continue to prove their mettle in sports arena.Poster Presentation CompetitionCV Raman Society of Department of Chemistry organised a poster presentation competition for students of B Sc (Non-Medical) and B Sc (Computer Science) in the seminar hall. The aim of the competition was to enhance presentation and language skills among students and teach them to articulate while expressing their thoughts and ideas. Students of different classes exchanged their concepts and data efficiently with their audience using a combination of poster and oral presentation on various topics such as: Chemistry behind the process of breathing, Chemistry of blood coagulation, Na-K Pump, The artificial leaf and Covid-19 into chemical science perspective. It exhibited our students’ in-depth subject knowledge and presentation expertise. The students performed with utmost enthusiasm. They proved their presentation skills through their adaptability in their topics and their talent with their excellent performance. Members of the managing committee and Principal Dr Pooja Prashar lauded the efforts of the department in organising such activities which inculcate love for learning among students.Biotech resultsTulsi Devi of Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar, has bagged the first position in the Guru Nanak Dev University exams of MSc (Biotechnology) Semester (II) by getting 468 marks out of 500, whereas Karan Kaushik and Pavittar Singh bagged 2nd and 3rd positions by getting 466 and 444 marks, respectively in the same class. President of the College Governing Council Balbir Kaur congratulated the students and wished them success in life. Dr Arundev Sharma Head, PG Department of Biotechnology, was also present on the occasion. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/university-toppers-358333
05-01-2022||Jalandhar||29-year-old Jalandhar man dies of heart attack 15 days before his wedding||Gen category panel honours DahiyaJalandhar: The General Category Welfare Federation honoured the newly-appointed Chairman of Punjab State Commission for general categories Dr Navjot S Dahiya at Circuit House here. The federation led by state president Jaswant Singh Dhaliwal even got a calendar of 2022 released from Dr Dahiya. The members of the federation said they had been demanding the setting-up of a commission for the general category for the past few decades and they were happy that their demand had finally been accepted. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/29-year-old-dies-of-heart-attack-358334
