06-01-2022||Hoshiarpur||Braille Training programme||Protesters seek regular jobsHoshiarpur: The state president of the Punjab Construction Workers Union, Ganga Prasad, said a delegation of the union led by him had sought time from Labour Minister Punjab Sangat Singh Gilzian to discuss their demands. He lamented that even after two months, the minister had not given time to them for dialogue to resolve the demands and no meaningful administrative action had been taken to resolve their demands. He said as per the demand letter 515 Sewa Kendras in Punjab should be run to stop the harassment of construction workers, portal should be provided to the registered trade unions for smooth functioning of construction workers in the state. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/braille-training-programme-358699
06-01-2022||Jalandhar||Jalandhar: 12 gold medals for St. Soldier students||Virtual Induction ProgrammeA virtual induction programme was conducted for the parents of children enrolled in nursery for the year 2022-23 in the five schools of Innocent Hearts, Green Model Town, Loharan, Cantt Jandiala Road, Royal World and Kapurthala Road. The parents were welcomed by Bandeep. On the occasion, the school’s psychology expert Himani Singh shared the tips of ‘Good Parenting’ with the parents, which would be helpful for them regarding the upbringing of the children. On the occasion, dietician Anvita Chatwal informed the parents about the nutritional requirements of children’s food. Questions were also asked related to the diet and nutrition of the children. She advised the parents to send only nutritious food to the children in tiffin. Alka Arora, Deputy Director of InnoKids, said nursery classes will start virtually from January 6.KMV identified as Skill hubKanya Maha Vidyalaya has been identified as a ‘Skill Hub’ by Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE), Government of India. Principal Atima Sharma Dwivedi said ‘Skill Hub’ is an initiative of Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE) where school dropouts and out-of-education candidates will be trained for National Skill Qualification Framework (NSQF) complaint vocational courses. This necessitates the training of the students in line with the skill sets in demand and skilling, upskilling and reskilling of workforce due to ever-changing demands of job market. The training will be provided by the well-qualified and experienced trainers in the field of beauty and textiles. She further maintained that renowned entrepreneurs, government officials and experts from different fields will also be invited to guide and motivate the students. Principal lauded the efforts of Dr Gopi Sharma, Director, DDU Kaushal Kendra, and all the faculty members for this achievement.NSS Camp organised at HMVAn NSS camp was organised in Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya under the guidance of Principal Dr Ajay Sareen. The programme started with recital of ‘DAV Gaan’ and Hum Honge Kamyaab. Principal Prof Dr Ajay Sareen encouraged all volunteers to contribute towards the development of society with full zeal . NSS programme officer Veena Arora gave a brief of activities to be carried out during the day. The NSS volunteers were divided into groups under the group leaders and they were given information about activities to be done under Independent India Project. The volunteers showcased their talent by making posters, murals, nukkad natak, slogans etc. related to Swacchta Campaign. Some of the volunteers also packed bio-compost for its distribution among general public. NSS Programme Officer Harmanu Paul encouraged the volunteers to contribute towards development of society.Sports school spikers wins tourneyA two-day CT Under-19 Volleyball Tournament concluded at CT Group of Institutions in which 18 teams from various villages and clubs competed with each other. Teams from KVS Jalandhar Cantt; Akal Academy; Cantonment Board School; GSS School Talhan; Doaba Arya Senior Secondary School; Police DAV Public School; Kamla Nehru Public School; LKS Amritsar etc. participated with utmost zeal and preparation. The teams for semi finals were GSS School Talhan vs Sports School Jalandhar and Baba Bhai Desu Ji Sports Club vs LKS Amritsar. The final match was played between LKS Amritsar and Sports School Jalandhar. The team Sports School, Jalandhar, won the tournament trophy along with the cash prize of Rs. 11,000, followed by team LKS, Amritsar, won runners-up trophy along with Rs 5,100. The tournament was closed by guest of honour Jugal Kishore Kali, retired inspector, Punjab Police; CT Group Campus Director Dr Rahul Malhotra along with the presence of Dean Academics Dr Anupamdeep Sharma, Dr Vaneet Thakur and Sports In-Charge Satpal. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/12-gold-medals-for-students-358695
06-01-2022||---||Nipun Bharat Mission: Workshop for teachers held||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, January 5A workshop under Nipun Bharat Mission was held at cluster resource center railway mandi, Hoshiarpur, in which 44 block master trainers from 21 educational blocks of the district participated.Addressing the teachers present in the workshop, Sanjeev Gautam, District Education Officer (EE) Hoshiarpur, said the teachers would be benefitted with the implementation of the programme as per the Foundation Literacy and Numeracy (FLN) under the Nipun Bharat Mission. He said under the mission the education system would be made more interesting for the development of basic literacy and numbers in every child of the country for which intellectual development would be strengthened through drama, music, painting and other fine arts. He said enrolment drive is going on in the district for pre-primary and primary classes, which is getting tremendous response. He said now in view of the new situation arising out of Covid, information and technology will prove to be very helpful for the teachers.Gautam said under the Nishtha 3.0 series, regular training will be given to the teachers through the Diksha platform, in which teachers will register on the Diksha App and complete the online training material prepared by the team of experts of the department and complete each course. They can download their certificate on completion. He said these courses are very useful for improving the performance of the schools.Sukhwinder Singh, Deputy District Education Officer, Hoshiarpur, said the department has made elaborate arrangements for imparting training on Nipun Bharat Mission, admission campaign and Diksha courses in the entire district.Harminder Singh, District Coordinator, Padho Punjab Padhao Punjab, said after training the district team on the mission, regular teachers at the block level would be given necessary training for the mission and for this the district education office has issued a timetable.On the occasion, assistant coordinators Amarjit Singh Thandi, Aman Kumar, Block Master Trainers Sangeeta Vasudev, Manoj Kumar, Balwinder Kumar, Ashok Kumar, Deepak Kumar, Samarjit Singh, Yogeshwar Salaria and other team members were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nipun-bharat-mission-workshop-for-teachers-held-358694
06-01-2022||Jalandhar||Candidates await appointment letters from Punjab government||As many as 208 candidates who have cleared the written examination and interviews for the posts of Sub-Divisional Engineers are waiting to receive appointment letters from the Punjab Public Service Commission for the past 20 days.Apprehending that the election code could be implemented any time, they have been urging the commission officials to act fast and release the offer letters or else their appointment could get stuck up for the next three months or so till the code would be lifted.The appointment process is being carried out for the 50 posts of SDE in the Water and Sanitation Department and 158 posts of SDE in the nine Punjab government departments. While the written examination for the appointment has been conducted in July, the interviews were held on December 9 and 10. On December 16, the complete merit list too was displayed. “Ever since we have been awaiting appointment letters but to no avail”, said the candidates.Among the SDE for Water Supply and Sanitation Department are civil and mechanical engineers, while for the remaining departments only civil engineers had been asked to apply. These departments include Punjab Water Resource Management and Development Corporation, Rural Development and Panchayat, PWD (B&R), PUDA, Improvement Trusts, MC etc.Notably, the local government which is in dire need to recruit engineers had to outsource the staff even for such a high post. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/candidates-await-appointment-letters-from-punjab-government-358693
06-01-2022||---||Selfie point at Nawanshahr to create awareness on voting||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, January 5In another endeavour to encourage the voters, especially youth to cast their votes during the upcoming Assembly poll, the district administration on Wednesday inaugurated a selfie point at District Administrative Complex (DAC).Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal said the initiative was aimed at sensitising the voters for participation in democratic process. He said this endeavour under Systematic Voters’ Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) was aimed at enhancing the participation of youth in the elections.He said selfie craze was prevalent amongst the youth and hoped this effort would be instrumental in motivating the young voters to exercise their franchise enthusiastically in the ensuing Assembly elections.Sarangal said this point would not only provide a new place to the people for getting their picture clicked, but would also disseminate the message of voting to them. This point has been purposely set up here so that people coming here could use it aptly for clicking their pictures, he added.The Deputy Commissioner also said that more such efforts would also be made to encourage more and more people to cast their votes in free, fair and transparent elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/selfie-point-at-nawanshahr-to-create-awareness-on-voting-358691
06-01-2022||Our Correspondent||Jungle safari in Hoshiarpur to boost tourism||Hoshiarpur, January 5Punjab Forest Minister Sangat Singh Gilzian inaugrated Nature Awareness Project at Thana village. It includes three lake facing eco-tents, boating and jungle safari gypsies. The one-of-its-kind initiative will boost tourism in the sub-mountain ranges of district Hoshiarpur which borders Himachal Pradesh.The Forest Department has set up a camp Thana Nature retreat amid serene and secluded thana and dehrian forests overlooking thana reservior lake. “This forest has a pristine beauty and the thana lake front offers a picturesque for the nature lovers” said Parveen Kumar IFS, PCCF, HOFF, Punjab.The camp offers three all weather tents with dining and restaurant facility to the visitors. The camp also offers the boat ride in the lake area of Thana dam. A dedicated jungle safari with off-road gypsies also started today which connects Thana to Dehrian to Kukanet. It is pertinent to mention here that 7-km track from Thana to Dehrian offers best ride through sand dunes and further 5 km from Dehrian to Kukanet through steady stream of water which keeps flowing throughout the year. This stream has natural bamboo canopy on its sides. On the track it is common to spot caves of wild animals.“These facilities will boost eco-tourism potential of this area and further enhance the economy of that area through employment opportunities” said Dr Sanjeev Tiwari, Conservator of Forest, Hoshiarpur. “Depending upon the demand of the visitors other wildlife rich areas like Takhni wildlife sanctuary can be made a corridor for the visitors” said Amneet Singh, DFO Hoshiarpur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jungle-safari-in-hoshiarpur-to-boost-tourism-358687
06-01-2022||---||Machines to replace sanitation workers for cleaning sewers in Punjab||Jalandhar, January 5Punjab Technical Education and Industrial Training Minister Rana Gurjeet Singh on Wednesday launched a special pilot project for skill training of sewerage workers of the state.The Cabinet minister said the first-of-its-kind project aims at skill training of 110 candidates of Patiala and 90 of Kapurthala on machines developed by Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board (PWSSB) which would enable them to clean the sewer lines without physically entering into the channels.The Cabinet minister said the estimated cost of the project will be Rs 6.07 crore including the cost of Rs 4.57 crore for machines which include 57 jetters, 57 grabbers and 100 mechanical winches.Rana Gurjit Singh said the training programme would be of 700 hours which include 160 hours theory and 540 hours practical and on-the-job training (OJT). The minister said the candidates would be provided induction kits, stipend, post-certification incentive, attendance incentive and OJT incentives to the tune of around Rs 18,000. He added that after OJT, candidates would be assessed and provided certification by the Green Jobs Sector Skill Council and after certification, DBEEs and training partner would make their self-help groups and facilitate bank loans to them so that they can buy their own machines and move towards entrepreneurship with focus on 100 per cent mechanisation of sewer cleaning.He added that it was a joint initiative of Ministry of Skill Development &and Entrepreneurship, Punjab Skill Development Mission, Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board, Municipal Corporation Kapurthala and Municipal Corporation, Patiala. He said the project has been funded by Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, included the cost of machines for the skilling of sewerage workers.He also announced that on January 7, the technical education department would sign an MoU with the Cambridge University to provide the training to ITI instructors so that the free training of IELTS and TOEFL could be provided to the 50,000 students annually.Earlier, Advisor to CM Sandeep Singh Kaura showcased the key points of the project. Prominent amongst present on the occasion included Commissioner Municipal Corporation Aditya Uppal, Mayor Kulwant Kaur, ADC D SP Angra , Senior Deputy Mayor Rahul Kumar, Deputy Mayor Vinod Sood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/machines-to-replace-sanitation-workers-for-cleaning-sewers-358686
06-01-2022||---||16.5 lakh voters in final voter list in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, January 5Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Wednesday handed over the final voter lists of nine legislative Assembly segments, prepared after a special summary revision, to the representatives of the various political parties at the district administrative complex (DAC) here.Handing over the lists to representatives of the various political parties, the DC said that the updated lists have been prepared by the Election Commission after the thorough process carried out minutely in the district during the revision programme.He said now Jalandhar has 16,50,867 voters, which shows that 51,289 new voters have been registered. Of these, 8,58,305 are male, 7,92,532 are female and 30 are third gender, he said, adding that the total number of polling stations has been increased to 1,991 in the district. He also said that the new list has 1,881 service voters, 73 NRI voters, 27,402 first time voters (18-19 age group), and 11,692 persons with disabilities (PWD) voters.Thori mentioned that a special drive was carried out at all polling stations to include maximum numbers of youngsters as voters by giving targets to BLOs to add at least 10 first time voters at their booths.Meanwhile, the DC revealed that the administration has chalked out an extensive strategy to facilitate PWD voters as adequate arrangements of wheelchairs, helpers, ramps etc. have been ensured across all polling stations in the district. The DC said that the district would also offer pick and drop facilities to those PwD voters having difficulties to reach the polling stations adding that such voters have to seek this facility through PwD mobile app.The DC has also written a letter to all the 11,692 PwD voters of the district appealing to them to cast their votes on the poll day so as to ensure their proper participation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/16-5-lakh-voters-in-final-voter-list-358685
06-01-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||Farmers burn PM Modi's effigy in Jalandhar, block roads to site of rally||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 5Members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee today burnt the effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi upon his visit to Punjab and blocked the passage of BJP leaders from Jalandhar heading to his rally venue at Ferozepur.District president of the union Salwinder Singh Janian and district secretary Gurmel Singh Rerwan held a demonstration against the PM at Sutlej bridge near Shahkot. The farmers tried to block the passage of the BJP workers going by buses and private cars and also showed them the black flags.The farmers have been protesting over their pending demands, including Rs 5 lakh to the families of those who passed away during the protests at the Delhi borders, assured guarantee for 23 crops, proper compensation to the farmers whose land falls on the proposed Delhi-Katra Expressway and implementation of Dr Swaminathan report.The BJP workers have alleged that the farmers did not just block their passage but also used aggression against them at some places. Jalandhar Rural BJP chief Amarjit Singh Amri said: “The farmers blocked our passage at Zira. They tore our party flags put up on the vehicles. They even pulled off our banners. While we tried to avoid any confrontation with them and kept sitting inside waiting for the police to get our passage cleared, they opened the doors of our cars and used abusive language against us. They were carrying bamboo rods in their hands to scare us. Even the cops were mute spectators to entire episode.”He rued, “There were 30 buses that we were taking to the venue but none could reach. The cars could take the diversion via villages but the buses got stuck about 15 km ahead of the venue.”BJP man, whose video went viral, has arm fracturedAs everyone saw the video of PM’s convoy getting blocked by the protesting farmers in Ferozepur on Wednesday, only a few people know that it was actually shot by Jalandhar-based leader Amit Taneja, who is also the state’s IT cell in-charge. Taneja had been following the PM’s convoy and when he saw the disturbance, he immediately took out his phone and went live on FB from the site after parking his car by the roadside. “We saw the PM’s convoy returning back. At that time, we did not know that it had been decided that he was going back to the airport. We thought that they had taken another route. We decided to follow the same route and went ahead and asked the farmers to give us the passage. A clash started and we got injured. My arm got fractured. Ramesh, BJP worker who was accompanying me, was hit on his head and he bled a lot. We had to hospitalise him”.Arrangements for visitors not proper at rally: MakkarBJP leaders were themselves seen criticising the arrangements at the PM’s rally. Even though there had been prediction of heavy rain today, the organisers did not try to ensure proper tents at the venue. Ex-MLA Sarabjeet Makkar said: “The venue should have been properly covered but was kept open. No one can sit in the tents for hours, especially when it is raining. The weather is already cold and no worker wants to get wet. Obviously, the chairs were to go empty.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-burn-pms-effigy-block-roads-to-site-of-rally-358683
06-01-2022||---||In Nawanshahr, IMA roped in  to expand teen vax coverage||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, January 5To further ramp up the vaccination drive for children in 15-18 age group, the district administration has involved the local chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) for covering around 25,000 beneficiaries under this age bracket as soon as possible.Inaugurating a session site under new phase of vaccination campaign for teens started on January 3,SDM Dr Baljinder Singh Dhillon said due to sudden surge in the Covid cases, there is need to scale up the vaccination drive for which the administration has now set up 16 session sites in the district including five for Covaxin and 11 Covishield vaccination sites in the Nawanshahr.He said the supply of the Covid vaccine is far better and the need is just to vaccinate all entitled category beneficiaries against Covid-19 expeditiously. The SDM added the administration is in action mode to stop the further spread of Covid-19.Meanwhile, he said that vaccination is the most effective weapon against this invisible enemy and now it is our responsibility to come forward for the jabs. The SDM also appealed to people to come forward for the vaccination in huge numbers, especially those due for second dose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/in-nawanshahr-ima-roped-in-to-expand-teen-vax-coverage-358681
06-01-2022||---||With 183 new cases, Jalandhar district records  highest single-day spike since June||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 5In its sharpest single-day spike in nearly seven months, Jalandhar on Wednesday reported 183 new Covid-19 cases, taking its overall tally to 64,008. In the past five days, a total of 373 cases and one death have been reported, taking the death toll tally to 1502. Besides, the total number of active cases now stands at 410.At least six micro-containment zones have been declared in the district with the spike in the Covid cases. Micro-containment zones have been declared in New Jawahar Nagar, New Jwala Nagar (Maqsundan), National Park Nandanpur, Gujral Nagar, Badshahpur and NIT Campus, while, containment zone has been declared in Saraswati Vihar.The micro-containment zones are declared after two or more positive cases are reported and containment zones when five or more cases are positive.Meanwhile, BJP ex-minister Manoranjan Kalia also tested positive today. Though he’s having mild symptoms, he says he had self-quarantined himself at his residence here and is taking all the precautions prescribed by the doctors.Besides, others testing positive today include residents from Adarsh Nagar, Model Town, Virk Enclave, Karol Bagh, Lajpat Nagar, Shanker Garden, Nangal Shamma and among others areas.As many as 62,096 persons have recovered from Covid in the district while the numbers of active cases have reached 410 today. With one new death reported from Covid today, the deceased tally stands at 1,502.Gym freak loses lifeA 36-year-old, Kunal Kapoor, a resident of Laxmi Pura here succumbed to the virus on Wednesday.The deceased was a gym freak. His family members say he was very particular about his diet and daily routine. His family said Kunal had mild symptoms three days back and when he consulted the doctor, he asked him to get the X-ray done. They said he was admitted to a private hospital on Tuesday.8 test positive in KapurthalaIn Kapurthala, eight persons tested positive for the virus on Wednesday, taking the district tally to 17,975 cases. With no new deaths reported, the tally ,stands at 556. The number of persons recovered so far are 17,355 and the active case load stands at 64.4 catch infection in NawanshahrFour persons tested positive for Covid on Wednesday in Nawanshahr and with this, the total number of cases in the district stands at 11506. The total number of patients recovered was 11,099. At present, there are 17 active cases in the district and all are in home isolation.30 new cases in HoshiarpurAs many as 30 new cases have been reported in Hoshiarpur on Wednesday, taking the overall tally to 31,006 cases. With no death reported, the count of the deceased stands at 998. The total recovery tally is 30031 and the active cases 77.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/with-183-new-cases-jalandhar-district-records-highest-single-day-spike-since-june-358678
06-01-2022||Avneet Kaur||Rs 210 cr spent on roads, yet potholes & traffic snarls welcome you to 'smart city' Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 5Even though banners placed at different locations of the city by Jalandhar Municipal Corporation says ‘Welcome to Smart City’ and boasts of having provided top infrastructure and facilities, the residents say the ground reality is totally different.As per residents, what is clearly evident if you take a tour of the city is the poor condition of roads and long traffic jams at every nook and corner. They say it may take a person less time to travel to Amritsar than to reach a destination within the city, thanks to broken stretches or ongoing construction work, which has only started keeping Assembly elections in mind.From the data procured from the MC (Building and Roads) Department, in the last three years i.e. from 2018 to November 30, 2021, a total of Rs 210.62 crore (received under MC fund and UEIP-Urban Environment Improvement Programme) has already been spent on completion of roads in all four constituencies in the district. While, a number of road projects amounting to Rs 99.03 crore are still in progress.Besides, road projects worth Rs 89.24 crore are yet to start. However, despite spending so much on roads, residents’ complain of bumpy rides and traffic snarls due to the pathetic condition of roads. They even said how Akalis suffered five years back; similarly, the ruling Congress government would suffer as they have only paid attention to their internal party crisis and not on public affairs.“Jalandhar is an unplanned city, with issues like traffic snarls, air pollution, illegal constructions and many others problems very common here. Though the elite class, high profile people and politicians travel in their comfortable luxury cars, it’s only the middle class and economically weaker section who suffer the most,” said Mohit, a resident of Gopal Nagar, while showing the heaps of garbage in his area lying scattered here and there.Meanwhile, a tour of the city revealed that the condition of roads actually ‘belies’ the tall claims of the MC. As many as eight to 10 prominent roads of the city are either in poor condition or under construction at a slow pace.The roads from Kapurthala Chowk to Bistt Doab Canal, Kapurthala Chowk to HMV to DAV College, the road from Madan Flour Mill Chowk to Pratap Bagh, 66ft road, Urban Estate Phase II, (residential one from PPR side), Garha Chowk to Sofi Pind road, BSF Chowk to Railway Crossing Ladowali road (which was recently constructed) among others are in bad shape rendering severe inconvenience to the commuters.Aman Dhal, a local resident, took to the social media asking the MC authorities about when the condition of roads would improve in the city as they feared mishaps while commuting on the road. Residents call it a nightmarish experience to navigate on city roads, especially during the night. The condition worsens on a rainy day as it becomes difficult for them to spot the potholes.“The 66 ft road was earlier lying in a poor shape for a long time. Although half of the stretch is now recarpeted, thanks to upcoming Assembly elections, however, the road ahead which is being widened is still the same as work is going on a slow speed,” said Kavita Mishra, a resident of village Pholriwal, who has to take this stretch for commuting to home from office.She added: “If the government does not carry out development works on time, it has no right to collect development tax from us.”Former BJP minister Manoranjan Kalia also lashed out at the Congress government and the MC for carrying out no real development work in the city. “The MC has become a hub of corruption and the whole of Jalandhar is suffering from their ill-policies and unplanned work. “Its Congress vs Congress going on as MLAs and councillors are in a race for the ticket and fighting each other, while paying no attention to people’s need”, he added.“There are no roads in poor shape in Jalandhar except the ones where work under surface water project (water to be extracted from Beas), is underway,” said Jagdish Raja, Mayor, adding that pipes were being laid under the roads, therefore the inconvenience.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/210-cr-spent-on-roads-yet-potholes-traffic-snarls-welcome-you-to-smart-city-358674
06-01-2022||Nitish Sharma||Rs 600 cr to be spent on Panipat-Jalandhar highway repair||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, January 5The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will be spending around Rs 600 crore to rectify the construction deficiencies of the highway. The NHAI officials have observed construction deficiencies, including in drainages, entry and exit points, and other structures on service lanes on the 291-km stretch of NH-44 between Panipat and Jalandhar.As per information, the NHAI has already spent nearly Rs 300 crore last year on bituminous concrete overlay work, gantries, signage and other maintenance work.A senior official of the NHAI in Ambala said: “The six-laning of the 291-km stretch of NH-44 from Panipat to Jalandhar was allotted to a company in May 2008. The work started in May 2009 and was to be completed by November 2011, but the project got delayed by nine years. Due to the poor maintenance of the highway, the NHAI had terminated the contract of the company and for nearly past year, it has been maintaining it directly through its agencies.”No end to woesDue to delay in construction, commuters have suffered a lot of inconvenience in the past nine years. The NHAI has done a lot to improve the condition of the highway. Virendra Singh, project director, National Highways Authority of India, Ambala||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/600-cr-to-be-spent-on-highway-repair-358613
