07-01-2022||Aparna Banerji||280 test +ve; 3 Omicron cases reported in Jalandhar district so far||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 6The district witnessed a record surge of 280 cases on Thursday. With this, the tally reached 64,288. Two new cases of Omicron variant have been reported in the district after genome sequencing, thus taking the total number of cases of this particular variant to three in Jalandhar.While a 30-year-old Adampur resident tested positive for Omicron variant on Wednesday, a 52-year-old man who came back from France on December 28 tested positive for Omicron today. Though the 30-year-old tested positive upon his arrival at the Amritsar airport on December 21, the 52-year-old, a resident of Model Town tested positive after he returned from France to Delhi. He was also accompanied by his son who tested negative.Meanwhile, 15 passengers on board Italy-Amritsar flight (on which 125 passengers tested positive) were from Jalandhar district.The Civil Surgeon and the ADC waited for the passengers to take their samples for the Omicron variant, but none of the passengers turned up with the authorities and headed straight to their homes.Health authorities said their screening would be conducted by the respective SMOs by sending screening teams to their homes tomorrow.Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Ghotra, said, “Third Omicron case has been reported in Jalandhar today. The person is currently negative and is in home isolation. As many as 15 people on board the Italy-Amritsar flight have also been identified to be from Jalandhar. The 16th passenger was also attributed to Jalandhar, but is from Pathankot. The screening of all the passengers is being done as per protocol.”11 new cases in KapurthalaKapurthala district reported 11 new cases today. The tally reached 17,994 . Those who tested posiitve include an 11-month-old baby, 9-year-old, 17-year-old and 19-year-old children. No death was reported in the district today. The toll stands at 556.Meanwhile, there’s no single locality in Kapurthala, which has reported more than four cases. So far, the district has reported 17,994 positive cases and 556 deaths.19 from Italy among 116 test +veHoshiarpur: In a sharpest single-day spike in nearly six months, the health authorities reported 116 new Covid-19 cases, including 10 police personnel who were deployed at Ferozepur during the PM Narendra Modi’s rally and 19 persons who tested positive after their flight from Italy landed at Amritsar airport today.With this, the tally has increased to 31,222, which includes 2,122 cases reported from other districts. The toll stands at 998 in the district, besides 190 active cases.In Kapurthala, asymptomatic patients to isolate at home for seven daysAs the third Covid-19 wave rages, Kapurthala Civil Surgeon Dr Gurinderbir Kaur on Thursday, released new guidelines for asymptomatic patients. Those asymptomatic or having mild symptoms, need to isolate at home for a period of seven days. Army Public School, Dhilwan, became a hotspot as 41 positive cases were reported in the last 10 days.The Civil Surgeon said as per the new guidelines released by the Health and Family Welfare Department, patients with mild Covid symptoms have been advised to stay at home during their isolation period. She said it was essential that proper ventilation be ensured for patients in the room in which they were isolating themselves. Barring this, mild and asymptomatic patients in home isolation were also being advised to consume as many liquids as they could.Epidemiologist Dr Rajiv Bhagat said, “In consultation with health authorities, those with mild symptoms have been advised to isolate at home for seven days. Only those who have persistent high-grade fever beyond the three-day limit will be advised institutional quarantine.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/280-test-ve-3-omicron-cases-reported-in-dist-so-far-358999
07-01-2022||---||Pargat Singh sanctions Rs 23 lakh for badminton stadium||Jalandhar, January 6Giving a New Year gift to the people of Jalandhar, especially the badminton players, Punjab Sports & Youth Services Minister Pargat Singh on Thursday sanctioned a grant of Rs 23 lakh for Raizada Hansraj Badminton Stadium.With this grant, various works will be undertaken in the stadium as a part of its upgradation, which includes installation of a new synthetic court, renovation of the hostel rooms, thereby making them air-conditioned besides expansion of the gymnasium and installation of modern machinery in it.As per the instructions of Pargat Singh, the Sports Department has already floated e-tenders so that these works could be completed in the near future.Divulging details, District Badminton Association (DBA) secretary and former national player Ritin Khanna said he had requested the Sports Minister for a grant for the installation of new synthetic court, upgradation of gymnasium and renovation of the hostel block.Khanna said presently the stadium has five synthetic courts and hundreds of badminton players practice here in different slots. “Despite this, due to the insufficiency of the courts, the association was not able to give admission to more players, who wanted to come to the stadium to practice. But with the installation of another new synthetic court, we will be able to accommodate more players,” he said, while emphasising that the sixth synthetic court will also pave the way for organising a national-level tournament here.He further said that now the gymnasium will also be upgraded. “The size of the gymnasium will be expanded and modern machinery will be installed at a cost of Rs 5 lakh. Besides, the hostel rooms of the stadium, which are not in very good condition, will be made air-conditioned, which will ensure that players from other cities not face any problem in staying here.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pargat-sanctions-23-lakh-for-badminton-stadium-359000
07-01-2022||---||Electoral rolls revised, Nawanshahr gets 7,722 new voters||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, January 6The Nawanshahr district has now 4,95,257 voters as per the final voter list released by the district administration. A total of 7,722 new voters have been added during the revision of electoral rolls that started on November 1, 2021.While handing over the voter list to the representatives of the various political leaders for upcoming Assembly elections, Additional District Election Officer-cum- Additional Deputy Commissioner (G) Jasbir Singh said there was a net increase of 7,722 electors, including 3,786 males, 3,934 females and two third gender voters as compared to the previous electoral roll published on November 1, 2021.He said at the time of special summary revision on November 1, 2021, the district had a total 4,87,535 voters, including 2,51,907 males, 2,35,608 females and 20 third genders and now it has 255693 males, 239542 females and 22 third gender voters.Singh said during the special summary revision of the electoral roll, various activities were carried out to raise awareness among prospective voters including vans, rallies, seminars; competitions were held in the district.Singh said this increase was a step towards strengthening the democratic process so that no eligible voter is left behind. He said the main aim of the Special Summary Revision-2022 was to ensure enrollment of those who turned 18 or more as of the qualifying date of January 1, 2022, and also to provide opportunities for correction in electors’ particulars.Singh said anyone could check the voter list on the websites of the Election Commission of India and Chief Electoral Officer, Punjab viz. www.eci.nic.in and www.ceop unjab.gov.in respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/electoral-rolls-revised-nawanshahr-gets-7-722-new-voters-359001
07-01-2022||---||Centre of Excellence for Vegetables to come up at Banga||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, January 6In a major bonanza for the farmers of the Nawanshahr district, the Punjab Government would establish a Centre of Excellence for Vegetable in Jandiala village of Banga block at the cost of Rs 10 crore.Divulging details about the ambitious project, Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal said this ultra-modern centre has been got approved by Principal Secretary to CM Punjab, Hussan Lal, by taking special initiative and it would be built in Jandiala village in over 3-acre of land. He said Punjab Agro Export Corporation Limited is executive agency of the project.Sarangal said Nawanshahr has 13,716 hectare area under vegetable cultivation with peas, potato, cauliflower and chilli are main vegetable crops of the district.He said the centre would play an instrumental role not only in educating about the latest techniques to the farmers in the vegetable farming, but would also promote crop-diversification in the district.The Deputy Commissioner said the farmers would be trained by the experts to develop and produce the high-quality of vegetables at the centre besides information and knowledge of poly house and other methods of farming.Further, they would also be provided with superior saplings and seeds at the centre, Sarangal said and added the formalities regarding the identification of the land have already been completed. He said the centre would also prove vital to motivate more farmers to switch from water guzzling wheat-paddy cycle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/centre-of-excellence-for-vegetables-to-come-up-at-banga-359002
07-01-2022||---||Messages in support, against Modi, Channi flood Twitter||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 6Ever since Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s rally in Ferozepur got cancelled over allegations of security lapses during his transit via road to the rally venue, netizens started demanding President Rule in the state while targeting the Channi-led Congress government for failing to ensure PM’s security.The moment PM’s statement saying ‘Thank your CM, at least I reached Bathinda airport alive’ went viral in the media, Twitter was flooded with various hashtags both in support and against Modi as well as Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi.With around 128k tweets (at the time of writing) #PresidentRuleInPunjab was the top trend in politics on Twitter on Thursday, followed by #ModiDramaBandKro and #IStandwithChanni trends with 32.3k and 30.9k tweets, respectively.As Twitter has emerged as the most popular social media platform in India when it comes to political debates, it’s not just the masses, even politicians and ministers prefer using the platform to target the Opposition.“Modi was there to give Punjab Rs42,000-crore projects. Because of these protesters, the whole Punjab is suffering now #PunjabRejectsDevelopment #PresidentRuleInPunjab,” tweeted a user named Vishnu.Another user, GD Bakshi, while raising a series of questions like ‘Why Punjab police said road is clear’, ‘Why there was blockage on flyover’, ‘Why CM did not pick up the call’, ‘How protestors came near PM vehicle’, ‘What was 10,000 police force doing’, ‘There is always a backup plan’, ‘Why Channi is lying’ tagged the official handle of Punjab government and CM Channi and gave a thumbs up to #PresidentRuleInPunjab.Well, the supporters of CM Channi, too, didn’t lag behind and started tweeting in favour of the Punjab government saying ‘security lapse is just an excuse of BJP as PM was reluctant to address empty chairs and a gathering of just 5,000’.While retweeting CM Channi’s tweet which reads: “No security lapse, I was up late at night overseeing security arrangements for his rally. 70,000 chairs were put up for the rally but only 700 turned up,” a city-based resident Amit Singh tweeted, why will CM Channi lie when the issue has become a centre of politics and what was MHA doing as they always keep full information of the PM’s visit and route.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/messages-in-support-against-modi-channi-flood-twitter-359003
07-01-2022||---||Modi security lapse: BJP Yuva Morcha holds mashal march||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 6In the aftermath of the lapse in the Prime Minister’s security and his cavalcade having to remain stuck on the flyover for over 20 minutes on Wednesday, the Yuva Morcha of the BJP took out a Mashal March here on Wednesday. Held under the BJP Yuva Morcha, zonal president Ashok Sareen Hicky, BJP leader, during the march, blamed CM Charanjit Singh Channi and the Congress government for the security breach in PM’s security. Yuva Morcha zonal president Hicky alleged that the incident which took place on Wednesday was a conspiracy by the Congress government and anyone assisting in the conspiracy will not be spared. The BJP will also be holding a huge march outside the DC office in Jalandhar on Friday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/modi-security-lapse-bjp-yuva-morcha-holds-mashal-march-359004
07-01-2022||---||Pensioners to be part of Jan 8 chakka jam||Jalandhar, January 6The Punjab Pensioners Welfare Association has declared that its members will participate in the chakka jam, against the state government on the Ludhiana Jalandhar National Highway, at the Ladhowal Toll Plaza, on January 8. The Punjab Pensioners Welfare Association met at the Vishwakarma Mandir at Nawanshahr.Members of the union termed the government’s failure to launch the revised pay commission report as an act of dupery. They said the government, instead of paying the 125% DA due on January 2016, termed the 113% DA as interim relief. They said neither DA nor pending DA dues were being paid on the Centre patterns.They said the Punjab UT Employees and the Pensioners Front would ensure a wholehearted support to the gathering during the chakka jam on January 8 on the Ludhiana-Jalandhar National Highway at Ladhowal Toll Plaza.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pensioners-to-be-part-of-jan-8-chakka-jam-359005
07-01-2022||With an ever-increasing influx of terrorists||The border  warriors||Taking up a daunting task to train its recruits involved in the first line of control, the Subsidiary Training Centre of the Border Security Force at Kharkan in Hoshiarpur has a lot to offer.Spread in an area of 898 acres along the Una road, multiple batches of more than 1,400 fresh recruits and in-service personnel are currently taking a rigorous training here before they join the 2.50-lakh strong force and are made capable enough to guard the 3,323 km India-Pakistan and the 4,096 km India-Bangladesh borders.Most of the current trainees, who include over 900 women, hail from Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram, West Bengal and Maharashtra. The 44-week rigorous training for the freshers includes PT, running, rope climbing, trench jumping, weapon handling, shooting practice, battle inoculation and horse riding.The Kharkan campus is well equipped with shooting ranges, training areas, stadium etc. It encompasses 224.5 acres of forest area around where several herds of monkeys, wild cats and snakes thrive. It is in this jungle that the trainees learn to set up camps. Despite cold weather, recruits have to wake up early in the morning and reach the training grounds even when it is still dark. The tough regime that they are made to follow for the 10-month training shapes up both their personality and built. The instructors training them on the campus share that there is a drastic change in the looks, conduct and posture of the trainees on the occasion of the passing-out parade and when their families catch up with them, it is difficult for them to recognise their wards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/the-border-warriors-359006
07-01-2022||Nawanshahr||National Lok Adalat on Mar 12||Road mishap victim succumbsJalandhar: Four days after receiving treatment at a private hospital, Kanan Juneja (25), a resident of Ladowali, succumbed to his injuries on Thursday. An interior designer by profession, the deceased was running her own business by the name ‘thearteriacasa’. She was quite popular on social media for her unique décor and designs. As per information, Juneja was admitted to the hospital after her car was reportedly hit by a truck near Thind Hospital. TNS2 inmates escape from Lambda JailJalandhar: Two prisoners escaped from Lambda Jail by climbing a wall on Wednesday night. Both men were under remand in a liquor smuggling case. One of them was recaptured while the other is still at large, officials said. The police said both the men broke the lock of their prison and escaped by climbing the back wall of the jail during the night. They said raids were being conducted to nab the absconding inmate. TNSStudent to get ‘Inspire Award’Jalandhar: Vyomkesh Gupta, a Class X student of Sanskriti KMV School, has been selected in Jalandhar district for ‘Inspire Awards – Manak’ for his model “Aerotrek”, a device generated to clean air using minimum devices. He will now also participate in the district level exhibition and project competitions (DLEPCs) this year. Principal Rachna Monga congratulated Vyomkesh and his parents for his genuine efforts. TNSTwo held with intoxicantsHoshiarpur: The police have arrested two smugglers near T-point Bhagat Nagar and recovered 150 sedative pills from them on Wednesday. The accused have been identified as Sanjeev Kumar alias Raja, a resident of Bhagat Nagar, and Rajinder Kumar alias Lucky, a resident of Shanti Nagar. They have been booked under the NDPS Act. OCYouth booked for luring minorHoshiarpur: The Tanda police have booked a youngster for allegedly luring a minor girl on the pretext of marriage. According to information, a resident of Ohadpur told the police that on December 22, Harvinder Singh alias Vicky, a resident of Jaja, lured his 15 year-old-daughter on the pretext of marriage. After registering the case, the police have started investigation. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/national-lok-adalat-on-mar-12-359007
