08-01-2022||Hoshiarpur||Poppy husk seized, 2 held||Four booked for kidnappingHoshiarpur: As many as four persons were booked on the charge of kidnapping minor girls on the pretext of marriage. A resident of Bassi Joda village, had lodged a complaint with Chabbewal police that Vijay Kumar, Rahul and Vinod Kumar, all residents of Rajni village, had come to his house on December 22 and threatened to take away his daughter. The miscreants later kidnapped his daughter, he alleged. The police have registered a case against the three accused. In another case, a resident of Phuglana village, had lodged a complaint with Mehtiana police, alleging that Sonu, who lives in his neighbourhood, lured his 14-year-old daughter on the pretext of marrying her. The police have registered a case in this regard. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/poppy-husk-seized-2-held-359298
08-01-2022||Jalandhar||Chess Competition at Innocent Hearts, Jalandhar||Interclass nail art competitionTo commemorate the 75th anniversary of India’s Freedom as Azadi Ka Mahotsav, the Department of Cosmetology of PCM SD College for Women, organised inter-class competition on nail art. Students of Beauty and Body Fitness, Diploma in Cosmetology and PG Diploma in Cosmetology participated in the competition. Kiranjit Kaur of BBF Semester I got first prize, Navdeep Sahota of Diploma in Cosmetology grabbed second prize and Anureet of BBF Semester I and Harnoordeep Kaur of BA Semester III bagged third prize in this competition. In addition to this, Janvi of BBF Semester I got consolation prize. The members of the managing committee and Principal Dr Pooja Prashar congratulated the winners.NSS volunteers visit Gakhal villageNSS volunteers of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya visited Gakhal village under Covid awareness campaign. The day started with recital of ‘DAV Gaan’ and Hum Honge Kamyaab song. Camp Coordinator Veena Arora briefed students about the day’s activities. General secretary, block samiti, Gakhal, Kulwinder Gakhal, president, Surinder Singh and Gurdwara Pradhan welcomed the NSS unit and briefed them about the village. The volunteers were divided into groups and these groups collected the data from approximately 150 houses. Principal Dr Ajay Sareen appreciated the work of NSS volunteers and NSS programme officers and encouraged them to serve the country through these social welfare works. Surinder Singh thanked Principal Dr Ajay Sareen for conducting such camps in their village and making the village girls empowered. NSS programme officers Harmanu, Dr Meenu Talwar, Manpreet Kaur and Pawandeep Kaur were also present.Innovative Labs come up at KMVIn Kanya Maha Vidyalaya, a new block has been constructed which houses many innovative labs. The labs would provide the most conducive environment to the students for research and innovation in their respective fields. These labs also provide hands on training to the students to enhance their skills. Due to the availability of world class labs that KMVites have been able to achieve 14 Intellectual Property Rights in different fields. KMV has various programmes that provide hands on training to the students namely BSc. IT, MSc. in Botany, Zoology, Chemistry, Physics, Fashion Designing and Merchandising and Masters in Journalism and Mass Communication. The Fibre Forensic Lab has high end forensic servers and work stations.Annual conference at lpuA two-day 20th annual conference ‘Share the Vision’ of Lovely Professional University (LPU) concluded on the campus, where all LPU faculty and staff members participated. The theme if this year was “Abhi to aur aage jaana hain” (still we have to go further). On the occasion, more than 1,050 university employees were also honoured with 20, 15, 10 and 5 year long ‘Association Awards’ for providing their services. Chancellor Ashok Mittal also announced a ‘Vision Fund’ for united potential and strategic activities of all departments. On this occasion, various achievements made in academics, research, placements, accreditations, rankings and awards, scientific nd technological competitions, sports and cultural activities and more were shared.Engg students shine in academicsStudents of St Soldier Institute of Engineering and Technology made the name of the institution bright by securing eight positions in the first 10 positions in the merit list of various courses declared by the IKG Punjab Technical University. Chairman of St. Soldier Group Anil Chopra, Principal Dr Gurpreet Singh Saini briefed that in BTech Automobile Avinash Kumar got third, in Electrical Amritpal Kaur got seventh, in MTech Mechanical Chandan Mehta got fourth, in Computer Science Baljinder Kaur got sixth and Rajwinder Kaur got the ninth position, in Post-Graduation Diploma in Digital Marketing, Lovepreet Bhalla got 6th, Payal Saini got seventh, Gurpreet Kaur got the ninth position. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/chess-competition-at-innocent-hearts-359295
08-01-2022||Jalandhar||Dr Dahiya assumes charge as head of general category panel||Dr Navjot Dahiya on Friday assumed the charge as chairperson of the Punjab State Commission for General Category (PSCGC) in the presence of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi.CM Channi said the commission would go a long way to safeguard the interests of the unreserved classes besides effective implementation of various welfare schemes for the benefit of poor belonging to unreserved classes. Prominent amongst others who were present on the occasion included Cabinet Ministers Pargat Singh and Raj Kumar Verka besides Balachaur MLA Chaudhary Darshan Lal Mangupur.Pertinently, Dr Navjot Dahiya, a Jalandhar-based, renowned consultant orthopedic and joint replacement surgeon is also national vice-president of the IMA. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dr-dahiya-assumes-charge-as-head-of-gen-category-panel-359294
08-01-2022||Garhshankar||2 arrested with stolen bikes in Garhshankar||The police party led by ASI Kaushal Chander, under the supervision of SHO, Garhshankar, Rajiv Kumar, has arrested two youths along with three stolen motorcycles and their parts. Kuldeep Kumar, a resident of Mohalla Jodiyan Ward No. 1, Garhshankar, had complained that he had parked his motorcycle in Khaddar Bhandar street. He alleged that Balraj Singh alias Tony, a resident of Moranwali, had stolen it. The police have registered a case against the accused and during the preliminary investigation arrested Balraj Singh alias Tony and Dalveer Singh alias Sonu along with the motorcycle parts and two more motorcycles. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-arrested-with-stolen-bikes-359293
08-01-2022||---||Trust vote: Observer skips Talwara MC meeting||Our CorrespondentTalwara, January 7A meeting of Talwara Municipal Council was organised on January 7 at 11 am in the context of the no-confidence motion related to the removal of the president of the Municipal Council. However, Mukerian SDM Navneet Kaur Bal, who was appointed as observer, failed to show up for the meeting. Duty magistrate Arvind Salwan; Naib Tehsildar Gursewak Chand, EO Simran Dhindsa and nine out of total 13 councilors attended the meeting.Due to the absence of the official, the meeting had to be adjourned once again. Notably, the meeting was earlier to be held on January 4 but had to be postponed due to the non-arrival of duty magistrate and observer on that day.According to a letter issued from the office of Talwara Municipal Council to DC, Hoshiarpur, today’s meeting had to be postponed due to the absence of the appointed observer. Now, the meeting will be held on January 10 at 3pm on the office premises of the council.In this regard, a letter has been sent by EO Simran Dhindsa to DC, Hoshiarpur, council president, all councillors and Dasuya MLA Arun Dogra which reads: “On the basis of Deputy Commissioner Hoshiarpur’s letter number 468/MA-2 dated 4-1-2022, on behalf of the no-confidence motion brought by councillors municipal council Talwara, a meeting was held on January 7 at 11 am. In this meeting Councillor Surinder Kaur from Ward No. 1 of Municipal Council, Munish Chadda from Ward No. 4, Taranjit Singh from Ward No. 6, Suman Dua from Ward No. 7, Vikas Chandra from Ward No. 8, Parminder Kaur from Ward No. 10, Shally Anand from Ward No. 11, Deepak Arora from Ward No. 12 and Councilor Joginder Pal from Ward No. 13 were present. While councillor from Ward No. 3 and council head Monika Sharma, Pawan Sharma from Ward No. 2, Kalavati from Ward No. 9 and (BJP) councilor Sunita Devi from Ward No. 5 did not attend the meeting”.DC, Hoshiarpur, had appointed SDM, Mukerian, Navneet Kaur Bal to attend the meeting as observer. She did not attend this meeting as she had to go to attend a meeting in Hoshiarpur held by DC, Hoshiarpur, regarding Covid-19. Due to this the council meeting had to be adjourned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/trust-vote-observer-skips-talwara-mc-meeting-359291
08-01-2022||---||Keep an eye on unauthorised liquor stock, Jalandhar DC tells cops, excise officials||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 7Keeping in view the forthcoming Assembly elections in the district, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori today ordered the officials of police and excise department to further intensify their drive against the illicit liquor smuggling and bootlegging so as to strict compliance of the directions of Election Commission in letter and spirit.Participating in a state-level virtual review meeting, the DC said all distilleries, warehouses, godowns, cold storages, etc in the district to be put under 24X7 CCTV monitoring to ensure that no liquor was released without proper licence. He emphasised on the need for round-the-clock monitoring of liquor vends, dhabas and other points, which could be used as potential storage points in terms of unauthorised liquor storage. He also said that special checking should be further organised in the coming days to check liquor smuggling and bootlegging in the district.He said it was due to increased vigil as a total of 3.62 lakh litres lahan was confiscated in December last while 7.12 lakh litres recovered and destroyed in the last seven months. Likewise, one bottling plant was also unearthed last year wherein FIR was registered against as many as 16 accused. The DC said that in a joint operation was also launched by officials of Jalandhar and Ludhiana district along Sutlej where massive recovery of 2.10 lakh litres of lahan was made in a single day.He said such kind of illegal practices would be dealt with heavy hands and strict action to be taken against the culprits. The DC said that more coordinated and concerted efforts to be made by the joint teams of the civil and police administration along with the excise department at the tehsil and subdivisional level for this purpose.DC Thori further added that special nakas were also being set up to check supply of alcohol/spirit/ chemical, which could be used as raw material, for making liquor. He also stated that special monitoring of the activities of history-sheeters was also being made as no one would be allowed take law in their hands.Prominent amongst others present on the occasion included DETC Jaskaran Singh Brar, Assistant Commissioner Excise Hanumant Singh, Ranjit Singh and Excise Officer Harjot Bedi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/keep-an-eye-on-unauthorised-liquor-stock-jalandhar-dc-tells-cops-excise-officials-359290
08-01-2022||---||Fight for MLA ticket: Now, Rajinder Beri holds show of strength||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 7Five days after Mayor Jagdish Raja claimed that 10 out of 19 Municipal Corporation Congress councillors from Jalandhar Central constituency wanted him as the candidate from the seat, sitting MLA from the seat Rajinder Beri has now paraded 12 party councillors in his favour.Other than his wife and councillor Uma Beri who came along him, the MLA had councillors Dr Jasleen Sethi (who is also District Congress Women Chief), Jagdish Gag, Mandeep Kaur Multani, Shamsher Singh Khaira, Mandeep Kumar Jassal, Parveena Manu, Dolly Saini, Paramjot Singh Sherry Chadha, Radhika Pathak, Palni Soami and Kamaljit Kaur Gullu on his side.There are 22 wards falling in the area, of which the party had lost three. The ward incharges of the party in these three wards including Jaswinder S Billa, Dr Sunil Sharma and Surinder Singh Pappa also came on his side. Others who came in his support were District Congress Committee Working President Harjinder Singh Ladda, two Block Presidents Prem Nath Dakoha and Rajesh Jindal Tonu, and District Youth Congress chief Angad Dutta. Three councillors from adjoining wards Hansraj Dhall, Manmohan Singh Mona and Balwinder Kaur Ladda also came in his support. Since councillor Neeraj Rani could not turn up, her nephew Jatinder Jony represented her.The councillors and office-bearers, who came in his support, said that the MLA readily offered them grants for the works in their wards. “He has helped us provide open gyms and LED lights and do the road relaying works in our wards. He has undertaken the works including those of Ladhwali railway crossing, NIIFT at Guru Gobind Singh Avenue and underpasses in Paragpur and Surya Enclave areas. He attends all social occasions including marriages and bhogs in the constituency”, they said in his praise suggesting that he deserved to get the party ticket yet again.Shifting allegiances||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fight-for-mla-ticket-now-beri-holds-show-of-strength-359288
08-01-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||Land acquisition for Amritsar-Bathinda-Jamnagar Expressway: Farmers demand adequate compensation||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, January 7Hundreds of farmers of Kapurthala district are distraught as they alleged that they were not getting adequate compensation for the proposed acquisition of the under-construction Amritsar-Bathinda-Jamnagar Expressway (NH-754).The farmers said they have written to the Punjab Chief Minister to take up their matter with the NHAI officials and the local land acquisition collectors or else they would be at a grave loss. The land of 12 villages of Kapurthala is to be acquired as per the plan — Tibba, Amanipur, Masitan, Khokhar Jadid (Kalewal), Lau, Meera, Harnampur Wadel, Wadhel Khuda Baksh Wala, Randhirpur, Gillian, Deepewal and Ugrupur villages. The villages fall in Bholath, Kapurthala and Sultanpur Lodhi tehsils.The residents of Wadhel Khuda Baksh Wala village have said with just Rs 21.01 lakh compensation for an acre of land as compared to Rs 68.61 lakh per acre coming to Khokhar Jadid village, they would be completely devastated.“Such a huge difference in the reward money for the lands falling in adjoining villages would be a great injustice to the owners who would not be fairly compensated. We have approached the Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner and DRO a number of times requesting them to have at least some uniformity in the rates of compensations for all villages but to no avail,” the farmers have mentioned in their appeal to the Punjab Chief Minister.Dayal Singh, a farmer of Deepewal village, said: “In 2012/2013, the then government had acquired the land for the NHAI from Amritsar-Tarn Taran-Bathinda, Moga-Barnala-Patiala and Jalandhar-Moga and a reward of Rs 80-90 lakh per acre had been given nearly a decade ago. But the present government is forcing people to give up their farmlands for a meagre amount of money. These farmlands are not only a source of income but have been nurtured by the tillers for generations. The proposed amount is not even close to what they we will need to resettle. We are demanding a compensation of Rs 90 lakh per acre in accordance with the market scenario.”The farmers have said that many of them after the acquisition would have no other source of income left as a small piece of land was their only means of livelihood, which too the government would take away.DC Deepti Uppal said: “Many farmers have started receiving compensation. There is not much of an issue. Land is being acquired in Kapurthala for various projects.”About the project||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-demand-adequate-compensation-359286
08-01-2022||---||255 new Covid cases surface in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 7After a big spurt of 280 Covid-19 cases in the district on Thursday, the district reported 255 fresh cases of the novel coronavirus on Friday. With the fresh cases, the infection tally has reached 64,543 in the district.Besides, health teams on Friday reached out to respective residences of the 15 passengers of the Italy-Amritsar flight who reached directly to their homes instead of the quarantine centre on Thursday night. Their samples were taken and sent for genome sequencing.Notably, three Omicron cases have already been reported from Jalandhar and due to a rush of Doaba NRIs these days, health teams have been sending more samples for genome sequencing every few days.Passengers defy normsThe day before yesterday, all passengers testing positive at any international airport were kept under institutional quarantine in their respective cities. But, the 19 passengers did not adhere to protocols. However, sources said passengers fearful of testing positive at the Amritsar airport as they claimed they had tested negative a day ago in Italy. In Jalandhar, the institutional quarantine arrangements for the 15 identified passengers had been made at the Co-operative Bank Training Centre where the Civil Surgeon and the ADC waited for them to turn up. Eager to get back home, not a single one of the 15 identified passengers returned to institutional quarantine place and asked ambulances to drop them home. Health teams reached out to them today. None of the 15 passengers are symptomatic.Thrust on samplingThe Civil Surgeon has been holding meetings with all SMOs in the morning in the midst of a dramatic rise in Covid-19 cases. The sampling for Covid-19 has also been ramped up to 3,500 per day amidst the increase in cases and the frequency of Omicron cases. Meanwhile, as many as 12,000 people also received the vaccine in the district.The district tally reached 64,543 with a whopping 255 new cases. As many as 62,169 people recovered from the disease in the district while the number of active cases reached 872. With no new death reported due to Covid-19 today, the death toll remained at 1,502.12 fresh cases in KapurthalaKapurthala district on Friday also saw a major jump in the number of cases with 92 new cases being reported. The district tally reached 18,085. Those tested positive included residents of Sultanpur Lodhi, Phagwara, Begowal, Dhilwan, Kala Sanghian and other places. Meanwhile, no new death due to Covid-19 was reported in the district. The death toll stood at 556.Hoshiarpur logs 72 casesThe health authorities on Friday reported 72 new Covid-19 cases, raising the tally to 31,294. Of them, 2,147 cases were reported from other districts. The district also reported the death of a 65-year-old woman, a resident of Block Bhudawar. She was under treatment at GMC, Amritsar, where she died.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/255-new-cases-surface-in-jalandhar-district-359284
08-01-2022||---||AAP activists clash, wave black flags at Raghav Chadha||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 7Resentment within the Aam Aadmi Party over the ticket disbursal process came to the fore today as disgruntled local party workers engaged in fisticuffs and laid siege to the venue of state unit co-incharge Raghav Chadha’s press meet here.Will sort it outSome hopefuls may not have got the ticket and are disappointed. They are our brothers. We will talk to them. It’s a democracy. — Raghav Chadha, Atate AAP Co-InchargeWhile resentment had already been brewing here ever since BJP leader Sheetal Angural, who recently joined the AAP, was fielded from Jalandhar West, workers today protested the candidature of Raman Arora from Jalandhar Central.While Chadha was here to announce the joining of several leaders, the event turned into a major embarrassment for the party as AAP workers and supporters of one of the candidates clashed with each other. Heated exchanges were witnessed between both sides after which they allegedly manhandled each other.Earlier, workers holding posters blocked the entry to the venue. They gathered around AAP vehicles and waved black flags at Chadha, delaying his entry to the venue. At one point, Chadha’s car was forced to turn around and had to return again amidst the protests.Former district president Dr Shiv Dyal Mali, party leader Iqbal Singh Dhindsa and several other workers held a protest against the party leadership.“Old leadership is driven out every elections. None of the good people are left in the party. A quartet of sycophants is calling the shots. All key organisational posts in the party have been taken over by leaders from Delhi and local leaders and workers are being sidelined,” claimed Dr Mali.The leaders who joined the party included Dinesh Dhal, former general secretary, Youth Congress; Amit Ratan, a social worker and DPS Walia, brother of former MP Charanjit Singh Walia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-activists-clash-wave-black-flags-at-chadha-359178
