09-01-2022||Avneet Kaur||Smart City: District tops in state; residents surprised||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 8Taking residents by surprise, Jalandhar has topped the list of Smart Cities in Punjab and is ranked 24th in the country. The Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs published a list of rankings of 100 cities on Thursday in which the district ranked 24th. But, people in the city are not at all convinced and doubt the criterion of ranking, saying the ground reality is that it’s still far away from comfort and good living conditions.Not just this, when the councilors of the city shared this information on social media, people started trolling the Municipal Corporation (MC), Jalandhar, by sharing pictures of broken and inundated roads, unsanitary conditions, traffic snarls and among other issues and raised questions on the ranking criteria. They said forget about Smart City, the actual situation is that many issues have not been resolved here for decades.Key demands from MC“I don’t agree with the ranking as nothing concrete has been done by the MC over traffic and waste management. Besides, a lot of other important issues like good infrastructure, roads and green cover too remain unaddressed. We should all work together to make the city better. Just announcing freebies won’t change anything, there is a need to focus on the ground reality”, said Jagteshwar Singh, a resident of Pratap Bagh.Another resident Robin Sharma said issues such as traffic snarls, air and noise pollution, illegal constructions, and many others are common here. “It’s raining since the last few days, and the situation is that every second road in the city is waterlogged forcing residents to stay indoors”, he said, adding that the city will be a smart city in true sense when living conditions improve here.The Municipal Corporation Commissioner, Karnesh Sharma, said the city ranking has been given on the basis of project implementation, fund transfer and fund utilisation under Smart City Mission. He said under the Smart City mission, the MC is planning to have an Integrated Command & Control Center which will enhance safety and security besides improving efficiency of municipal services.“Major infrastructure works are in full swing in the city. Primary among these are storm sewer lines, smart roads, biomining, construction and demolition waste processing. Apart from these, work on the ground level has also started on two major sports infrastructure development projects i.e. Sports Hub at Burlton Park and Astroturf Hockey Ground at Mithapur,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/smart-city-district-tops-in-state-residents-surprised-359528
09-01-2022||---||Just 3,000 in  15-18 age group jabbed so far||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 8Five days after the start of the vaccination drive for children aged between 15-18 age group, merely 3,000 have been vaccinated so far. As compared to the adult vaccination drive of all categories, the drive for getting Covaxin for children of 15 to 18 years old is comparatively quite slow. In view of the inclement weather today, reduced vaccinations at some of the centres in Jalandhar were witnessed. Only 393 people in the 15 to 18 age group turned up to be vaccinated today. At many vaccine centres vacination process was also wrapped up earlier due to lesser people turning uop for the vaccine.However, in comparison, the district managed an impressive overall total of 12,000 Covid vaccinations (for all age age groups today).Meanwhile, instructions were also issued by the district administration to ensure that all the staff on election duty is fully vaccinated.Of the 12,000 vaccines (all categories) administered today as many as 2,000 vaccine doses were administered at the Kartarpur centre alone.Yesterday, 13,000 vaccines were administered in the adult all ages category.While as many as 25,51,623 vaccines have been administered in the district; of these 15,27,150 are first dose of the Covid vaccine and as many as 10,24,464 people have received the second dose of the Covid vaccine. Meanwhile, in view of the upcoming elections, the vaccine status of all election duty staff is being reviewed on priority basis.Distrsict Immunisation Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra said, “It has been found that 99 per cent of the election duty staff, including teachers, health workers etc., have been vaccinated for one dose. They will also be vaccinated with the second soon. The inclement weather has payed temporary spoilsport but the vaccine process is being ramped up to ensure proper vaccination of all.”The vaccination process will be on only in a few centres on Sunday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/just-3-000-in-15-18-age-group-jabbed-so-far-359529
09-01-2022||---||New high : 314 fresh Covid cases in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, January 8As many as 314 new cases of Covid were reported in Jalandhar on Saturday, taking the Covid tally in Jalandhar to 64,857 cases. As many as 62,209 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar have reached 1,146 today. With no new death reported from Covid today the deceased tally in Jalandhar remained at 1,502.53 cases in KapurthalaA total of 53 new Covid cases were reported from Kapurthala today, taking the district tally to 18,138 cases. Those tested positive include residentds of Sultanpur Lodhi, Begowal, Bholath, RCF, Dhilwan, Kala Sanghhian, Fattu Dhinga among other places. Meanwhile, no new death was reported in Kapurthala today. The total deceased tally at Kapurthala until now, remains at 556.119 test +ve in HoshiarpurThe health authorities reported 119 new Covid-19 cases in the district on Saturday. With this, the tally increased to 31,413. It includes 2,151 cases reported from other districts. The authorities reported zero Covid-19 related death in the district today. The toll stands at 999.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/new-high-314-fresh-covid-cases-in-jalandhar-district-359530
09-01-2022||---||Pull down political hoardings: DC||Jalandhar, January 8As the Election Commission of India on Saturday announced the schedule for Assembly poll, Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Election Officer Ghanshyam Thori directed all enforcement agencies to ensure strict compliance of model code of conduct (MCC).He also asserted that strict action would be initiated in case of any violation of MCC in the district as per the guidelines of ECI.The DC also asked the officers of government departments to take down the images of political leaders etc from their websites/web pages immediately besides removing all political posters and hoarding from the public properties. Similarly, he also instructed the Municipal Corporation, ADC (Urban Development) and other concerned authorities to ensure prevention of defacement of property by strict compliance of instructions with time bound action. He said that government property includes government premises, any government office and the campus wherein the office building is situated.In these building all wall writings/posters of defacement on any other form cutout/hoardings etc. and in public space like railway station, bus stand, airport, railway bridges, buses, poles, shall be removed within 48 hours within the MCC’s announcement, he added. Likewise, all unauthorised political hoardings at private property and subject to local law shall be removed within 72 hours.78.84 per cent licenced arms depositedThe DC in a video conferencing with Punjab Chief Electoral Officer S Karuna Raju said in Jalandhar nearly 78.84 per cent licensed arms had already been deposited in the district. He said that 1,163 micro observers would be deputed at all 1974 polling stations in the district.Teams formed in NawanshahrDeputy Commissioner-cum-District Election Officer Vishesh Sarangal on Saturday said the district administration would ensure strict enforcement of the model code of conduct (MCC) to ensure free, fair, transparent and peaceful polls during the assembly elections. He said we would ensure the prohibitions and limitations imposed by the ECI in wake of Covid-19 protocols.The DC said any sort of violation of the MCC would invite stern action by the administration. He said the administration has constituted several committees at the district level as well as assembly constituency level and disclosed that media certification and monitoring committee, vehicle management teams, expenditure monitoring committee, model code of conduct teams, video viewing teams and accounting teams, flying squad teams, static surveillance teams, video viewing teams, accounting teams and others to ensure strict implementation of the model code of conduct.He said the people can also lodge their complaints regarding the violation of the Model Code of Conduct through 1,950 toll free number. He said that the Election Commission of India has introduced cVigil app for effective implementation of the MCC as per which every election related complaint within 100 minutes.The District Election Officer said through this app prompt action would be taken against every complaint regarding the violation of the code. He said that any individual can load video clip or picture regarding the violation of code.The District Election Officer further said that notification of election would be issued on January 21, nomination can be filed for the three assembly constituencies of Banga, Nawanshahr and Balachaur in district at the respective SDMs offices till January 28, scrutiny of nomination papers would be held on January 29 and withdrawal of nomination till January 31 and voting would be held on February 14. He said that the counting of the votes would be done on March 10.He directed the officials to immediately remove all political hoardings/posters/banners from roads, electricity, telephone poles, trees, government buildings and other places and also fixed deadline of 48 hours for removal of political slogans or pictures on local level official websites.He ordered them to set up nakas to ensure check on illicit liquor, drugs and money, to lure the voters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pull-down-political-hoardings-dc-359531
09-01-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||Rallies banned, candidates now active on social media||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 8Even as some candidates are a bit upset over the Election Commission of India announcing restrictions on conducting of rallies, road shows and nukkad meetings till January 15, there are others who have chosen to go on social media and be creative from Day 1.Sheetal Angural, Aam Aadmi Party candidate from Jalandhar West, drew a lot of attention on his Facebook account today as he chose to sit in inundated 120-feet road during rains this evening. Going live on his Facebook page, he chose to drench himself completely in the cold, standing rainwater as he squatted in the middle of the road.Those standing around him requested him to get up but he said he wanted to expose the working of the Congress MLA from the area who could not help the residents bail out of the problem of water logging in the past five years of his working. He went all around the area to show how car owners had got stuck up due to the mess. He even got his camera panned towards a scooterist who fell off due to huge puddles.Similarly, SAD MLA from Jalandhar Cantonment Jagbir Brar went on Garha Road outside PIMS and showed to his followers on FB as to how a road constructed just two weeks ago had got tattered after the rains. “The state government has used material of poor quality and had tried to dupe the voters with a cover-up which has got exposed in the first rains. Who is responsible for this huge fraud?” he has asked training his guns against the area MLA and minister Pargat Singh.If this was not all, BJP leader from Jalandhar North KD Bhandari too went on FB today to say that an amount of Rs 7 crore spent by Congress MLA Bawa Henry for the laying of Sodal stormwater sewer seemed to have gone down the drain. He posted four photographs of the flooded Preet Nagar area on the social media.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rallies-banned-candidates-now-active-on-social-media-359532
09-01-2022||---||Nawanshahr wins national award in water conservation||Nawanshahr, January 8The Nawanshahr district on Saturday added another feather in its cap by securing prestigious national award in water conservation and adjudged best second district in North Zone by Ministry of Jalshakti/Department of Drinking Water and Sanitation.The Ministry of Jalshakti had announced 3rd National Water Award-2020 and announced Nawanshahr second best district award followed by Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh.Applauding the efforts of various departments, Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal called it a red letter day and said that Nawanshahr is only district from the Punjab to get this coveted award.He said the award is recognition to the officers/officials who have worked zealously for running a mass movement in the district to save the depleting groundwater table and conserving the water.Sarangal said the district laid its major focus on rejuvenating the rivers, preserving the floodplains, cleaning drains, creating artificial recharge structures, maintaining existing recharge systems, silt detention structures, adopting pipeline system for agriculture ensuring efficient use and distribution of water, promoting direct paddy sowing, micro irrigation system, rooftop water harvesting system, constructing soak pits in schools, sewage treatment plant in city, Seechewal Model in villages, massive plantation drive, Jal Andolan meetings with panchayats, MCs for awareness , competitions in schools and others way to ensure significant results by running social movement in this direction.He said district administration would now make greater efforts to serve people with far more humility and dedication in future. He added that the award would also help in more awakening of the people about this grave issue of immense public importance.Deputy Commissioner said the district administration is making strenuous efforts for saving water so that our coming generations are able to get fresh water for drinking.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-wins-national-award-in-water-conservation-359533
09-01-2022||---||Incessant rain adds to woes of commuters||Jalandhar, January 8As the city received incessant rain accompanied by lightning and thunder from Friday night, residents woke up to waterlogging on Saturday morning. The day temperature was recorded at 13 degrees Celsius today, while on Friday it was 15 degrees Celsius. Low-lying areas and many residential localities near Sodal, Basti areas, Jag Jivan Ram Chowk were worst affected.Several roads and localities, including Kapurthala Chowk, Workshop Chowk, Sodal Road, Pathankot Bypass, Central town, Rama Mandi Road, Partap Bagh, Railway Road, 120ft Road, 66ft Road, Damoria underbridge, Ladowali Road, Chandan Nagar and among other areas, turned into water streams, causing severe inconvenience to motorists, rickshaw-pullers, car drivers and auto operators.Meanwhile, former BJP MLA, KD Bhandari while standing in the knee-deep water near Preet Nagar, slammed the Congress for not utilising the funds in a right way. He said besides laying storm sewer lines in the area, waterlogging still persists.Raman Arora, a resident, said, “It is unfortunate that the MC is paying no heed to basic civic issues. You ask councillors or MLAs of their achievement, they’ll hand you a list of projects completed worth hundreds of crore. Besides they will make tall claims that the city is well equipped to tackle the problem of waterlogging. But, the ground reality is completely opposite.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/incessant-rain-adds-to-woes-of-commuters-359534
09-01-2022||Aparna Banerji||Irate AAP activists refuse to relent||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 8A day after the intense protest against AAP co-convener Raghav Chadha on his arrival in Jalandhar, disgruntled workers of the Aam Aadmi Party have decided to oppose the outfit during the elections. The volunteers will meet at the old party office of the AAP at Choti Baradari on Sunday to discuss their future strategy. Irate AAP activists said they would protest against the party and campaign door-to-door.Who is Dr Shiv Dayal Mali?Ironically, the old party office belongs to former candidate Dr Sanjeev Sharma, from where the party leaders used to address conferences. The same office would now serve as a space for the party’s break-away workers.The members who opened front against the AAP include former district chief Dr Shiv Dayal Mali, former candidate Dr Sanjeev Sharma, Iqbal Singh Dindsa and Joginder Pal Sharma among others. Both Dr Mali and Dhindsa were present at the stir on Friday.Over 150 former party workers, volunteers and dissidents created ruckus and came to blows ahead of a press conference of Chadha on Friday.Earlier, Dr Manish Raizada, former co-convener (US), had alleged that transparency in the party has taken a hit in the recent years.The allegations have been identical to ignoring veterans to field new candidates.The AAP recently declared Sheetal Angural as a candidate from Jalandhar (West) segment. Dr Mali, who has been with the AAP for the past six years, was expecting a party ticket from Jalandhar (West).Dr Mali said, “We have been observing this for the last two years. Giving ticket to a candidate with questionable credentials is too much. Given the autocratic strategy and systematic sidelining of the old guard, we will hold meetings and go door-to-door to raise awareness against the AAP supporters.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/irate-aap-activists-refuse-to-relent-359535
09-01-2022||Jalandhar||Slogan-writing competition||Digital library for studentsKanya Maha Vidyalaya KMV has smoothly made its transition to digital education said principal Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi. She said Balbir Raj Sondhi Library of KMV has shifted to the digital platform for the facilitation of the students. The KMV library houses approximately 1 lakh books along with journals and magazines. Library is providing the service of ‘Open Access Catalogue’ to the students through which students can easily make out as which book is available in the library. Along with this, library also has numerous online resources/ databases namely N-list, DELNET and NDLI. All these resources are also available at college website. Facilitating the students, the library has also registered all the students on virtual platform. Dr Dwivedi said KMV has always taken lead in providing digital education to its students. She further maintained that students can now also take the benefits of library on digital platform as they will get all kinds of e-resources for their study in one single click.LPU lifts football, boxing trophyLovely Professional University is on a winning spree. The university was runners-up in the football championship (women), which was held at Annamalai University, Tamil Nadu. In boxing (men), the LPU boxers proved their mettle. Director and organising secretary of All India Inter University Women Football Tournament, Dr M Raja Shekaran said the LPU clinched bronze medal. The LPU’s women team dominated the game. Earlier, the LPU’s women football team had got the coveted position during the AIU’s North Zone Inter-university Championship-2021. Prof Dr V Kaul, secretary, All India Inter University Boxing Tournament, informed that the LPU stood second runners-up by winning three gold medals, a silver and a bronze medal. LPU Pro-Chancellor Rashmi Mittal asked the players to follow in the footsteps of the Olympians. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/slogan-writing-competition-359536
09-01-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||Post poll code, protesters end their month-long stir||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 8As the model code of conduct came into effect on Saturday, the protesters who had been sitting on dharnas for the past few weeks have finally started to vacate their sites.The teachers, including those from ETT-TET Pass Teachers’ Union, Umeployed BEd TET-pass Teachers’ Union and Guest Faculty Assistant Professors, had been squatting in the city at various locations raising their demands against Education Minister Pargat Singh. They had braved extremely cold weather and heavy rains from the past nearly four days while continuing to hold their forte underneath the tents here.Pargat today went to the tent of the Guest Faculty Assistant Professors adjacent to his house and assured them that they would be retained and any fresh appointments would not affect their prospects. “They were under some doubt and wanted a single line rectification to be done, which was finally made and they are going back happily,” the minister said. Harminder Singh Dimple, who was leading the protest, said, “We feel victorious after 21 days of our tough struggle.”The members of the Unemployed B.Ed TET-pass Teachers’ Union have decided to lift their dharna on Monday. They have been lodging protest near an overhead water tank close to the bus stand. Two members of the union Manish Kumar and Jaswant Ghubaya have spent 75 days atop the tank. “We will bring them down on Monday and drop them back home. As the elections have been announced, we will resume our protest from March 18,” said Sukhwinder Azad, a union leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/post-poll-code-protesters-end-their-month-long-stir-359537
09-01-2022||Jalandhar||Rana Gurjeet tests positive||Smuggler held with sedativesHoshiarpur: Model Town police station have arrested a smuggler and recovered a huge quantity of sedative capsules from him on yesterday. The accused has been identified as Omkar Chand, a resident of Sunder Nagar. He has been booked under the NDPS Act. OCOne killed in road mishapHoshiarpur: One person was killed after being hit by a private company bus yesterday. Dasuya police station have registered a case against the accused driver. Ajay Kumar, a resident of Sansarpur village, told the police that his father Bachan Singh was hit by a mini bus near Ghogra village. After which he took him to the hospital in Dasuya, where the doctors declared him dead. The police have registered a case against the accused driver Ravinder Kumar, a resident of Beh Fatto. OCTwo booked for stealing scooterHoshiarpur: Sadar police station have booked two persons for stealing a scooter from outside the hotel. Rakesh Kumar, a resident of Thathala village, told the police that he had come on his scooter to appear in an interview as a security guard in a hotel in Islamabad. When he came out after some time, he found that his scooter was missing from there. During the preliminary probe, he came to know that his scooter was stolen by Rakesh Kumar alias Raja, a resident of Delhi Gate, Hariana and Sandeep Kumar, a resident Bhikhowal Kullian. OCRs27K cash, gold chain snatchedHoshiarpur: The police have registered a case against seven unidentified persons on charge of stealing cash and gold ornaments. Paramjit Singh, a resident of Mahilpur, has lodged a complaint with the police. He told that while going home, when he reached near Gondpur village, he was stopped by three people in a car on the opposite side. As he stopped, four more people came there. He said after assaulting him, the accused stole Rs 27,000 in cash, a gold chain, watch and a head phone from his car. OCCash stolen from golakHoshiarpur: The police have registered a case for stealing cash by breaking the golak (donation box) of gurdwara in Tanda Ram Sahai village. Sukhwinder Singh, granthi, said unknown thieves broke the golak, stole cash and took it away. The police have registered the case and initiated the probe. Oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rana-gurjeet-tests-positive-359538
