10-01-2022||Aparna Banerji||Punjab Assembly polls: Amid Covid curbs, infected politicians go digital||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 9The surge in viral infections has had an adverse impact on the election scenario as political parties and candidates have been advised by the Election Commission to campaign via the virtual mode.Home quarantinedWith strict guidelines in place, several leaders from the region have begun their campaign while being in home quarantine after having tested positive.BJP’s Manoranjan Kalia, who tested positive on January 5, has been in quarantine for the past one week. Speaking to The Tribune over the phone, Kalia said: “I will get tested tomorrow. In view of the Covid protocol, elections are indeed different this time. I will step out and start meeting people as soon as I test negative. Though the campaign will be in smaller groups under the strict social distancing protocol, abiding by the guidelines is in everyone’s interest. We will avoid large gatherings.”Cabinet Minister and Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjeet Singh, who tested positive on Saturday night, has been keeping in touch with people over the phone. While his wife has been going out to campaign, he is confined to home. “I’m currently relaxing. I have been in quarantine since yesterday. I quite like the new guidelines. People have seen our work for five years. The last few days won’t change things. It is enough for them to decide our fate,” he said.AAP leader and member of the dissident volunteers group Dr Sanjeev Sharma, who too had tested positive, said: “I stepped out of the house for the first time after recovering. Shifting to the virtual mode will impact poor candidates as they won’t be able to garner necessary base that more influential or educated candidates can,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-curbs-infected-politicians-go-digital-359809
10-01-2022||---||Jalandhar bizman's luxury car snatched at gunpoint, police clueless||Jalandhar, January 9Two miscreants snatched a BMW car of a city-based businessman at gunpoint from outside Hot Drive in the posh Model Town locality on late Saturday evening.The complainant, Puneet Ahuja, a resident of JP Nagar here, said he along with his wife were sitting in their car, which was parked close to the main entrance of Hot Drive and waiting for the takeaway. He said as the doors were unlocked, two unidentified men opened the rear door and sat at the back seat.Second incident in less than 3 weeks“My wife and I shouted and asked them to get out of the car. They first said sorry and then kept on saying that they were to be seated in a similar registration number vehicle and have mistakenly came here. They asked us to remain seated saying they’ll get out of the car. However, when they were not moving, my wife and I got suspicious and we came out of the car,” Puneet said.He further said that his money and other items were in the car and even the car keys were inside. “I was standing out, while they were inside my car. It was at that moment I noticed my cash, which was kept at the dashboard was missing. I again asked them to get out of the car and shouted for help, but they pointed a gun at me and in fear I ran inside the restaurant and by the time they fled the spot in the car,” he added.When asked about the appearance of the accused, he said there were three persons. While two were seated in his car, the third one was giving them instructions from outside. “One man was speaking pure Punjabi and had a healthy physique and beard, while the other one had foreign accent,” he said.The SHO (Division Number 6), Surjeet Singh Gill, said the police are investigating the matter and had taken out CCTV footage from different locations of Model Town. He said an FIR under Section 379B, 34 of the IPC and under the Arms Act, 1959, has been registered today. “The police have traced the vehicle last near Goindwal Sahib. An alert has been sounded in the state, we will soon nab the accused,” he added.There were reports that the stolen BMW was recovered from fields near Batala Road on Sunday evening, but SHO Gill denied reports saying he hasn’t received any such information.“Such incidents have become common now. The overall law and order situation in the city is grim. There seems to be no fear of the cops among the goons. Incidents such as theft, snatching, illegal drugs are on the rise,” said Sanjay Singh, a resident of Sodal.“Despite Section 144 has been imposed in city, a businessman was looted on gunpoint in the most posh area i.e. Model Town,” said another resident Kamaldeep.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bizmans-luxury-car-snatched-at-gunpoint-police-clueless-359847
10-01-2022||---||Teachers climb down water tank in Jalandhar, but spirits up||Jalandhar, January 9Amidst raising of slogans and ‘jaikaras’ (victory slogans), Munish Fazilka and Jaswant Ghubaya’s around 77-day-long protest atop a dilapidated water tank in the bus stand came to an end here on Sunday.Members of the BEd TET Pass Teachers Union, they had been protesting atop the tank since October 28. The same day their union started a pakka morcha in Jalandhar.The union moved their protest to Jalandhar with MLA Pargat Singh being appointed as the state Education Minister. The protest was withdrawn by the union after the announcement of the poll code and elections on Saturday.Though they have come down, their protest continues. The duo refused to move down the tank amid intense cold and heavy rain. Munish whose health took a turn for the worse several times during his stay on the tank refused to come down despite union colleagues and doctors’ insistence.Both the protesters were taken straight to hospital soon after coming down. Munish had been previously checked by doctors atop the tank after Munish got serious on November 15.Before coming to Jalandhar, Munish had been protesting in Sangrur, where then education minister Vijay Inder Singla resided, since August 21 last year. Munish and Jaswant used utensils to urinate atop the water tank.Hailing from Mandi Arniwala village in Jalalabad, Fazilka, Munish has two brothers, one is employed in the Pesticide Department and the second is a grocer.The partial victory that he and his union were able to garner through the protest was the notification for recruitment of teachers on 4,185 posts in the Education Department.The union considers it a partial victory as they had been demanding advertisement for appointment on 9,000 posts (primarily with Punjabi, Hindi and social studies subjects). While Munish and Jaswant protested on the tank, the union members held several fierce protests outside the Education Minister’s house in Jalandhar through these months.On one occasion, immolation bids were also made by them outside the residence of Pargat Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/teachers-climb-down-but-spirits-up-359848
10-01-2022||---||278 fresh Covid cases in Jalandhar district, tally crosses 65K||Jalandhar, January 9As many as 278 new cases of Covid-19 were reported from Jalandhar today, taking the Covid tally to 65,135 cases. As many as 62,233 people have recovered from the disease in the district while the number of active cases has reached 1,400. With no new death reported today, the deceased tally in Jalandhar remained at 1,502. Of the 19,17,345 samples collected in the district, so far, 17,77,380 samples have tested negative.43 infected in KapurthalaA total of 43 new cases of Covid were reported from Kapurthala district today, taking the district tally to 18,181. Those tested positive included residents of Begowal, Bholath, Dhilwan, Kala Sanghhian, Fattu Dhinga among other places. Meanwhile, no new death was reported in Kapurthala. The total deceased tally remains at 556.132 +ve in HoshiarpurThe health authorities reported 132 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday. With this, the tally rose to 31,545. This includes 2,163 cases reported from other districts. Death due to Covid-19 includes a 55-year-male resident of Dhobi Ghat, Street no.1 in Hoshiarpur city. He died at the IVY Hospital, Hoshiarpur. With it, the death toll so far became 1,000. There are 495 active cases in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/278-fresh-covid-cases-in-dist-tally-crosses-65k-359851
10-01-2022||---||Administration prepared to ensure peaceful elections: Jalandhar DC Ghanshyam Thori||Jalandhar, January 9Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Sunday asserted that the district administration is all set to ensure free, fair and peaceful conduct of elections with making all necessary arrangements at all levels.The DC said there were total 16,50,867 voters in all nine Assembly segments of which 8,58,305 are male and 7,92,532 female voters while 30 voters are of third gender. There were a total of 45,610 voters above the age of 80 years whereas the number of voters in the 18-19 year age group is 27,042. As many as 11,692 PwD voters in the district, said Deputy Commissioner adding that 73 NRI voters as per the list so far.Postal ballot for senior citizensHe said there were 1,974 polling stations, all under CCTV surveillance. These booths also included 59 model polling stations besides dedicated polling stations for women one each in nine constituencies. Thori said one polling station would be operated by PwDs at Pingalwara.Nine flying squads teams are deployed in each constituency to keep a close vigil on violation, if any, of Model Code of Conduct, said Thori.He said the ECI had fixed election expenditure up to Rs 40 lakh by a candidate, which should be strictly followed. He said that candidates should maintain a record of expenditure with not disbursing cash against works related to elections in case of payment was more than 10,000. He also asked the bank officials to report suspicious deposit and withdrawal of more than Rs. 1 lakh to election office. He also instructed the printers/publishers to mention print line and quantity of material to be published.The Deputy Commissioner also took a round of District level Media Certification and Monitoring Committee, District Level setup in room no 14-A of the DAC, where teams were deployed to check paid news besides providing pre-certification of advertisements and publicity material to political parties. The Deputy Commissioner also went to District level Ballot Sorting and Facilitation Centre, District Level Grievances Redressal and Call Centre. He also motivated the staff deployed at different committees and centres to discharge their duties with utmost dedication and commitment so that the seamless election procedures could be ensured.Speaking about the Covid protocols, Thori said there would no political rally, gathering etc. till January 15. Only candidate can canvass with five persons up to the time given by the commission, he added. The personnel on poll duty are being vaccinated and 96 percent staff had received both doses so far. He said the voters will be given hand gloves to ensure their safety while casting votes. Moreover, if any voter was found having any symptoms, he/she will be called to cast vote at a different time slot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/administration-prepared-to-ensure-peaceful-elections-dc-359853
10-01-2022||---||Citing Ravidas Jayanti, Dalits want change in date of polling||Jalandhar, January 9Members of the Zameen Prapti Sangharsh Committee and the Pendu Mazdoor Union Punjab on Sunday condemned the declaration of Assembly poll in the state before the birth anniversary of Guru Ravidas on February 16 this year.While the Doaba region has a 44 per cent Dalit vote share, key election decisions are made with the Dalit populace on mind in the state. However, the members said the announcement of the polling date just two days before Guru Ravidas Jayanti would upset their preparations for the day.Tarsem Peter, state president of the Pendu Mazdoor Union, and press secretary Kashmir Singh Ghughshore said on the day of voting on February 14, a large number of people would head to Varanasi for the jayanti.Notably, lakhs of Dalits head to the Sri Guru Ravidas Janam Asthan at Seer Goverdhanpur/Begampura in Varanasi every year on the day of the jayanti. Special trains have also been started by the government for pilgrimage and lakhs of Dalits from the region would travel to Varanasi to pay obeisance.Zameen Prapti Sangharsh Committee leaders Mukesh Malaud and Bikker Singh said many people were in transit or are making preparations for the jayanti these days. But with the poll date announced two days before the jayanti, their plans will be affected.The unions alleged that fixing the voting date near the saint’s birthday was a disregard to the community. They demanded voting should held at a later date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/citing-ravidas-jayanti-dalits-want-change-in-date-of-polling-359854
10-01-2022||Beware of nefarious activities in city||Open House:  What should be done to avert terror strikes and ensure safety & security of the public?||As the Assembly elections are approaching, so are the terrorist activities being perpetrated by anti-social elements? The violence in Ludhiana may be a trailer to much more violence ahead. Public, police and the administration should all be on an alert and be aware of such nefarious activities. During elections, the police are busy about the safety of the leaders and politicians of all hues and parties. Though they should be given due security, it’s also essential for the safety and security of the public. Awareness should be generated on radio, TV and newspapers to make everybody aware of the violence by the rogue elements and how to prevent such happenings. There is no scope for any complacency during such occasions. Not only the rogue elements, also but some foreign powers may also be involved in such heinous crimes. Because they know that there would be huge rallies by political parties and the public attending such rallies would be soft targets for violence. So awareness and due attention is the key and need of the hour to prevent such violence.Dr JS WadhwaHi-tech surveillance need of the hourMaintaining law and order is an essential part of good governance. Obviously, it is the foremost duty of the administration to maintain peace and harmony for an inclusive growth, as the lawlessness and terror leads to chaos and halts the progress made. Punjab, being a border state, has been a victim of several incidents of terror and turmoil since Partition in 1947. While the cross-border terrorism has been a constant threat to our stability, mindless acts of brutal and fanatic forces from within the country vandalising the social fabric are a cause for serious concern. In the recent past, attempts of desecration at religious places to spread communal tension and then a bomb blast on December 23 in Ludhiana Courts complex, otherwise regarded highly impregnable, has raised major issues. Such heinous incidents putting many innocent lives in grave danger ought to be curbed with an iron hand. Assembly polls in Punjab are round the corner. Some extortionists and political opportunists may vitiate the environment to serve their vested interests. To avert such instances, law enforcing agencies need to be more alert while the public may assist them by quick exchange of information they come across about suspicious elements. The culprits, indulging in criminal acts, must be brought to book without delay. High definition CCTV cameras be invariably installed and regularly monitored at all vulnerable places. To top it, use of high-tech equipment for checking and surveillance is the need of hour, whereas the public be regularly sensitised to be extra careful while visiting crowded places. Police patrolling and security be further stepped-up so that mischief-mongers do not dare to carry any heinous activity during the forthcoming elections. The safety and security of people must be ensured by all means.Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathDeploy efficient law & order machineryTerrorist strikes as a political weapon to influence voters in the electoral process is a world phenomenon. Most of such attacks aim at deterring the participation of voters and candidates, building a radical rhetoric about the persecution of particular communities and most importantly, bringing about a greater degree of polarisation in the electorate. However, in the context of Punjab elections, the objectives of these attacks can be attributed to malign the stability of the state by creating a deteriorating law and order narrative and more significantly to garner votes from a particular community by disturbing the communal harmony in the state. But these terrorist attacks can be prevented through the optimum use of security infrastructure and efficient deployment of law and order machinery supported by political will of the government. Police intelligence units are required to be revamped and a follow-up action on the basis of intelligence inputs need to be initiated under the specific and responsible command. The option of deployment of the central security agencies at vulnerable points should be considered for the strategic support to the local police.Jagdish ChanderAlert people, Tighten up the securityPeople have been alerted and their safety and security has been violated. The sudden bomb blast has resulted in casualties and injuries too. Now, the citizens are hesitating to go to the District Courts because of the recent incident. The administration can take up various steps to provide safety to the citizens. The administration can tighten up the security and also provide relief to people who have been struck by this. Also, they could carry out checking at each and every entrance and exit points. Now, the question arises, is it safe to go to the district courts for petty cases or straight away go to the high court as a concern of safety?Sanidhya BhaskarBe vigilant, round up suspicious personsPunjab suffered a decade of militancy in the past, many innocent lives were lost, law and order situation also worsened, and there was a lot of fear among the masses and the life used to halt after the sunset. The neighboring country was trying to play a proxy war to destabilise the unity and integrity of India but failed in their nefarious designs. The recent bomb blast at the District Courts Complex, Ludhiana, has once again raised the eyebrows of the common man in regard to their safety and security. The recent cancellation of Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi’s public rally in Ferozepur near the border, hardly a few kilometers away has also raised many questions in the minds of the masses with regard to the security of VVIP’s. As Punjab is going for the Assembly polls just in few days, nobody should be allowed to take law and order in his own hand and the police authorities should go for checking round the clock and the suspicious persons should be rounded up for verifications to ensure law and order in Punjab.Rajat Kumar MohindruIdentify perpetrators of such crimesFor quite some time, Punjab has been witnessing stray incidents of sacrilege, seizure of arms and explosives and bomb blasts ahead of Assembly polls which have the potential to impact electoral discourse. These have evoked mixed reactions from various quarters. Political parties, whether in power or in opposition, often float conspiracy theories and blame one another for these ghastly acts. Undoubtedly, some scheming and wily politicians revel in the dangerous mix of religion and politics, and deftly indulge in cognitive manipulations to win the elections. The security and intelligence agencies do not rule out the hand of anti-national elements within the country or across its western borders to revive terrorist activities. The basic purpose behind is to intimidate the people, disturb peace and communal harmony, polarise votes or destabilise the border state. The recent bomb blast at the District Courts Complex in Ludhiana has raised questions about the performance of the current Congress dispensation. This is an ample proof of its dismal failure to check the deteriorating law and order situation in the state. Since it is the constitutional duty of the government to ensure the safety and security of people, the authorities should revamp the police and administrative set-up on a priority basis and install functional CCTV cameras at all important religious, official and other public places. They should make a thorough probe to identify the alleged perpetrators and bring them to book. At the same time, political parties should avoid competitive, opportunistic politics and endeavour to address such sensitive issues united.DS KangKeep vigil on social media platformsThere is no doubt that the gruesome bomb blast at the Ludhiana District Courts Complex in the run-up to the ensuing Assembly elections in Punjab has raised a serious concern. Its timing has prompted the political parties to indulge in a blame game to win brownie points in the electoral fray but the police authorities have labelled it as an act of terrorism to vitiate peace and communal harmony. Till the true facts and identity of those involved in the crime come to light after a proper investigation, the whole incident is shrouded in a mystery. Whatever it is, one thing is very clear that it is a major security lapse. The state government has totally failed in its responsibility to defeat such diabolic designs and provide safety and security to its citizens in this heightened electoral temperature. Seeing Punjab’s fragile situation, it is imperative to preserve its socio-religious fault lines at all costs. To check subversive and divisive forces, the government should increase vigilance and tighten security at vulnerable public places, keep a strict watch on the social media platforms and check dropping of arms and ammunition by drones emanating from Pakistan. All stakeholders should strive to save Punjab from sinking into an atmosphere of uncertainty and instability in future.Simran & Tajpreet S KangHuge gatherings should be bannedThe recent bomb blast in the district courts complex in Ludhiana has shocked and stunned Punjab. With Assembly elections just round the corner, massive gatherings will be a common sight in the coming days thereby increasing the perils of more such incidents. Consequently, the public at large is concerned about its safety and security and that of its near and dear ones. Terror is one of the most significant threats to the safety and security of the people. Hence, adequate and effective measures should be employed to avert Ludhiana-type incidents. The administration, the police and security agencies should rise to the occasion to garner accurate information to nip the possibility of another bomb blast here or there. Unnecessary huge gatherings should be banned and the government, the public, and the media should join hands to create awareness among the masses so as to foil the nefarious designs of the inimical forces bent upon creating terror in the state to further their vested interests. The need of the hour is to be extra vigilant in places with large numbers of people for example buses, trains, festivals and shopping malls. Any unidentified object should never be touched and any type of parcels should not be accepted from strangers. Explosives may be concealed in anything like tiffin-boxes, toys, vehicles etc. Any suspicious looking person or article should be immediately brought to the notice of the police. Abandoned vehicles should also be communicated to the police without any delay. Spreading rumours should be discouraged to avoid worsening the situation. The police should monitor the suspects who my pose a terror threat. Capabilities of intelligence and security services should be enhanced manifold. It is a well known fact that the ISI of Pakistan is using drones for dropping arms and ammunition in Punjab to disturb peace and communal harmony. To check that, vigilance at borders adjoining Pakistan should be increased. The use of internet for terror purposes should be countered effectively. Websites using hate speeches or calls for violence or discrimination should be taken down. A cooperative and coordinating approach should be adopted to counter terror attacks at all levels. When people are ready to work shoulder to shoulder with the security forces, there is no reason why the menace of terror strikes cannot be contained.Tarsem S BumrahQUESTIONThe Election Commission has announced dates for the Assembly elections in five states, including Punjab. As the poll schedule is likely to coincide with the anticipated Covid peak, do you think the EC should revisit its decision to conduct elections on the scheduled dates in February and March?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (January 13)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/open-house-what-should-be-done-to-avert-terror-strikes-and-ensure-safety-security-of-the-public-359860
10-01-2022||Aparna Banerji||Withdraw candidates from Jalandhar or face stiff opposition: AAP rebels||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 9Members of the dissident or rebel group of leaders and volunteers of the Aam Aadmi Party gave an ultimatum to the party to withdraw the candidature of three newly announced candidates of the party from Jalandhar, failing which the party would face stiff opposition from them.The dissident group, which started its protest outside the Press Club in Jalandhar, in opposition to Raghav Chadha days ago, today met at the party’s Urban Estate office. The meeting saw the presence of around 250 rebel members or volunteers of the party. Both Dr Shiv Dyal Mali, and Dr Sharma are the state spokespersons of the party and both Dr Sharma and Kartar Pehalwaan are the members of the core committee of the party.The stiffest opposition among the dissidents is against the declaration of the candidature of several new leaders. They also opposed the candidature of Dinesh Dhal who had just been declared candidate from Jalandhar North in the party’s newly released list today.The other two key seats’ candidatures to which the leaders have expressed opposition include - former BJP leader Sheetal Angural who was declared candidate from Jalandhar West and Raman Arora who was declared candidate from Jalandhar Central.Speaking on the occasion Dr Shiv Dyal Mali said, “We criticise the beating up of volunteers by party henchmen. We also oppose the candidature of people who have been chosen just days ago by the party sidelining leaders who had been working for ages. Unless the party withdraws their candidature, we will continue and intensify our opposition.”Dr Sanjeev Sharma who was earlier Covid positive and came out of quarantine only today, said, “I had been offering steadfast support to the AAP up until the Tiranga Yatra held by convenor Arvind Kejriwal in Jalandhar a few days ago. But the party right ahead of the elections has fielded such candidates who go against the party tenets and ideology. Our protest against the party will continue until the candidates are withdrawn.”Ironically, while the office is a property of AAP leader Dr Sanjeev Sharma, it still bore a board with Arvind Kejriwal’s picture on it. The office, which was also in use as a ‘Kisan Office’ during Dr Sharma’s and Dr. Mali’s support to the Kisan Andolan, still bears the name. Dr Sharma said during the Andolan, kisan leaders and those offering support to the farmers movement were free to use the office. The rebel group said they were also open to reaching out to members of the farmers groups ahead of the polls in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/withdraw-candidates-or-face-stiff-opposition-aap-rebels-359862
10-01-2022||Nawanshahr||Model Code of Conduct: Nawanshahr DC Vishesh Sarangal holds inspection||District Election Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal on Sunday evening inspected the drive of removing political hoardings/banners/posters/wall paintings and other poll material and ordered that strict action will be taken against the persons for defacing the government buildings or properties by pasting of political posters or installing any kind of hoardings. He made it clear that the defacement of any government buildings or properties would not be tolerated and directed the heads of the government departments to ensure none of the political party or leader can paste the posters or erect hoardings on the buildings. — TNSKeep mobiles on 24X7: DCHoshiarpur: District Election Officer Apneet Riyait said with the release of Punjab Assembly Election Schedule by Election Commission of India, Model Code of Conduct has been implemented in the state. She was addressing a meeting of the heads of all departments. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/model-code-of-conduct-dc-holds-inspection-359865
10-01-2022||Hoshiarpur||38-yr-old biker dies in mishap||Drunk man (40) charred to deathJalandhar: A 40-year-old man, who was in an inebriated state, was reportedly charred to death after falling into a bonfire at a crematorium near Lambda on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as Satnam Singh, a resident of Lallian Kalan village, Lambda. Ranjit Singh, in-charge, police station, said they received an information that a partially-brunt body of youth was found by some people in the crematorium. When the police reached the spot, they saw the victim’s body, which had nearly 70% burn injuries. The police registered a case under Section 174 and handed over the body to the relatives after conducting a post-mortem. TNSCity shuttlers shine in tourneyJalandhar: Two city-based girls, Liza Taank and Manya Ralhan, brought laurels to the district by winning bronze medal in girls doubles U-17 category at All-India Sub-Junior Ranking Badminton Tournament organised by the Badminton Association of India at Panchkula from January 2 to 9. Both girls are students of Class X of Apeejay School here. Ritin Khanna, member secretary, District Badminton Association, Jalandhar, said inspite of Covid and board exams, both players have been regularly practicing under their coaches. TNS1 arrested with sedative capsulesHoshiarpur: Model Town police have arrested a person, accused of drug peddling, with 152 sedative capsules on Saturday afternoon. The accused has been identified as Sandeep Kumar, alias Sonu, of Phuglana village. He has been booked under Sections 22, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act. OCMan nabbed with stolen scooterHoshiarpur: Tanda police have arrested a person with a stolen scooter having a fake registration number. The accused was arrested from near slums in Adda Saraan on the basis of a secret tip-off. He was identified as Bhagwandass of Bilaspur in Pilibhit district of Uttar Pradesh. He was booked under Sections 379, 411 and 482 of the IPC. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/38-yr-old-biker-dies-in-mishap-359869
