11-01-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||Jalandhar: Virtual rallies, no roadshows a welcome step||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 10Other than the political leaders, most city residents are heaving a sigh of relief after the Election Commission’s announcement of putting restrictions on the conduct of rallies and road shows till January 15. As two days have passed since the imposition of the Model Code of Conduct, complete silence prevails except for small indoor meetings being organised by the party leaders.‘Medical fraternity wants Jan 15 curb to be extended’Being a doctor, the entire medical fraternity is satisfied with the EC decision on holding no rallies. Covid is spreading fast. Cold, influenza and other forms of infections, too, are getting common. People are not taking proper precautions and even the government is not going strict with them this time. Despite so many cases daily, people are still going around without masks. Ideally the January 15 ban should get extended or else everyone will suffer. The doctors and healthcare staff will be the worst affected. If they would get affected, how will people get proper treatment.Dr Sushma Chawla, gynaecologist and social activist‘Good riddance from traffic chaos’The decision of the EC to not allow rallies is really appreciable not just from the point of the view of Omicron spread but also otherwise. The city residents have already seen a lot of chaos owing to the rallies held last month. No rallies this week meant no traffic snarls. There also will be no wasteful expenditure on fuel. The city will be cleaner due to no post-rally mess. The police officials too must be feeling relieved of this extra duty. Ideally, this form of campaigning should become a regular feature even when there is no Covid. All voters, be it young or the old, are so much into social media that the leaders need not worry over no rallies being organised. They can easily form an opinion even while sitting at home and watching the activities of party leaders on the social media.Raghav Chauhan, NGO Mission Clean Jalandhar‘No dhol by Punjabi diaspora too’We realise that the Punjab Assembly poll 2022 will be different this time by more than one way. The dhols and road shows will be missing after the EC orders, and hence the wasteful expenditure too. But there is one thing more that will be missing — the active participation of the NRIs. They are disappointed. They have realised that their efforts to usher in change in their motherland will not bear any fruit. There was a time when overseas supporters of the SAD and Congress would arrive in Punjab one or two months prior to the elections and host parties with the objective to persuade their near and dear ones to vote for their party. In the 2017 Assembly elections, the NRIs had descended on Punjab in droves, mainly to canvas for the Aam Aadmi Party. This trend will not be seen this time. I urge the people of Punjab not to fight with each other for the sake of their political leaders but vote for the right and good candidate irrespective of any political party.Satnam Singh Chahal, Executive Director, North American Punjabi Association‘EC must allow small meetings’Only door-to-door campaign style and putting few posts of social media cannot build a political atmosphere. The EC must allow us small meetings limiting the size of the gathering or else the entire campaign will get washed out. We hope that some curbs will be lifted after January 15. The EC must allow small gatherings with Covid protocol in place. The candidates will ensure that everyone comes wearing masks and there is proper spacing between the chairs. Without this kind of a smaller scale election campaign, the candidates will feel really helpless in reaching out to more people and getting face to face with them.Dr Daljeet Singh Cheema, SAD Spokesperson‘Rallies or no rallies – industry wants only peace’Whether there will be rallies or no rallies, it does not matter much to the local industrialists. All they want is peace in Punjab. Any turmoil or social and political disturbance affects our business and orders from other states and abroad. We do not want any dharnas, but simply good governance. The only direct advantage that we have if there are no rallies is that our labourers do not ask for leaves to attend political functions. No genuine trader or industrialist attends a rally. We keep a tab on the promises and activities of political leaders through news and social media and go with the one who seems to be more realistic and trustworthy.Narinder S Sagoo, Industrialist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/virtual-rallies-no-roadshows-a-welcome-step-360238
11-01-2022||---||Jalandhar: Ahead of Punjab Assembly poll, 3 CRPF companies arrive||Jalandhar, January 10To instill a sense of security among the voters besides strengthening law and order, the Commissionerate Police on Monday took out a flag march from Guru Gobind Singh Stadium towards Model Town.  Commissioner of Police Naunihal Singh said the police administration was fully geared up for getting the polls conducted in a secure atmosphere.The Commissioner revealed that three companies of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) had arrived. The Anti-Riot Police has also started reaching in the city, thus intensifying checking and other safety measures along with the Commissionerate police.In the days to come, more companies of CRPF and ARP teams would be reaching, said the Commissioner. He said joint teams of paramilitary forces along with Commissionerate police personnel would be deployed to patrol the areas besides foot marching especially in the vulnerable areas as part of confidence-building measures. Naunihal Singh said that 90 per cent of the licensed arms had already deposited by the people and remaining would get deposited in the coming days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ahead-of-poll-3-crpf-companies-arrive-360241
11-01-2022||---||Jalandhar district reports 298 fresh cases||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 10As many as 298 new cases of Covid were reported in Jalandhar on Monday. With this, the Covid tally in Jalandhar has reached 65,433 cases. As many as 62,315 persons have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar have reached 1,615. With one more death reported in the district, the deceased tally in Jalandhar has reached 1,503. Of the 19,20,105 samples collected in the district, so far, 17,80, 980 samples have tested negative.  378 get booster dose on Day 1Kapurthala reports 72  cases In Kapurthala district, 72 new cases of Covid were reported today. The Kapurthala district tally reached 18,249 today. Those tested positive include residents of Kapurthala, Phagwara, Sultanpur, Begowal, Bholath, Dhilwan, Kala Sanghhian, Fattu Dhinga, Panchaat, Tibba among other places. Meanwhile, no new death was reported in Kapurthala today. The total deceased tally at Kapurthala until now remains at 556.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dist-reports-298-fresh-cases-360243
11-01-2022||Avneet Kaur||Not Punjab, but Telangana minister comes to aid of Jalandhar's chess champ||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 10In an embarrassment to the Punjab Sports Minister Pargat Singh, hearing-speech impaired girl and International Deaf and Dumb Chess Champion from Jalandhar, Malika Handa, has been offered a cash reward of Rs 15 lakh from KT Rama Rao, Telangana’s minister for industry and information technology.If a minister sitting in Hyderabad can see her video on Twitter and read the news about her achievements, then why not the Punjab Sports Minister who lives in the same town where Malika resides. — Renu Handa, Mother of Mallika handaApart from cash prize, the minister has also presented a Lenovo laptop to Malika to uplift her morale.It was after Malika’s tweet and video in which she displayed several medals and trophies she earned for the country and criticised the Sports Minister and the Punjab Government for being unfair to her, went viral, the office of KT Rama Rao approached her and invited her to Hyderabad.Talking to The Tribune, Renu Handa, mother of Malika, said the state government should be ashamed of its action. “If a minister sitting in Hyderabad can see her video on Twitter and read all the news about her achievements, then why not the Punjab Sports Minister who lives in the same town where Malika resides,” she said.She went on to say that this honour from Rama Rao has not only made Malika happy but lifted her winning spirit. “I can’t explain in words the respect the Telangana minister has given to my child who went to take the reward. From flight tickets to a lovely welcome at the airport and the minister himself sitting with Malika for nearly 30 minutes to see her medals and certificates and appreciate her, all this is like a dream coming true for her,” she added.Her mother said: “There’s no official in the sports department left whom they have not met and pleaded for government job for Malika. When she brings a medal, these ministers and politicians come for pictures and make false promises but in reality my daughter hasn’t received a certificate of appreciation from the Punjab Government,” she rued. Malika, who is suffering from 90 per cent hearing disability and speech impairment, posted a short video clip and a snapshot of an email which she had sent to Rahul Gandhi, CM Charanjit Singh Channi and PPCC president Navjot Sidhu on her Twitter handle on January 2.She then tweeted that she met Sports Minister Pargat Singh on December 31, however to her surprise the minister clearly said that the Punjab Government has no policy to give government jobs or cash rewards to deaf sportspersons.Malika’s mother said while her daughter was receiving cash reward, a woman member from the minister’s team talked to her on call for nearly 40 minutes taking her feedback on how to make life of disable sports players easy. She said they informed her that they are starting a sports school for the disabled players in Telangana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/not-punjab-but-telangana-minister-comes-to-aid-of-citys-chess-champ-360245
11-01-2022||---||Hoshiarpur man is among nation's top-10 share brokers||Sanjiv Kumar BakshiHoshiarpur, January 10“It is the persistence that defines one’s success and Paramjit Sachdeva’s is one such story. He is among the top 10 share brokers of the country despite being from a small town like Hoshiarpur,” said Ajay Chitnis, producer-director of the leading TV show — Trailblazers — while talking to mediapersons on the last day of their shoot at Hoshiarpur. About ‘Trailblazers’He said when someone talks of share broking business; Mumbai is likely to strike one’s mind but who can think that despite failing thrice, losing almost everything he had, someone can still be persistent in his endeavours, that too in a small town like Hoshiarpur. “Sachdeva’s story is sheer inspiration and needs to be told to all in order to inspire the future entrepreneurs. That’s why we chose biography of Paramjit Singh Sachdeva, MD of Sachdeva Stocks. He will be a part of the leading business TV show Trailblazer,” he said. Chitnis said when he got information about Sachdeva’’s life struggle and success in the business, he made up his mind to capture Sachdeva’’s biography on camera.The show’’s host, former Mrs World India Dr Aditi Govitrikar shared her experiences with the media on the last day of shooting of the show. She said the manner in which Paramjit Singh Sachdeva has risen from the grassroots level and climbed the ladder of success today, is in itself very wonderful and inspiring. She said one would be surprised to know that Sachdeva, one of the top 10 stock brokers in India, is in Hoshiarpur and it is from such a lesser known place that he carved out a niche for himself in business.Chitnis said the show would feature how Sachdeva’s family supported him to come out of his earlier failures. An attempt has been made to chronicle the journey of Sachdeva.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-man-is-among-nations-top-10-share-brokers-360246
11-01-2022||---||Jalandhar: 50-year-old Basti Sheikh resident run over by truck, driver arrested||Jalandhar, January 10A 50-year-old man was run over by a truck at Babu Jagjivan Ram Chowk here on this morning. The victim has been identified as Manjit Singh, a resident of Basti Sheikh, who worked as a cycle mechanic near the chowk.The police said Manjit was walking towards his shop when the speedy truck hit him from the rear. “As per the footage of CCTVs, he was seen being dragged to some distance and crushed to death by the vehicle.Seeing the accident, passers-by ran towards him, but by then the victim had died and the driver fled the spot,” said Gurwinder Singh, SHO, Division Number 5.The police said by afternoon they traced the vehicle and arrested the driver. However, a verification of the recovered truck and the accused is underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/50-year-old-run-over-by-truck-driver-arrested-360247
11-01-2022||---||Space constraint is no worry for this Phagwara-based trader||Tribune News ServicePhagwara, January 10Sanjeev Kumar Chaucer (56), a Phagwara-based trader, had his moment of inspiration when he saw actor Dharmendra sweating it out in the fields, despite being in his eighties. Besides, the desire to consume pure and organic food further drove him to turn his terrace into a kitchen garden. A visit to his kitchen garden in the Urban Estate residence, is likely to leave one mesmerised and the aroma of fresh and naturally-grown vegetables is sure to please ones senses.“Lockdown has taught everyone a lot. It inspired me to spend some moments with the soil,” Sanjeev said, adding that gardening to him is now like meditation and after returning from his work every day, he dedicates nearly two hours growing his own seasonal vegetables and fruits.He said earlier, he was confused from where to begin. He had no knowledge of gardening and cultivation. “But thanks to YouTube videos and bloggers and some of my friends from the Agriculture Department, I easily managed to get started and then there was no looking back,” he said.Giving some tips, he said, cow manure and simple mud has many advantages that even chemical fertilisers don’t possess. Besides, the waste generated from the household can effectively be converted to compost.Sanjeev said while others consume paranthas, cornflakes and other things in their breakfast, he and his family consumes sandwiches made of spinach, broccoli and other vegetables grown in their own garden.“While the process of cultivation and cost of seeds of both cauliflower and broccoli is very much the same, both vegetables are being sold in the market at different prices, with cauliflower for Rs 30 or 40/kg and broccoli for a whopping Rs 130/kg”, he said, adding that’s the another reason why he feels that growing veggies at home is far safer than what you buy from outside.Sanjeev, meanwhile, said the list of what he and his wife cultivate in their garden was exhaustive. “We cultivate almost all varieties of vegetables, fruits and other plants like fig, spinach, carrot, radish, cauliflower, lettuce, broccoli, brinjal, Okra, etc, to fruits like tomato, guava, lemon, avocado, Sugar-apple etc”.“Not just this, one also gets mesmerised on seeing flowers such as roses, lilies, bougainvillea, marigold that festoon the rooftop,” he added. He further said there is a regular gardener, who visits and looks after the garden and water the plants, but the cultivation parts he manages himself without anyone’s help.“There is a lot of positivity in this area of my house. I, along with my children and wife, spend quality time here enjoying the greenery, beautiful chirping of the birds, blowing winds and colourful flowers”, he added.He also said all those people looking to invest in their own self must opt gardening as it soothes both the mind and soul of a person and that it’s one of the best ways to relax and feel peaceful.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/space-constraint-is-no-worry-for-him-360249
11-01-2022||Jalandhar||Jalandhar: DAV University hosts Tech Intellect Fest||DAV University organised Tech Intellect Fest, an initiative of the Department of Computer Science and Applications and Department of Computer Science and Engineering. More than 100 students from different colleges and universities participated in the events. Technical events like IoT Project, PowerPoint presentation, robo race, Coding and debugging etc. were part of the fest. Vice-Chancellor Dr Jasbir Rishi inaugurated the event.PowerPoint presentation: 1st: Yukta Mayor, KMV College Jalandhar, 2nd: Arun Sharma, DAV University, Jalandhar, 3rd: Dinkle Garg, DAV University, Jalandhar.Coding and debugging: 1st: Gurpreet Singh Thiara, DAV University, Jalandhar, 2nd : Rakshit Pangotra, DAV University, Jalandhar.Photo editing: 1st Sachin, CT Institute, Jalandhar, 2nd Harpreet Kaur, KMV College, Jalandhar; 3rd: Jasraj Singh, CT Institute, JalandharLogo designing: 1st: Karanvir Kaur, KMV College, Janadhar, 2nd Jaskirat Singh, Gulzar Group of Institution, Khanna, 3rd: Rajbir Kaur, KMV College, Jalandhar.Matrix (Gaming): Winner: Yuvraj Singh, DAV University Jalandhar, Ginish, DAV University, Jalandhar, Shashank Singh, DAV University, Jalandhar.Poster making: 1st Anjali Kumari, DAV University, Jalandhar, 2nd: Pratikshya Das, DAV University, Jalandhar, 3rd: Priyanshu Prakash, Gulzar Group of Institution, Khanna, Consolation: Khushi Sharma, KMV JalandharIoT project: 1st Priyanshu, Dass & Brown world School, Ferozpur, 2nd: Khulbhusan & team, DAV University, Jalandhar, 3rd: Diyam Dhawan, Dass & Brown world School, Ferozpur.Robo race: 1st: Ravi Kumar & team, Gulzar Group of Institution, Khanna, 2nd Priyojyoti Dey, Gulzar Group of Institution, Khanna. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dav-varsity-hosts-tech-intellect-fest-360250
11-01-2022||---||Flouting Covid-19 norms, footwear traders hold protest in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 10Giving two hoots to Covid guidelines, members of the Shoe Association Atari Bazaar and Model House held a protest here out GST Bhawan on Monday, demanding rollback of hike in Goods and Services Tax (GST) on shoes with immediate effect.The members threatened to intensify their stir in case their demand is not accepted. They said they would be forced to sit on fast and even hold protests in the national capital if the union government doesn’t take back its decision of hike in the GST from 5 per cent to 12 per cent.Members, led by president, Davinder Singh Manchanda, alleged that the government had rolled back the hike in GST on textiles but it’s paying no heed to the demands of the footwear traders.He said footwears are an essential item for all people, irrespective of gender and age group, therefore, the hike in GST is like burning a hole in the pockets of the common man. When asked why Covid norms were not followed, Manchanda said: “All members were wearing masks and they tried to maintain social distancing too”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/flouting-covid-19-norms-footwear-traders-hold-protest-360251
11-01-2022||---||Prior nod must for political advts on electronic media: Nawanshahr District Election Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, January 10District Election Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal on Monday asked the political parties to take permission for running advertisements on electronic and social media, including the Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and other platforms.Accompanied by Additional Deputy Commissioner (G) Jasbir Singh and Additional Deputy Commissioner (UD) Amit Sareen, the Deputy Commissioner said all the candidates would have to furnish details of their social media handles. Besides, only pre-certified advertisements would be allowed to be flashed on social media.He said all the expenditure on these advertisements would be counted as election spending. Similarly, all the pamphlets, posters and handbills must carry the name of the printer and the publisher, besides a number of printed copies and a declaration of the publisher must be submitted to the Returning Officer (RO) with all the information regarding this publication.Further, the political hoardings, banners and posters on private buildings would need consent from the owners of private properties, he said, adding such lists must be submitted to Returning Officers (ROs). He asked them to strictly follow the instructions of not pasting any advertisement on government institutions.He cautioned people to have valid documents if they wanted to carry cash above Rs 50,000, besides suspicious transactions above Rs 1 lakh must be reported to the district election office.Sarangal held a detailed discussion with the representatives of different the political parties during which they assured them that the district administration was duty-bound to ensure a smooth and hassle-free polling process in Nawanshahr.Seeking fulsome support and cooperation from the political parties for holding a free, fair and transparent and safe Assembly elections, he told them to strictly adhere to Covid-19 safety guidelines, including a ban on rallies, meetings and processions till January 15.Sharing the details regarding various IT application introduced by Election Commission of India (ECI), he said a revolutionary C-Vigil app had been launched to enable the citizens to file a complaint against violation of the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) or any corrupt practices.He said all complaints registered on this android App would be resolved within 100 minutes. He said another IT App initiative, Suvidha, had been developed for the candidates, adding that it was single window for various permissions required during the elections.He said the screening committee, media certification and monitoring committee, vehicle management teams, expenditure monitoring committee, Model Code of Conduct teams, video viewing teams and accounting teams had been constituted in the district to check the misuse of money power, liquor and narcotics.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/prior-nod-must-for-political-advts-on-electronic-media-360252
11-01-2022||Jalandhar||NSS volunteers of HMV, Jalandhar, clean statues||Voter awareness programmmeSystematic Voters’ Education and Electoral Participation Programme (SVEEP), with an idea “Exercise your voting right for a better tomorrow”, was organised by NSS wing, School of Engineering, Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus. The aim of this programme was to make the voters understand that importance of each for a better government. The resource person for the day was Surjit Lal, District Assistant Nodal Officer (SVEEP), Jalandhar. Surjit Lal comprehensively elaborated that it is the moral responsibility of every eligible citizen of INDIA to exercise his/her right to vote and be a part of change."Talk is cheap, voting is free; take it to the polls". Students of the School of Engineering gave a patient hearing to the resource person and took a pledge to exercise their fundamental right to cast the vote. In the concluding part, Sukhbir Singh Chatha, Director Academic Affairs, KCL Group, Dr RS Deol, Deputy Director, KCL Group, encouraged the students to exercise their right to vote and motivated the NSS wing for organising such events in future too.Online Discussion on drug abuseUnder the Buddy programme launched by the Government of Punjab to curb the menace of drug abuse, PCM SD College for Women organised an online discussion on the ill-effects of drugs on the society and the self. Drug abuse has been Punjab’s constant concern and burden and youngsters are most vulnerable to this malpractice. Fulfilling its responsibility towards the society, PCM SD College has pledged to fight against this evil practice under the Buddy programme. In the series of endeavours in this regard, an online discussion on the ill-effects of drugs was held wherein approximately twenty-five students had a healthy and detailed discussion on how drug abuse adversely affects the social fabric of the society as well as physical, mental and emotional health of the individual. The purpose of this activity was to generate awareness among students regarding drug abuse and they wholeheartedly participated by expressing their views on the topic. The members of the managing committee and principal of the college Dr Pooja Prashar encouraged all students to keep participating in such activities and motivated them to keep spreading awareness in the society. The Principal also lauded the efforts of Gurjit Kaur of the Department of English and the Nodal Officer of the college Buddy Programme for organising the activity.Aid for NCLP schoolsKeeping the tough time of COVID-19 in mind where people are losing their jobs or aren’t getting salaries on time, CT Educational Society came forward in order to help teachers of 10 schools falling under National Child Labour Project (NCLP) Scheme. Present on the occasion were CT Group Co-Chairperson Parminder Kaur Channi and the project head Advocate Mohan Sachdeva who donated Rs 2.6 lakh to the teachers of 10 NCLP schools located in Kang Saboo, Model House, Kot Sadiq, Boota Pind, Basti Danishmandan, Babu Labh Singh, Basti Sheikh, Raj Nagar, Sabowal and Mithapur. Telling about the same, CT Group Co-Chairperson Parminder Kaur Channi said, “These teachers haven’t received their salaries from last few months and as they are doing a wonderful service by teaching the children belonging to below poverty line families, we thought of coming forward and giving them a ray of hope and encouragement so that they can continue teaching these needy children.”birth anniversary celebratedA special online assembly was organised at Delhi Public School on the auspicious occasion of the birth anniversary of Guru Gobind Singh. Students of all classes from pre-nursery to XII paid their respects and reverence to Guru Gobind Singh, the 10th guru in Sikhs, who had a big impact on humanity with all the miraculous deeds he did during his lifetime. Children presented the ‘mool mantra’ and the thought of the day. They shared the significance of the day, the importance of 5 Ks and the Nishaan Sahib. The pious and wise teachings of ‘mercy and goodness for all’ were remembered with great reverence for him. A shabad filled the air with pious vibes. Principal Ritu Kaul shared that the day was observed to pay respects to Guru Gobind Singh,the unique nation builder who fought for righteousness. She also expressed that the school always encourages DPSites to follow the path of truth and courage in their life and tread on the teachings of Guru Gobind Singh. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nss-volunteers-clean-statues-360253
11-01-2022||Hoshiarpur||Youth killed in road accident||Snatched luxury car recoveredJalandhar: Although the city police have recovered the stolen BMW of businessman Puneet Ahuja from fields near Batala Road on Sunday late evening, the culprits are still absconding. Confirming the recovery of his car, Puneet said the police have informed me on Monday morning that the car has been recovered and the hunt is on to nab the robbers. TNSCheck on illegal leaflets, postersNawanshahr: Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal said the administration would keep a regular tab on illegal posters, handbills, leaflets and pamphlets during the election period. The DC said as per the guidelines of the EC, no person should print or publish any election pamphlet or poster which does not bear name and address of the printer, publisher, number of copies etc. TNSSedative pills seized, 1 heldHoshiarpur: During a naka in the area, the Mehtiana police arrested a woman and recovered a huge quantity of sedative pills from her. The accused woman has been identified as Gurmeet Kaur alias Meeto, a resident of Harta. She has been booked under the NDPS Act. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-killed-in-road-accident-360254
11-01-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||No rallies, Punjab parties demand extension of DD free time||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 10As the EC has announced there will be no rallies till January 15 and the curb could be extended depending on the Covid situation, parties hope Doordarshan (DD) and All India Radio will extend their free time.The DD Jalandhar officials said the modalities for the same would be worked out in a meeting, which would be soon convened by Chief Electoral Officer, Punjab. As per the norms prevailing since 1998, the DD allows all recognised parties to put up a video, in which a speech is read to its viewers for the allotted time ranging between five to 15 minutes, depending on the parties’ previous term performance. The script of the speech has to be submitted in advance for approval to analyse that no part of it is either provocative or violates the model code of conduct.Spokesperson, Shiromani Akali Dal, Dr Daljeet Singh Cheema said, “Though social media is powerful these days, the reach of DD still remains high. Some remote areas of Punjab do not have a proper access to social media due to poor Internet connectivity. Owing to the curbs put on campaign in view of Covid, we expect more free time from the DD and All India Radio for such programmes.”Leaders of the BJP are demanding that instead of allotting the time according to the previous performance of a party, there should be level field playing and all the parties should get the same free time to express their views. “We are against the idea of giving less time to the parties that have not performed well in the previous elections. For a new contest in a new scenario, all parties should get the same time to speak. We will definitely raise the issue in the meeting,” said former BJP minister Manorajan Kalia.EC yet to give orderThe EC is expected to double the free time for the parties, but we are yet to receive any formal orders for it. We provide recording and relaying facilities only. — Anoop Khajuria, programme head, Doordarshan||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/no-rallies-parties-demand-extension-of-dd-free-time-360115
