12-01-2022||Aparna Banerji||Majithia media advisor & Damdami Taksal spokesperson Prof Sarchand joins BJP||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 12Media Advisor of SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia and Spokesperson of the Damdami Taksal and  Prof Sarchand Singh, along with five other prominent SAD leaders, today joined the BJP in the presence of Union cabinet minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat at the party’s main election office in Jalandhar.This comes as a major setback for the SAD days ahead of the 2022 elections. The leaders have joined the party days after SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia was granted bail in the ongoing drugs case - for which an FIR had been lodged against him.Along with central Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Sekhawat, union cabinet minister Som Parkash, Lok Sabha MP Hans Raj Hans, BJP’s state general secretary Jeevan Gupta among others were also present on the occasion.Notably, while the recent declaration of the Prime Minister to observe December 26 as “Veer Baal Diwas” was widely condemned by various Sikh bodies, Damdami Taksal was one of the few  prominent Sikh organisations, which hailed the decision even as the SGPC itself condemned it. Head of the Damadami Taksal, Baba Harnam Singh Dhumma, had hailed the decision. Prof Sarchand is also the press secretary of Baba Harnam Singh. The Damdami Taksal is a Sikh educational organisation and a prominent voice on panthic issues in the state, which was once headed by Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale.Among other SAD leaders who joined the BJP today include Didar Singh Bhatti former MLA and 10-year Halka Incharge Fatehgarh Sahib and his son Gurvinder SIngh Bhatti, member of the current core group of the Shiromani Kali Dal; Akali leader Sardar Satwant Singh Mohi, former MLA; Rajpal Chauhan, President, SAD Sports Wing and Amritpal Singh Dalli, Zone President Student Organisation of India Shiromani Akali Dal. Dalli is grandnephew of recently expelled senior Akali leader Mohinder Kaur Josh. Josh is three-times MLA from Sham Chaurasi. Dalli is the son of Josh’s sister. All these leaders are members of the Shiromani Akali Dal. Some of them had been miffed with the SAD after recent ticket denials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/majithia-media-advisor-damdami-taksal-spokesperson-prof-sarchand-joins-bjp-360698
12-01-2022||Nawanshahr||Nawanshahr: Notice issued to SAD district prez for holding indoor meeting||Balachaur MLA ‘violates’ codeJalandhar: Balachaur Returning Officer Deepak Rohella on Tuesday issued notice to local MLA Darshan Lal Mangupur for violation of poll code. In the notice issued, Returning Officer said the MLA had violated the EC orders by holding meeting with sarpanches of 25 villages in Rattowal village of district on Tuesday and planned party’s activities with them. The pictures of meeting were also shared by the complainant and uploaded on social media groups in which 46 persons were found taking part in the meeting and no one was wearing masks. TNSMasked robbers loot NRI familyPhagwara: Three armed robbers wearing masks looted jewellery, cash and a mobile phone at gunpoint from an NRI family in Maheru village on Monday. Phagwara SP Harinderpal Singh said the US-based NRI Harwinder Singh Sandhu, his wife Surinder Kaur and aunt Kamaljit Kaur, were robbed of gold ornaments worth Rs28.5 lakh, Rs1 lakh cash and a mobile phone. The police have registered a case under relevant sections of the IPC. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/notice-issued-to-sad-district-prez-360590
12-01-2022||Jalandhar||Sanskriti KMV School student shines in kickboxing championship||Inter-House Sports Day CompetitionUnder the guidance of the School Management and Principal Neeru Nayyar, Shiv Jyoti Public School provides platform to its students to take part in various activities. The school celebrated its annual sports day for classes X to XII. The chief guests of the day Sanjay Sabharwal, trustee and member managing committee, BB Jyoti, member, managing committee and trustee, ex-principal Vibha Sharda, Principal Neeru Nayyar and Vice-Principal Parveen Saili and teachers of the Sports Department honoured the winner teams with medals. The field was decorated with flags, festoons and buntings. An event ‘Tug of War ‘was held for these classes. In tug of war (Girls), Samridhi House bagged the first position, Kirti House got second and Jagriti House stood third. In tug of war (Boys), Samridhi House bagged the first position. Pragati House got second and Jagriti House stood third.NSS volunteers visit Kurari villageThe NSS volunteers of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya visited Kurari village. The village panchayat welcomed them and cooperated them in every manner. The volunteers made murals of Swachh Bharat theme in the village. They organised an awareness rally on voting and COVID vaccination. Sports Day was organised in the campus. The volunteers participated in race, three legged race, lemon race, tug of war, skipping race etc. Post lunch, the volunteers shared their experiences through power point presentations. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen appreciated about the spirit of the volunteers and inspired them to take part in more such activities in future. Harmanu, Dr Meenu Talwar, Manpreet Kaur and Pawandeep Kaur were also present there.Guest lecture on PCODA guest lecture was organised at PCM SD College for Women by the Department of Home Science in collaboration with the Department of Cosmetology on the topic “PCOD – Polycystic Ovaries”. The speaker of the day was dietician Deepika Vermani from Armaan Hospital, Jalandhar. The event commenced with a floral welcome to the guest. While addressing the students, Deepika explained that PCOD is very common nowadays in adolescent girls. She discussed the causes, symptoms of PCOD and the diet to be followed. She also discussed which food items should be taken and which to be restricted in PCOD. Students had a very healthy and interactive session with her. Various queries which were raised by the students were answered very satisfactorily. Dr Neelam Gupta, Sushma Sharma, Daljit, Kusum Sharma were also present. The honorable members of the management committee and the worthy Principal Dr Pooja Prashar felicitated the students for their keen participation. She also praised the efforts of the Head of Department of Home Science, Manmeet Kaur for organising such events.School holds vaccination campA Covid-19 vaccination camp was organised at Apeejay School, Mahavir Marg, in collaboration with the Health Department, Civil Hospital. The camp was especially held for the students of classes IX to XII in the 15 to 18 age group. The timings were from 9.30 am to 2.30 pm and the students were informed one day prior. The students were provided with the facility of pre-registration as well as on-the-spot registration. The vaccination camp was open for the teenagers from other schools also. Even the second dose of Covishield for 18 plus age group was also administered. An overwhelming participation by the students was seen. Apeejay School management undertook this noble cause to protect the youngsters and reduce the risk of spreading the virus. Principal Girish Kumar said the school is trying its level best to reach out to students to safeguard them amongst the deadly virus. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-shines-in-kickboxing-cship-360589
12-01-2022||---||85 test Covid positive in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, January 11The health authorities reported 85 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. With the fresh infections, the tally of cases rose to 31,866 with There are 799 active cases in the district. The death toll stands 1,000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/85-test-covid-positive-in-hoshiarpur-360588
12-01-2022||Nawanshahr||Kapurthala reports 149 fresh Covid cases||In Kapurthala district, 149 new cases of Covid were reported on Tuesday, taking the district tally to 18,375. Those tested positive included residents of Kapurthala, Phagwara, Sultanpur, Bholath, Kala Sanghhian and among other places. Meanwhile, no new death was reported in Kapurthala today and the number of active cases stands at 399. The death toll in Kapurthala remains at 556. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-reports-149-fresh-covid-cases-360587
12-01-2022||---||Banks directed to furnish info on suspicious transactions during Punjab election period||Jalandhar, January 11With a view to getting information of suspicious transactions as per the guidelines of the Election Commission, the district administration today directed the bank officers to provide details of suspicious transactions during election period.On the directions of Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Election Officer Ghanshyam Thori, the Additional Deputy Commissioner (G) Amarjit Bains has held a meeting with the bank officers to apprise them about the instructions of the EC. The ADC asked them to report of unusual and suspicious cash withdrawal or deposit of cash in account exceeding Rs1 lakh during process of election, without any such instance of deposit or withdrawal during the last two months.Asking them for strict compliance of the EC directions, the ADC (G) said unusual transfer of amount by RTGS from one bank account to the accounts of several persons in a district/constituency during the poll process without any precedent of such transfer. Any deposit of cash or withdrawal of cash exceeding Rs 1 lakh from bank account of candidates or spouses or his dependents, as mentioned in the affidavit filed by candidates, which is available in the CEO’s website, he added. Any withdrawal of cash and deposit of cash exceeding Rs 1 lakh in the account of political party during the election process besides any other suspicious cash transactions, which might be used for bribing the elections, should be reported, he added.The information on cash deposit or withdrawals of more than Rs 10 lakh is also to be reported for onward submission to the nodal officers of the Income Tax Department for necessary action under income tax law, said the ADC adding that all said instructions will be circulated to all branches of banks in Jalandhar district so that necessary compliance could be ensured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/banks-directed-to-furnish-info-on-suspicious-transactions-360586
12-01-2022||---||Punjab Poll: First batch of central armed forces reaches Nawanshahr||Nawanshahr, January 11As many as 30 companies of Central Armed Police Force (CAPF), along with local police, would keep a regular tab over the law and order situation during Assembly elections in Nawanshahr.Chairing a meeting with returning officers and police officials of the Nawanshahr police, IB, CID and others, the District Election Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner, Vishesh Sarangal, said the first company of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) comprising 90 personnel arrived in the district on Tuesday and remaining companies would reach in the coming days.He said the paramilitary force, the local police would jointly undertake the responsibility of maintaining law and order in the district for peaceful elections in the state. Sarangal said at present, 32 inter-district and 25 nakas have been set up in the cities to close vigil on the illicit liquor, cash, drug and etc.Sarangal said nearly 74 per cent of the licensed arms have already been deposited by the people.He directed the officers to beef up security arrangements in vulnerable and critical polling booths. A total of 224 booths have been identified as vulnerable while one each as critical and sensitive in the district.Besides, nine flying squads have been made functional in the district to check illegal activities in the district during the election.He reiterated the firm commitment of the district administration to maintain and law at every cost. He said the administration would ensure foolproof arrangements in the run-up to the 2022 Assembly elections to ensure free, fair and transparent elections in the district. He said every effort would be made to make security system more responsive and efficient and stressed that the major focus of the administration would be on prevention of crime and instilling sense of security among the residents.District Election Officer asked officials to perform their duty with utmost zeal and sincerity thereby conducting the elections in a free, fair and peaceful manner.SP (H) Manvinder Bir Singh assured the district magistrate of all arrangements done by the district police to maintain law and order situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-poll-first-batch-of-central-armed-forces-reaches-nawanshahr-360585
12-01-2022||---||Inter-state gang of robbers busted||Hoshiarpur, January 11The district police have busted an inter-state gang of robbers involved in loot and abduction and seized weapons, vehicles, gold jewellery and mobile phones, intoxicating injections etc. from them.SSP Kulwant Singh Heer said in Garhshankar area recently, members of the gang had looted cash from two petrol pumps and fired gunshots. The police had started a special operation to nab the accused. For this, a team was formed under the leadership of SP (D) Mukhtyar Rai in which DSP (D) Sarbjit Rai, Garhshankar DSP Narinder Singh Aujla, Inspector Lakhbir Singh, in-charge of CIA, Rajeev Kumar, in-charge of police station, Garhshankar, were included.He said the police, acting on a tip-off, raided a deserted brick kiln located in Chak Phullu village and arrested the robbers. The accused have been identified as Aditya Bawa (gang leader), a resident of Gobindpur, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, and his brother Maninderjit Singh, Kamaldeep Singh alias Kamal, a resident of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Jashandeep Singh alias Sukha, a resident of Shergarh, police station Dabwali, Sirsa. Apart from this, Harkamal Singh, a resident of Thinda village, under the police station, Mahilpur and Tarwinder Singh alias Bhinder of Chakk Musa, have been arrested. The SSP said Hukam Dev, a resident of Dev Garh, Jharkhand, is a student of Class XII and he used to supply arms to the accused by bringing them from Uttar Pradesh. He has also been arrested.The SSP said four country-made pistols of .32 bore, 44 live cartridges, three sharp weapons, two cars, one two-wheeler, 10 mobile phones, two gold chains, one scooty and 15 sedative injections have been seized. He said the arrested gang was associated with Azad Group-011 on Instagram, through which incidents were carried out by taking ransom. SSP Heer said the gang members were involved in various incidents of kidnapping for ransom apart from looting vehicles, petrol pumps at gunpoint in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan. He told that the accused confessed during the interrogation that they were preparing to rob a money changer in Prabhat Chowk, for which they were doing recce, while in Moga a deal was being done for Rs15 lakh to kill a person.The SSP said the accused had demanded a ransom of Rs 14 lakh after kidnapping the manager of Punjab National Bank from Lakadwali village in Sirsa and had taken Rs 7 lakh from him. The SSP said the accused have accepted their involvement in about two dozen criminal incidents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/inter-state-gang-of-robbers-busted-360580
12-01-2022||---||Jalandhar district reports 310 Covid cases, highest since May||Jalandhar, January 11Jalandhar district on Tuesday reported a whopping 310 cases, the sharpest single-day spike since May 2021, when the Delta variant led to a steady rise in both cases and deaths. Now with this, the Covid tally in Jalandhar has reached 65,743 cases.As many as 62,459 persons have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar have reached 1,781. With no death reported in the district today, the deceased tally in Jalandhar stands at 1,503.1,339 get booster dose on Day 2As many as 1,339 persons received their booster doses on the second day i.e. Tuesday as part of the Covid-19 vaccination booster drive. With this, the total number of persons vaccinated with booster dose in two days stands at 1,717. The dose is being administered at all centres. Meanwhile, the booster dose was administered to people who had received both their Covid-19 vaccine doses at least nine months ago.651 teens vaccinated on TuesdayAs many as 651 youngsters in the age group 15-18 received their first dose of vaccination on Tuesday. The health staff at ESI Hospital said that response among youngsters is low at present but it’s slowly picking up pace as schools have made it mandatory for the students to get vaccinated. In the next few days, schools will also start holding vaccination camps for their students.Norms violation continues at vax centresEven though Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Ghotra said the health staff is ensuring that all Covid-19 protocols were followed at vaccination centres, the residents could be seen violating norms of masking and social distancing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-reports-310-covid-cases-highest-since-may-360579
12-01-2022||Avneet Kaur||Poll code violation: Hoardings, posters, flags continue to dot Jalandhar||Jalandhar, January 11Paying deaf ears to the district electoral officer’s instructions to remove advertisements and hoardings from public and private properties, the political parties have failed to comply with the orders, as hoardings, posters and flags continue to dot the city.A tour to different locations of the city revealed that big banners of CM Charanjit Singh Channi and Pargat Singh boasting of “development works” still remain displayed near Bus Stand, Urban Estate Phase II, 66ft road, Udam Singh Nagar, Model Town, on national highways and among other places. Besides, flags of political parties and posters could be easily seen pasted on government and private buses, auto-rickshaws and at roadside kiosks.Similarly, the posters of PM Narendra Modi encouraging people to get the vaccine jab were visible inside the Civil Hospital near Mother and Child ward. The Aam Aadmi Party, too, did not lag behind in littering every nook and corner of the city with their hoardings, which can be easily spotted on 120ft road, PPR, Rama Mandi etc.Big hoardings could be seen at Kapurthala Chowk, Pathankot bypass, Jyoti Chowk and various other parts of the city, bragging about various projects.Meanwhile, the district administration claims to have removed nearly 12,490 items of different publicity material of political parties from public & private properties.The teams of Local Government Department and Panchayati Raj institutions conducted round-the-clock campaign against defacement of public and private properties to comply with the Model Code of Conduct guidelines.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said instructions had already been issued to all stakeholder departments to execute the Model Code of Conduct guidelines in letter and spirit. The administration is also getting action taken reports from the different departments including PWD, NHAI, Municipal Corporation, Mandi Board, Forests, Transport, PSPCL etc, he added.The Deputy Commissioner said certificates regarding no defacement had also been received from the concerned departments. The focus area of executing teams is to remove political posters, banners, hoardings, wall paintings, advertisements from unipoles, electricity poles of Municipal Corporation and PSPCL.He further pointed out that during the exercise in public places, as many as 40 wall writings, over 5,500 posters, nearly 5,000 banners and 650 other publicity materials were removed by the executing teams.Similarly, acting against the defacement on private property, the teams had cleared 35 spaces by removing wall writings, 1,200 posters, nearly 550 banners and 20 publicity items.The DC also said that no one would be allowed to deface public or private properties and action, as per the ECI guidelines, will be taken if anyone found violating the orders.Report violations on cVIGIL app: DCThe Deputy Commissioner urged the people to report any kind of violation on cVIGIL app launched by the EC as it is the best tool to receive and redress complaints within 100 minutes. He said that a total 70 complaints were received of which 65 had already been cleared including 30 from Jalandhar Central and 25 from Jalandhar North constituencies.Candidates holding indoor meetings||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/poll-code-violation-hoardings-posters-flags-continue-to-dot-jalandhar-360578
12-01-2022||---||Capt Amarinder's photograph, Congress logo on Fateh kits covered||Jalandhar, January 11Complying with the Model Code of Conduct norms, the Health Department started covering the photo of former CM Captain   Singh on the ‘Corona Fateh Kits’ with a white paper.The health staff engaged in the duty said as the picture has been printed on the box itself, it cannot be removed, therefore they have been asked to cover the Congress logo, Capt Amarinder picture and other publicity material with a white paper.Dr Ranjit Ghotra, Civil Surgeon, said as soon as the ECI guidelines were announced, he passed the orders to the health to remove banners, hoardings and other publicity material from the civil hospital premises.He said the district has a good stock of Fateh kits and now when cases are on the rise, they have started distributing these to Covid patients being isolated at their homes. When asked if any kits prior to announcement of code were distributed, he said there were not many patients then and the process of distribution has just begun.It was during the first wave of Covid-19 pandemic, the Health Department under then CM Capt Amarinder Singh launched the “Corona Fateh Kits” that contains medicines and other medical items for the home isolated patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/capts-photograph-cong-logo-on-fateh-kits-covered-360577
12-01-2022||A month ahead of elections||Poll 2022: Multi-cornered, close contest on the cards in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 11With just a month left for the Assembly poll, the political activity has stepped up. Jalandhar, which gave a mixed result last time with five of the nine seats going to Congress and four to SAD, does not present a clear picture so far.All four urban seats (Jalandhar Central, Cantt, North and West) had last time gone with the Congress. From among the rural seats, the Congress got Kartarpur only and the remaining Adampur, Phillaur, Nakodar and Shahkot went to the Akali Dal. Since Shahkot MLA Ajit S Kohar passed away soon after, a bypoll added another seat in the Congress’ favour and its tally touched six.Since the contest this time will be multi-cornered with SAD partying ways with BJP and Sanyukt Samaj Morcha also set to enter the poll fray, the political scenario is set to go for a complete toss. With BSP forming an alliance with the SAD and the Congress choosing to go for Dalit CM in the last leg of its tenure, the huge SC vote bank will be the major deciding factor. Jalandhar has four of nine reserved seats – Adampur, Phillaur, Kartarpur and Jalandhar West, two each going with SAD and Congress last time.The Aam Aadmi Party, which till the last two months was not in the reckoning, seems to have gained ground. An ugly fight for tickets outside the Punjab Press Club office here in a way showed the desperation in the candidates to get the party ticket.The BJP has so far not projected any good face from the rural seats and intends to make arrangements by roping in candidates from other parties, especially the Congress. Since the Congress intends to make good, solid changes, all those in fray who would not get seat at the last minute have kept their position reserved in the BJP or its ally Punjab Lok Congress.1. JALANDHAR CANTT: Currently represented by Congress leader Pargat Singh, this seat has traditionally been with the Congress as the SAD has won it only twice in 2007 and 2012. A hockey Olympian and a bureaucrat Pargat, who remained quite sidelined till the 4.5 years of tenure of Capt Amarinder Singh, became all powerful as he got the Cabinet berth with four portfolios — education, higher education, NRIs and sports. The seat has seen everyone becoming a turncoat for better prospects. If Pargat had switched from the SAD to Congress, Akalis chose to rope in Jagbir Brar back into the fold after his stint with the PPP and Congress. SAD ex-MLA Sarabjit Makkar also recently moved to the BJP and is seeking ticket from the party. Besides Makkar, other BJP leaders who are in fray include Amit Taneja, Amarjit Amri, Monty Sehgal and Dewan Amit Arora. Like Congress, the AAP too has fielded Olympian Surinder S Sodhi.2. JALANDHAR WEST: Congress councillor-turned-MLA Sushil Rinku has been managing a good hold from this reserved seat. So much so that when ex-party minister MS Kaypee chose to start activity from here to reclaim his old seat, he forced him to not look back again. From BJP side, Mahinder Bhagat is seeking ticket again claiming to have a strong backing of the Bhagat community here. The family of Chairman of SC Commission Vijay Sampla too has been keeping an eye on this seat, keeping their options of Phagwara and Sham Churasi also open. Not hopeful of getting ticket from the seat, BJP leader Sheetal Angural moved to the AAP and got the ticket despite a lot of opposition. Darshan Bhagat, an ex-councillor who contested previously for AAP, today moved back to the BJP further strengthening the Bhagat community in favour of the party. The SAD-BSP alliance chose to pick a relatively weak candidate Anil Minia, who recently left the job of LIC development officer and is a resident of Basti Danishmandan here.3. JALANDHAR NORTH: Transporter and sitting Congress MLA Bawa Henry is quite likely to get ticket this year again for he had won from the seat with a huge margin of nearly 70K votes. Henry, however faced a major dent as his opponent from within the party Dinesh Dhall moved to the AAP last week and was announced the candidate. The BJP is likely to go with ex-CPS KD Bhandari even as district president Sushil Sharma, too, is a claimant from here. Falling in the BSP kitty, the alliance chose to go with Kuldeep Singh Lubana, who has been previously with Akali Dal. His wife is still an SAD councillor with the Municipal Corporation.4. JALANDHAR CENTRAL: The Congress seems a divided house in the Jalandhar Central seat with some favouring the sitting Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri and others favouring Mayor Jagdish Raja from the seat. Beri is facing a stiffer contest as there are two more claimants including District Mahila Congress chief and councillor Jasleen Sethi and Chairman PUNSUP Tajinder Bittu. As for the BJP, the seat is likely to go to ex-minister Manoranjan Kalia even as ex-Mayor Rakesh Rathour is also learnt to be a claimant from here. The SAD has chosen to given the ticket from this general seat to Valmiki leader Chandan Grewal, who is also president of the Safai Mazdoor Union.5. NAKODAR: With a Congress candidate yet to be announced from Nakodar seat, the incumbent Akali MLA Gurpartap Wadala is comfortably seated as of date. There remains a huge clamour for the seat with IMA vice-president Dr Navjot Dahiya, grandson of Umrao Singh Renie Singh and truck union leader Happy Sandhu in race. Ex-minister Amarjit Samra, too, has not clarified yet if he would like to re-contest. The Congress had been on #3 in the 2017 polls as Jagbir Brar had been unwillingly shifted here. There also remains a buzz that Pargat could move here at the last minute. There also has been buzz over cricket Harbhajan Singh being given ticket from here but there now seems to be silence on the issue. The AAP has picked a strong woman Jat face and sarpanch Inderjit Kaur Mann.6. SHAHKOT: It will be a re-contest between Kohar family and sitting MLA Hardev S Laddi Sherowalia for the third time. SAD has relied on ex-minister Ajit Singh Kohar’s grandson Bachitar Singh Kohar while the Congress will certainly go again with Laddi. Ajit Kohar had defeated Laddi in 2017 but in repoll next year, Laddi defeated Kohar’s son Naib S Kohar despite strong allegations against Laddi over illegal sand mining issues. The AAP has retained its only candidate from this seat and Rattan S Kakkar Kalan. The BJP has so far not opened its cards from this seat.7. ADAMPUR: A reserved seat, it is being represented by Akali leader Pawan Tinu for the past two terms and the party has obviously depended on him again. Ever since Punjab CM Charanjit S Channi addressed a rally here and requested the people to adopt him, there has been a buzz that he could contest from here if not his relative and ex-minister MS Kaypee. Being the first Dalit CM, Channi faces a daunting task to win back more SC seats from the Dalit hub Doaba and many in the party feel that a move like this could help the party make a huge swing. As far as the BJP is concerned, the party is likely to go with a leader expected to join from the Congress.8. KARTARPUR: Kartarpur SC seat may see a neck and neck fight with the BSP and the AAP putting up a strong bet from here. The BSP-SAD alliance has fielded advocate Balwinder Singh, who in the 2019 Parliamentary polls, has bagged over 2 lakh votes for the party from Jalandhar seat. The AAP has fielded retired PPS officer Balkar Singh, who for a long time has remained posted in Kartarpur area and has strong connections. The seat, however, is currently represented by Congress MLA Chaudhary Surinder Singh, who is the son of stalwart leader Chaudhary Jagjit Singh. The BJP remains in dark from this rural seat.9. PHILLAUR: A reserved seat, Baldev Khaira of SAD is the sitting MLA from here. His biggest advantage is that while he himself manages the SC votebank, his in-laws and wife Bhawna Khosla, who is from general caste, too come as a big aid. Vikramjit Chaudhary, son of sitting Jalandhar MP Chaudhary Santokh Singh, has been trying for a ticket again after losing to the SAD MLA by 3,500 votes. The AAP is depending on fresher Principal Prem Kumar from the seat. BJP, however, is waiting to import a leader from another party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/poll-2022-multi-cornered-close-contest-on-the-cards-360576
