13-01-2022||Avneet Kaur||Jalandhar in the grip of viral fever||Jalandhar, January 12Given the change in the weather conditions and rise in Covid-19 cases, the city is in the grip of viral fever. The sale of antibiotics, anti-allergy medicines, cough syrups, paracetamol and other fever drugs have also risen by 50 per cent.The Tribune talked to a few medical specialists and traders at wholesale and retail medicine markets in the town, who admitted that a majority of the patients were suffering from viral fever and that the sale of medicines had gone up after the third week of December, respectively.Sale of immunity boosters also upA local chemist, who requested not to be named, said sales of cough syrups, fever medicines like paracetamol and other antibiotics like Azithromycin, Doxycycline and others, have witnessed an unprecedented rise in the last 15days. “After every five minutes, there’s a patient or someone from the family visiting and asking for medicines by telling symptoms which are more or less of a viral fever,” he said.“We were earlier making a business in the range of Rs 5,000 to Rs10,000, but nowadays it’s not less than Rs 20,000 a day,” he added.Similarly, another chemist, Mohit Kumar, near Maqsudan, said: “The sale of viral medicines has gone up by over 50%. Even masks and sanitisers too are back in demand”.Vinod Madan, a wholesale medicines dealer, said: “The demand has gone up by 15 to 20 per cent as the traders in retail business had placed new orders of fever-related medicines and among other anti-allergic drugs”.Health experts also said that almost every third family is suffering from the fever or cold, but fearing that they will be tested Covid positive, they are not visiting the doctors. When asked whether these viral infections could be Covid, Dr Inderdeep Singh of Shamsher Hospital, said: “Nothing can be said without conducting the tests since symptoms of the illnesses can overlap.”He said cough, fever, tiredness and muscle aches are common to both the flu and Covid-19, therefore, the persons are suggested to self-isolate and monitor their own health. In case symptoms persist or get worse, they should definitely get themselves tested.Dr Navjot Dahiya, national vice-president of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), said there was an increase in viral infections these days due to weather change but people should not take it lightly. “The cases of Covid-19 are also rising; therefore, even if one is suffering from a normal cold or fever, they should use a mask and maintain hygiene. They should wash hands often and maintain a nutritious diet while drinking enough amount of water,” he said.He further said that the chemists in the city must not sell fever drugs and other anti-allergy drugs without the doctor’s prescription. He asked people to visit doctors and get themselves checked before taking any medicines. “The only way to defeat this pandemic and other infection is by taking precautions,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-in-the-grip-of-viral-fever-360843
13-01-2022||Jalandhar||3rd wave: Record 626 fresh cases  surface in Jalandhar district||A whopping 626 new cases of Covid-19 were reported from Jalandhar on Wednesday, highest ever reported this season. With the fresh cases, the case tally in the district now stands at 66,369. As many as 62,684 persons have recovered from the disease in the district while the number of active cases have reached 2,181. One Covid death was also reported today, taking the deceased tally in Jalandhar to 1,504. Of the 19,23,602 samples collected in the district so far, 17,82,596 have tested negative.172 test +ve in KapurthalaAs many as 172 new cases of Covid-19 were reported on Wednesday. With the fresh cases, the district tally reached 18,558. Those tested positive include residents of Kapurthala, Phagwara, Bholath, among other places. Meanwhile, no new death was reported in Kapurthala today. The total deceased tally at Kapurthala remains at 556.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3rd-wave-record-626-fresh-cases-surface-in-district-360845
13-01-2022||---||Every penny spent by candidates will be recorded: Nawanshahr ADC||Nawanshahr, January 12Additional District Election Officer-cum-Additional Deputy Commissioner Jasbir Singh said the district administration has formed district expenditure monitoring committee and accounting teams at constituency levels, which would closely monitor the poll expenditure of the candidates through shadow registers.Directing them to perform their duties meticulously from day of filling nomination papers by the candidates, the ADC said expenditure monitoring committee has a big responsibility on its shoulders to expose the hidden expenses of the candidates through assistant expenditure observers and account teams and record the concealed figures in the shadow registers.Masks, gloves, thermal scanners in all 614 polling boothsHe said these registers would be compared with those maintained by the candidates at regular intervals. He said the expenditure monitoring committee would record the hidden expenditure incurred by him during this expenditure in its shadow register and report to the Election Commission.Jasbir Singh said any candidate during these Assembly elections can spend only Rs 40 lakh during the canvassing. Further, the candidate has to do every payment and receive donation above Rs 10,000 by cheque/draft, he added.He asked the assistant expenditure observers to ensure that every penny spent by the candidate must be recorded. The Additional District Election Officer termed job of accounting teams is vital and said whenever a party would hold a rally, the static surveillance teams and video viewing teams would record details of the expenditure incurred on that rally and then, the accounting team would prepare the actual cost and the same would be entered in the shadow register and added to the candidate’s account. He said this expenditure would be added as per the price list of various items fixed by the EC.Cops take out flag marchAhead of the Punjab Assembly elections scheduled for February 14, the Nawanshahr police, along with a battalion of Sashastra Seema Bal, (SSB), held a flag march in various parts of the district, on Wednesday, besides launching a search operation at public places.Nearly, 3,700 cops and personnel from the armed forces would ensure maintenance of law and order, besides would keep a strict eye on anti-social elements and build confidence among residents, about their security. Disclosing further details, SSP Kanwardeep Kaur said joint teams of the local police and armed forces would be entrusted with the task at entry points, sensitive and vulnerable areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/every-penny-spent-by-candidates-will-be-recorded-nawanshahr-adc-360848
13-01-2022||Jalandhar||Covid-19 vaccination camp in Jalandhar school||National Youth DayTo commemorate the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda, the NSS wing of the PCM SD College for Women celebrated National Youth Day. A declamation and poster making competition were organised on this occasion. The theme of the event was ‘Teachings of Swami Vivekananda’. The purpose of this event was to make the students aware about the life and teachings of Swami Vivekananda. The students participated in this competition with great enthusiasm. The members of the managing committee and the Principal, Dr Pooja Prashar, praised the participants. The Principal also appreciated the efforts of Dr Neelam Gupta, Sunita Bhalla and Dilpreet Kaur for organising this event.Inter-college online competitionKanya Maha Vidyalaya (KMV) students made the college proud by securing the second position in various competitions organised during the mathematical artistry programme. In this online inter-college competition, organised by Department of Mathematics, Khalsa College for Women, Ludhiana-based on the life and successes of famous mathematician Srinivasa Ramanujan, KMV students named Anjali and Kiranjot secured second position in rangoli-making competition. Along with this, Vajinder Kaur stood second in the poem composing competition in Punjabi language category. Principal Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that participating in such competitions instil confidence in the students and at the same time also provides them with a great platform to hone and handle their talents according to the competitions.Tributes to Swami VivekanandaNCC cadets of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya commemorated national youth leader Swami Vivekananda, a symbol of courage, energy and enthusiasm under the aegis of 2PB (G) BN NCC, Jalandhar, on his birth anniversary. NCC cadets paid homage to Swami Vivekananda by cleaning his statue at HMV Chowk, Jalandhar. Principal Dr Ajay Sareen said Swami Vivekananda was a great visionary whose thoughts have always inspired the youth of motion. He has motivated many youngsters to work towards motion building. CO Col NPS Toor appreciated the efforts of cadets and encouraged them to follow the footsteps of this great leader. ANO Lt Sonia Mahindru said we all should work collectively to fulfil his dreams.Lohri celebratedIvy World School, under the aegis of the Vasal Educational Society, organised the Lohri celebration. The virtual celebration began with a reminder of the festival’s significance. Students were taught about how Lohri is celebrated, what we wear, and the seasonal foods to consume. Little Ivyians dressed up in traditional Punjabi garb and demonstrated their favourite Lohri dishes such as jaggery, rewari, sesame, popcorn, and groundnuts. The kids and the instructors virtually celebrated the festival by participating in art and craft activities such as creating a campfire out of paint and ice-cream sticks and creating a Sundar Mundariye scenario on a plate depicting a beautiful and imaginative Lohri environment.Webinar on Youth DayA webinar was conducted on National Youth Day at MLU DAV College Phagwara under the guidance of Dr Kiranjeet Randhwa, Principal of the college. During a webinar, which was conducted by physical education department, students gave speeches on the life of Swami Vivekananda. The students were advised to replace weak thoughts with optimism with the help of yoga and meditation. Dr Randhawa addressed the students that youth have the potential, zest and energy to uplift the country from degeneration. She said a country’s future is lying in the hands of youth, so it is important to motivate the young generation to strive for excellence. This day is celebrated to spread awareness about how the youth should be encouraged and guided so that they can contribute to the country’s development. She further said Swami Vivekananda’s life and teachings have encouraged millions across the world.Slogan-writing activityNational Youth Day was also observed in Shiv Jyoti Public School. Students of Classes 6th to 9th were made to write slogans on the philosophies and ideals of Swami Vivekanand and were made aware about this day through the medium of video presentation. Students Hisha-(8th-D) and Bhawni (9-C) and co-associate teachers Sapna, Palwinder Kaur and Ranju Sharma participated in the activity with full enthusiasm. An e-pledge titled ‘Say yes to life and no to drugs’- an initiative of the Indian government was taken by students, teachers and parents. Principal Neeru Nayyar apprised the students to believe in the teachings and philosophies of Swami Vivekanand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-vaccination-camp-360850
13-01-2022||Jalandhar||Finally, Punjab govt comes forward to help hearing-speech impaired Chess Champion Malika Handa||Just two days after Telangana minister honoured hearing-speech impaired Chess Champion Malika Handa with a cash reward, the Punjab government too came forward to earn some brownie points and finally handed over the cheque for Rs 21 lakh, as cash reward to her.Malika, along with her parents, was invited to Chandigarh, on Wednesday, where an official of Punjab Sport Department handed over the cheque to her.Talking to the Tribune, Renu Handa, mother of Malika Handa, confirmed that she has received the cash reward today. However, expressing unhappiness over the government’s much delayed action in her daughter’s case; she said though her daughter received the cash prize today, her fight for a government job is still on. “After receiving the cash prize, I asked the official concerned whether she will be given a government job, but he had no answer,” she said. — TNSFight for govt job still onTalking to the Tribune, Renu Handa, mother of Malika Handa, confirmed that she has received the cash reward today. However, expressing unhappiness over the government’s much delayed action in her daughter's case; she said though her daughter received the cash prize today, her fight for a government job is still on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/finally-state-govt-comes-forward-to-help-malika-360852
13-01-2022||Aparna Banerji||Hopeful of my father's comeback in Bholath: Sukhpal Khaira's son||Jalandhar, January 12After the November 11 arrest of Sukhpal Khaira on money laundering charges, Mehtab Khaira, his 32-year-old son, has been holding fort in the Bholath constituency in his father’s absence. An advocate by profession, Mehtab has been campaigning and holding workers’ meetings in the constituency.Khaira’s arrest, months before the elections, even fuelled speculations that the constituency might go uncontested by him due to his arrest. However, Mehtab is hopeful that his father will receive bail soon. Mehtab says: “My father will certainly contest the election from Bholath.” He adds: “In my father’s absence, I am campaigning against the AAP and the SAD. People have been asking whether it’s going to be me but I want to put all such speculations to rest. We are hopeful, a bail will be granted to him soon.”Mehtab has time and again raised questions on his father’s arrest by the ED, also recently alleging that the original allegations made by the ED against his father (collection of illegal foreign funds) were contained in the challan presented by it.While Mehtab hopes that the bail might be secured for his father in mid January, in the meantime, he has kept himself busy holding meeting and addressing people through virtual means.Khaira vs Jagir KaurOf the nine elections that Bholath has seen so far, six have been won by the Akali Dal, two by the Congress and one (2017) by the Aam Aadmi Party. Sukhpal Singh Khaira won the constituency in 2007 and 2017.Traditonally an Akali bastion, Bholath was the traditonal stronghold of Akali Dal matriarch Bibi Jagir Kaur who has already been declared the candidate for the seat by the Shiromani Akali Dal after she relinquished her post as SGPC president earlier this year.Khaira has been viewed as a formidable adversary to Jagir Kaur in what started off as a David vs Goliath battle of epic proportions. However, his recent flip flops and electoral course spelled trouble. In 2007 Sukhpal Khaira contested from the Congress and in 2017 from the AAP His unceremonious exit as Leader of the Opposition in 2018 was followed by his resignation from the AAP in 2019. Before returning back to the Congress this June, Khaira resigned as legislator of Bholath.His vacating the seat and recent arrest, has also followed Kapurthala legislator Rana Gurjeet Singh’s aide Amandeep Singh Gora Gill being pegged as a claimant for the seat from the Congress. While Khaira’s flip flops between the AAP and the Congress and his time away from the constituency (to contest from Bathinda in 2019) might cost him dear. But there is also a lull in the seat in his absence. A strong voice of opposition is missing.Bholath historyOf its election run since 1977, the Bholath constituency has been won by the Shiromani Akali Dal a majority of times. Akali Dal won the seat in 1977, 1980, 1985, 1997, 2002 and 2012. Of these six times, Bibi Jagir Kaur has emerged victorious thrice — in 1997, 2002 and 2012. Wrestled by Congress only twice (in 1992 and 2007), the seat was won by AAP in 2017. Since 2002, it has been alternating between Jagir Kaur and Sukhpal Khaira. In 2017, Sukhpal Singh Khaira won the seat with a margin of 8,202 votes. Sukhpal received 48,873 votes and was followed by Bibi Jagir Kaur’s son-in-law Yuvraj Bhupinder Singh, who received 40,671 votes.His recent flip-flops cost him dearThe recent flip flops of Sukhpal Khaira and his electoral course has spelled trouble for him. In 2007 Sukhpal Khaira contested from the Congress party and in 2017 from the AAP. His unceremonious exit as Leader of the Opposition in 2018 was followed by his resignation from the AAP in 2019.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hopeful-of-my-fathers-comeback-in-bholath-sukhpal-khairas-son-360854
13-01-2022||---||Premature baby weighing 790 gm gets fresh  lease of life in Hoshiarpur hospital||Hoshiarpur, January 12A six-month-old premature baby girl weighing just 790 grams got a new lease of life after she was treated successfully by Dr Amit Nagpal, consultant, Paediatric and Neonatology at at a local hospital.Dr Nagpal said the mother came to the emergency department of Ivy hospital around 3 am in morning complaining of abdominal pain. She was admitted and shifted immediately to the labour room where she gave birth to the baby at 4 am. The baby had birth asphyxia and she did not cry immediately after birth. The neonatal resuscitation was given and the baby was intubated and shifted to neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) with bag and tube ventilation.The baby was admitted in NICU after taking consent from parents and put on ventilator support. Parents were counselled regarding the extreme prematurity and its complication.All necessary investigations were sent and treatment was started with I/V fluids, I/V antibiotics and other supportive treatment. An initial investigation revealed septicaemia and chest X-ray suggestive of respiratory distress syndrome for which injection was given for lung maturity. The ventilator support was continued for 10 days then baby was extubated and weaned-off to NIV CPAP support, said Dr Nagpal.He further said that parenteral nutrition started on day 1. Feeds started with minimal enteral feeding and were gradually built up. NIV CPAP support was continued for next few weeks. Baby had prematurity related problems such as apnoea, anaemia, hypocalcemia, and neonatal seizure.Baby responded well to the treatment. Regular monitoring was done. Laser therapy was given as advised by the ophthalmologist.Gradually feeds were building up and the baby was shifted from tube feeding to oral spoon feeding and then to direct breastfeeding, said Dr Nagpal. During the discharge, the baby was stable hemodynamically and was accepting the feed quite well and was gaining weight. She was discharged after 35 weeks gestational age with a discharge weight of 1.45 kg, said Dr Amit Nagpal from Paediatric and Neonatology Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/premature-baby-weighing-790-gm-gets-fresh-lease-of-life-360855
13-01-2022||Nakodar||Three booked for attempt to murder||Workshop gutted in fireJalandhar: A workshop situated near the Madan Floor Mill Chowk was gutted in fire. Goods and machinery worth lakh of rupees were burnt to ashes. Sources said the incident took place around 3 or 4 am on Tuesday, when some passers-by noticed smoke billowing out of the workshop premises. They immediately informed the owner, who rushed to the spot. AAP candidate Raman Arora, too after hearing about the incident, reached the spot to offer help to the workshop owner. Meanwhile, the police said an electric short-circuit was believed to have caused the blaze. TNSMobile tower batteries stolenNurmahal: The Bilga police have arrested two persons on the charge of stealing batteries from a mobile tower. Investigating Officer (IO) Kulwindar Singh said the accused had been identified as Vijay Kumar, a resident of Lama Pind village and Savej, a resident of New Upkar Nagar. Sukhdev Raj, a resident of Nurmahal, has complained to the police that the accused came in a vehicle on December 22 night and decamped with 24 battery cells from a mobile tower at Partap Pura village. The IO said a case has been registered against the accused. OCThree booked for snatchingNurmahal: The Nurmahal police have booked three unidentified persons on the charges of snatching Rs 35,000 and earrings. Tarsem Singh, a resident of Sunnar Kalan village, complained to the police that he was returning home on his motorcycle with his wife on January 10 evening when three unidentified motorcycle-borne miscreants waylaid him near Bhardwajian village and snatched his purse containing Rs 35,000, an I-phone, documents and earrings from his wife Harbans Kaur and fled. The Investigating Officer Bawa Singh said a case under Sections 379-B (snatching) and 34 (committing crime with common intention) of the IPC has been registered against the unidentified accused and the further investigations are on. OCApprehension of breach of peaceNakodar: The Lohian Khas, Mehat Pur and Nakodar sadar police have arrested 14 persons on the charges of apprehension of breach of peace and tranquillity of an area. The police said that the accused are residents of various villages and localities and are habitual criminals and can create problems during forthcoming Assembly elections. Different cases have been registered against the accused. OC31-yr-old woman goes missingNurmahal: A 31-year-old resident of Bilga village has been missing for the past five days. Gurmej Lal complained to the police that his daughter Parmindar Kaur went outside on January 7 but did not return home. Investigating officer (IO) Anwar Masih said a missing report has been registered in this regard. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-booked-for-attempt-to-murder-360857
13-01-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||Punjab government sends forms to college students for Net allowance||Jalandhar, January 12Having faced college teachers’ ire over non-implementation of the 7th Pay Commission, the government seems to be trying to ensure that the anger does not descend to students.Since most college students are over 18 years and are eligible voters, the government has sent internet allowance forms, promising Rs 2,000, to all colleges. To ensure that the amount goes only to the students who are Punjab voters, the government has sought details such as the residence proof and Aadhaar card number for verification.As colleges are closed these days, students say the forms have been made available through Google forms.College authorities here said the scheme was getting good response. Dr GS Samra, Principal, Lyallpur Khalsa College, said: “Since students have to submit their proofs and need our attestation, they are preferring to come to the college to submit forms. The response is quite good.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-government-sends-forms-to-college-students-for-net-allowance-360781
13-01-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||Doaba: Advantage Congress here||If the Shiromani Akali Dal chose to ally with the Bahujan Samaj Party to win over the Scheduled Caste (SC) community ahead of the Punjab Assembly poll, the Congress played a trump card by giving Punjab its first Chief Minister from the community.The decision to appoint an SC Chief Minister has the potential to swing the community’s votes in the ruling party’s favour, particularly in Dalit-dominated Doaba region, say analysts. Keeping up the momentum, the Congress is learnt to be considering fielding Channi from two seats — his home constituency Chamkaur Sahib and Adampur in Doaba.The Chief Minister had already dropped a hint at this during his rallies at Adampur, Banga and Jalandhar Cantonment when he said, “Doabites, adopt me.”Channi contesting from Adampur could impact the outcome in all 23 seats of Doaba, particularly the reserved eight segments of Adampur, Kartarpur, Phillaur, Jalandhar West, Phagwara, Banga, Sham Chaurasi and Chabbewal.“Not only Ravidassias, even Mazhabis could opt for Channi. Whether or not he’s declared a CM candidate, the Dalit community has been viewing him as their man. The Congress has scored a point over its rivals by doing something other parties had only been thinking of. In Punjab’s Jat-dominated politics, it gave the first Dalit CM,” asserts prominent Dalit writer Des Raj Kali.The “pro-farmer and pro-Punjab stance” adopted by the CM vis-à-vis the recent security lapse during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Ferozepur added to Channi’s stature, maintains Kali. Though leaders of various parties have been visiting Dera Sachkhand Ballan in Jalandhar, a rousing reception was accorded to Channi when he was elevated to the top post in September last, said a youth activist. For his part, Channi had chosen the dera premises to announce the setting up of Guru Ravidass Chair on 101 acres of land adjoining the dera for research on the Guru’s life.To balance out with other castes, Channi recently got set up a Punjab State General Caste Commission and made Jalandhar-based Dr Navjot Dahiya as its chairman. Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal too has not left any stone unturned when it comes to wooing the Dalits of Doaba. Though his initial decision to keep the reserved seats of Adampur, Banga and Phillaur with the SAD backfired as ally BSP protested, he managed to quell the resistance. On his insistence, his party’s cadres arranged massive rallies in favour of the BSP state chief, Jasvir Garhi, in Phagwara. The SAD leadership has been time and again attacking the Channi government for not being able to recover Rs 100 crore SC Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme grants from colleges.Eye on those chasing foreign dreams in the state’s NRI belt (as Doaba is known), the Akali Dal promised a ‘Student Education Card’, which will offer Rs 10 lakh interest-free loan for college studies, IELTS fee and admission in foreign colleges. To counter it, Channi announced free IELTS, TOEFL and PTE coaching.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) too has a “Dalit guarantee card” ready. AAP national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, at a recent event, announced if voted to power, his party would foot the coaching bill of SC students wanting to pursue engineering, medical or other courses or prepare for competitive examinations. “If any SC community child wishes to pursue graduation and post-graduation abroad, the expenses will be borne by the state government,” he had said.Kejriwal had chosen to launch his women guarantee card offering Rs 1,000 per month to all 18-plus women from Kartarpur reserved seat constituency. “All seemed going well for AAP till it erred in the distribution of ticket, as it did in 2017. The selection of candidates has created a major rift between the old and the new guard, something that spilled onto the streets recently during the visit of party’s Punjab affairs incharge Raghav Chadha,” says Sukhdeep Apra, a youth activist.The BJP, for its part, has set up its state office in Jalandhar and has been mobilising party cadre. Party leaders Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and Meenakshi Lekhi have been camping here and are meeting people, trying to rope in prominent faces, especially Mazhabi Sikhs. The party workers have been sharing booklets and videos of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “pro-Sikh decisions”.The Doaba’s NRIs, who favoured AAP in the 2017 Assembly elections, haven’t revealed their cards yet, probably due to the Omicron scare. “If at all they get active in the coming weeks, they may side by the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha, a political outfit floated by farmers who led protests against the three central farm laws,” claims Jaswinder Sangha, a prominent potato grower.The farmers’ party is learnt to be consolidating support in Assembly segments such as Jalandhar Cantonment, Nakodar, Phagwara and Adampur in Doaba.People don’t want too many welfare schemes. Public funds must be used rationally. How can freebies like Rs2,000 monthly allowance for women work when the state doesn’t have adequate finances? — Capt IS Dhami (retd), JalandharParties must include a bailout package for the industry. The government rolled out the ‘Punjab Invest’ scheme, but setting up a new unit still remains much more complex here as compared to neighbouring states. — Rajiv Kumar, Kapurthala businessmanHow parties fared in 2017 electionsCongress 15AAP 2SAD 5BJP 1Total assembly seats 117Challenges they faceCong: Failure to handle post-matric scholarship schemeSAD: Ensuring proper support from ally Bahujan Samaj PartyBJP: Getting good candidates from rural seatsAAP: Rebellion from the old guard1 Bholath2 Kapurthala3 Sultanpur Lodhi4 Phagwara5 Phillaur6 Nakodar7 Shahkot8 Kartarpur9 Jalandhar West10 Jalandhar Central11 Jalandhar North12 Jalandhar Cantt13 Adampur14 Mukerian15 Dasuya16 Urmar17 Sham Chaurasi18 Hoshiarpur19 Chabbewal20 Garhshankar21 Banga22 Nawanshahr23 Balachaur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/voters-pulse-doaba-advantage-cong-here-360762
