14-01-2022||---||Jalandhar district reports 470 fresh cases||Jalandhar, January 13As many as 470 new cases of Covid were reported from Jalandhar on Thursday. With this, the Covid tally in the district has reached 66,839 cases.Sainik School declared containment zoneKapurthala: Sainik School, Kapurthala, was declared a containment zone as there are 23 active cases here. Kapurthala DC Deepti Uppal ordered the school being declared a containment zone after a spate of cases from there. Notably, this is the second school in Kapurthala to be formally declared a containment zone. Before this, the Army Public School, Dhilwan, has also been declared a containment zone after over 40 cases were reported from there. However, the Dhilwan school is no more containment zone as cases after completion of mandatory quarantine period.Hoshiarpur district reports 115 new cases, 1 deathHoshiarpur: As many as 115 new cases of Covid-19 were reported from Hoshiarpur on Thursday, taking the total number of cases to 32,551. The number of active cases in the district now stands at 1,410. The death of a 73-year-old male resident of Tanda block was also reported today, taking the death toll to 1,003. OCAs many as 62,914 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases have reached 2,421 today.The deceased tally in Jalandhar remained at 1,504. Of the 19,32,129 samples collected in the district, so far, 17,88, 126 samples have tested negative.195 cases reported in KapurthalaAs many as 195 new cases of Covid were reported from the district today, taking the district tally to 18,753 cases.Those tested positive include residents of Kapurthala, Phagwara, Begowal among other places. Meanwhile, no new death was reported in Kapurthala today. The total deceased tally remains at 556.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-reports-470-fresh-cases-361120
14-01-2022||Aparna Banerji||Dhiyan Di Lohri: Teachers celebrate birth of newborn girls||Jalandhar, January 13A milk bottle, a rattle (called jhunjhuna in Punjabi and Hindi) and a teether are among the gifts that Ajmer Singh includes in a carefully wrapped package — one of the many he is going to distribute among various homes which have had newborn baby girls in his village this year.A few years ago we celebrated the birth of 10 to 12 girls. Last year, it was seven to eight girls. This year it is five. Families know we will visit. They look forward to it. Gifting mothers with moongfali, revaris and gifts for girls is an annual tradition. We have 53 students in the school, of whom 30 are girls. Previously some girls were forced by their parents to leave studies when they turned 12.— Ajmer SinghA similar package of goodies is also being wrapped at Rurka Kalan village by school master Boota Ram to give these away to newborn girls at his village.In the 21st century when there are still homes where gloom prevails after the birth of a baby girl, several school teachers are changing things, celebrating the birth of girls and opening the way for their emancipation. The celebration of the birth of little girls in their village through annual “Dhiyan Di Lohri” events is marking a change both in society and education. Incidentally, the change has been led by several free thinking men.“Only until a few years ago, women at Rurka Kalan used to wear only salwar-kameez, several homes felt sad over the birth of baby girls and schooling girls was still a radical idea. Things have changed now. Girls in pants and T-shirts stroll happily. That’s how much the village has changed. The football academy YFC and our school have both been instrumental in changing mindsets,” says Boota Ram, a teacher at Government Girls Primary School for Girls, Rurka Kalan.While a Lohri function to celebrate the birth of 21 newborn baby girls was celebrated at Rurka Kalan on January 3, at Natthewal, Ajmer Singh, a teacher of the Government Primary School, Natthewal, went door to door in five village families to greet them on the birth of their girls on Lohri. Both the schools celebrate Dhiyan Di Lohri with aplomb every year.Ajmer Singh says, “A few years ago we celebrated the birth of 10 to 12 girls. Last year it was seven to eight girls. This year it is five. Families know we will visit them. They look forward to it. Gifting mothers with moongfali, revaris and gifts for the girls is an annual tradition. We have 53 students in the school, of whom 30 are girls. Previously some girls were forced by their parents to leave studies when they turned 12 years.We started visiting such families and persuaded them to keep educating them till Class XII. Now the difference is evident. Most families educate girls till the class they want. Acceptance of girls has increased. Gloom has turned into positivity.”Rurka Kalan resident Boota Ram began distributing rewaris in the village after his own girl was born in 2012. Since 2013 onwards, he has been celebrating the birth of girls in his school too. In 2017, the school ushered in 51 girls in the block with Dhiyan Di Lohri.This year, the birth of 21 girls was celebrated. Last year, the school also distributed Rs 5,000 cycles to five girl achievers from nearby schools. This time Boota Ram happily posed with mothers of the newborn girls.The cultural event was itself a celebration of little boys and girls doing bhangra and giddha, dressed in traditional cultural attire. GPS Girls Rurka Kalan has 275 students, out of whom 170 are girls.Both Boota Ram’s daughter and his colleague’s own children are students of the same school.Boota says, “Asi tan kuriyan da shagun karna hi hunda. (We have to celebrate the girls’ birth). Be it 30, 40 or 50. Girls are gifted a package of baby suit, blanket, school bag, groundnuts and rewaris. Their mothers are also honoured. Our girls also played in the state championship bagging bronze in kho kho and football. We go to people’s homes and welcome them for the event. Many private students are leaving those schools and coming to our government school. They feel it is better.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dhiyan-di-lohri-teachers-celebrate-birth-of-newborn-girls-361121
14-01-2022||---||Shahkot: Case against 2 for assaulting woman||Shahkot, January 13The Shahkot police have booked two persons, including a woman on the charge of assaulting a woman. Investigating officer (IO) Lakbir Singh said the accused have been identified as Charanjit Kaur, wife of Sandip and Amandip Singh, son of Mukhtiar Singh, all residents of Kotla Suraj Mall.Manjit Kaur, wife of Mandip Singh, a resident of the same village complained to the police that the accused attacked her with sharp weapons on January 4 which left her seriously injured. He threatened her of dire consequences. A case has been registered under Sections 323, 325 (voluntarily causing hurt with dangerous weapons) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC. No arrests have been made and raids are on to nab the accused.1 booked in cheating caseNakodar: The Nakodar city police have booked a Jalandhar resident on the charges of cheating and breach of trust. Investigating officer (IO) Balwindar Singh said the accused has been identified as Rakesh Kumar’ a resident of Gurdev Nagar, Jalandhar. Jaswant Singh, a resident of Mehsam Pur village, under Mehat Pur police station complained to the police that the accused reached an agreement with him to sell his house in Mohalla Purewal colony, Nakodar. It was mortgaged with a bank. He received Rs 3 lakh as earnest money, but did not return it. The IO said a case has been registered against the accused and further investigations are on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/case-against-2-for-assaulting-woman-361122
14-01-2022||---||Ensure service voters receive & dispatch postal ballot on time: Jalandhar DC||Jalandhar, January 13Directing all Returning Officers to ensure timely transmission of postal ballots to service voters, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Thursday said there were 1,881 service voters in the district and their participation in the elections would be ensured through electronically transmitted postal ballot system (ETPBS).In a meeting held with all Returning Officers and Infotech officials entrusted with the task, the DC ordered that the service voters of the district posted at various locations would get their postal ballot electronically and they would dispatch the same through post. He said the Returning Officers and their teams had already made necessary preparations in this regard to accomplish the task without any glitch.He said the ETPBS would be used by the service voters to enable them to use their franchise after receiving postal ballot electronically. He said the service voters could download the postal ballot to cast their vote and then send the same through post to the RO through post. The DC also informed that the postal ballot paper to the service voters would be sent by the Returning Officer through record office.Meanwhile, after the meeting Additional Deputy Commissioner (D)-cum-Additional District Election Officer Jaspreet Singh along with the Returning Officers took a round of the EVM dispersal/collection centre, the EVM strongroom and the site of counting centre earmarked for the Vidhan Sabha polls 2022 in the nine constituencies of Jalandhar.The ADC stated that after voting on February 14 the counting of votes would take place in the district on March 10 at State Patwar School, Director Land Records, Gymnasium Hall and Sports College. He said votes of Phillaur and Nakodar constituencies would be counted at State Patwar School.Votes of Shahkot and Kartarpur will be counted at Director Land Records, Kapurthala Road, while Gymnasium Hall of Sports College will witness counting for Jalandhar West constituency. Similarly, the counting for Jalandhar Central will be held at 5th Floor, New Building in Director Land Records, whereas for Jalandhar North will take place in the hall of the Sports College Hostel while votes of Jalandhar Cantt and Adampur will be counted at 7th floor, New Building Director Land Records, and Masavi Hall, 3rd Floor New Building, Director Land Record, Kapurthala Road, respectively.48 teams to check excise violations Jalandhar: Deputy Commissioner, Excise, Jalandhar Zone, Jaskaran Singh Brar has directed the liquor vendors in the district to strictly follow the guidelines of the Election Commission of India (ECI) during electioneering otherwise the requisite action would be initiated against them in case of any violation. Brar said immediately after the imposition of the Model Code of Conduct, 48 enforcement teams led by Excise and Taxation officers had been constituted in all districts falling in Jalandhar Zone to keep a close watch on suspicious activities in the region. Besides, 14 nodal officers had also been deployed under special vigil to check the smuggling of liquor from other states, he added The DC also said Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori had already held a meeting with liquor vendors and traders to apprise them of the guidelines. He said they had been directed to comply with the said directions without any fail otherwise the requisite action would be initiated. He said the hotels, restaurants and bars falling in Jalandhar Range-2 were being checked by the excise teams. The teams seized unauthorized liquor from three restaurants/ bars in Amritsar and one in Jalandhar recently and took action under the Excise Act. Pertinently, the Excise Department teams also recovered lahan in a large quantity in Jalandhar, Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Hoshiarpur in December and destroyed it. He said in December, 19,39,042 kg of lahan, 3,694.93 litre of illicit liquor and 11,480 litre of smuggled liquor were seized. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ensure-service-voters-receive-dispatch-postal-ballot-on-time-dc-361124
14-01-2022||---||Nawanshahr DC inspects election arrangements at counting centres||Nawanshahr, January 13Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Election Officer Vishesh Sarangal on Thursday inspected the election arrangements in the proposed three counting centres in the district.The Deputy Commissioner (DC), who was accompanied by Additional Deputy Commissioner Jasbir Singh, visited counting centres — Banga’s GN College, Doaba College Chhokran (Rahon) in Nawanshahr and Baba Balraj Panjab University Constituent College in Balachaur.Sarangal said polling parties would be dispatched from these places and EVM/VVPAT machines would be received also here.During the inspection, Deputy Commissioner said foolproof security arrangements would be made by the district administration at these places during the polling process and all these centres would be set up as per the guidelines of the Election Commission. He said guidelines of Punjab Government regarding Covid-19 safety protocols would be strictly followed in these places.He added that keeping in view the Covid-19 protocols, two counting halls would be set up in each constituency instead of one big size room with 7-7 counting tables. He said these steps have been taken to reduce the crowd in the counting centres and maintaining social distancing as per the guidelines of the Election Commission.He told that strong rooms would be set up at these three places and CCTV cameras would also be installed for round the clock vigil.Reiterating the firm commitment of the district administration to ensure free and fair general elections, he checked the centres and gave necessary directions to the officers. He said no stone would be left unturned for ensuring that the Assembly polls are held in the peaceful and transparent manner.Violation of model code of conductPhagwara: The Election Commission of India (ECI) has implemented the code of conduct for the Punjab Assembly elections but in the rural areas of Phagwara sub-division, it is still common to find flags and posters of various political parties hanging on the walls, without the permission of the Election Commission. Neither the political parties concerned nor the staff of the Election Commission seems to be serious about it. When Phagwara BDPO Rampaul Singh Rana was contacted, he said the Block Development and Panchayat Department had been entrusted with the responsibility of unloading campaign materials from dharamshalas, schools, panchayat houses, anganwari, dispensaries and government poles and various teams were sending daily reports of rural areas. He said if any person or political party was found to be violating the code of conduct, the senior officials of the Election Commission would be informed to take appropriate action. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-dc-inspects-election-arrangements-at-counting-centres-361125
14-01-2022||---||Omicron fear casts a shadow on Lohri||Jalandhar, January 13Owing to the prevailing Omicron threat, Lohri was celebrated in all schools and colleges largely on a virtual mode. The celebrations were restricted to Zoom meetings, virtual presentations of Lohri thalis, festival-related painting making and sharing all such activities on WhatsApp groups.In some campuses, the students did not turn up but the teachers came up in traditional attires to perform giddha and dance around the Lohri fire. Groundnuts, reori, gachak and popcorns were offered to the fire. The dholis, loud Punjabi music and the usual chirp of the students was, however, missing this time.Emm Aar Int’l, AdampurThe festival of Lohri was celebrated online with great pomp and show under the supervision of principal Navdeep Vashishta via virtual platform due to pandemic restrictions. Lohri is celebrated a day before Makar Sankranti. Traditionally, Lohri is a special festival associated with the sowing and harvesting of crops.On this day, sesame, jaggery, gajak, revri and groundnuts are offered in the fire, along with the story of Dulla-Bhatti was heard. On this occasion, Emm Aarian’s celebrated the festival with exuberance and fanfare via virtual platform. They wore traditional attire and were completely absorbed in the festive spirit with songs, especially Lohri songs, and folk dance. School Director Dr Simmi Tandon extended her heartiest wishes on the occasion to students, parents and staff.On this occasion, Sumiti, Shiv Prabha, Radha Sharma, Shivani, Deepika, Pooja, Mohit Shinde, Kamal Thakur, Narinder Kumar, Prabodh Aggarwal and all staff were of special support.Sanskriti KMV SchoolBeating the winter chill, the principal and staff joined for the holy rituals of Lohri and sought blessings for the prosperous New Year and progressive days ahead. Even being at home, students of all grades joined in online for prayers. Rachna Monga, Principal, in her online address to the students, extended her kind wishes and mentioned to think and act positive by keeping the morals high with honesty and determination.MLU DAV College, PhagwaraLohri was celebrated at MLU DAV College, Phagwara, under the guidance of Dr Kiranjeet Randhawa Principal of the college. A webinar was organised for students by the staff. Students gave speeches and sang songs with great fervor and enthusiasm. Everyone joined in festive attires looking best for the webinar. Dr Randhawa addressed the students about the importance of Lohri. A key symbol of Lohri is the bonfire lighting of the fire which has been common in winter festivals throughout time and to the world it signifies the return of longer days. She further greeted the students and faculty present on the eve of the festival and stressed on the value of the culture. Lohri is the harvest festival of Punjab popularly known as the bread basket state of India. Irrespective of which state or religion people belong to, Lohri is celebrated with equal enthusiasm by everyone. At the end all teachers and students sang songs together. Everyone was in Jolly moodLyallpur Khalsa CollegeThe cultural festival of Lohri was celebrated with enthusiasm and joy by the staff at Lyallpur Khalsa College Jalandhar today following the Covid-19 guidelines as per the directions of Punjab Govt. College Principal Dr. Gurpinder Singh Samra led the presence of all the faculty members on this vivacious occasion. Speaking on the occasion, Principal Dr. Gurpinder Singh Samra expressed his best wishes to everyone and hoped for more accomplishments for the institution and its faculty and students. Dr Samra also shed light on the relevance of this fun filled festival and identified this festival as a basis to preserve our rich cultural heritage and to make young generation aware of it. He used the occasion to advise the young generation to recognise the worth of their cultural values and to stay away from social evils thereby subsequently promoting a much needed sense of harmony. He also expressed his happiness on the shift from the traditional Lohri celebrations to the modern day liberal facet of the occasion which has stood up for gender equality and he urged the society to keep up such good initiatives.Shiv Jyoti Public SchoolLohri was observed in Shiv Jyoti Public School. Students of all Classes were made aware about this day through the medium of video presentation. Students Sawni (8-B), Gourish (8-B) and Manthan (7-B) and co-associate teachers Latika Sharma and Sunanda Sharma participated in the activity with full enthusiasm. It was technically supervised by Shallu Magow and Guninder. The activity was performed under the supervision of Neeru Bala, House Master of Pragati House, under the guidance of the management and school Principal Neeru Nayyar and Vice Principal Parveen Saili who appreciated the efforts put in by the students and teachers and sent greetings and warm wishes to all.Police DAV Public SchoolLohri celebrations were held at Police DAV Public School, Jalandhar. Fire was lighted by Dr. Rashmi Vij, Principal, along with the other faculty members. The teachers enjoyed savouring sweets and Lohri special delights. Celebrations of students were limited to virtual mode only.Kanya Maha VidyalayaKanya Maha Vidyalaya celebrated the festival of Lohri with fervour and enthusiasm. The celebrations commenced with the address of Principal Prof. Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi. During her address, Prof Dwivedi extended her Lohri wishes to each and every member of KMV family. On this occasion, college also distributed clothes and other essentials to the helping staff of KMV. The PG Department of Music also sang beautiful folk renditions dedicated to the festival of Lohri. The principal lauded the efforts of the whole organising committee for holding the celebrations.Lohri celebrated with women prisonersHoshiarpur: Secretary District Legal Services Authority Aparajita Joshi visited the Central Jail, Hoshiarpur. Prisoners were made aware of their legal rights at the Legal Aid Clinic. The Secretary District Legal Services Authority also celebrated Lohri with the women detainees. She said from Thursday onwards, everybody should adopt a healthy mindset and whenever after getting out of the jail, should think of living a good life.She asked the women detainees to wear masks, use sanitisers, keep a distance of at least 6 feet from each other.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/omicron-fear-casts-a-shadow-on-lohri-361126
14-01-2022||Jalandhar||Need to rein in crimes in Punjab: BJP Yuva Morcha||Members of the BJP Yuva Morcha (BJYM) condemned the increasing cases of gang wars, drug overdose, loot etc. in the state. In a press conference held here today, BJYM members BJYM state vice-president Ashok Sareen Hicky, Ashutosh Tiwari, Narinderpal Dhillon said the state Congress was responsible for the deteriorating condition of the youth in the state. They said there was an increase in the cases of loot, dacoity, gang wars and hooliganism in the state. They also said the state Congress had failed to put an end to such incidents. They added that on one hand, the state was witnessing incidents such as youths killing their parents for drugs, on the other, bloody clashes or gang wars were claiming lives of several people. They said due to rise in such incidents; industry was also moving to places such as Himachal, Haryana, UP and Gujarat. BJYM members said there was a need to rein in such elements. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/need-to-rein-in-crimes-in-state-361127
14-01-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||'Congress apprehensive of  SAD-BSP alliance in Punjab'||Jalandhar, January 13Sharply reacting to the reports that the Congress could make Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to contest from two seats, including Adampur reserved seat, the sitting Akali legislator Pawan Tinu and BSP state chief Jasvir Singh Garhi said such moves show the apprehensions of the ruling party.Both leaders said that the move was nothing but desperation of the party to overcome the results of the combined force of the SAD and the BSP. “I do not think that Channi is himself interested to contest from Adampur. The party is forcing them to do so. Channi has nothing to show for himself in my constituency. The condition of the main Jalandhar-Hoshiarpur highway passing through Adampur is awfully bad. The flyover work is going on a snail’s pace much to the annoyance of the residents passing through the dug up stretch daily,” said Tinu.The Adampur MLA and SAD spokesperson said, “In November, Channi had laid stones of seven projects, including the cricket stadium, renovation of bus stand, development of city centre shopping complex and water supply and sewerage project besides laying foundation of Saragarhi Stadium at Damunda village for an amount of Rs 158 crore. None of these projects have moved even an inch since the past nearly two months. The NRI who invested in the Saragarhi stadium has been awaiting the government share.The shopping complex project has been shelved off by the local bodies government as the officials have been told that the 10 shops of the Municipal Council were already lying vacant and another set of 22 shops could be a wasteful preposition.”Tinu also takes on Channi’s relative and ex-minister Mahinder S Kaypee, who had fought unsuccessfully from Adampur in the last polls. “In 2018, when Channi was Technical Education Minister and Kaypee was the Chairman of the Punjab Technical Education Board, an ITI, which was imparting 12 trades to the youth in Adampur was shut down. All equipment in the workshops was taken away and the entire staff was shifted elsewhere. Not just Channi, even Kaypee, as the halqa in-charge of the party, did not make even the slightest effort to save the ITI,” Tinu has alleged. Garhi too said it was owing to the alliance of the BSP with the SAD that the Congress was jittery and was taking decisions to appoint a Dalit leader as the CM and was also roping him as the candidate from two seats.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/congress-apprehensive-of-sad-bsp-alliance-361128
14-01-2022||Jalandhar||Poster-making competition held||Education summit at LPU‘Observe Now Higher Education Summit and Awards’ function was held in the national capital recently in which ex-Union Minister and MP Suresh Prabhu felicitated the chosen few persons from the country for exemplary leadership in education. Vice-President Aman Mittal of Lovely Professional University was honoured as ‘Exemplary Leader in Education’. The ceremony witnessed 20+ education leaders from top Indian universities, who also discussed various opportunities in the education segment. While addressing the ‘Summit’ as a panellist, vice-president Aman Mittal touched on the topic ‘Online distance learning: Strategies to offer distance learning programmes and what were the benefits of hybrid approach to distance learning’.Vivekananda Jayanti celebratedSRT DAV Public School, Bilga, celebrated Vivekananda Jayanti online, on Thursday. An online speech competition was organised on the occasion. The students threw light on his life and introduced other students to the inspiring incidents of his life. Narendra, a student of Class VIII got first position, Samaria got second position and Sukhpreet Kaur of Class VII and Kiranjot of Class VI got joint third position. On this occasion, Principal Ravi Sharma said the lofty ideals of Vivekananda inspired many of our freedom fighters. It was Swamiji who emphasised on the need for character building in education. Keeping this in view, his birthday is celebrated as National Youth Day. Floral tributes were paid to him by all staff members on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/poster-making-competition-held-361129
14-01-2022||Hoshiarpur||6 smugglers held with intoxicants||Man killed in road accidentHoshiarpur: One person died in a road accident in the area. The Talwara police have registered a case against the unidentified driver of a car. According to the information, Vikas Kumar, a resident of Bhargo Camp Jalandhar, told the police that they were returning from Beh Choohad village after finishing their work. When he reached near Nangal, a car hit his companion Om Prakash. He took him to the hospital in Kamahi Devi, in an injured condition, from where he was referred to Dasuya and then to Jalandhar where Om Prakash died. OCBetting: 1 held with Rs4,510Hoshiarpur: The Mehtiana police arrested an accused while betting and recovered cash put on bet and betting slips worth Rs 4,510 from him. The accused has been identified as Naresh Kumar, a resident of Mustapur. He has been booked under the Gambling Act. OCNewborn found near IELTS centreHoshiarpur: A one-year-old girl was found abandoned outside an IELTS centre. The Model Town police have registered a case in this regard on the basis of a letter written to police, by Chairperson Child Welfare Committee Harpreet Kaur. She said on December 1, last year, a one-year-old girl was found abandoned from outside an IELTS centre. She has now been sent to the Unique home in Jalandhar. On the said complaint, the police have registered a case under Section 317 of the IPC and section 75 of Juvenile Justice Act 2015. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/6-smugglers-held-with-intoxicants-361131
14-01-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||Amid buzz, Punjab CM's principal secy Hussan Lal says won't contest from Banga||Jalandhar, January 13Brought in by way of a grand appearance by none other than the first Dalit Chief Minister of the state Charanjit Singh Channi, his principal secretary Hussan Lal has reportedly decided against contesting from Banga, a reserved constituency, in the upcoming elections.As per reports, Hussan Lal and his two brothers have not been visiting Banga for the past few days and have also vacated their house on the Mukandpur road.Was introduced at November rallyThis has come as a major shocker for constituency workers, especially since they saw a huge turmoil post the entry of the 59-year-old IAS officer into the fray. Almost all contenders from the party had stopped working and were either sitting at home or switched to other parties. Two-time MLA Mohan Lal Banga switched to the BJP. Constituency incharge Satvir Palli Jhikki joined the Punjab Lok Congress. Former MLA Tarlochan Soondh and other two ticket seekers Rajinder Thekedar and Dr Harpreet Kainth, too, had stopped all party activities.Hussan Lal, who is expected to retire in six months, confirmed to The Tribune he had no plans to contest from Banga but did not cite any reason. All party leaders who were helping Hussan Lal, including Zila Parishad member Kamaljit Banga, party incharge Gurdev Namdhari, Jhujar Rahipa and Rajinder S Kultham, said they too had been hearing that their candidate had withdrawn but had no idea as to what went wrong.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-buzz-cms-principal-secy-says-wont-contest-from-banga-361001
14-01-2022||Encompassing the city’s most posh area||Jalandhar cantt: Bumpy ride to growth||The dairy complex of Jamsher is without roads and has a perpetually clogged sewer. Residents have to bear stinking sludge on roads all the time. The water treatment plant at Pholariwal remains non-functional. A waste treatment plant also remains a non-starter.Roads of the constituency are in a bad shape too. Deep Nagar road along the Cantonment area had been dug up to lay sewer and it remained muddy for almost a year till the work began recently. “Despite such a huge volume of traffic that it gets, the authorities did not bother to get it repaired,” said Sham Babbar, a local. Garha cremation ground has no boundary wall. Jamsher, Samrai and Jandiala hospitals do not have adequate infrastructure.Past trendThe electorate here has always gone with the Congress barring the two terms in 2007 and 2012. Former CM Beant Singh too was an MLA from the seat in 1992, followed by his son Tej Partap in 1997 and his daughter Gurkanwal Kaur in 2002.Electorate strengthTotal voters 1,90,583Male 99,296Female 91,282Third gender 5||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bumpy-ride-to-growth-361012
14-01-2022||---||Ex-minister Joginder Singh Mann flays govt for no action in SC scholarship scam||Phagwara, January 13Former Minister and Chairman of Punjab Agro Industries Corporation Joginder Singh Mann on Thursday said the Cabinet’s recent decision to grant “clemency to the accused of the post-matric scholarship scheme scam was atrocious”.He said it was surprising that instead of taking a strict action against the erring educational institutes for embezzling the money meant for the scholarship to Scheduled Caste (SC) students, the Punjab Government had exempted them from a police case.He said a strict action against erring institutes would have acted as a deterrent for others aswell.He said the report submitted by Additional Chief Secretary Kirpa Shankar Saroj had clearly indicted the culprits, but for the reasons unknown the state government had turned a blind eye towards it and let the erring institutes offthe hook.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ex-minister-flays-govt-for-no-action-in-sc-scholarship-scam-361023
