15-01-2022||---||Guru Nanak Dev University  shifts to online mode||Jalandhar, January 14With the entire schedule of examination getting delayed by nearly five weeks owing to a recently concluded strike by the college teachers, Guru Nanak Dev University has decided to shift to the online mode.As per the schedule announced today, practical examination of all first, third and fifth semester students studying in undergraduate, postgraduate and diploma courses will be held from January 20 to 25 in online mode. All written online examination will be conducted from January 27 onwards. The practical examinations of the students as per the previous pre-strike schedule were slated to be held from December 15 onwards.Since the Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union had gone on strike against the state government from December first week onwards demanding implementation of the 7th Pay Commission of the UGC, the examination had to be postponed. The exams at that time were scheduled to be held in offline mode. Since the strike kept on getting extended, the students remained in a dilemma about the mode and the new schedule of examination for over a month. Even the principals’ association had joined the teachers in their protest.The demand of the teachers was not fulfilled by the government till the implementation of the poll code on January 8. After that, the teachers finally chose to end their strike and the GNDU officials took a week’s time to decide about the final examination schedule.While IKGPTU and Panjab University had announced to shift to online mode last month itself, the GNDU authorities kept insisting for long that they would be taking offline examination only. But since it could not somehow be possible as the campuses are lying shut due to steep rise in the Covid cases, the GNDU officials, too, today settled to announce that the mode of examination would be online.Dr GS Samra, Principal, Lyallpur Khalsa College, said he had received the examination schedule today from the university. “The university officials will upload the datesheet for all courses in a day or two on the GNDU portal. We will also communicate the students all the details on their WhatsApp groups,” he said.The college authorities are expecting the even semester classes for the next semester to start from the last week of February or the first week of March, which would imply a delay of five weeks or so.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gndu-shifts-to-online-mode-361443
15-01-2022||Aparna Banerji||London returnee, 5 contacts new Omicron cases in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, January 14Six new cases of the Omicron variant were reported here on Friday. Besides, the district reported a surge of 682 cases of Covid-19. The new cases of Omicron included a 32-year-old man, who returned from London, along with five of his contacts.A total of 12 persons have tested positive for the Omicron variant in Jalandhar so far. Of them only one is currently active and the rest have tested negative, including the London-returned man and his five contacts.The 32-year-old man who returned from London on December 24 had tested negative in the testing conducted in Delhi. However, he got tested again when he noticed some symptoms a few days after coming to Jalandhar. Upon testing again, he tested positive for Covid-19.His genome sequencing also come out positive. Five of his contacts also tested positive for Omicron. They are all residents of Saraswati Vihar locality in Jalandhar and have tested negative for the virus following testing conducted on January 6. The contacts of the 32-year-old man are: a 34-year-old man, a 61-year-old woman, a 32-year-old man, a 66-year-old man and a 44-year-old woman.12 in Jalandhar tested positive so far for OmicronSo far, a total of 12 people have tested positive for the Omicron variant in Jalandhar. These include an 85-year-old man who returned from the UK, a resident of Pandori Khas in Nakodar; a 47-year-old man who returned from the UK, a resident of Ramewal village in Phillaur; a 52-year-old man who returned from the UK, a resident of Gobinwal village (after being discharged from the isolation centre, he also returned to the UK on January 7); a 26-year-old man who returned from Brazil, a resident of Mohalla Kalian; and the 32-year-old London-returned man along with his five contacts. Barring these cases, the very first three cases of Omicron in Jalandhar included a 42-year-old woman who returned from Tanzania; a man who returned from Italy and another who returned from France.So far, in the Jalandhar region, as many as 2005 people have returned from abroad out of whom 23 have tested positive. Of the 23, 12 people have tested positive for the Omicron variant. Meanwhile, the results of 60 more international travellers are still awaited.Mayhem among baffled passengersHealth authorities are having a tough time tracking and testing many of the passengers due to their gruelling ordeals. Sources in the Health Department said, “Many are livid at being tested positive in India as their tests in other countries come back negative hours ago. Passengers from Italy, the UK and other countries have been repeatedly complaining about this. A doctor said, “We are listening to name calling from them every day. Some have had bad ordeals in Delhi where they have also had to pay hefty sums of money during isolation.Majority skip institutional quarantineDue to clashing test reports, many fear a delay in meeting loved ones. Though the protocols call for 14-day institutional quarantine for those tested positive at airports, many of the passengers refuse to be placed in institutional quarantine and are heading straight to their homes. After they return to their homes in Jalandhar, health teams track them for genome sequencing. Passengers on the Italy-Amritsar flights had also complained of similar inconvenience.Several micro-containment zones in K’thalaWith 259 Covid positive patients in Kapurthala on Friday, the district got several micro-containment zones. Sainik School Kapurthala, two hostels of the Lovely Professional University, Phagwara, and the Thapar Colony have been declared as micro-containment zones. Meanwhile, 26 Covid positive cases were also reported at the SSP office in Kapurthala. All of them are also asymptomatic. Dr Rajiv Bhagat, Epidemiologist, Kapurthala, said, “All these cases were reported positive during random sampling. Almost all are asymptomatic. The LPU students have been isolated at a well equipped in house Covid care centre where the students are under proper care of doctors.”682 new cases, 4 deaths in Jal districtThe district witnessed as many as 682 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday. With this, the Covid-19 tally in Jalandhar has reached 67,521. As many as 63,277 people have recovered from the disease in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar reached 2,736. The district reported four deaths due to Covid-19 on Friday, taking the death toll to 1,508.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/london-returnee-5-contacts-new-omicron-cases-in-jalandhar-district-361444
15-01-2022||Aparna Banerji||Third wave: 'Omicron less severe, but still dangerous'||Jalandhar, January 14District health experts have admitted that Omicron is a mild variant compared to the ones reported in the previous years. Of the 12 Omicron cases reported in Jalandhar, barring one, all were asymptomatic. The only symptomatic case was that of a London returnee, who was also discharged from isolation after coming out negative.Across Jalandhar and Kapurthala districts, there are many cases which are coming out to be Covid positive after random sampling. Doctors are asking patients to exercise caution and strictly abide by Covid protocol especially with a peak predicted in January end. There are mixed responses among experts on the prevalence of symptoms among those tested positive.Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Ghotra said, “There are no doubts about the fact that Omicron is a much milder variant as far as symptoms among patients are concerned. Omicron is much more infectious but much less virulent or severe. With this, much positivity rate in any previous waves we would have a much busier emergency. But with Omicron, majority of the cases being reported are asymptomatic. Hence, we are exercising caution and adherence to strict Covid protocol. Strict abiding by Covid mandates, masking up, and social distancing go a long way in prevention of Covid and vaccinations as well.”Another senior doctor said, “The extent of Covid-19 symptoms might be milder but we are still getting many cases. One of the problems is also that people are reporting to doctors days or at times weeks after symptoms. The number of cases with mild fever or cough is much more than people are formally admitting. So, the caution needs to be exercised.”Cardiologist Dr Vijay Mahajan, said, “It is a mixed bag of cases we are getting. About 40 to 50 per cent are symptomatic while the rest are all asymptomatic. However, the Omicron variant is affecting lungs much lesser than the previous viruses. Its extent is limited to the upper respiratory tract in majority of the cases. We will get even better results if people exercise caution and responsibly abide by all the Covid mandates.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/third-wave-omicron-less-severe-but-still-dangerous-361446
15-01-2022||Tribune reporter Avneet Kaur presents a seat-wise analysis of 3 Nawanshahr constituencies||Poll 2022: Tough fight expected in Punjab's NRI hub||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, January 14Nawanshahr district, which was carved out of Hoshiarpur and Jalandhar districts of Punjab in 1995, was renamed Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar (SBS) in 2018. There are three Assembly constituencies in the district and both the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Congress have a stronghold on these seats. Meanwhile, the Bahujan Samaj Party’s (BSP) strong presence in support of SAD, too, can’t be overlooked.This time, the electoral battle in the constituency has turned interesting with the ruling Congress, which was already facing a tough challenge from rivals – AAP and SAD-BSP, has another competitor in line – the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Thus all three Assembly seats are set for a four-cornered contest.In the 2017 Assembly elections, the Congress won two of the three Assembly seats here — Nawanshahr and Balachaur, while the SAD emerged victorious from Banga. Notably, the Sainis, Gujjars and Ravidassia/Adi Dharmis dominate the district.NawanshahrIn this general category seat, where there are around 1.76 lakh voters, the electoral battle till 2012 remained between the families of late Congress stalwart Dilbagh Singh and SAD stalwart Jatinder Singh Kariha. In 2017, SAD fielded Jarnail Singh Wahid against Angad Saini (present MLA) and the latter won even as the family of late Dilbagh Singh contested as a divided house.Angad is Dilbagh Singh’s grandson and his paternal uncle Charanjit Channi had contested against him as an AAP candidate. Parkash Singh (Angad Saini’s father) and Guriqbal Kaur (Saini’s mother) both have served as MLAs here. Dilbagh Singh has served as a five-time MLA from this district. Dilbagh Singh remained the most powerful leader and was instrumental in establishing Nawanshahr as a district.In the 2017 elections, Congress’ Angad Singh Saini emerged victorious with 38,197 votes against Jarnail Singh Wahid (SAD), who got 34,874 votes, and Charanjit Singh Channi (AAP) polled 32,341 votes.This time, the SAD has ceded the seat to its new ally, the BSP. The BSP has positioned Nachhtar Pal, who is the party’s state general secretary. The AAP has nominated Lalit Mohan Pathak, a sitting councillor and former president of the Nawanshahr municipal council. Pathak has a firm grip on the city as he played a vital role in ensuring the city’s best performance in the Swachh Bharat Survekshan.However, this move of AAP hasn’t gone down very well within the party as a large number of AAP workers filed mass resignation objecting fielding of new comer Pathak over its old volunteer Satnam Singh Jalwaha.Meanwhile, the Congress hasn’t announced the name of its candidate from the seat yet, but if sources are to be believed, the party will once again give ticket to someone from the late Dilbagh Singh’s family, and it’s either Angad Saini or his mother Guriqbal Kaur, the most probable candidates to get the ticket.BangaBanga (Reserved) includes martyr Bhagat Singh’s ancestral village, Khatkar Kalan. This constituency, which has 1.64 lakh voters, was bouncing between the Congress and SAD in the previous five elections. SAD’s Dr Sukhwinder Sukhi, an ENT specialist-turned-politician, is the current MLA of the constituency.In 2017, Dr Sukhwinder won after getting 45,256 votes, while Harjot of the AAP was runner-up with 43,363 votes. Despite a close contest, she left the party. Satnam Singh Kainth of the Congress lost his security deposit. He passed away soon after.This time, SAD has again fielded Dr Sukhwinder on the seat. The doctor is popular in Banga for his free medical services to the needy and his work during Covid times in 2020. Meanwhile, the AAP has given its ticket to the son of former Akali MLA Balwant Singh Sarhaal, Kuljit Singh.The Congress is yet to announce its candidate for the seat. Earlier the buzz was Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s principal secretary, Hussan Lal will be nominated for the seat, but as he has withdrawn his name, the chances are that the party may field ex-MLA Tarlochan Soondh.BalachaurIn this general category seat, which has nearly 1.54 lakh voters, has been a stronghold of the Akali Dal. The constituency is Gujjar dominated and it was SAD’s Gujjar leader Nand Lal, who had won the seat four times in a row between 1997 and 2012. Breaching the SAD fortress, Darshan Lal (Congress) won the seat in 2017 and Nand Lal was runner-up.This time SAD has fielded Nand Lal’s daughter-in-law Sunita Chaudhary, and sitting MLA Darshan Lal Mangupur is Congress’ probable candidate for the seat. The AAP has given its ticket to the daughter-in-law of former MLA Ram Krishan Kataria, Santosh Kataria, while the BJP’s probable candidate for the seat can be Rajwinder Singh Lucky, who recently left the Akali Dal and joined BJP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/poll-2022-tough-fight-expected-in-punjabs-nri-hub-361449
15-01-2022||Kapurthala||Notices issued to secys of BSP and AAP  in Phagwara||The Kapurthala district administration has reportedly received as many as 81 complaints of poll code violation, of which it claims to have disposed off 72.The administration also has chosen to take a strict action on the installation of hoardings and posters by the AAP and BSP in Phagwara Assembly constituency. Since both the parties did not take prior approval of the content of their posters from the district-level Media Monitoring and Certification Committee, the Returning Officer of Phagwara issued notice to the secretaries of both these political parties. They have been asked to reply to the show-cause notices within 24 hours.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Electoral Officer Deepti Uppal today asked all nodal officers and Returning Officers to take swift action against the violation of Model Code of Conduct in the district. She along with ADC (G) and ADC (Urban Development) today reviewed various election-related complaint cells, and the working of media monitoring cell at the district administrative complex. While inspecting the working of the complaint cell, she said all complaints must be disposed off in given time limit.Uppal also reviewed the arrangements made at polling station, especially for physically challenged people like ramps and wheel chairs etc. She said 4,007 PwD voters will cast their votes in four Assembly constituencies of the district, out of which 850 in Bholath, 1,175 in Kapurthala, 678 in Sultanpur Lodhi and 1,304 in Phagwara Assembly constituency. She said the arrangements had also been made for Covid positive patients, above 80 years of age group voters and PwD voters to cast their vote from home via postal ballot.The district have 6,22,305 voters out of which 3,24,942 men and 2,97,332 are women voters. The district also has 19 NRI voters, 1,349 service voters and 6,615 voters, who fall in18 to 19 year age group. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/notices-issued-to-secys-of-bsp-and-aap-in-phagwara-361457
15-01-2022||---||Media panel to keep vigil on paid news||Hoshiarpur, January 14To ensure free and fair elections in the district, the District Electoral Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner, Apneet Riyait, on Friday said pre-certification from the district-level media certification and monitoring committee (MCMC) is a prerequisite for putting out the advertisements on TV, radio, cinema hall, bulk messages, social media and e-paper. The application in the proforma prescribed for the purpose must be submitted three days prior to the telecast of the advertisement.She said the MCMC has been formed at the district level as per the directions of the Election Commission to keep a strict watch on the paid news during the Assembly elections and it has started functioning already.The district election officer said all newspapers, radio, TV, e-paper, cinema hall, bulk messages and social media are under the lens of the MCMC. If any paid news published in any media comes to its notice, the Returning Officer would send a notice to the candidate concerned to which the candidate concerned must file a reply within 48 hours and the district-level MCMC would take a final decision on it.She said the expenditure for the paid news, if so declared, would be added to the electoral expenditure of the candidate, besides the name of the candidate will be displayed among the list of the candidates getting paid news published on the website of the Election Commission. Also, If no reply is filed with in stipulated time, it would be declared as a paid news without any further notice.The required proforma for application is available on the website of the CEO, Punjab or visit the office of the MCMC in the District Administrative Complex. “The applicant must supply two copies of the audio-video advertisement along with the written script for the consideration of the MCMC for pre-certification of advertisement to be put out in the electronic media. The script must be attested by the candidate”, said Riyait.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/media-panel-to-keep-vigil-on-paid-news-361458
15-01-2022||Jalandhar||Jalandhar youth makes waves in Silicon Valley||Coming as a proud moment for Jalandhar, Arnav Bathla, 21, has been declared as the youngest Indian to build accounting software for digital currency in the US. The young lad, who moved to the US after Class XII, is the founder and CEO of his start-up DAO Front, which is crypto accounting software.Settled in San Francisco after graduating in economics and business studies, he managed to raise a pre-seed from many top Silicon Valley investors, including ‘Multicoin Capital’ and ‘Lattice Capital’. His father Dr Naresh Bathla is posted as the District Health Officer in the food branch. His mother, Dr Minakshi Bathla, is a psychotherapist and education counsellor running private practice at her place in Ashok Nagar.The proud parents shared: “The fact that our son’s work has got acknowledged today by major investors of Silicon Valley as one of most innovative professionals brings us a great sense of satisfaction. He was a student at Apeejay School here before moving to United World College, Pune. He remained a winner of the NASA Space Settlement Contest for three times consecutively for his presentation of the Space Settlement Design at International Space Conference by National Space Society.”They added: “He has worked on some of the most prestigious assignments in the fields of economics, stock marketing and computer science. He has even been accepted into On Deck, a community of ambitious builders. He started by building side projects, one of which became top ranked products on Product Hunt (a space to vote on products). Our son’s unique experience, global perspective, strong academic credentials and record of achievements in the field makes us feel so proud of him.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/city-youth-makes-waves-in-silicon-valley-361459
15-01-2022||Jalandhar||Afghanistan Ambassador visits Lovely Professional University||NSS activities heldNational Youth Day was celebrated by NSS unit of Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar. The programme was divided into three activities -— plantation, panel discussion and seminar on Swami Vivekananda and his teachings. Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra, in his address, emphasised on the optimal utilisation of youth power. He added that youngsters needed icons like Swami Vivekananda for an Atam Nirbhar Bharat. Chief Programme officer Prof. Satpal Singh, who is in New Delhi as NSS contingent incharge of Punjab, Himachal and Chandigarh for Republic Day Parade Camp, organised this event online. He said after tree plantation in the morning an online panel discussion on the topic Youth and Ek Bharat Shreshta Bharat was organised where students shared their views on role of young to make India more powerful on world stage. Then, during the seminar Chief Programme Officer Prof Satpal Singh and Dr Amandeep Kaur discussed the biography of Swami Vivekananda, his teachings and how students can adopt them to transform the society.Lohri festivitiesThe festival of Lohri and Makkar Sankranti was celebrated with great fervour and enthusiasm in Seth Hukam Chand SD Public Sr Sec School, Sangal Sohal- Variana, Kapurthala Road, Jalandhar. Various online activities were conducted by the school on the occasion. Students from Classes I to V recited poems related to Lohri. Students of Classes VI to XII made attractive e-collages and posters by blending the festival of Lohri which is celebrated in Punjab with the same festival Pongal which is celebrated in Andhra Pradesh. PrincipalPriyanka Sharma, appreciated the students and wished them on Lohri. She sensitised students to keep their environment neat and clean.Festival of harvest celebratedLohri is a much celebrated folk festival that marks the passing of the winter solstice and celebrates the arrival of longer days. On this auspicious day, State Public School, Jalandhar Cantt, celebrated Lohri with fervour and enthusiasm. The school team gathered around a huge fire, throwing in revdi, peanuts and puffed rice. All were wearing colourful clothes and distributed popcorn, revdi, gajak, jaggery and puffed rice among themselves and had a fun and exciting time. In the light of bonfire, everyone prayed and hoped that the zeal and enthusiasm of this vibrant festival stay in our lives forever and may all us have a flourishing year ahead. President Dr. Narotam Singh along with Principal Savina Bahl wished all on this auspicious occasion.Bonfire lightingApeejay Institute of Management and Engineering Technical Campus celebrated Lohri festival in the campus today. A bonfire was lit and the celebrations began by throwing sweets, peanuts, puffed rice, and popcorn into the flames. Traditional folk lores associated with the festival were sung. Dr. Rajesh Bagga, Director, Apeejay Institute of Management & Engineering Technical Campus wished everyone on the auspicious occasion and expressed that this festival is a merry occasion to celebrate youth and vigour. Dr Bagga further added that he would like the students to be imbued with the spirit of exuberance and joy in their lives. The teachers and hostel residents offered prayers and chanted hymns.Lohri, Makar Sankranti festivitiesLohri and Makar Sankranti was celebrated at Dayanand Model Senior Secondary School, Dayanand Nagar, with gaiety and fervor. The ceremony began with the lighting of a huge bonfire. Everyone present there put popcorn , groundnut and rewri in it as an offering to God. The same was also distributed among all the members of teaching and non teaching staff. Folk songs were also presented by the department of music. The students participated in the celebration virtually and danced on the tunes of 'Dulla Bhatti Wala'. Principal Dr Santosh Kumar Gautam threw light on the sanctity of Makar Sankranti.Workshop on Gel Candle MakingUnder the guidance of Principal Dr Pooja Prashar, the PG Department of Fashion Designing organised a one-day workshop on 'Gel Candle Making'. Bharti, an expert in art and craft, demonstrated the process of making gel candles. Students from BSc, MSc and B.Voc Courses participated in the same. Gel candles beautify the space and add charm to the surroundings. Students passionately learnt the techniques of preparing candles with decorative materials such as stones, beads, shells and sparkles for Diwali exhibition as well as for their personal use.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/afghanistan-ambassador-visits-lovely-professional-university-361462
15-01-2022||---||Covid-19 vax camp held at Jalandhar Heights-I||Jalandhar, January 14A Covid vaccination camp for the residents and support staff, including domestic helpers and labourers, was held on the premises of Jalandhar Heights-I on Friday. The aim behind organising the vaccination camp was to motivate people, especially the uneducated, to get themselves vaccinated in the wake of third wave.A team of the health department visited the society to vaccinate the residents and support staff. Both first and second dose, booster dose and vaccination for the age group 15-18 were available.Chief Administrator of AGI Infra Ltd, Major Gen Arun Khanna (retd), said nearly 200 residents got inoculated with first and second doses, while those eligible were vaccinated with booster dose. Besides, 15-18 age group children, too, enthusiastically participated and took their first vaccine shot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-vax-camp-held-361463
15-01-2022||Nakodar||Staff crunch at PSPCL in Nakodar||1 held for selling illicit liquorNakodar: The Lohian Khas police have arrested a woman on the charge of selling illicit liquor. Investigating Officer Avtar Singh said nine bottles of hooch were seized from accused Kulvir Kaur, wife of Satpal, a resident of Harchowal village. A case under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Punjab Excise Act has been registered against the accused that was released on bail. The Nurmahal police arrested Akash of Shadi Pur village with nine bottles of hooch, said IO Mohan Lal. The Nakodar sadar police booked Gurpit Singh of Chak Kalan village for brewing illicit liquor and recovered 50 kg of lahan from his possession, said IO Gurdev Singh. OC7 gm of heroin seized, two heldNurmahal: The Bilga police have arrested two drug peddlers on the charge of selling heroin. Station House Officer (SHO) Mohindar Pal said 7 gm of heroin was recovered from the possession of the accused identified as Manjit Singh, alias Rinku, son of Satpal, a resident of Talwann village and Resham Lal, son of Mohindar Pal, a resident of Dhagara village. The SHO said a case under Sections 21-B, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against the accused. OCElderly dies in road mishapHoshiarpur: An elderly person died after being hit by an unidentified vehicle. The Garhshankar police have registered a case against the driver. Hardeep Singh, a resident of Jeevanpur village, had lodged a complaint with the police in this regard. The complainant said his father Balwinder Kumar (62) was hit by an unidentified vehicle near Kitna village and died on the spot. The police have registered a case against the driver. OCThree arrested for bettingHoshiarpur: The police have arrested three accused who were betting, from different places during the past 24 hours and recovered from them the cash worth Rs 32,690 put on bets. One of the accused, Shankar Sahni, a resident of New Shastri Nagar, was arrested by the Model Town police. He was betting near Luxmi Cinema and seized cash and betting slips worth Rs 21,790 from him. The Dasuya police have arrested two accused and seized cash and slips worth Rs 10,900 from them. OCSmuggler held with intoxicantsHoshiarpur: The Dasuya police have arrested a smuggler and seized 20 grams of intoxicating powder from him. The accused has been identified as Sajan, a resident of Ghanta Ghar, Hoshiarpur. He has been booked under the NDPS Act.OCDonation to Apahaj AshramHoshiarpur: Stepping ahead in the CSR activity, students of CT Institute of Law, Shahpur visited Apahaj Ashram. The students donated usable things such as clothes, blankets and some eatables. They also delivered a speech on the human rights. Many students interacted with the members of the asharam. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/staff-crunch-at-pspcl-in-nakodar-361465
15-01-2022||Ashok Kaura Phagwara||Congress's SC face in Punjab Joginder Mann quits party||The SC face of Congress in the state and former minister Joginder Singh Mann on Friday resigned from the party and as chairman of Punjab Agro Industries Corporation, thereby snapping his 50-year-old ties with it.In a letter to party president Sonia Gandhi, the three-time MLA from Phagwara said, “I had the dream that when I would die the Congress tri-colour would be wrapped around my body, but with the Congress patronising those guilty of post-matric scholarship scheme, my conscience doesn’t allow me to stay.”He said opportunist leaders had joined the party for the sake of their vested interests and the party had drifted from its core values. He said that for the past few months he was having sleepless nights as millions of SC students had not got scholarships.He said residents of Phagwara had to travel 40 kilometres to Kapurthala to get their administrative works done so he had been repeatedly flagging the issue of according the district status to Phagwara but to no avail.                                     #JoginderMann                                     #PunjabCongress||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/congresss-sc-face-in-punjab-joginder-mann-quits-party-361199
