16-01-2022||Jalandhar||Orientation session||Online quiz heldTwo teams from PG Department of Mathematics of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya participated in various co-curricular activities. Radhika Aggarwal, Shaina Gupta (B.Sc Hons mathematics Sem V), Vajinder Kaur (B.Sc. Hons mathematics Sem III) and Lavleen Saini, Sandeep Kaur, Haramanpreet Kaur (B.Sc non-med Sem V) participated in an online quiz organised in the Cynosure and National Symposium on Advances in mathematics, Indian Institute of Technology, Ropar. Out of total seven teams, the team of Lavleen Saini, Sandeep Kaur and Haramanpreet Kaur of KMV bagged second position and made KMV proud. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated the winners and averred that these kind of activities motivate the students to excel in their respective fields. Principal lauded the efforts of Veena Deepak, Head, PG Department of Mathematics, for motivating the students to participate in such events.National Youth Day celebratedUnder the guidance of Principal Dr Navjot Kaur, the NSS volunteers of Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women celebrated online National Youth Day to commemorate the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda. On this occasion, students wrote online slogans on Swami Vivekananda. They were asked to plant saplings at their homes. Around 100 students participated in this event. Students also attended online inauguration of the 25th Nation Youth Festival by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Principal Dr Navjot extended her best wishes to the students and congratulated the whole team of NSS and NSS officers Manita, Manjeet and Atma Singh for organising this event.Face Art CompetitionTo commemorate 75th anniversary of India's Freedom as Azadi Ka Mahotsav, the Department of Cosmetology of PCM S.D.College for Women organised Face Art competition. Students of Beauty and Body Fitness, Diploma in Cosmetology and PG Diploma in Cosmetology participated in the competition. The members of the Managing Committee and the Principal of the college Dr Pooja Prashar congratulated the participants. The Principal praised the efforts of the Department of Cosmetology for organising such events for the skill enhancement of the students .Campus Placement Drive heldGNA University organised NTF Group Campus Placement Drive for the students of B.Tech Mechanical and Automation Engineering. NTF Group, an amalgamation of three main business verticals with a turnover of more than Rs 500 cr is a group that proactively leads many initiatives around manufacturing, product and community based sustainability. NTF Group visited GNA University and hired eight students of B.Tech Mechanical and Automation Engineering and B.Tech Robotics and Automation Engineering. Satyender Yadav DGM HR and Personal and Pritam Parkash AGM Design of NTF Group personally interacted with the candidates to test their CAD/CAM/CAE and FDM knowledge. The students of B.Tech Mechanical and Automation Engineering Vishal, Ritik Dadhwal, Vivek Singh, Onkar, P Adhi NarayanaRohith and Anirudh and students of B Tech Robotics and Automation Engineering Jaspreet Singh and Parkal Bhimeshwar got selected in different locations which include Manesar, Bangalore and Ahmedabad.Makar Sankranti festivitiesEklavya School virtually celebrated Makar Sankranti. JK Gupta (Chairman) and Seema Handa (Director) were virtually present here and appreciated the efforts done by students. On this day, pre-primary and primary educators explained about the importance of the festival. Pre-primary students took part in different activities like kite making. Poster-making and card making activities were done by the primary students. Colouring competition was organised for primary students. Komal Arora (Principal) said, “These types of events motivate the students. Dimple Malhotra (administrator) said, "Such kinds of days are informative for the students as they get to know about our culture.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/orientation-session-361710
16-01-2022||Jalandhar||Workshop on banking software||A workshop on banking software 'Finacle' was organised by the PG Department of Commerce and Management of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya under the guidance of Principal Prof Ajay Sareen for the students of B.Voc (Banking and Financial Services). On this occasion, the students visited the circle office of Punjab National Bank Jalandhar. Amit Kumar, Chief Manager, IT, welcomed the students and gave a brief introduction of digital banking and its importance in today's times. Sakshi Puri, Officer, IT explained the use of latest version of Finacle. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/workshop-on-banking-software-361709
16-01-2022||Jalandhar||Precaution dose to be administered to polling staff, says DC||In pursuance of guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare regarding covid vaccination, the Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Saturday said that all the staff deployed for polling in the district would be vaccinated with precaution dose irrespective of nine months gap.Taking part into the video conference chaired by the Principal Secretary (Health) Raj Kamal Chaudhary, the Deputy Commissioner said that the vaccination drive was going on at all sessions sites, where a daily nearly 18,000 doses were given and directions had also been issued to enhance the daily vaccination to 20,000. He also pointed out that the precaution dose of Covid-19 vaccine would be administered to all the officials/staff being deployed on election duty even if the nine month period after the second dose vaccination is not over. He said that special sessions would also be planned to ensure that all beneficiaries should be covered under this initiative.Apprising the PS (Health), Ghanshyam Thori said total 18,315 staff deployed on election duty, of which 17733 had already given both doses. Besides this, the of total 16,20,680 eligible beneficiaries, 95.75 percent and 66.73 percent beneficiaries had received first and second doses respectively. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/precaution-dose-to-be-administered-to-polling-staff-says-dc-361708
16-01-2022||---||Rousing reception to Joginder Singh Mann in Phagwara||Ashok KauraPhagwara, January 15Former Punjab Minister Joginder Singh Mann, who joined Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) last evening got a rousing reception from city residents on his return to Phagwara today.Hundreds of city residents coupled with AAP volunteers welcomed Mann at Mehli. Mann accompanied by them paid obeisance at Baba Vishwakarma Mandir and later at statue of Baba Sahib Dr BR Ambedkar, before heading for his residence.Pledging to serve the city residents with far more zeal, he said he was indebted to people of Phagwara for always standing with him. He said it was the love of Phagwara residents that he was elected thrice as MLA from this assembly segment and then got the opportunity to serve the state as minister of various departments. He said upholding this love, he would ensure a comprehensive development of Phagwara and prosperity of its people.He said in the past 15 years, Phagwara’s development has taken a backseat, but his priority will be to take Phagwara to a new zenith. He said his single-most agenda would be to get district status for Phagwara as it’s residents have to travel 40 kilometres per side to get their administrative works done.He said this needed to be stopped and once AAP is voted to power, district status will be given to Phagwara, adding that he will not rest till Phagwara gets a district status. He sought full support and cooperation of Phagwara residents to make AAP successful in the coming polls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rousing-reception-to-mann-in-phagwara-361707
16-01-2022||---||Flag march in 7 constituencies of Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, January 15In view of the assembly elections, flag marches were taken out under the leadership of respective returning officers and police officers in all the assembly constituencies of the district so that the election process could be conducted peacefully by further strengthening the law and order situation.On the other hand, Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Election Officer Apneet Riyait said in view of the elections, all security arrangements have been made in the district so that people do not face any kind of trouble. She said that in all the seven assembly constituencies of the district, Hoshiarpur, Garhshankar, Chabbewal, Urmur, Sham Chaurasi, Dasuya and Mukerian, the returning officers are ensuring security in coordination with the DSPs concerned.Orders have already been issued for a ban on carrying weapons in the district. Along with this, licensed weapons are also being deposited. Checking has been started by putting nakas inside the district limits, and the checking will be further intensified in the coming days. Apart from this, checking has been increased by setting up nakas in the villages and at all the link roads falling on the Himachal Pradesh border.District Election Officer Apneet Riyait reiterated the district administration’s firm commitment to maintain law and order at all costs. She said efforts had been made to make the security system more accountable and efficient for conducting free, fair and transparent elections in the district and the main focus of the administration is to prevent crime and create a sense of security among the residents.Riyait said in the coming days many companies of para military force are going to arrive in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/flag-march-in-7-constituencies-of-hoshiarpur-361706
16-01-2022||---||Army exam aspirants stage protest||Jalandhar, January 15Commuters were a harried lot as hundreds of Army aspirants from the district blocked Jalandhar-Phagwara National Highway 1 near Rama Mandi here for over an hour to mark their protest against the Central Government.The protesters said around 30,000 youths from the state out of which over 2,000 were from Jalandhar. They had appeared in the physical fitness exam for Army recruitment in December 2020 at different centres in Punjab, while the written exam that was supposed to be held in January 2021 was being postponed repeatedly.They said the exams for recruitment in the Police Department and the written exam of those who had applied for clerical and technical posts in the Army were held, but their written exam for the post for which they had applied had not been conducted till date.“The exam has been postponed for nearly seven or eight times in the past. It was first scheduled for January, March, and then September last year and then citing Covid-19 they postponed it. We have no idea what’s going on, why the government is not conducting the exam, and if it’s due to Covid-19, why entrance exams are being conducted,” asked Fatehveer, a youth from Shahkot.He said due to this irresponsible attitude of the government, they were forced to sit on roads and hold a protest against this unfair treatment being meted out to them.Another protester said they had spent nearly Rs 25,000 on coaching to prepare for the exam. “We are not from very well-off families that can afford to sit home or spend more on coaching. We appeal to the Deputy Commissioner, Jalandhar, to take the matter with the government officials as it’s important for us to appear for the written examination on time,” said Himanshu from Jalandhar.Many aspirants were also worried about crossing the maximum age limit if the exam was not held on time.Meanwhile, a massive traffic jam was witnessed on the highway due to the protest. A number of commuters were stranded and had to wait for an hour for the traffic to move smoothly. Many passengers in buses and four-wheelers who were travelling to Delhi airport complained that they might miss their flights.BLOCK NH 1, SAY THEY ARE A HARRIED LOTThe protesters said over 2,000 youths were from Jalandhar. They had appeared in the physical fitness exam for the recruitment in the Army in December 2020 at different centres in Punjab, while the written exam that was supposed to be held in January 2021 was being postponed repeatedly. They said the exams for recruitment in the Police Department and the written exam of those who had applied for clerical and technical posts in the Army were held, but their written exam for the post for which they had applied had not been conducted till date. They said they were forced to sit on roads due to this. A number of commuters were stuck due to this.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/army-exam-aspirants-stage-protest-361703
16-01-2022||Lohian||Liquor smuggling: Man arrested||Maheru villager held for murderNakodar: The Mehat Pur police have arrested a villager on the charge of murdering a 22-year-old youth. Nirmal Singh, IO, said the accused has been identified as Ram Lubhaya, a resident of Maheru village. The IO said the accused had murdered Ranjit Singh, alias Shiva (22), of the same village in June 2021. He said a case under Sections 302 (murder) 342 (wrongful confinement) 120-B (criminal conspiracy, 148 and 149 (rioting) of the IPC was registered. OCDriver booked for Rash drivingShahkot: The Shahkot police have booked an unidentified vehicle driver on the charge of causing death by negligence and rash driving. Jatindar Singh of Malsian village, complained to the police that an unidentified vehicle driver killed his father Gian in an accident on Railway Road on January 13. IO Gurdial Singh said a case under Sections 304-A (causing death by negligence) and 279 (rash driving) of the IPC has been registered against the unidentified accused. OCMan booked for stalking womenShahkot: The Shahkot police have booked an unidentified person on the charge of outraging a woman’s modesty. IO Kashmir Singh said the victim of Nakodar, presently living in Shahkot, complained to the police that an unidentified person harassed her by calling her from and unidentified numbers on January 5. The IO said a case under Sections 354-A (sexual harassment) and 354-D (stalking a woman) of the IPC has been registered. OCPeddler held under NDPS ActShahkot: The Shahkot police have arrested a drug peddler on the charge of selling heroin. SHO Darshan Singh said 10-gram heroin was recovered from Mukhtiar Singh, alias Babbu, of Bahabar Ke village under Shidham Bet police station in Ludhiana. The SHO said a case under Sections 21/61/85 of the NDPS Act has been registered. OCMan killed in road accidentHoshiarpur: A man who was injured in a road accident on January 10, died during his treatment at PGI. The Garhdiwala police have registered a case in this regard. According to the information, Teja Singh, a resident of Pandori Sumla village, told the police that on January 10, his brother Gurdas Singh was hit by a vehicle near Pakhowal. After which, he was taken to PGI in a critical condition, where he died during treatment. A case has been registered. OC3 booked for opening fireHoshiarpur: In the case of aerial fire after a minor altercation, the Model Town police have registered a case against three accused, including a couple and their son. According to the information, Himanshu, a resident of Bhagat Nagar, has lodged a complaint with the police that he was standing near Ambedkar Chowk on the evening of January 13. During this, a car hit him. Due to this, he had an argument with Bittu, a resident of his locality. According to him, due to the said enmity, accused Bittu, his wife Asha and son Himushu and about 15 of their associates reached near his house and started pelting stones. He alleged that during this, the accused fired two aerial shots outside his house. He said as soon as the residents of the mohalla started gathering, the accused slipped away. OCIntoxicants SEIZED, 4 heldHoshiarpur: The district police have arrested four smugglers, including a woman, recovering a huge quantity of intoxicants from them. According to the information, the Mehtiana police have arrested two smugglers, recovering 20 gram of heroin from them during a naka in the area. The accused have been identified as Davinder Singh, a resident of Mayopatti, district Kapurthala, and Davinder Singh, a resident of Makhangarh. The Bullowal police have arrested Dhakkowal resident Harpreet, alias Mota, and recovered 47 gm of intoxicating powder from him. OCArmy Day celebratedJalandhar: Army Day was celebrated by the students of St. Soldier Group of Institutions. A special online programme was organised on this occasion, during which tribute was paid to the soldiers who were martyred on the border. Students made tricolour on their faces and prepared posters on the lives of soldiers. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/liquor-smuggling-man-arrested-361700
16-01-2022||---||No let-up: jalandhar distrcit logs 465 Covid-19 cases||Jalandhar, January 15The district on Saturday reported 465 new cases of Covid-19. With new cases, the tally of cases has reached 67,986 in the district. As many as 63,598 persons have recovered in the district while the number of active cases stands at 2,880.With no death reported in the district on Saturday, the death toll remained at 1,508. Of the 19, 40,336 samples collected in the district so far, 17,93,374 tested negative.910 get booster dose on SaturdayAs many as 910 persons received their doses on Saturday as part of the Covid-19 vaccination booster drive. With this, the total number of persons vaccinated with the booster dose stand at 4,197. The dose is being administered at all the centres, including the Civil Hospital, vaccination camps, ESI and Govt Hospital at Garha. Meanwhile, the booster dose was administered to those people who had received both Covid-19 vaccine doses at least nine months ago.369 teens vaccinatedAs many as 369 youngsters in the 15-18 age group received their first dose of the vaccine on Saturday. Health staff at ESI Hospital said at present, response among youngsters was low, but they were trying to exhorting youths to get the jab and the schools have also made vaccination mandatory.The health centres where the vaccination drives took place were ESI Hospital, Government Hospital on Garha Road, Mahavir Jain School and at Maqsudan.Nawanshahr logs 63 casesIn Nawanshar, 63 new cases of Covid-19 were reported, taking the district tally to 11,988 on Saturday. Those tested positive included residents of Urban Nawanshahr, Urban Rahon, Urban Banga, block Sujjon, block Muzaffarpur and other places. Meanwhile, no new death was reported in Nawanshar and the number of active cases stands at 416. The death toll stands at 390.Camp for CRPF personnelThe Nehru Yuva Kendra, Jalandhar, and the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, in association with the Jan Kalyan Social Welfare Society held a vaccination camp at Burlton Park youth hostel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-let-up-jalandhar-distrcit-logs-465-covid-19-cases-361698
16-01-2022||---||MLA Angad Singh’s name missing in Congress list||Jalandhar, January 15Nearly two months after his wife Aditi Singh left the Congress to join the Bharatiya Janata Party in Uttar Pradesh, the name of Nawanshahr sitting MLA Angad Singh (31) on Saturday went missing in the first list of 86 party candidates for Punjab polls released on Saturday.I do not think that marital issues and different ideologies of husband and wife were taken into account by the party seniors in the ticket distribution. I am confident of making it in the subsequent lists of the party. Neither me nor my mom had their names in the first list of the party even in 2012 and 2017. My grandfather Dilbagh Singh got the Congress ticket from Banga in 1962 and subsequently from Nawanshahr in 1967. He won for a record six times. My uncle remained MLA in 1997. My father Parkash Singh also remained MLA in 2002. With that kind of a record, I do not have much to worry about. Angad Singh, Nawanshahr sitting MLA A firebrand politician who remained earlier closely associated with the top Congress brass, Aditi is sitting MLA from Rae Bareli Sadar and has been continuously engaged in bashing Sonia Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi there since her induction in the BJP. The party leaders feel that owing to his wife’s changed political stance, the party had not cleared his ticket yet.Quite confident of making it again this time, Angad Singh said, “I do not think that marital issues and different ideologies of husband and wife are taken into account by the party seniors in the ticket distribution. I am confident of making it in the subsequent lists of the party. Neither me nor my mom had their names in the first list of the party even in 2012 and 2017.”Angad’s mother Guriqbal Kaur Babli was an MLA in 2012. The family has been given the party ticket for a record 13 times in the last 60 years. “My grandfather Dilbagh Singh got the Congress ticket from Banga in 1962 and subsequently from Nawanshahr in 1967. He won for a record six times. My uncle remained MLA in 1997. My father Parkash Singh also remained MLA in 2002. With that kind of a record, I do not have much to worry about”, he said.Angad’s wife is the daughter of veteran UP leader Akhilesh Singh and had already been showing signs of rebellion against the party for the past two years. She had even taken a stand against the Congress in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident of killing of four farmers. Aditi too has been facing questions from media in UP over her husband’s political stance in Punjab but she is telling everyone not to discuss her family matters. “I have my own ideology and my husband can have his independent inclination and thoughts. Let us not mix political and domestic affairs.” Even her husband Angad maintains: “I cannot force my wife to have political opinion as mine. She has the right to maintain her own stand.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mla-angad-singhs-name-missing-in-congress-list-361696
16-01-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||Cong’s list of candidates heats up poll scene in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, January 15The Congress list that came out this afternoon has heated up the political scenario. Of the 23 total Assembly seats in Doaba, tickets for as many as 20 have been announced in the first list itself. The tickets for three seats – Nakodar, Nawanshahr and Banga – have been left pending.Of the total 20 candidates, the party chose to rely on 18 last-time contestants and has roped in only two fresh candidates this time – Amarpreet Singh Lally from Garhshankar and Sukhwinder Kotli from Adampur reserved seat.2 new candidates in partyA good orator of the party with a significant youth following, Lally is the Indian Youth Congress general secretary and has been chief of the Punjab Youth Congress. He was recently picked as the co-chairman of the Congress campaign committee. He had tried seeking ticket last time too, but remained unsuccessful.As the Youth Congress leader, he is credited with having organised good shows and this time had a strong backing of party leaders, including Ambika Soni and Sunil Jakhar.Lally has replaced Love Kumar Goldy, who lost twice from the seat in 2012 and 2017. Nimisha Mehta from the party, who has been very active for the last 10 years, is seeking ticket from here. There are reports that she would surely contest from Garhshankar, but from another platform.With Kotli’s name figuring as the Congress candidate from Adampur, it has put an end to the speculation that Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi could contest from here. Kotli had contested from this Vidhan Sabha seat as a BSP candidate in 2012 and polled 25,263 votes.Having remained the general secretary of the Punjab BSP, he quit the party two years ago. He was formally roped in by the Congress during CM Channi’s recent rally at Partappura village. With Kotli in the fray against strong Akali candidate Pawan Tinu, who has been winner during the last two terms, it would be a tough fight between the two ex-BSP leaders as Tinu too has been a former BSP candidate. Even though BSP is officially supporting SAD this time as alliance partner, but it remains to be seen as to whom the party cadre chooses.Disgruntled leaders to meet workersAnnoyed with the party not favouring them, some Congress leaders have decided to hold meetings with workers tomorrow (on Sunday) to decide their next course of action. Among them is former minister Mahinder S Kaypee. A close relative of Punjab CM Charanjit S Channi, he had been seeking claim from Jalandhar West seat from where sitting MLA Sushil Rinku has got the ticket. He had last time contested from Adampur, but lost it and showed no interest there this time. Phillaur-based leader and ex-minister Sarwan S Phillaur too will be holding a meeting with workers on Sunday after ticket was given to Vikramjit Chaudhary.Tickets to 6 incumbent MLAs in Hoshiarpur Party opts for Lally instead of Mehta in GarhshankarHoshiarpur: Political activities have intensified in Hoshiarpur after the Congress announced the names of candidates for all the seven Assembly segments in the district. The party has expressed confidence in its six incumbent MLAs out of seven and has fielded Amarpreet Singh Lally from Garhshankar. Sunder Sham Arora will contest from Hoshiarpur, Sangat Singh Giljian from Udmur, Dr Raj Kumar from Chabbewal, Pawan Kumar Adia from Shamchurasi, Arun Kumar Mikki Dogra from Dasuya and Indu Bala from Mukerian. Meanwhile, the opposition parties have expedited their efforts to rope in those leaders who have been denied tickets. It is pertinent to mention that the Congress did not face factionalism against the sitting MLAs in most of the seats, due to which the party has decided to rely on old faces. As far as Garhshankar segment was concerned, Congress faced defeat in the last two Assembly elections by giving ticket to Love Kumar Goldie, who’s considered close to Capt Amarinder Singh. Congress leader Nimisha Mehta was also a strong contender for the ticket this time. She had already intensified her activities in the constituency. After the ticket being given to Lally, it’s expected that there can be a strong reaction from Mehta. Now, it has to be seen what strategy Goldie adopts after being denied the Congress ticket. Similarly, in Mukerian segment, a faction of Congress leaders held a press conference and urged the high command to change the candidate (sitting MLA Bala). The Akali-BSP alliance and the Aam Aadmi Party have already announced their candidates for all the seats in the district who have been campaigning vigorously for the last month or so. — Sanjiv Kumar BakshiNawanshahr, Banga, Nakodar pendingThe Congress today remained undecided on finalising candidates for three seats of Doaba. The party could not finalise Banga ticket as Punjab CM Charanjit Channi’s Principal Secretary Hussan Lal was earlier being projected from here. Hussan Lal decided not to contest at the last minute. The party is mulling giving the ticket to ex-MP Chowdhary Santosh’s daughter Shamita Chowdhary or ex-MLA Tirlochan Soondh. In Nakodar, Jagbir Brar, who contested in 2017, quit the party to join the SAD and is candidate from Jalandhar Cantonment this time. Former minister Amarjeet Samra holds the say for the constituency and is likely to put forth the name of renowned orthopaedician Dr Navjot Dahiya from the seat.Sukhpal in jail, party announces his ticketEven as Congress ex-MLA Sukhpal Khaira is lodged in jail post his arrest by the Enforcement Directorate two months ago, the party on Saturday chose to announce his ticket. His campaign is being currently managed by his son Mehtab Khaira, who is hopeful of some relief on the next date of hearing on the matter on January 18.Rana’s son fails to get ticket, party goes with CheemaThe race for ticket in the Congress from Sultanpur Lodhi between sitting MLA Navtej Cheema and minister Rana Gurjeet Singh’s son Rana Inder Partap Singh ended today with the former grabbing it. Rana Inder Partap Singh had been aggressively campaigning in the holy city for the past over three months. During this period, PPCC chief Navjot Sidhu had visited the city and held rallies in favour of Cheema. Infuriated, Rana Gurjeet Singh had even given media bytes expressing his dislike for Sidhu’s functioning in the party. Both minister as well as his son did not take the calls, but they are learnt to have been telling local residents that they would be sharing their next move in two days or so.BJP likely to rope in 3 leaders post CongThree Congress leaders from Doaba, who were unhappy over the list today, are likely to quit the party to join the BJP. With little time left and facing shortage of faces, the saffron party is likely to field these leaders from rural or semi-rural seats of the region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/congs-list-of-candidates-heats-up-poll-scene-in-jalandhar-361695
