19-01-2022||Jalandhar||KMV-Jalandhar students exhibit cooking skills||Poetry recitation contestTo commemorate the 75th anniversary of India’s freedom as Azadi Ka Amrit Mahostsav, the Youth Club of the PCM SD College for Women in collaboration with All India Radio organised poetry recitation and declamation contest. The competition was organised to give an opportunity to the students to display their presentation skills and also to instil a spirit of patriotism among them. The judges of the event were Mohammad Imtaij, programme executive of AIR, Dr Surinder Saini, Head, Department of Punjabi, and Gurjit Kaur, Department of English. In declamation contest, Isha Chabbra of B.Com Semester III stood first and Vaishali of B.Com Semester V bagged first position in poetry recitation.Say no to Chinese stringDIPS Chain of schools organised an online activity on making of kites and kite flying. During the activity, students made beautiful kites and learnt about the technique to fly kites. They were also told that 100 per cent cotton thread is the best cotton thread to use for kite flying. Parents also participated in this activity online and opined their views on kite flying. Teachers emphasised on the ban on Chinese string in order to prevent any harm to humans, birds and other animals as well as to ecology. Students were directed to use cotton thread to fly kites. Principals highlighted on the ban, storage, sale and use of Chinese string and educated students about the harm caused by the thread to both birds and humans.Vaccination camp‘Disha- An initiative’ being run under the guidelines of Bowry Memorial Educational and Medical Trust, arranged vaccination camp for the second time for the students of Innocent Hearts studying in grades IX and XI, the age group 15 to 18 years. This camp was held up in collaboration with the Civil Hospital under the Medical Services of the Bowry Memorial Trust. It was put as per the guidelines issued by the government. The vaccination was only for those students whose parents gave their consent in writing. Vaccination camps have already been organised for the students of Grade X and XII.Extension LectureThe PG Department of Mathematics of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya organised an extension lecture on “Introduction to Data Science through Python” and a poster presentation competition on “Maths Shorts in Data Science” under the guidance of Principal Prof Ajay Sareen who always motivate to organise such events from time to time. Dr Sandeep Ranjan, professor and engineer in computer science, Swami Vivekanand Institute of Technology, Banur, Rajpura, was resource person and judge for the day. In this poster presentation competition, Arbia Tahir got first prize, Gaganpreet Kaur and Taniya got second prize and Jiya and Sahibpreet Kaur got the third prize.Vax camp at Police DAVA four-day Covid vaccination camp was organised at Police DAV Public School for the students of age group 15-18 years from classes 9th-12th. The camp was organised by Dr Paramjeet Singh, Senior Medical Officer of PAP Hospital, along with his team. The students were injected the first dose of vaccination under the supervision of Dr Vinita of the school as per schedule and time slot provided to them, taking care to maintain social distancing and overcrowding. Students were accompanied by their parents and guardians.Webinar on voter awarenessPhagwara: Slogan-writing and poster-making competitions were held at MLU DAV College, Phagwara, to aware students on right to vote under the guidance of Principal Kiranjeet Randhawa, College Nodal Officer Ajay Kumar. A webinar was conducted for students and they also shared their views. Dr Randhawa addressed students during the webinar that voting is the fundamental basis of democracy. Every citizen’s vote is counted in the polling process. We must honour the right of voting given to each citizen by the Constitution of India. The feeling after having cast a vote infuses a sense of pride for being a responsible citizen. She further added greater awareness is required to make the people aware of the representatives they are electing. Dr Randhawa appreciated students for expressing their views on essay and slogan writing. /OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kmv-students-exhibit-cooking-skills-362486
19-01-2022||---||Nawanshahar: Novel way to contain habitual offenders||Nawanshahar, January 18Adopting a novel way to curb the activities of habitual offenders, the SBS Nagar Police have filed 132 reports of such persons under Section 110 of CrPC in the courts of executive magistrates to keep them away from the criminal activity.Divulging details, SSP Kawardeep Kaur said in the wake of coming Vidhan Sabha elections, this idea would work well as they (offenders) would remain ever under the fear of forfeiture of surety bonds submitted to the executive magistrates under Section 110 of CrPC.She said as per this Section, any habitual offender would be bound to the declaration given by him/her in front of the executive magistrate that he/she would remain away from criminal activities for minimum of a period of three years. “As per this section, executive magistrate seeks security from the habitual offender for good behaviour.”Further the magistrate may issue a show-cause notice to such persons, why he/she should not be ordered to execute a bond with securities for his good behaviour.The SSP said the district police have filed these reports of the persons who had been booked under the excise and NDPS Acts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/novel-way-to-contain-habitual-offenders-362485
19-01-2022||---||Two held with opium, Rs 70K drug money||Tanda, January 18Tanda police have arrested two persons with opium, pistol and drug money after the interrogation of a Nepali youth who was held with opium near Dhadiala village recently. DSP, Tanda, Raj Kumar said the SHO, Tanda, Harinder Singh’s team under the supervision of SP (Investigation) Sarabjit Rai had arrested Vineet Kumar, a native of Parsa (Chitowal), Nepal, with 70-gm opium.With the information gathered during the interrogation, the police have arrested the two more accused, who were part of the opium supply chain. They were identified as Ratan Singh Ratan, a resident of Nakoda (Sirsa), Haryana, presently residing at Sathiala (Beas) and Manjinder Singh alias Bhullar, a resident Baba Bakala Sahib. The police have seized 1-kg opium, one pistol, four live rounds and Rs 70,000 drug money from the accused.A case under the NDPS Act and the Arms Act has been registered and further action has been started. The DSP told that Manjinder Singh is a history-sheeter and a case has been registered against him for kidnapping and other serious sections of Arms Act with the intention of killing in Khilchiyan police station in which he is a fugitive. Also, Ratan Singh, along with his accomplices, had carried out a major incident of robbery in Delhi in 2017.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-held-with-opium-rs-70k-drug-money-362483
19-01-2022||---||144 complaints received on cVigil, all resolved: Hoshiarpur Deputy Commissioner||Hoshiarpur, January 18As many as 144 complaints were received through cVigil App, an online complaint system based on Android platform for complaining about the violations of Model Code of Conduct (MCC) and were resolved in time. Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Electoral Officer Apneet Ryat said after the implementation of the poll code in the district, every complaint regarding election is being dealt with in a time-bound manner by the district administration. She said within five minutes after receiving a complaint on cVigil, it is handed over to the flying squad team and the team reaches the place in 15 minutes. The complaint is then forwarded to the returning officer of the constituency concerned for further action after ascertaining the facts of the complaint. The returning officer resolves the complaint within the next 50 minutes after taking action on his behalf. In this way, it is ensured that the grievance is disposed of in 100 minutes for sure. The DC said: “There were 144 complaints regarding the violation of the MCC, received through the app. All of them were disposed of well before the stipulated time. The average time taken to dispose off such complaints remained 24 minutes and 27 seconds against the permitted time limit of 100 minutes.”The District Electoral Officer Apneet Riyait said the grievance redressal cell functioning at the district level is working day and night. She said with the implementation of poll code in the district, the election process has been expedited and its strict adherence has been ensured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/144-complaints-received-on-cvigil-all-resolved-deputy-commissioner-362482
19-01-2022||Aparna Banerji||Shahkot: Ravaged by illegal mining, floods||In 2019, when the Sutlej breached villages in Shahkot, the issues of broken, weak bundhs and illegal mining took centre stage. Two years later, farmers in the affected villages say little has happened to protect them, though they acknowledge many development works have taken place.Past trendAfter delimitation in 2008, the seat was won by SAD leader Ajit Singh Kohar in 2012 and 2017. After his demise, the Congress wrested the seat back in the 2018 bypolls. Kohar’s son Naib Singh lost to Congress’ Hardev Singh Ladi Sherowalia.Electorate strengthTotal voters - 1,81,336Male - 93,399Female - 87,936Third gender - 1Locals’ key demandsHowever, a plethora of problems, including illegal sand mining, false cases and weak bundhs — continue to plague the constituency. Illegal mining is rampant in Baghela, Chak Bahmania, Rame and Pipli Miani among other villages. Another key grouse almost all residents complain about is the registration of false cases.A resident of the Dhandowal village, which is 3 km from the Sutlej, says: “Those peddling drugs aren’t booked, but false cases are lodged against the poor. River banks are also ravaged. No lessons have been learnt from the 2019 floods. Most of the Dhussi bundhs are weak and pose threats.” Villagers credit environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal for making efforts to strengthen bundhs. They rue the government hasn’t done anything to stop mining or strengthen the bundhs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ravaged-by-illegal-mining-floods-362441
19-01-2022||---||Hoshiarpur: Randomisation of EVMs carried out||Hoshiarpur, January 18The first round of randomisation of the electronic voting machines (EVMs) and voter verified paper audit trails (VVPATs) was carried out under the supervision of District Election Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait and representatives of several political parties.The district electoral officer said at present there are 2,366 ballot units (EVMs), 1,954 control units and 2,080 VVPAT machines in the district. She said as per the percentage fixed by the Election Commission, 1,878 ballot units, 1,878 control units and 2,036 VVPATMs have been randomised. Also, the CDs of expedition monitoring compendium were handed over to the representatives of political parties.Riyait said polling booths have been set up in all Assembly constituencies of the district on which EVMs as well as VVPAT machines would be installed. EVMs and VVPAT machines equal to the number of polling booths were randomised today, besides additional 20 percent CU, 20 percent BU, 20 percent VVPAT have been kept on reserve that can be used in case any machine malfunctions. She said that after today’s randomisation, the EVMs and VVPATs would be shifted by Returning Officers to the strong rooms in their respective constituencies.Meeting on poll preparationsPhagwara: Three companies of the Central Reserve Police Force would assist the local police to maintain peace and law and order, said Kulpreet Singh, SDM-cum-returning officer, Phagwara, in a review meeting to check the poll preparations in the Assembly constituency. He said one CRPF company had arrived in Phagwara while two more units would soon arrive. SP, Phagwara, Harinderpal Singh Parmar, DSP Achhru Ram Sharma, Tehsildar Navdeep Singh Bhogal ,Commandant CRPF, Master Trainer Paramjeet Singh Mahey. SHO (Sadar) Jatinder Kumar, SHO (City) Joginder Singh, SHO (Satnampura) Harjeet Singh, SHO (Rawalpindi) Amanpreet Kaur, Assistant Commissioner of Municipal Corporation, Phagwara, Sandeep Tiwari and Block Development and Panchayat officer Rampal Singh were present in the meeting. The SDM said 21 buses, 14 mini buses and 40 small buses have been arranged for voters. He said 1,101 boys and 797 girls in the 18 to 19 age group will cast their votes for the first time. He said special arrangements would be made for senior citizens and disabled voters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/randomisation-of-evms-carried-out-362479
19-01-2022||---||Poll 2022: Kapurthala admn deploys flying squads, static surveillance teams||Kapurthala, January 18To ensure smooth conduct of Punjab Assembly elections in four Assembly constituencies of Kapurthala district, District Election Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal and Kapurthala SSP Dayama Harish Om Prakash today inspected the deployment of static surveillance teams, permanent and temporary checkpoints and flying squads.Both officers also assessed the deployment of teams at important checkpoints in Bholath, Phagwara, Kapurthala and Sultanpur Lodhi Assembly constituencies, where they visited Jhote Shah, Shehnai Palace Kanjali Road, Ramgarh village, checkpoints on Dhilwan National Highway besides Talwandi bridge, Udham Singh Chowk and Mundi Mour. The District Electoral Officer said high tech checkpoints have been set up at 19 places across the district to curb the usage of illicit liquor and any wrongdoing during the elections as the CCTV cameras of the checkposts were formally attached to the election control rooms. In addition, flying squads and static surveillance teams were also equipped with GPS, which were also connected to the system and control room, they are equipped with cameras.Nine flying squads and three static surveillance teams have been deployed in each of all the four Assembly constituencies of Kapurthala district to monitor the election expenses and proper report of violations of Model Code of Conduct.On this occasion, SSP Kapurthala said that strong security arrangements have been made for peaceful elections and checkpoints have been imposed at all important places and intersections.In addition to this, deployment of paramilitary forces and flag marches were also being conducted in the cities to instill more confidence in the people about security. He said more than 2,000 security personnel have been deployed in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/poll-2022-kapurthala-admn-deploys-flying-squads-static-surveillance-teams-362477
19-01-2022||Jalandhar||Pargat Singh opens election office in Jalandhar||Accused flees from custodyNakodar: An accused in an excise case escaped from the police custody when he was being taken to police station. The investigating officer (IO) said the accused, Gurprit Singh, a resident of Vehran village, was arrested for selling hooch. The accused was being taken to the police station after a local court send him to judicial custody. He was accompanied by two police personnel. When they reached near the Mehatpur bazaar, the accused complained of vomiting and the driver was told to stop the car. As the vehicle came to a halt, the accused pushed a police constable and ran away. The IO said a case under Section 224 of the IPC has been registered against the accused. OC3 held for selling illicit liquorNakodar: Sadar police have arrested a resident of Fatehpur village for selling illicit liquor. The investigating officer said 24 bottles of hooch were seized from the accused identified as Kashmir Singh. A case under Sections 61/1/14 of the Punjab Excise Act was registered against him. In another case, the Mehatpur police arrested Gurwindar Singh of Sangatpura village under with nine bottles of hooch. Meanwhile, Nurmahal police arrested Sukhdev of Ramewal village with nine bottles of hooch. OCOne booked for illegal miningShahkot: Shahkot police have booked an tractor-trolley driver for transporting sand illegally. The investigating officer said a tractor-trolley laden with sand was intercepted near the Sallaichan flyover. The driver fled away leaving behind the tractor-trolley after spotting the cops. The IO said a case under Section 21 of the Punjab Mining Act and Section 379 and 411 of the IPC has been registered against the unidentified driver and vehicle was impounded. OCWrong medicine claims girl’s lifeNakodar: A 24-year-old girl died after consuming a wrong medicine. The investigating officer said the deceased has been identified as Tannu, daughter of Bhajan Singh, a resident of Mallwal village. Ajay, a resident of the same village, told the police the deceased consumed the wrong medicine mistakenly and died. The body was handed over to the family after autopsy. OCTwo arrested with poppy huskJalandhar: The Adampur police arrested two persons on Tuesday evening and seized intoxicants from them. The accused have been identified as Charanjit Singh, a resident of Jagrawan village, and Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Begowal. Station in-charge Harjinder Singh said a police naka was put near Jandusingha T-Point after receiving a tip that two smugglers were crossing the area in the truck bearing number PB-13 X 8673. He said the truck was stopped at the naka and during the search operation, the police team recovered three sacks containing around 40-45kg poppy husk each. A total of 120 kg poppy husk has been seized. A case has been registered against the accused. TNSOne held with 50-gm heroinJalandhar: The team of Special Operations Unit, Jalandhar, has arrested one person with 50- gm heroin in his possession. The accused has been identified as Kuldeep Kumar, a resident of Mohalla Aabadpura. The police had put up a naka near Milkbar Chowk, and the accused was coming on foot from Nakodar Chowk. Seeing the police, he panicked and tried to flee. When the police caught him and searched the accused, 50 gm of heroin was recovered from his possession. The police have registered a case against the accused under NDPS Act at Police Station-6. TNS14 food samples collectedHoshiarpur: The Health Department team led by the District Health Officer (DHO) Dr Lakhvir Singh visited New Deluxe Bakery, Pandit Kulfi Wale, New Deluxe Amritsari Kulcha shop and Verka milk plant, Ajjowal, today. During the checking, officials collected 14 food samples and sent them to state testing lab in Kharar to check adulteration. The team also inspected the cleanliness in the lab and micro-lab at the Verka milk plant. OC                                     #PargatSingh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pargat-singh-opens-election-office-362476
19-01-2022||---||Wildlife team rescues male leopard from trap in Hoshiarpur village||Hoshiarpur, January 18A 7-year-old male leopard was rescued by a team of the Wildlife Department from a trap laid by unidentified persons in forest area near Sherpur Gulind village here on Monday.The Wildlife Department had received information that a leopard was trapped in forest-like area on the choe bank near Sherpur Gulind village. The rescue team, including Wildlife Range Officer, Dasuya, Harjinder Singh and Forest Range Officer, Jalandhar, Jaswant Singh, was immediately dispatched to the said place.The team found a leopard trapped in a wire laid by unidentified persons in the forest area. Veterinary officer Harsimran Kaur was called to tranquilise the leopard. Under her supervision, the leopard was tranquilized and rescued from the trap.Divisional Forest Officer (Wildlife) Gursharan Singh told this correspondent that it was a male leopard of seven years that weighed around 65 to 70 kg. After being checked up by the veterinary officer, the leopard was released into forest of Hoshiarpur range. “The range officer has been directed to investigate to find the accused who had laid the trap. Strict action according to law will be taken against the accused,” said the officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/wildlife-team-rescues-male-leopard-from-trap-362474
19-01-2022||Avneet Kaur||Promised AstroTurf at Surjit Hockey Stadium misses deadline||Jalandhar, January 18In a major setback to hockey players in the district, the process to procure a new AstroTurf field for Surjit Hockey Stadium here has been delayed and the District Sports Department has no information on when the project will see the light of day.It was in December 2020 that the Punjab Government had floated tenders for the installation of a new AstroTurf at the local Surjit Hockey Stadium here. In June, 2021, the then Sports and Youth Affairs Minister Rana Gurmit Sodhi, during his visit to Jalandhar, announced that the hockey players would get ultra-modern sports facilities once the AstroTurf will be laid within seven months.The minister then said that the turf to be laid has been manufactured by the USA-based company FieldTurf, and will be laid by Great Sports Tech of Hyderabad, adding that the stadium would also have a sprinkler system along with a tubewell.However, the seven months deadline is over now, but there are no signs of AstroTurf or any other development in the stadium besides the cemented base prepared to lay down the AstroTurf field is also getting damaged.A junior hockey player, who requested anonymity, said: “It was when Indian’s men’s team won bronze at the Tokyo Olympics and I got to know 11 players were from Punjab and that four from Jalandhar itself, I got inspired to play hockey. Surjit Hockey Academy has a good name in town as it has produced many Olympians, therefore I took admission. But it’s sad that this small work of laying AstroTurf field is being delayed,” he said. “Not just this, even the hostel rooms and its washrooms are in poor condition,” he added.Another player said since the last six to seven months, they have been practicing in the open ground that's close to the stadium. "Due to no professional training, we have lost many matches in the past. We have many times taken the matter with the sports department, but nothing happened," he added.As per information procured from Iqbal Singh Sandhu, former secretary, Surjit Hockey Society, in the chart prepared by the engineering wing of the sports department for laying new AstroTurf, the deadline of the work was July-August 2021. “I have written to the sports department complaining about the quality of work being carried out and the technical problems due to which the work is being delayed, but to no avail,” said Sandhu.Meanwhile, District Sports Officer, Gurpreet Singh, said he has no information regarding the ongoing work and all details are with the construction wing in Chandigarh. When contacted Sanjay Mahajan, XEN Sports, he said the work got delayed due to Covid. "The turf is being shipped to India from a European nation; it has now almost reached here. In next few days, the work will be completed," he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/promised-astroturf-at-surjit-hockey-stadium-misses-deadline-362473
19-01-2022||---||Jalandhar district logs 2 deaths, 548 new Covid cases||Jalandhar, January 18Jalandhar district on Tuesday reported 548 fresh Covid cases. With this, the Covid tally in the district has reached 70,345. As many as 64,767 persons have defeated the virus in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar has reached 4,065. With two deaths reported in the district today, the deceased tally in Jalandhar stand at 1,513.The two who succumbed to the virus were Manjeet Kaur (81), a resident of Shakti Nagar, who was admitted at Rattan Hospital, and Balwinder Kaur (28), a resident of Sultanpur Phillaur village, who was undergoing treatment at the Civil Hospital here.905 get booster doseAs many as 905 persons received their booster dose today as part of the Covid-19 vaccination booster drive. With this, the total number of persons administered with the booster shot in Jalandhar stand at 6,313. The dose is being administered at all centres including the Civil Hospital, vaccination camps, ESI and Govt hospital at Garha. Meanwhile, the booster dose was administered to people who had received both their Covid-19 vaccine doses at least nine months ago.506 teens vaccinatedAs many as 506 youngsters in the age group 15-18 received their first dose of vaccination on Tuesday. The health centres where the vaccination drives took place today were ESI Hospital, Govt Hospital at Garha road, at Mahavir Jain School and at Maqsudan. A four-day Covid vaccination camp was organised at Police DAV Public School, Jalandhar, for the students of classes 9th-12th.Nawanshahr reports 53 casesIn Nawanshar, 53 new cases of Covid were reported on Tuesday, taking the district tally to 12,246. Those tested positive include residents of Urban Nawanshahr, Urban Rahon, Urban Banga, block Muzaffarpur, block Balachaur and among other places. Meanwhile, no new death was reported in Nawanshar district and the number of active cases stands at 528. The total deceased tally at Nawanshahr until now remains at 390.2 lose life in HoshiarpurAs many as 508 new cases of Covid-19 were reported on Tuesday. With the fresh cases, the district tally reached 34,601. These include 2,399 cases reported from other districts. Meanwhile, two new deaths were reported in Hoshiarpur — a 55-year-old woman resident of Harta Badla block who died at home and a 66-year-old man of Chakkowal block, who died at a private hospital in Hoshiarpur. The Covid toll stands at 1,012 in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-logs-2-deaths-548-new-covid-cases-362472
19-01-2022||---||Jalandhar: BJP councillor Manjinder Singh Chatha joins SAD||Jalandhar, January 18Ahead of the Assembly polls, SAD chief Sukhbir Badal last night visited Jalandhar and held a meeting of all candidates of SAD-BSP alliance from Doaba region at a hotel here.He asked the candidates about the progress made by them in their respective constituencies while listing out issues to be highlighted to target the opponents. BSP state president Jasvir Garhi, who is also Phagwara candidate, led the BSP candidates from his party.During the day today, he visited various leaders and workers of SAD-BSP alliance of different Assembly constituencies of Jalandhar district and conducted meetings to ensure better coordination. The prominent among them were ex-Deputy Mayor Parvesh Tangri and ex-councillor Kuldeep Singh Oberoi.A number of people from different political parties, including senior BJP leader and sitting councillor Manjinder Singh Chatha, joined the party in the presence of Sukhbir. He had visited his place two months back but the joining could not take place then.Others who accompanied him included SAD Jalandhar district president Kulwant Singh Mannan, YAD leader Sukhminder S Rajpal, BSP candidates Dr Nachhatar Pal and Balwinder Kumar, MLA Gurpartap Singh Wadala and SAD candidate Chandan Grewal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bjp-councillor-manjinder-singh-chatha-joins-sad-362471
19-01-2022||Deepkamal Kaur||Assembly poll 2022 : Some new faces in Doaba belt||Jalandhar, January 18Even as the traditional parties are largely trusting old horses again this time for the Assembly poll, there are some new faces in the fray in some constituencies of the Doaba belt.Inderjit Kaur Mann, AAP candidate, NakodarThe Aam Aadmi Party has fielded some new faces in Jalandhar, retaining only one last-time Shahkot candidate, Rattan Singh Kakkar Kalan, for the Assembly poll. Of the remaining eight, Sheetal Angural from Jalandhar West and Dinesh Dhall from Jalandhar North are new entrants to the party, but have remained councillors with other parties in Jalandhar.Those completely new in the field are Principal Prem Kumar, former district education officer from Phillaur, retired PPS officer Balkar Singh from Kartarpur, Raman Arora from Jalandhar Central and Inderjit Kaur Mann, former sarpanch from Nakodar.A graduate, Mann (53) has been a role model for women of the region for the past two decades. When her husband was settled abroad, she kept on handling agriculture work by herself. She had even then made headlines as she used to operate tractors in the fields by herself and rode horses. Her political career started in 2002 when she was a Block Samiti member. Later, she remained the sarpanch of Bir Pind for three consecutive terms ending in 2019 and was instrumental in starting various innovative works in her village.She is credited with setting up a panchayat federation for guiding and training panches and sarpanches, besides making them aware of their rights and duties. She had launched a massive eco drive and planted 5 lakh trees.She had started a project to track the sex ratio in villages and honour those villages that improved the girl ratio. As many as 6,000 women from the area had been part of her massive campaign that was very active in 2006.Mann says that she now wants to further expand her area of work and has opted for being an MLA. “In 20 years, work on laying the sewer line has not been completed in Nurmahal and is still underway. My concern is also the fact that there is no good government school in Nurmahal. There is just a single doctor in the government hospital there, which caters to 70 villages. There are no medicines available for the patients.I wish to work on new projects like beautifying the entry points in Nakodar and streamlining traffic by getting the lights installed. Setting up a ring road in Bilga town too would be on my priority,” she listed works on her mind for her constituency.Capt Harminder Singh, SAD, Sultanpur LodhiAmong the Akali Dal contestants, a new face in the Doaba this time is Capt Harminder Singh (69), who is contesting from the panthic seat of Sultanpur Lodhi. He had earlier been with the Congress and was even appointed as the Chairman of Milkfed, Punjab. His father Capt Sujan Singh was a freedom fighter and he himself served the Army from 1972-77. He had organised several ex-servicemen rallies for former CM Capt Amarinder Singh. Though his family is settled in Jalandhar, his native village Nasirpur is in Sultanpur Lodhi. He has the advantage of hailing from the Kamboj community which predominates the area. Outlining his agenda, he says, “My main aim would be to instil a sense of confidence and security in those people who live in fear and have no faith in the law-enforcing agencies. Law and order remains the main issue here. Congress leaders are themselves openly targeting the MLA over the issue of false FIRs. The area has been neglected in terms of medical facilities. I wish to prioritise on this front too”.Anil Kumar Meenia, BSP, Jalandhar WestOf the BSP candidates in the fray this time, Jalandhar West candidate Anil Kumar Meenia (55) is a fresh face. An MBA passout, he has served in National Insurance Company as the Senior Divisional Manager.He had been associated with BAMCEF movement of Kanshi Ram for 20 years and quit his job last year, six years prior to his retirement age to join the BSP and serve as the halqa in-charge here. A resident of Deol Nagar here, he says that he wants to build an equalitarian society as envisioned by Dr BR Ambedkar and make a change in the lives of people.“My main priority would be to keep a check on illegal drugs and liquor in the area. There are at least 130 shops of illegal lottery in my constituency which need to be checked. The sewerage and drainage systems in my area cry for attention. On a rainy day, one cannot reach the 120-feet road,” he enumerated problems and priorities.Amarpreet Lally, Garhshankar, CongressAmong the Congress candidates announced so far, Amarpreet Lally (39) is the youngest among the new lot. He is BA, PGDCA-qualified and hails from Kot Fatuhi village in Garhshankar, the constituency from which he is set to fight. He entered into politics as a youth leader getting elected in 2008.A good orator having leadership skills, he rose to become the Punjab Youth Congress chief and is now the general secretary of the Indian Youth Congress. He recently became the co-chairman of the campaign committee of the party. Lally says that though his area is quite backward in terms of facilities, his priority areas would not just be roads, sewer lanes and drinking water, but also other issues like bringing in new industry, providing employment opportunities to youth and good education in schools and colleges.“My agenda will also include setting up a bypass in Garhshankar and carry forward work on laying kandi canal which is lying stalled at the moment,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/assembly-poll-2022-aap-bets-on-new-faces-in-doaba-362469
